Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, the cannabis podcast for budding
enthusiasts.
It's great to be back after a short break and we hope we didn't leave you all with too
much withdrawals.
This show, as always, was brought to you by 420 Australia and OGS, Organic Garden Solutions.
In this episode, we're joined by one of the most controversial figures in the industry,
the man himself, Matt Riott.
So here we go.
Alrighty, so a big welcome to arguably the most controversial man in the industry, the
punk rocker himself, Matt Riott.
Thanks for coming on the show.
Thanks for having me.
So the first question I like to ask people is, let's go back to the start.
What was your first experience with cannabis?
My first experience with cannabis, my dad was a grower and a smuggler and a dealer of
all kinds of different wonderful drugs when I was young.
One of the first smells I remember smelling was cannabis and that's how far I went back.
I was able to water for him when I was little and really during those years I had no interest
in it.
It was a terrible chore.
As I got older, of course, the interest grew a lot more when I started smoking.
And so what was the first strain you remember smoking?
Oh God, we didn't really have names for strains back then.
So it was just like skunk bud, that's pretty much what they called it, all of it.
Sometimes they call it like red hair or orange hair which really didn't mean anything.
It just happened to have more orange or more red hair.
That's pretty much the only names that they ever called any of it.
Yeah, okay.
And do you think that any of that stuff you would like consider working nowadays?
Is it some of that glorious stuff?
You know, I mean a lot of it's going to be the Mexican stuff.
I was really a little Colombian at that time because I was too young to really hit the
Colombian era.
So a lot of it was going to be a lot of the really shitty, shittily grown, very moldy
Mexican stuff they were pushing through Arizona and California.
So probably not a whole lot of wonderful things coming through there.
And so before you got into breeding yourself, were there ever any breeders you were kind
of looking up to or was it more of just like a natural progression to do it yourself?
Let's see.
Ingmar who created White Widow.
Of course that was a big strain when I was young.
That was one of the first named strains that we heard about other than Alaskan Thunderfuck,
Matnexas Valley Thunderfuck.
Of course Blueberry with DJ Short.
The name was well known.
And a lot of the stuff Neville Schoenmaker did.
The, what was it like, the NL5 Big Bud.
A lot of that stuff was very big around that time as well.
So those were some of the bigger names around the time.
Yeah.
And so how do you feel those genetics stand up to some of the ones today?
It's like a contested topic whether the older stuff was better than now.
You know, like you can still go back to a lot of those old Northern Light 5 hazelines
and there's people like Tierra Rojo that work those now.
And it's still the same lines that were available back then and they're still just as dank as
anything we're putting out now.
It's just, you know, as with anything, there's a large phenotypic selection that needs to
go on and it takes a large selection to go through all that stuff.
And there's a lot of phenotypes.
And I mean back then people weren't doing these massive selections like they can do
now.
You know, the space was so much more limited.
But yeah, they tend to stand the test of time.
There's so many that still do.
It's just a matter of what people prefer.
A lot of what people prefer now is the visual look of like the hard, you know, dense nugs
and that wasn't what it looked like as much back then.
You still had a lot of the sativa airy buds.
Yeah, yeah.
I've noticed that that real swollen, bracked kind of look from like the cookies has is
very popular.
Yeah, especially out here.
Yeah.
Do you find that essentially, do you kind of subscribe to that idea that some people
have that those older genetics were, you know, some of the best and we've watered them down
in a sense or more just taken in a different but equal direction?
I'd say, you know, I mean, if you look at the THC values, they've actually increased
over all the years.
So I mean, in that sense that if you just look at the THC percentage and a lot of people
subscribe to that being the most important factor with cannabis, if you believe that
way, which I don't personally, then yeah, we've increased and made everything better.
But I mean, just through selection alone.
I mean, even if people aren't breeders, they're going to keep picking the best just as a whole.
The ratio is going to keep going up as far as what the best is.
And I think today we have a wider selection, a more diverse selection of really amazing
stuff.
You know, it's not just the one or two skunk types, you know.
Yeah, okay.
So I mean, if we go back a bit now, like some of the earliest information I could find on
you as a breeder was you being a part of that small crew, the Moda Militia with Lumpur
and the Blazers and Hazeman.
How did that kind of come about?
And like as a bit of a follow up, what led to the breakdown of that?
Well I wasn't really in the Moda Militia crew, I was just friends with all of them.
Like Lumpur, Lumpur's a good friend, he still is.
Moda's a good friend, he was.
Hazeman made a lot of the gear for Moda.
The breakdown, I mean, I would say, probably stepping on toes saying it, but I mean Moda
retires three times a year.
So I think that's kind of what happened.
People were just like, oh man, like he's going to retire?
No!
You know, like some people start going away and then he's back a few months later, he
comes back and he retires.
So you know, I mean, more power to him.
And so I guess in that regard then.
He's probably been in retired.
Yeah, I mean, he's still around, so he's still doing his thing.
Still making cool shit.
But yeah, a lot of those guys are still around.
Yeah, so I guess, you know, did you kind of start out on your own from the beginning or
were you kind of teamed up with someone to begin with?
When I first started like getting into serious breeding, my mentor was a guy named James
Hogg Gonzalez, who made the original Hogg's Breath out of San Diego.
And he taught me a lot of what was going on with breeding and all the work he had done
with the Hogg's Breath.
And I got to work on lines with him.
We released a few seed lines and then he passed away.
So that was my first real experience working with a real breeder, hands on, and releasing
lines.
We also had the San Diego Herbivore Growers Society, which was basically a collective.
There was 32 of us at one point.
And we would basically grow.
We put our own money into it.
We'd grow only for giving weed away to cancer and terminally ill patients.
It wasn't like a collective where we'd give them to a cheap or whatever, you know.
The cost came out of our pockets and we did it just because there was no other collective
in San Diego doing it.
And it was just a greedy grab for a lot of people and we wanted to push against that.
Yeah, okay.
And so, was that kind of what drawed you to breeding initially?
Were you trying to develop better strains for that collective or was that like further
down the track?
The first thing that initially tried to get me to breed or led me down that path was my
best friend's mom had pancreatic cancer and she kind of raised me.
And during that time I saw the only thing that was giving her her dignity back to be
able to get out of bed and even like come have dinner with us was being able to smoke.
And only a few strains would work and it was hit or miss all the time.
So during that time was when I really, really got heavily into it when she was still alive.
And she only lived about eight months with that.
And I just kept going from then on out.
And then came the San Diego Urban Growth Society came out of that, evolved out of that.
Okay, yeah, that makes sense.
And so, were you initially just interested in regular seeds or was feminized seeds always
something on your mind seeing as that's something you are fairly well known for?
You know, back then it didn't matter to me because I had already learned really early
on how to reverse plant.
So it didn't matter to me whether I had a male or a female.
I could always reverse a female and make a line.
So either or.
There's a lot of stigma between back then about breeding with feminized seeds.
But looking at the science even back then it was just like I realized, oh, this is like
an old wives tale.
Like these people don't understand the science behind it and they're just going to keep repeating
the same bullshit until they understand it.
So yeah, I've always been pretty open to breeding with both.
Yeah, so I mean if we want to get into the kind of biology of all that, do you believe
that pollen produced from a feminized plant is different on the genetic level from pollen
from just a straight hermaphrodite plant?
Yes, yeah.
Maybe not so much on a genetic level because all cannabis is a dual sex plant.
I mean all of it is.
It's just how much it expresses it, how much of the hormones are activated in the plant.
Now when you reverse a plant using like silver thiosulfate, which is what most of us use,
you're tricking the plant not necessarily into thinking it's stressed but to releasing
more, let's see, it's halting gibberellin if I remember correctly.
No, it's bringing in gibberellin, halting ethylene production, which is the gas ethylene.
By doing that, it's making the plant, or more male characteristics, less female and it's
not causing any stress to the plant.
But when you're hermaphroditing a plant, you're actually bringing that stress into it and
you're pushing the stress on into its progeny, which are the seeds.
So I mean that's the difference.
People say that all feminized seeds are more bound to herm and that's not necessarily correct.
There's a lot of plants that you cannot stress and push to herm through stress but you can
do it using the silver thiosulfate method because it's not a stress method.
Yeah, so that sounds really similar to what I have always kind of theorized has happened.
But just kind of to clarify, are we kind of saying that in a stressed hermaphroditic plant,
the stress causes say maybe some epigenetic changes or something which are then put into
the pollen and passed on whereas the thiosulfate doesn't do that and therefore it's kind of
like, yeah, okay, great.
So what was the first feminized cross you ever made or tried to make?
Oh God, that's a good question.
I think one of the first ones was either Green Crack or Blue Dream, making an S1 line of
one of the two.
It was really early on when I did the Green Crack and I think it was right around the
same time I did the Blue Dream.
I just don't remember which came first.
Yeah, so I mean this will be another good question.
Blue Dream, a very hot line to be S1'd.
Do you think that the variation in quality, because I've seen some really good Blue Dreams
and some horrible Blue Dreams from different breeders.
Do you think the difference is the cutting they used or is a good feminized project taking
several stages?
Well, you know, a good feminized project is always going to take several stages but I
mean most people don't ever get to do more than one stage because people want it now.
They want it now and if you try to work on it for too long, then they lose interest and
maybe the line isn't as popular next season and it becomes worthless as far as making
seeds and spending your time doing that.
So a lot of them don't ever get work more than one generation.
But with Blue Dream, there's a specific cut from Santa Cruz called the SC cut, the Santa
Cruz cut, and that one to me has always been like the supreme Blue Dream.
That's the one that for a long time everybody in San Diego was growing, everyone up north
in Santa Cruz was growing, and that's where its reputation came from as being like this
amazing almost connoisseur level massive yielder with tons of resin production and
a really like very light, light, light blueberry smell with a nice like, it had like a Thai
uplifting happy high as opposed to a speedy haze high.
But a lot of the other, pretty much any blue haze out there now, like a blueberry haze
cross people are calling Blue Dream, and there is a lot of shitty blue haze crosses.
Blue Dream is just not like the most amazing line to breed with.
Yeah, okay.
Interesting opinion there.
We'll get into that in a moment.
But a follow-up question is, do you think that a lot of the shittier cuts of Blue Dream
are maybe S ones from the Santa Cruz or do you think they're just various people have
made it?
Because it's an interesting point you brought up where I don't think Blue Dream was made
by one person.
I think many people have made that cross and you know, the-
Yeah.
So what do you-
I mean, there's Johnny Blaze.
That was another line released by Legend Seedline that was also another blueberry haze.
But blueberry haze has been being made by hundreds of people over decades, you know?
So I mean, I think it's just a popular name with anything that has blueberry in it or
a blueberry smell that yields well.
And I think that like in California, the name change game is so stupid.
It's been going on for so long and people just don't give a shit what they pass out
or what they call it.
As long as it sells, you know?
Yeah, interesting.
And I think that was the major impetus behind all these fucked up Blue Dream crosses.
When we did the Blue Dream reversal, almost they weren't- I wouldn't say they were perfectly
uniform or IBL or anything but they were really good.
I mean, all the phenotypes were fairly predictable and they definitely resembled the mom quite
a bit.
You could always see a good resemblance to the mom.
So yeah.
Yeah, okay.
And so, I mean, the thing which stands out to me above most every other person I've interviewed
is music seems to be such an influential part of your life, you know?
Are they almost mutually exclusive breeding in music or does one kind of inspire the other?
You know, for me, music influenced my life a lot.
I was in bands since I was 12 and like playing shows, punk rock shows and being in the punk
rock scene and it was just a wild time in California to be alive and in that.
It was crazy.
It wasn't like the era of Green Day where everything was safe and kids could get dropped
off downtown and it was fun.
If you went to punk shows, you knew you were going to get in a fight.
It was going to be fucking terrifying.
So growing up in that kind of scene, it's hard not to let it influence your life.
Music's always been a big part of my life and it just somehow ran straight head into
this, the whole attitude that I had in the music scene into this because there's a lot
of nasty people in our scene, in our cannabis scene and I've met them all.
I've met all of them head first and it sucks.
I'm like a magnet to them.
So you just have to take that whole, I don't give a fuck, fuck you, if you don't like it.
You know, it just worked hand in hand.
So how did Riot Seeds start then?
It was after the project with James Hogg and we had started talking about doing Riot Seeds
stuff.
I had already started working on the Clockwork Orange Strain and he had sold a bunch of those
seeds like, dude, these are selling really well, the work we did.
Why don't you start doing some of that?
We had already worked on the Clockwork Orange Strain a bit and we were passing it out in
San Diego to the cancer internally ill patients that actually wanted to grow for themselves.
And that's just kind of where it came to be.
I just started like, okay, well, I need a name.
Well, my name had been since I was little, it was always Matt Riot, so Riot Seeds makes
sense and it just started from there with the Clockwork Orange and then spread on out.
So like a lot of people including myself are interested to hear what's the real history
behind the Clockwork Orange?
It seems to be really bits and pieces here and there online but there's never the full
story.
Yeah, it kind of sucks because I've told the story a bunch but every time I go look it
up or I see it somewhere, it's like all jumbled.
So there was a dude named, I just call him Crazy Doug, nobody called him that but me
just because he was fucking crazy and his name was Doug.
He was this weird dude that lived out in the hills of San Diego.
He had this big massive house left to him by his parents and the whole thing was a grow.
I'm talking his bathrooms, every fucking room, his basements, outdoors and he trained drug
dogs for the cops which was even more weird like these evil German Shepherd dogs.
He'd speak to them in German and trained them to be drug dogs for cops.
Well this dude was also a tweaker and like, I mean, he had syringes everywhere, like he
was out of his fucking mind.
Anyway, I met this guy through I think Craigslist or something at the time that was going on
and he wanted to trade clones with me.
I was like, okay, cool, yeah, I'll come visit you.
I had no idea what I was getting head first into.
So I went out there, I met him and he was an interesting dude, very weird and he showed
me this really, really weird plant that had all these crinkle mutations.
He's like, yeah man, I got this from Amsterdam.
This came from a bag of Alaskan ice.
Now Alaskan ice at the time was not a greenhouse strain, it was something they were selling
at the coffee shop as bug.
It wasn't anything that they had named a strain yet.
The genetics obviously looked, the high was really sativa, the leaves were more narrow
early in veg and then later in veg they got really wide blade drug type, like almost looking
Afghani but it had this weird crinkle to it.
He's like, yeah man, this is as strong as the hash from the parents.
I was like, okay, cool, I'll take that cut.
So I took it, ran with it and we started working the line and I was trying to take the crinkle
out of it because it just looked so weird.
I was like, people are not going to be into this.
If we can get the high and the smell and the taste, that would be great but we need to
get rid of this crinkle because people think it's ugly.
Every time we took a step away breeding the crinkle out, the potency was gone.
It just kept creeping away from it.
But every time we'd have the phenotype of the crinkle pop up, it was back.
So I ended up taking that and just having to go basically work backwards from there
and trying to remake that original clone that I had for him.
When we found that, that original clone or the closest resemblance to that original clone,
that's what became Clockwork Orange.
But nobody knows what it really is.
Since Alaskan Ice wasn't a real strain at the time, it wasn't a White Widow haze.
It's not a White Widow.
It's got Afghani, some sort of skunk.
Definitely has some haze in it but to what degree of each and what actual strains are
in it, I have no clue.
Okay.
And sorry, just to confirm, do you breed with the original cut or with the back cross I
think you said you make?
The original mother cut that was the crinkle cut that was used to make the lines that we
used to pick the Clockwork Orange mom out of.
Okay, fantastic.
Yeah.
And so, are any other of those lines being used to breed with currently or just the other
one?
Every once in a while we'll bust out.
We made the very first line of S1s of the Clockwork Orange cut, we made a line called
Smart Alex.
And basically that was like this really super coffee.
It just smelled like when you open a fresh thing of Folgers coffee and smell it, it smelled
just like that.
It was crazy.
And it was more dense than Clockwork.
It was less resinous but more dense and it still had a really good potency to it.
And that one became known as the Smart Alex.
And sometimes we use that cut or S1s of it.
It's been hard to keep these alive for a long time.
They're really, really hard plants to grow.
And anybody that asked me for the cut when they finally get it, I'm like dude, just remember
this is a really hard plant to grow.
It's not going to respond to you well and usually everybody gets so mad at it they'll
throw it out eventually.
So, it's kept its rarity because of that.
It's just really hard to grow.
It took me a long time to master it.
Okay.
And so, is there any reason why you choose not to have the S1s continually in stock?
Like is it something you want to keep kind of a bit more elusive or?
You know, it's just hard to do.
When I reverse it, it doesn't produce much pollen.
I need to reverse a whole room of it to do it.
And people complain about the prices of it and I get that.
It's expensive.
So, it's like I look at the price that I have to charge to make it worth doing a whole room
of that and getting only 400 seeds, something like that.
Whereas if I do a whole room of some like a regular line with a regular male, thousands
and thousands of seeds.
So, it's just I try to only do it every once in a while to where people still have that
interest and willing to pay that because if I flooded the market with it and tried charging
the same price, it would just be pointless.
Yes.
I mean, you kind of brought up an interesting topic.
People have kind of long criticized your pricing.
Nowadays, we see the rise of several breeders who routinely charge as much or more than
yours, most notably Aficionado.
How do you feel pricing plays into the market?
Do you think it's simply supply and demand or is it just haters looking for any excuse?
Well, I mean, the way we price everything, it's the way we've always done it is on, it
really was on supply and demand and popularity.
If it's something like a lot of people wanted and we had a hundred seeds of it, then I usually
said make an offer because that's all that's there and that's what we have.
That kind of determined a lot of the prices.
I've caught a lot of shit for it but there's a few reasons for doing it.
One, it's the same reason I don't use testers.
I don't like necessarily want a bunch of new growers trying to run really hard to grow
gear.
All that causes is problems, always causes problems.
New growers want, tend to, not all of them but a good amount of them, they want to make
up for their skill by getting a strain they think will just be super dank and of course
everything's going to grow itself.
By having the prices I did, it kept them away and it kept the rarity up.
For the most part, most of the people that buy for me are breeders.
They aren't new growers.
I see a lot of insults online but I also sell seeds for 50 bucks a pack on down to 30 bucks
a pack.
The ones they tend to want are the ones that are the cheapest.
Yeah, interesting.
And so, do you feel that seeds are going to continually increase in price because I mean
there's seeds that are currently going in like Instagram auctions for thousands of dollars
routinely.
Do you think this is a trend that will just continue or do you think it will cap out somewhere?
It depends how stupid the market is.
A lot of the shit selling for a lot of money is fucking retarded.
The Aficionados stuff, I mean, jeans make some cool shit but 99% of that, I'm looking
at the genetics, it was talking about their OG Kush line being a Pakistani lemon tie,
whatever.
Just the typical line of what people think OG Kush is and that's not correct.
So obviously these guys haven't done their fucking homework and they're charging an ass
load for it.
But as long as the market remains stupid and ignorant to what is what, then sure, the sky's
the limit on how much they'll pay.
And so, what do you think is the real origins of OG Kush?
It's an Afghani sort of plant.
It's stretchy but that doesn't necessarily mean it couldn't be all indica.
It has a lot of the Thai traits, the happiness of the high, but it's obviously got the density
of an Afghani.
So it could be something around there but who knows.
Really who knows.
I've heard so many fucking stories that, well, that could make sense and then it all ends
up being bullshit.
So I quit trying to figure it out a long time ago.
Okay.
Digging through your Instagram, I noticed that you received a cutting of skelly which
is a strain that's popped up on the show before because it was around during the time or a
little bit before of the dog bud.
What's your opinion on skelly?
It's a great plant.
I had heard of it first before from JJ in New York several years ago and it was called
the puck.
I guess the guy who used to sell it used to put it in almost like a bubble tape.
I don't know if it's an American thing.
It's like a bubble gum case and it was around like a disc, almost like a hockey puck or
like a Copenhagen puck looking thing and he would sell it in those.
So that nickname stuck with it as well.
But the skelly hash plant is just like a really dank, stinky Afghani plant.
It's really, really good though.
That's one of those ones that definitely stood the test of time for dankness.
Yeah, for sure.
And so another thing I found digging on Instagram is whenever bubble gum comes up, you're always
sure to make sure that people know you're not referring to the Indiana bubble gum.
What's the story behind all of this?
You know, we made it.
I actually didn't point it out too much.
We made the original bubble gum cookies line and ever since I've made that, I've had fucking
cookie fam knock it off, say it was this or that.
There's another guy on Instagram, I think he calls himself like bubble gum cookie man
or something and he's taking credit for it saying, yeah, this is the Indiana and it's
not.
It's been like the Indiana bubble gum doesn't pass on a lot of pink bubble gum traits.
They're slight there in the cut but it is not by any means something you'd smell and
go, hmm, pink bubble gum, that's fucking sweet.
The cutting we had was from the original 1995 Sensi Star line.
We had the seed line that was originally released as a regular line.
By 1996, it was cut back to a feminized line and the regular seeds were very hard to find
but we have had a bunch of them.
We have chewed them and we kept a large stock of them so we could go through them.
In there, there's one phenotype that is like a menthol pink bubble gum line and it's an
amazing breeder and it passes on that really super pink bubble gum smell and taste and
that's what we used in the line.
So like I mean people, they just assume like, you know, if they want to say this is their
line, they're assuming that the Indiana bubble gum was in it and it's just kind of frustrating.
It's another one of those things where it's like what the Indiana bubble gum line is and
how it breeds, you'd never say that in a million years that that's what it was.
But it's just, you know, again people making just stupid claims.
Getting used to it.
So in that same kind of vein, most of your releases like you just mentioned with the
bubble gum cookies, they don't seem to be like they're going to be restocked for certain,
you know, like a lot of your strains seem to you need to treat them as though they're
possibly one-offs.
Is that how you view them or do you make a lot of lines with the intention of restocking
them?
I never make any line with the intention of restocking them unless they're special, you
know.
We do a lot of our testing in-house.
I don't use testers because 99% of the time they don't know what they're doing to even
begin to test anything and they really don't even grow trader.
So we stop using testers.
We do all our testing in-house.
We watch everything ourselves, you know.
We run through all the phenos we're getting.
We see what we have and we know what we're offering.
A lot of the lines, unless they're really, really good, I usually don't bring them back.
Bubble gum cookies we did a version two of.
Just a second generation of it.
Cookie Berry which is probably one of our most knocked off lines.
It's going around California and cloned as blue cookies and all kinds of shit and that's
another one Cookie Fam is taking credit for.
We've released another version of that using OGKB instead of the forum cut but I actually
do prefer the forum cut cross which is the original one to the second version.
So when we do it again we'll probably go back to the original cross.
And so do you like to specifically list what generations are being used for your projects?
Like if you say...
Oh yeah, I'm specific.
Yeah, so like in a parent I've noticed, I mean maybe I'm wrong here but do you always
list you know that like this isn't, you know let's just say with the, I forget the name
of the strain you mentioned earlier.
What was it there, that particular S1 of the Clockwork Orange, the Lazy Ben was it?
Oh the Smart Alex?
Smart Alex.
Smart Alex?
That was so...
Close.
The Smart Alex, you know, do you like to write like Smart Alex brackets Clockwork Orange
S1 or is it just Smart Alex?
Because sometimes I've noticed there's more work put into the generations than you list.
Yeah, it's usually like the Smart Alex in that case it was Smart Alex in parentheses
Clockwork Orange S1.
Yeah, okay awesome.
So people can like kind of trust what it's saying on the package.
Yeah pretty specific when I, because if I would be the same way like I want to know
exactly what I'm getting and you know what's in there.
I would hope everybody else would too so I try to be pretty damn specific with it.
And so when you're breeding regular projects like regular sex projects not feminized, what
is the numbers you'd ideally like to use for such a project in terms of like finding
parents or testing progeny?
For a roadkill line, we went through 8 years of different Afghani lines and super skunk
lines looking, I mean I can't even count it.
The number of seeds is astronomical but 8 years of constantly every run cracking more
and more Afghani seeds and super skunk lines to try to find the roadkill line.
And that was an ideal run on something that was one of our best ones and it's been one
of the most successful.
And so regular seed lines I mean like it just depends on what you have to work with but
the one thing that I always make a habit of before I go do any runs or any lines if I
only have a pack of something I'm going to F to it and run through those lines.
So I have a multitude of seeds to look through.
Yeah okay.
And so like in the case of the roadkill skunk which is something that gets brought up in
almost every episode, you've got several lines which feature roadkill skunk traits
or from the roadkill Afghani.
How would you describe this line?
To you is it a replica or just a homage, something similar?
Like where do you rate it in comparison to the original roadkill skunk?
Well the original roadkill skunk was not a skunk one line, it was just an Afghani that
happened to smell like a skunk and people called it skunk butt.
That often gets confused and confabulated with skunk number one that was released by
Sam the skunk man and then taken to Amsterdam which is like there's a lot of phenotypes
that are sweet, there's citrus, there's all kinds of shit but what you don't get is straight
up skunk spray like a North American skunk spray being run over in the road.
And like our roadkill is like that but it also has another trait that's really strong
old Afghanis which is burnt rubber, like a burnt rubber tennis ball.
And then there's some slight ammonia to it too which is often described as like an acrid
and taste.
Okay, and so which of those crosses do you feel is the most representative of the roadkill
skunk then?
I think the Costa Sourdub which in itself considering what's out there, what's been
out there is already a pretty skunk line which is why we chose that.
We did a reversed cross with the Afghani mom that had the most roadkill traits and
we released that as roadkill Afghani feminized and then we used a male from the pure Afghani
line that we found the roadkill mom in that had the same exact type traits and turps when
we reversed him.
So we had to test him out first by reversing him using ethereal and floreal.
So we got to see what kind of turpines he put out well ahead of time before we used
any of the males.
Okay.
And that was our regular seed line of it.
And is that, that's the process where you reverse the male and get like female sex plants
like you know buds and stuff, is that right?
Yeah it's, I mean you don't get like full on like, you're not going to get like a female
with thick ass buds and stuff but you will see a lot more resin production, you're going
to see some flowers and you'll get a better idea of what turpines he produces.
And I mean even if he produces those turpines it doesn't necessarily mean he's going to
pass them on.
So you at least get the first idea of what's going on and then you have to use them to
see if the traits get passed on reliably.
Yeah okay.
And so is that a process you like to do for all regular males or just you know the long
processes?
It's something I've been doing more and more often, it's a really valuable tool that was
really overlooked for a long time and now it's becoming more and more popular I think.
I've been talking about it for a few years and I'm slowly noticing more and more people
doing it.
And I think that's a good thing because all it can do is advance breeding for everyone
making trait selection easier.
Okay and so what are some of the traits you look for in a male when you're just flowering
it out, leaf serration, structure, things like that?
You know back in the day I used to look for, I mean really it is a shot in the dark, the
first round with a male.
And early on I used to look for a male that was the most like a female, something that
I was sure was going to be a female when I was looking at it you know and right before
it showed any sex and it's like okay I don't have to keep an eye too bad on this one, this
is obviously a female.
That's what I would look for.
But as time went on I realized that was still 50-50, that was still hair miss, it didn't
always work and I'd have to throw out whole lines that I made.
So really we just keep all of our males and we just try to find something that has a structure
that we like, one that produces resin naturally on its own without having to be reversed.
We cross him and then we see how he does and that's just, it's a long ass process but that's
the only reliable way to do it.
Yeah okay and so I mean you touched on it earlier in terms of the clockwork orange only
producing a small number of seeds for the whole room to be done.
When you're producing female pollen, is that something which just comes down to the individual
cut as to how well it responds to that or is it really like a methodology-based process
where like the better you are at it the more pollen you'll get and things like that?
Pollen collection is hard with reversals in the first place but man it goes down to the
exact plant, it goes down to the environment the plant's in, every last little variable
matters with it.
Some plants reverse better than others, some really suck at it, a lot of the really dense
indica's are really hard to reverse just because the male clusters, the male parts, they cluster
up and get really hard and they're hard to pick out.
I mean they don't just burst like a regular male, the nuts don't hang so to speak.
So that's something that happens a lot with really dense indica's so a lot of people like
reversing more less dense sativas.
Yeah okay and so do you think being able to get a lot of pollen from such strains would
just come down to training the plant to maybe have very few bud sites and so that you could
do it or it's just still more like intricate than that?
There's actually certain chemicals you can use to make the clusters be less dense so
I've had someone else help me with that and kind of figure out that aspect of it and it's
been so helpful in that part because that was always the main problem with reversing
a lot of like the OG cushes and stuff like that and never getting enough seeds.
It was just that dense formation of clustered balls and I mean trying to pull the pollen
out you literally had to go in with tweezers and do it by hand and shake it into a baggy
each little cluster.
But now we have another chemical that will stretch it out, make them hang a little bit
more and it's much easier to collect.
So I mean even over time it's getting easier for us to do and we're developing better methods
every year.
And so what strain has been the best one to reverse in your opinion, your favorite one
to work with?
Bubba.
Just the old Bubba Cush like for some reason even though it has dense bud formations it's
always been really reliable, it's always kicked out a lot of pollen, it's just always been
really reliable and really easy to use and it tends to have amazing progeny.
I've never really had a bad Bubba reversal or bad Bubba crosses.
Yeah that's interesting because Bubba is a strain I personally love a lot.
What do you think the history on it is you know?
A lot of people say Matt Bubba made it.
What do you think and what do you think the origin is?
You know I like Matt Bubba a lot.
He's got some valid stuff he said with OG Cush.
Sorry some just fell.
He's got a valid point with OG Cush.
I mean he's got a lot of documentation with his friend Josh being one of the original
guys that were passing it around.
However Bubba he was saying I think came around 96 but you can go to a high times magazine
in 94 and see Bubba in it.
So it's hard to say I mean I know that the Oregon Afghani tends to look a lot probably
closest to Bubba as a mom for Bubba.
Some people say West Coast dog I don't know.
It's obviously an Afghani of some sort.
Yeah that's interesting because I spoke to Professor P of Dynasty and he thinks that
the Oregon Afghani is maybe an S1 of Bubba which is maybe the other way around.
And that could be that could be he's worked with it a lot more than I have that's for
sure.
He would know.
Yeah okay so I mean the West Coast dog is another thing you brought up that's interesting.
Seed Finder has quite a long winded story about you know contrary to the Matt Bubba
story explaining how they think that's the Bubba.
Do you put any credit to that or do you think it's all just kind of Chinese whispers?
You know the West Coast dog gained a lot of popularity with a group of guys called the
Brothel Brothers and they were some con men cocksuckers.
They've had like a few different names that they've used over the years.
They've used Tricone Kings and screwed over a bunch of people on that.
Sierra Seeds.
Yeah it's those guys.
Sierra Seeds, Brothel Brothers.
They've used all those names and it seems to be that the West Coast dog originates with
those guys.
The story, the strain, everything comes from those guys.
And so what's it like to you though?
Do you see any traits of the Bubba in it?
Yeah you know I would say, I would probably guess if anything it's like a Bubba hybrid
with some sort of narrow leaf sativa type plant.
Okay interesting.
Something fruity.
Keeping on the topic of history, I saw in a, I think it was either an Instagram post
or on a forum somewhere you were dropping some knowledge about Dr. Grinspoon and the
origins.
Oh yeah.
It's a very hotly contested strain.
What do you know about it?
The first time I heard about that strain it was called Quaize.
Ed from Delta 9 sent it to me.
And it was just a clone only strain.
I don't think much was known about its history other than it probably was a Southeast Asian
of some sort.
So whether it was Thai, Filipino, it was something from Southeast Asia.
And that clone, like a lot of the pictures you'll see on the Scentsy Seeds site, if you
look into Quaize clone only, that's what the pictures were of.
And Barney's Farm got a cut of it, reversed it, sold it as Dr. Grinspoon.
And that was it.
Yeah interesting because online on that same SeedFinder website they say that it's a reeferman
strain.
I forget the name of it.
Oh good lord.
Yeah I guess it's not that.
It was the Oregon Liberty Thai crossed to something.
But anyway.
The Oregon Purple Thai.
Reeferman's a fucking idiot.
I, you know, me and, yeah, sorry.
Me and Neville were working together for a little bit, Neville's show and maker.
And reeferman somehow got in the middle of it and started getting Neville to try to send
me, or me to try to send cuts to him through Neville.
And you know, like I had already, he had already fucked over so many of my friends in America.
And I was like, you know dude, they probably don't want to talk to this guy.
I don't really want to send him anything.
He's kind of a piece of shit.
And Neville insisted.
He's like, no man, I say he's good.
So you know, if you're my friend, you'll send him the shit.
So what's he do?
He fucks me over there too.
But you know, he's notorious for that.
He's just a scumbag, ex-white power, Nazi guy that just kind of hides out being a piece
of shit and makes his resurgence every now and then.
He makes a lot of claims himself.
I don't know if SeedFinder made that claim or he made that claim, but either way it's
incorrect.
Definitely incorrect.
Okay.
And so, I mean, you've been working with the, what you say is the original Girl Scout Cookie
Clone for a while.
What is the original Girl Scout Cookie Clone?
Because even Cookie Fam can't really tell you.
Yeah, no, the original, before the forum cut was called the forum cut, it was just Girl
Scout Cookies and that was it.
That's it.
Everybody wants to argue over it.
That's just it.
That was the first one that was being passed around as Girl Scout Cookies.
And as more people got their hands on it, they started calling it the forum cut to try
to say, oh, well, that one's not as cool as this one we have over here.
You know?
Yeah, okay.
And so, do you think that like most of the other cuts are S1s from the forum cut or other
seeds that the forum cut originally came from like that same batch or?
Well, I mean, you can get like a forum cut type plant from reversing Cherry Pie Cush.
So I mean, they could be more S1s of Cherry Pie Cush.
They could be S1s of the forum.
They could also be Urkel OG hybrids because that kicks out the same exact type of phenotypes.
So God only knows.
I see the most common being the OGKB type coming out of Urkel and OG hybrids.
So I mean, yeah.
Okay.
And I mean, one of the reasons why we're on this topic is because one of your new strains
coming out is the F1 Durban cross-dosey doe.
Yes.
What inspired this and how did you get access to the elusive F1 Durban?
Yeah, that strain's been going around for fucking ever.
It's just always been known as Mendo Durban.
It looks a lot like Cherry Pie, the original.
It was never that rare.
It's just only been rare since they've called it F1 Durban or whatever, but it's been around
forever.
It's not even a pure Durban in any sense of the word.
It's a very Indica Dom, which a real pure Durban is very Sativa Dom.
It has a little bit of that anise, what's it called?
Black licorice to it.
Not much, just a hint.
But yeah, that clone's been around forever.
Yeah, okay.
And so what do you think are the real origins of the Girl Scouts?
You hinted before, the Cherry Pie one maybe?
Yeah.
I mean, you can make Girl Scout cookies out of OG, a really old OG like Loompa's Headband
or San Fernando Valley, the real San Fernando Valley Cut or Face Off, any of those.
You can use and cross to the old Urkel Cut and you'll get all the same.
I mean, there's a lot of phenotypes that come out of that cross, but you will see cookies
type phenotypes coming out of just those two strings.
Now F1 Durban might be in it, as they call it, the Mendo Durban, because Cherry Pie does
look a lot like the Mendo Durban.
And it could just be that Cherry Pie is like a Grand Daddy Purple, which is also an Urkel
phenotype or an Urkel Outcross.
It could be GDP, OG, and that.
And that would make sense.
You could potentially pull that out of that.
That's the best I got on that.
Okay.
And so, I mean, your work kind of in contrast to a lot of other breeders is you clearly
don't seem to have a problem breeding with cookies.
What do you feel in this trend?
No, never have.
Do you dislike kind of the hate that cookies get or you don't mind, you're not bothered
by it?
How do you feel about it all given you do breed with it a lot?
No, I was the first one to release any seeds of it, any strains of it in seed.
And that was a long time ago, a long time ago.
That's like, what, five, six years ago now.
So I give a shit anymore.
I mean, when I was doing it, no one else was using it and nobody really wanted to buy it
because nobody knew what it was.
And by the time I sold out of it, that's when people just started getting popular.
So I miss that whole cookies wave for the most part.
I mean, I'll use it every now and then now, but it's definitely not like a main staple
of anything I do.
I mean, it's good.
It has its place.
It's not that potent.
I mean, the OGKB types are and their outprocesses are, but that particular one wasn't.
Yeah, okay.
And so I don't know if you're aware, but there's currently like a bit of an ongoing discussion,
maybe slightly aggressive, between Gage Green and Cookie Fam, kind of over the origins of
the cookies.
And I know that Gage Green is saying that they believe that the Cherry Pie Kush is the
parent of the cookies and it's probably S1s of that.
Have you seen any of this at all, Slash?
How do you think about that?
Have you ever seen the Cherry Pie Kush?
You know, as far as Gage Green goes, that's a pretty, everybody knows that I hate that
motherfucker.
Not specifically all the guys in it, but the original guy, he goes by Keyplay.
He was the first one to use the name Gage Green.
He lied and cheated his way through all of our business.
He did it to me, Loompa, a guy named Old Hand, a bunch of people, and he's made his whole
campaign on just stabbing everyone in the back that helped him out along the way.
Even Jojo Rizzo, who was supposed to be one of his friends that he's named Strains after,
he traded him heroin for his seed stock.
I mean, that's what killed him.
So yeah, I have nothing.
Anytime that guy talks, I just close my fucking eyes and hope I don't see him in person.
Well I mean, interestingly enough, there seems to be a lot of info online which indicates
that you guys argue over the origins of the Purple Elephant, Slash, you know, the Grape
Stomper.
How do you feel about that all?
Where do you see it?
Was it just them who made the Grape Stomper or was it Jojo?
Jojo made it.
It was originally called Sour Grapes.
He passed it out to a bunch of people, but he never sold it.
He had a specific clone that he liked that was the Sour Grapes mom that was passed out
to all of us.
That was also given to Gage, who was supposed to be his friend.
And Gage went and sold it to Blue Sky Cafe as Sour Grapes.
And then he started to get mad and said, I kind of like the name Grape Stomper better
and that's what he made the seed line as.
But Gage has nothing to do with the actual genesis of the strain.
He just hijacked someone else's.
Same with his Blackberry Pie.
That was Jojo's.
There's countless other shits he's done that with.
So, there's nothing new.
And so, do you feel like it's an interesting situation that you guys both breed with the
same cup but there's this kind of animosity between the two of you?
Because the reason I bring it up is there's kind of like a reincarnation of that right
now between Gromer and Seed Junkie where more or less Gromer is probably going to breed
with some of Seed Junkie's seeds even though Seed Junkie's made it somewhat obvious he
would not like that.
Do you feel like there's almost some parallels between that and you and Gage with the stomper?
Who are they?
I don't think I've ever heard of them.
I'm just kidding.
I don't know.
They're nobody's to me.
They're new.
Fuck them.
Yeah, okay.
So, I guess maybe the way I should have phrased the question is, do you think that your rights
over a seed line kind of whatever you want to do with it as soon as you acquire them
Or do you believe like you should respect the creator's wishes or something like that
or is it like, no, it's yours, you've got it?
Well, the problem is the creator's been passed for a long time.
Yeah, so...
Maybe just in general like with any safe seed line.
I mean, you know, like if the people aren't, if a breeder isn't currently making the seed
line, he's not making the money off it and he doesn't have any plans to come back, then
I would say as long as you credit him properly and you've done your research, then that's
fine and dandy.
But if you're going to like F2 people's seed lines like and just changing the name, that's
really just a big slap in the face.
You can't do that in any other industry and you shouldn't.
Yeah, okay, interesting.
And so, similarly we've seen a bit of an argument between, I don't know if I say an argument,
feud between Mello from the Nature Farm and yourself between these discrepancies in the
roadkill lines.
What's your take in this?
His line is, phenotypically seems different to yours.
I don't know who he is.
I don't think.
Do I?
Have I said something to him?
I might have said something, I don't know.
Yeah.
He could join the fucking club.
Yeah, I've just noticed whenever he posts photos of his roadkill line he's working on,
he makes sure that...
Oh, is that the dude who says like skunk IBL 69, that guy?
Yeah, yeah man.
Oh, yeah.
Saying that he has a skunk from 1969, that is like, that is the most fucking asinine
shit I've ever heard.
All it takes is like 10 minutes of research to realize, oh wait, there weren't really
many Afghanis coming to the US in 1969, nor were they being harvested for their own shit
in Afghanistan.
They were still importing Indian sativa plants for hash.
So that claim was fucking just stupid.
It just, yeah, I don't know.
And it's not an IBL if there's more than one phenotype, it's not a fucking IBL.
IBL denotes uniformity.
And when I see people use that, it makes me roll my fucking eyes.
So he just had a bunch of eye fucking holes.
That's it.
Yeah, okay.
And so I mean, if we get back to say maybe Riot Seeds, one of many strains, one for example
called Blood Rose, you could have just been created by a colleague Skunko as well as having
you know other colleagues like Flip.
Do you consider Riot Seeds to be you as an individual, like a one man operation or more
of like an umbrella for kind of you and your friends?
Do you know, there's been so many people that had a part in my company.
There were times when I just lost a lot of want to do anything in this business just
from just being jaded by all the fuckheads.
And there were a lot of times other people picked up and ran with my company and kept
it going.
There's a guy named 46and2, he took a lot of the work that I had and he kept it going
out there, kept passing it out, kept making sure everything was going while I was gone.
There's a guy named RacerX, he did the same thing and he's helped out probably more than
anyone else.
Skunko, he made two lines for us and he's an amazing guy.
He just you know, he's a wonderful guy too.
There's been so many people that are part of our organization and most of them are the
same kind of guys.
They're just people who don't give a shit about what people have to say.
And so, this has actually been a question we got asked a lot from people.
The Piff S1 seeds, what's the go?
When are they coming?
Oh the Piff, I made those years ago but I wasn't allowed to do the S1s.
The guy I got it from was a bouncer for the Dominicans in New York, a guy named DoggystyleD79
and he's been around the forums forever.
He passed me the Piff lines, there was one line called H1, one line called H2.
The H1 was like the frankincense type line, H2 was more like a mango haze type line, something
similar to the one you'd see from Shanty with his mango haze.
And all I was told was you know, you can make as many hybrids with this as you want, just
don't S1 it, don't release it pure, that's it.
Okay, interesting, yeah, there's a few people holding out for it.
So similarly, another strain that caught my eye was the P91.
Yeah, it's a San Diego strain.
Yeah, so what's the history behind that and how come no one else seems to breed with it?
That strain's been gone for a long time, only a few people including the breeder have kept it.
It's hard to find, there's like a P91 skunk line that gets passed around, but for the
most part, that line was really hard.
I searched for it for 10 years before I got a legit cut from the breeder and that was hard.
It's supposed to be, according to him, a silverback tie, cross to Northern Lights I want to say,
but there's really not a lot of tie traits of it being very, very bushy.
It's a very, very bushy plant.
But it's called P91 because it's peanut buttery, so for peanut, and 91 because it was made
in 1991.
Okay, interesting, and do you plan to make any S1s with it again?
No, the cut is very old, it wasn't kept very well.
It's one of those things that I'd like to tissue culture first and then go ahead and
give it another run of S1s.
I just really wasn't really happy with the uniformity of it.
It was hard to find a lot of really super peanutty phenotypes.
The line could be S1ed a few times to get some uniformity to make sure that's more reliable.
Yeah, okay.
And so the neon skunk is one of the parents you use, you know, created by Sonny Chiba that
not a lot of other people use.
What are the characteristics about it that you like and how come, again, you don't think
many other people use it?
It seems like a, you know, a hidden gem.
Which one from Sonny?
The neon super skunk.
Oh, you know, that was just, I mostly used it because I was trying, at the time I was
trying to find really good black Russian strains.
And early on Sonny was one of the few people that was really like amazing to me, and this
is before he left for a long time and kind of disappeared after the TGA thing.
He was one of the few people I could talk to about breeding purples.
Him and a guy named Nebu, I personally think are responsible for so many of the purple
work out there and pink work.
I mean, I couldn't have done it without them.
I'd have none of my purple and pink work.
And a lot of people attribute, you know, a lot of my work to being some of the most prolific
purple and pink work.
But I attribute all that to those two.
The neon super skunk was a black Russian line, and at the time black Russian was really hard
to find.
And that was Nebu's black Russian.
It's a cherry AK crossed to the Oregon Blackberry.
Oregon Blackberry is a purple Pakistani Chitrali, and at the time that was a lot harder to find.
Nowadays Pakistani Chitrali, the purple vino, is everywhere.
But at the time it was really hard to find.
So you know, the only reason I worked with the neon super skunk was just because of the
black Russian.
It wasn't so much because of the super skunk.
But all in all it was an amazing line.
Okay.
And how do you feel about people kind of, there's, you know, certainly seems to be a
rising popularity of people wanting to go back to those more raw, landracy, unworked
type stuff, you know?
Do you feel like this is a well-spent effort or maybe a waste of time?
Just depends on who's doing the work.
I mean any shithead kid fucks something up that's nice, you know.
I don't know.
It just depends on who's doing the work.
A lot of people I see are trying to play with stuff like that.
That's fine and dandy, but if they don't know how it breeds or how it crosses, they don't
understand what they're doing with it.
They don't really have a direction.
They're just making crosses to make crosses.
You're just shooting in the dark and it's going to be a lot of work for everyone else.
So do you ever think that we'll have, you know, like another strain of merch that just
totally takes over the market, maybe similar to how skunk or Northern Lights did when they
were first released or?
Yeah, I mean OG Kush.
OG Kush was one that absolutely took over the market and it's a staple now just as much
as any skunk or anything else.
You know, and there's going to be more.
I mean, Cookies has made quite a stamp on it and even though it's not that wholly different
from an Urkel or an OG, it still has made its mark and there's going to be plenty more
to come.
I mean, there's still a lot of lines a lot of us are digging up and just playing with.
Like we have a Senegalese line from Africa that has like a distinctive Lychee smell,
which is not a terpene you find in cannabis anywhere and it's very specific to that.
And it also is a Landry Sativa or Heirloom Sativa, more correctly, that is really resinous
and you don't see that a lot.
So I mean, there's a lot of strains out there that are going to be able to bring a lot more
uniqueness to our lines.
Okay.
And so what do you think about the idea of breeding for terpenes specifically or and
then like maybe a follow-up to that is, do you think it's possible for cannabis to create
literally any smell with its terpenes?
That's a hard question.
I don't even think anybody knows the answer to that truly, if we can make any smell or
any taste, because I know that there's a lot missing from the palette.
But I mean, eventually if you have enough colors in your arsenal, you could paint any
picture.
So I assume that eventually we'll get there.
Breeding for terpenes, I mean, we did that with the blueberry line that we work that
we call Riot Berry and trying to find that original blueberry that is just completely
blueberry, no skunk.
That was a really hard thing to do.
I mean, we spent thousands and thousands on different blueberry lines from DJ Short.
I mean, all of it probably descends from DJ Short's work originally, but like going to
the Canadian blueberries from DJ's work with Sager Matha, DJ's work with Dutch Passion,
they're all different levels of blueberry, but none of them were really kicking out that
heavy duty blueberry smell and bred reliably and outcross that blueberry smell and the
purple traits.
So I mean, that's a good example of terpene work that took a long time and was definitely
worth it in the end.
And so how do you feel about the whole kind of craze with terpenes at the moment?
You know, you see people getting concentrates and just drowning it in liquid terpenes and
stuff.
Do you think it's a phase or it's the next step?
I don't know.
I mean, it looks kind of crack-heady to me, but whatever.
I mean, people are going to always do the weirdest shit they can do with it and try
to create new fads with it.
Terpenes definitely have their place.
I mean, when I was watching a lot of the BHO being made originally when it was happening
in Southern California, you were missing out on a lot of the terpenes and the high was
so different, it was so speedy and it was very predictably speedy with any strain.
So obviously they play a big part in the high.
I think the newest thing is going to be paying more attention to the flavonoids as well as
the terpenes.
The flavonoids have been really ignored and I think that's just another thing that just
has another major impact on it.
Okay.
And so, I mean, what is your opinion on kind of dabbing versus flowers?
Where do you sit on the spectrum?
And just as a follow-up, I had a friend who kind of described America as now a country
of dabbers and not flower smokers.
Do you feel that's the truth?
I hate to admit it, but yeah, I mean, I myself, I don't like dabbing.
Not that I didn't do it for a long time, but it really fucked up my lungs.
There's too many shitheads doing it that don't, again, like everything else in the business,
a lot of shitheads doing it that don't know what the fuck they're doing and they can hurt
a lot of people and they can hurt their lungs, they can make them sick.
Not everyone's getting their shit tested, obviously, and not all the tests are reliable.
So flowers tend to have the more complete high and more terpene content.
So to me, that would make the most sense.
But I mean, I guess it's all in the preference of the person, what it does for them.
This is an individual experience.
The high is always an individual experience.
No two highs are the same for each person.
So it's just really what it's, that's what it boils down to.
Me, flowers any day.
And so how do you feel about the rise in testing?
You know, Oregon seems to, sorry, when I say that I mean like pesticide and residue testing,
things like that, because Oregon seems to be leading the way.
Do you think it's just going to keep getting more and more stringent or we're kind of at
a good spot?
It's hard to say.
The more we let government into shit, the more fucked up everything gets.
But at the same time, unless stuff like that's necessary, people are going to get hurt if
not.
But no, I mean, as more chemicals are being made, you know, it's getting easier for people
to try to sneak by stuff.
So testing is going to have to get better.
You know, it's just, it's part of it, I guess.
Necessary evil.
Yeah.
Okay.
And so, you know, it seems like the cannabis industry used to be very much against feminized
seeds and there's still a lot of skepticism out there.
But I feel like there is a slowly changing trend as more and more mainstream breeders
seem to be incorporating feminized into their projects who were, you know, in the past just
regular only.
Do you think this is a changing trend within the community or just maybe like a short term
kind of change from the norm?
You know, what's funny is a lot of the people that were dissenters maybe five years ago
are now buying my spray that I make to make their feminized lines.
And I, you know, I don't know, maybe people are getting more educated finally on it.
For years I've been screaming my head off showing the science behind it and why like
saying this or that applies to feminized seeds really isn't correct.
I mean, even using the term feminized is kind of stupid because there's no way you can guarantee
any kind of sex on any plant because environment determines, you know, at least at least 30
to 40 percent of what that plant's sexual characteristics are going to be.
So the term feminized really isn't even that good of a term.
I always use reverse lines just so it doesn't give that connotation and people don't have
expectations that are outside of reality.
But there were a lot of people that, you know, were against it for one reason or another
or just what they had heard.
And like I said, a lot of those people now are buying the spray from me and using it
and creating lines.
So I think it's probably, I mean, the science is there so if people keep reading it, they'll
get it.
And so what do you feel about the idea of doing like, and I'm not even sure if this
is the correct terminology, but like S2s and S3s, you know, like making S1s of S1s.
Do you feel like that's going down a shaky path or it's fine as long as the selection
is good?
As long as the selection is good, as long as the line is good, I mean, just run the
progeny and then, yeah, I mean, a lot of lines.
A lot of lines are, you know, I guess I would call it like S1R or F1R, F1 reversals, F2
reversals, things like that.
That's usually how we denote it.
But yeah, it's kind of like if you use a shitty line and you keep crossing it out, even if
it's a regular line, you're going to get shit.
Same thing with S1s.
If you keep reversing a plant that kind of sucks and has some shitty traits, it's just
going to get more and more obvious as you go on.
And so, have you ever seen a plant come from an S1 that was better than the parent?
Because I kind of look at that.
I couldn't see an obvious, you know, well-known clone only that was like, you know, S1 that
was better than the parent.
OGKB probably.
I mean, if that is an S1 of the forum, I would say that's a perfect example of it.
Okay, yeah, because the interesting thing around that is I think the guy who found that
one claims that it was from the same seed stock as like the original Girl Scout cookies.
Like, you know, like the forum cut would be a sister so to speak.
Yeah, and that would make it an S1 of something because it was a-
Yeah.
Yeah.
So yeah, I mean, it would be a- yeah, I mean, same kind of thing.
When I reversed Bubba and we did a large population, there was one phenotype in it that was a narrow-leafed
type Bubba plant.
And it had big apical buds.
It just one main Mary stem, you know.
And as opposed to being a short, squat little plant, it was tall and had big colas and it
smelled like Bubba, tasted like Bubba, but the high was so much more complex, lasted
longer.
And in general, everybody seemed to prefer way over the original Bubba.
And everybody that I know loves the original Bubba.
That's another example of an S1 that's just, in my opinion, just outweighed the parent
by leaps and bounds.
Oh, fantastic.
So, I mean- Yeah.
Do you think we'll ever see any more platinum banana OG S1s?
That's another good example.
The original platinum banana OG was a great line.
But there are S1s that came out that were just phenomenal, even better than the mother.
So if I do it, I may take one of the S1s as opposed to the mother and use one of them.
Because they had like- some of those were just absolutely beautiful.
The more black colored ones that were- just had resin caked on it and smelled and tasted
like banana Laffy Taffy.
So yeah, if I release it again, I may release the original mom S1s, but I'll definitely
do an S1 reversal as well.
Fantastic.
So, I mean, in some of your previous work, you've worked with some of the more raw land
racy type stuff we've spoken about earlier.
I think one of them I saw was the Chemdog Colombian Gold Hybrid you did.
Do you think that these are good breeding tools, so to speak?
So they can just kind of make things harder to work with.
Do you think it'll be an ongoing trend in the future to work with, like a new school
meets old school hybrid?
Well, that one specifically was work Luka had done originally and he brought it down
to about 16 weeks, the hybrid.
And then we ran an F2 selection and brought it down to 10 to 14 weeks.
We even had 10-week phenos.
And honestly, that was one of my favorite lines during those years that I ever worked
with and worked.
But it didn't sell.
People had zero fucking interest in it.
It wasn't OG Kush.
At the time, Chemdog D was not in that big a demand.
91 Chem has always been in big demand, but at the time, Chemdog D just really wasn't
that big of a deal.
But now, you know, people know about Stardog and they know that that's from the D line.
So a lot of people, more people have been wanting it over the past few years and that
shit's long gone now.
But that tends to be the trait.
I mean, it takes people a while to catch up to what a lot of breeders are working with.
It takes several years for them to start getting hip to Landry's work and what's good.
Yeah, I mean, what's your opinion on the Chemdog family as such?
You know, it's a very popular discussion topic on our show.
My favorite's G'sal, G'sal.
It's the mass super skunk cross to the Chemdog D. It's not one of the original seeds from
the Chemdog line that Greg had, but it's good.
You know, it's one of my favorites, I think, because if you S1 the G'sal, you can actually
see each one of those phenotypes of the Chem 91.
You can see the D, you can see the 4, you can see the sister, all in those reversals
of just the G'sal because it's so strong with the mass super skunk parent.
It's actually very similar in high, smell, and looks to the mass super skunk.
Yeah, that's why it's one of my favorites.
But of the original line, I really liked 4, but I mean, some people prefer the D for the
high.
I didn't like Chemdog D because it smelled like baby shit and it just made me really
disgusted.
Like, in mid flower, it just has this awful fecal baby shit, runny smell.
And that was pretty disgusting and foul.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, what's your take on naming strains?
You know, and the reason why I ask is because I feel like I can kind of spot your name sometimes
of the strain.
The thing is though, you don't seem to go by like, you know, the standard nomenclature
where it's like, you know, blueberry crust OG, call it blue OG or whatever, you know.
What's your approach to naming strains and how do you feel about that whole nomenclature
I mentioned where, you know, people are just kind of ramming two names together?
You know, early on, I would do that.
That was like the top popular nomenclature.
That was what people did.
Like, if it was a blue haze, you'd call it blue haze.
You know, if it was a blueberry bubble gum, it was bubble berry.
But I don't know.
I don't know how I come up with any of the names I do.
A lot of them are just fucking trying to pull out my ass or it's a punk rock Ken's name.
I don't know.
I'm reckless with naming.
I've made a lot of stupid names, stuff that I don't like and I don't keep in the end and
some stuff that I just keep because I'm too lazy and even though it sucks.
But I have learned that sometimes a name is everything when it comes to a strain.
So I probably should pay more attention to it.
I just don't care on that part.
But it comes down to it.
I just don't care.
Yeah.
And so, we don't routinely at least or ever see you attend cannabis cups or events like
that, you know.
Do you just avoid them because of kind of, you know, all the previous interactions with
people or you just don't see the real value in going to them?
No.
I've gone like the ones in Denver the first few years.
I went to the ADSI cup when I went that year.
I don't ever have trouble with anyone because people are fucking, usually I'll talk online
and pussy's in person but I don't like high times.
They're fucking assholes.
That's why I call them high crimes because all they are is one big long fucking advertisement
for bullshit.
So I don't really have any purpose of going to their cups and giving them money.
There's other cups like the Emerald Cup and stuff.
I didn't go this year just because I was dealing with a lot of chaos.
Same thing the year before but Bodhi always tries to get me to go to those with him and
it's just that's the only reason I haven't.
Just because it's usually a life shit going on at the time.
But other cups, I don't know.
I just don't care.
I guess a lot of people that go into those are a lot of the newbie shitheads that are
trying to prove something.
You've already been there, done that and don't care.
I don't need an award to satisfy my ego.
Yeah, okay.
And so I think, you know, what's one of maybe the most unexpected friendship in the industry
being yourself and Bodhi?
A lot of our listeners really, really dig Bodhi.
I'm sure they'd be interested.
How did you meet him and develop this friendship over time?
Me and Bodhi, how did we meet?
We were just both making seeds at the same time.
He was doing it before I was even.
I don't know.
We've just always kind of gotten along really well.
He's obviously like my polar opposite.
He's very quiet, very reserved, super nice, never has anything negative to say about anyone
ever.
He's really sweet.
Me and him when we talk, we don't even really talk about cannabis that much.
He has pretty good knowledge of punk rock history and vinyl, so we get along talking
about that.
I don't know.
It's just one of those things where we are polar opposites, but we totally get along.
It's a really weird pairing.
And same with Loompa.
Loompa's very much like Bodhi, very calm, quiet, reserved.
Just one of those things, you know.
They get me.
Yeah.
Somehow.
Ying to the yang.
Yeah, it is.
And when people attack them, they'll just back down because they're nice and they don't
care to get into it.
I'll just rip into people, so it just kind of works out.
And so would you ever see yourself doing a collaboration with either them or just other
breeders you thought possibly of?
Well, I've done collaborations with Loompa.
Earlier last year, we were going to do a seed bank together, but just a lot of stuff happened
with his company and someone trying to screw him over really bad.
And so that kind of got put on hold for a while.
Me and Bodhi do do a lot of stuff together, but it's more like passing clones back and
forth and then we'll work with each other's cuts.
Like I work with his purple unicorn cut, and I think I'm the only person that works with
that specific cut.
And it's pretty amazing.
It's absolutely amazing.
It's some of JoJo's work, Kemdog D. Yeah, you know, that's pretty much how we've done.
I give him a lot of my land race lines that I collect over the years because I don't have
a lot of outdoor space, so I just give them to him to run.
And would you ever be interested in going and doing the machete in one hand, hacking
through Amazonian jungles to get your own land race, or are you not really interested
in that?
No, I'd love to.
It's just, I don't know.
I don't have that ability to just walk away from my plants and leave them and trust someone
to take care of them.
I'm really, really paranoid about that.
So I don't really do that.
I don't leave a whole lot to go on big adventures.
Yeah, that would put my company at risk, and that's just kind of, I don't know.
Yeah, okay.
So what- But it would be nice.
What plant have you had for the longest?
Well, we have the Clockwork Orange, the longest, I would have to say.
That's probably the one that's survived the longest.
Not the original one from Doug, because that wasn't called Clockwork Orange.
That was just an Alaskanized plant of some sort.
But the one that became known as Clockwork Orange, that one stayed the longest.
And that's not through any awesomeness of my own.
I've passed it to other people and had to get it back from them, and I've been very
fortunate that the people I've passed it to have gotten it back to me.
Okay, fantastic.
And I mean, I guess you may be answering indirectly, but you no longer hang on to that original
Alaskanized plant?
No, no.
We lost that early, early on, after we made some of the first rounds of seeds with it,
trying to get rid of that crinkle phenotype, because we thought, well, that's pretty ugly.
There's no real reason to keep the mom.
Now that we have the seeds, we can pick a better phenotype that doesn't have that crinkle.
And that just wasn't the case.
Except for some reason, the crinkle goes hand in hand with the potency.
Okay, interesting.
And so, how do you feel about the whole organics versus synthetics?
You know, like where do you sit in the growing spectrum?
I use what I got.
I mean, to me, it's like, you know, some people are diehard organics, some people are diehard
TLO, like my buddy, The Rev.
I think he's like the TLO master.
I really do.
And he knows what he's talking about.
He's taught so many people.
I'm sponsored by Botanicare and a few other people.
And obviously, you know, there's some synthetics in the lines.
But I don't even care if it's a bottle of N, a bottle of P, and a bottle of K.
I can make it work.
And that's just what it is.
I mean, whether it's organic or inorganic, I can look at the plant.
I know what it needs.
And that's the way every grower should be, I think.
No matter what they use, they should just be able to look at the plant, know exactly
what the plant needs, not overfeed, and just feed according to what the plant desires.
So I don't know.
That's about where I stand on it.
I'm pretty indifferent.
Yeah.
I mean, so like do you find that you can get a pretty consistent product from either or?
Or is there one method that you just personally kind of prefer?
No.
I mean, I cross both boundaries.
Like just depending on what I'm using, I usually use some organic stuff and inorganic.
So I mean, as long as you know your plant, you know what it wants, usually you'll get
the same standard buds as long as your environment is pretty stable other than the feeding.
Yeah.
Okay.
So what do you think is the future of growing?
And you know, like we've seen some pretty major innovations in terms of, you know, like
Mammoth P was like kind of something people might list or even say looking at lighting
technology like Govita.
What do you think are some of the new things that are going to roll onto the scene in the
next couple of years that might be game changers?
Well, I mean, I think big pharma coming in, sweeping through California, getting the lobbyists
to pass the laws here and fuck all the growers.
I think that's probably the biggest game changer because I think a lot of us that are pioneers
in the business are going to get screwed out of our companies and out of our careers.
That would probably be the biggest game changer because that would be a defeat for a lot of
people who have been fighting since the 60s, long before I was involved, to get this legal
correctly.
Yeah.
But as far as technology, I mean, I mean, Govita and the double-ended bulb have made
huge leaps and bounds.
I mean, I use Solistex double-ended stuff and it's been phenomenal.
It's night and day compared to just the normal HPS or metal halide.
I love it.
Yeah, okay, fantastic.
And so, where does CBD fit into Riot Seeds, you know?
Like I don't think we've seen many or even any CBD strains from you guys.
Is it something you want to do?
Yeah, we've released a few CBD lines, but the thing I've had a hard problem doing is
when I make CBD lines, I don't like to charge a lot for them, but they cost just as much
to produce and I'm not a big operation.
I'm not some massive fucking multi-warehouse operation where I can just afford to take
big hits on one and then charge a bunch for another.
CBD work, it benefits so many people, a lot of them children, a lot of people with Alzheimer's,
kids with seizures.
So, it's really, really hard for me to even charge anything, let alone a small amount
for them.
And so, I just try to do small projects enough to where I keep enough in stock to be able
to give it away when I want or if someone doesn't necessarily have an ailment but just
want to try it, they can buy it.
Yeah, okay.
And so, I mean, how do you feel about the whole THC to CBD ratio then?
Do you think that there's an optimum ratio or just pure CBD is best in terms of the medical
properties of cannabis, so to speak?
I genuinely think that depends on the individual.
I mean, cannabis, even in its medical aspects, is an individual experience.
You'll see some people saying the THC helps a lot of their cancerous responses they're
having to the medicine that are negative.
But again, some people say, you know, it's only the CBD stuff that helps me.
It's not that it helps my pain.
Well, a lot of people only help by THC from pain.
So, I mean, really, like in generally speaking, it's hard to say.
I mean, it's all an individual experience.
Some people are more helped by a high THC to CBD ratio.
Some people are more helped by a higher CBD to THC ratio and some are helped more by that
even one.
It's just so hard to say.
It's so open and I don't think until the science is ready to show what body chemistry works
with what best, then that we'll ever know.
Yeah, okay.
It's all an individual type thing.
Yep.
Okay.
So, I mean, you mentioned earlier you're good friends with the Rev.
You seem to get featured in Skunk a lot.
Is there any particular relationship with him you have?
Is that just a thing where he thinks you've got good strains and therefore, you know,
it gets featured or is it more of like a business type deal where he's being paid for?
We've never paid for anything with them.
Skunk is one of the few magazines that I've been really, really vocal about liking because
the one they've never asked me for a dime.
Never.
Ever, never have asked me for a dime.
They don't ask me for anything.
They feature everyone that's in there is featured on merit.
It's not because they're paying for ads.
It's not because they're doing this or that like high times.
They're not paying for parties for high time shit.
They're not paying for awards.
They're in there on merit.
They're the ones making the waves in the industry.
The revs, I've gotten along with them so well for a long time just because of that.
We talk.
We don't talk regularly but maybe once a month or twice a month and usually it's just about
what we're working with at the time.
But yeah, I mean they feature my stuff because they feel it's on merit that I'm the one making
the waves in the scene at that particular time and then there's a few months where I
won't be in it because I'm not and that's how it goes.
But I love the fact that it's unbiased in that sense.
There's people in there that I can't stand that are making waves but they don't care
if I can't stand them.
I don't have the ability to influence their opinion on anything and I love that.
Yeah and so on a bit of a similar topic, there's a lot of controversy around that whole Attitude
Seed Bank incident where there was other photos representing the riot strains.
What was your take on that?
What happened there?
All right.
The photo they're referring to is for Skunko's work with Blood Rose and it was Heath Robinson's
Black Rose was up there as a picture which was one of the moms from Heath himself.
That wasn't really that big of a deal with the Attitude.
It's just I told him, I said, this is what's going on.
Skunko just told me, take it down.
That's not the mom.
Take it down.
They took it down.
What happened with the Attitude, it was a two-tiered thing.
The first one was when we were up there, me and Subcool TGA were the only Americans on
that site at the time.
Not Gage, not Hayes Man.
I was the one that brought them on later but just me and Subcool.
I didn't really know Subcool from anyone.
I didn't know his husband, Mr. Jill, at the time either.
They emailed the girl, I believe her name was Natalia at the time and said, you know
what, that guy's an asshole.
If he's on here, we don't want to be on here.
At the time, they were making the most money for him.
I wasn't making that much money for him.
The chick emailed me and said, Subcool's one of my good friends and he said that you guys
are not nice.
We need to talk about what we can do to do this.
Can you email them and be nice to them and be kissy-kissy?
I said, no, fuck them.
I'm not doing shit.
That kind of stuck in her head that I wouldn't work with her that way and just go kiss his
ass for no good reason or his wife's husband, whatever it is, his ass.
The other problem was that at the time, Gage had just started his company and Hayzman were
on my site because they were both friends.
Hayzman had just left making seeds for Moda.
They had asked me to sell their seeds for them.
They didn't have an outlet.
I said, okay, I'll do that.
I was selling their seeds.
When the Attitude had originally picked me up, I said, I will come on but only if you
bring these two guys with me.
When I go up, I want my friends to go up.
That's just how it goes.
At that time, I was pushing Bodie so hard to go on the Attitude.
He didn't really want to at the time just because he approaches everything very cautiously
and he's smart.
He's smarter than I was.
That's for damn sure.
I got Gage on there and Hayzman and they picked up five packs from each, just an easily five-pack
order.
They agreed that that's what they would do at the time.
If they sold well, then they'd pick up more.
I said, great.
That's great.
I didn't make a dime off of their sales.
The point was to get them on there.
Then Gage sent me an email and said, hey man, I would love your contact at the Attitude's
email address so I could thank her.
I was like, okay, well, whatever.
Yeah, I'm not making any money off you.
I don't give a shit if you go around my back.
It was obvious what he was doing but I didn't care because I wasn't making any money off
of him.
That's not what he did.
He emailed her and said, yeah, I don't know what this Matt guy has told you about me but
he's kind of a shithead.
He's completely buried me to her.
Not only was I buried by Subcool, then I was buried by him.
He was my own friend, supposed friend at the time.
That's when the Attitude, Natalia started writing me nasty emails and I called her a
dumb bitch and that was it.
End of story.
Interesting.
That was it.
Is that kind of the origins of the whole Gage Green dispute or does it trace back more to
Jojo Rizzo's stuff?
Jojo was a friend of mine.
He was a friend of my friend NCGA, North Cal Girls Association.
He's a friend of a lot of ours and not a lot of us knew the whole true story about
how he had overdosed, who had given him the stuff to overdose on and where all of his
seed stock went.
Over time, we started to learn more and more as Gage would fucking let little bits out,
little bits of info out.
Then he'd say, oh yeah, I got this at Jojo.
It's like nobody else had that.
He didn't pass it out.
How the fuck did you get that?
Little bit by bit, the story would come out.
That was almost the end of our friendship and he did that with me and Natalia.
Even then, I gave him another chance.
I was like, dude, that was kind of fucked up.
What did you do that for?
That wasn't very nice of you and he apologized.
Then a few months later, I get an email from someone saying, hey, this guy's burying you
to me.
Just a random customer.
I'm like, what?
Are you sure?
He's like, yeah, yeah.
I hit up Gage again.
Hey, dude, what are you doing?
Are you okay?
Talk to me.
What's going on?
What are you pissed about?
Then he'd say, no, no, I'm not doing that.
That eventually happened again and I confronted him.
He's like, yeah, you know what?
You're a fucking asshole.
I don't like you.
That was it.
That was it.
He continued to bury me from then on out.
I just kind of stayed cool for a while.
I just figured I'd catch him out and about and slapped the shit out of him, calm him
down.
He's hard to catch, man.
He's hard to catch out of places.
He runs pretty quick.
That's about where he's at, an old bald-headed Heisenberg looking motherfucker.
I guess the same thing with the sub-cool drama.
I guess that all kind of extended from that initial attitude incident?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I didn't really know them that well.
I didn't give a shit about their lines.
They were working with Brothers Grimm stuff, which is great.
Brothers Grimm already did it and they were just rehashing all the Brothers Grimm work.
I didn't have any respect for them because of what they did to Sonny Chiba, but at the
same time, I didn't really know them personally, so I didn't give a shit to attack or say anything
about them.
I didn't know them personally.
But after they did that, you bet your ass I learned about them and fucking made sure
and raised hell with them everywhere I could.
You fuck with my business, you fuck with my livelihood.
At the time, I was helping my grandma, who had Alzheimer's, fucking pay for her nursing
home bill.
That was like all of my money was going to that, and they cut into that hard.
They made it really hard for me to do that.
I took that personal, and I still take it personal to this day.
I'm an asshole like that.
I keep brudges.
I'm an asshole like that.
And so, I mean, you mentioned Heath Robertson and the Blood Rose earlier.
I think I found a post online where Heath says that, you know, essentially you initially
came to him at some point and asked for some of his genetics saying you were going to be
doing a medical type project, which I think is the one you were referencing earlier in
the episode.
Yep.
Is that really what happened or is that story just a bit fabricated?
When I first talked to him, that was what we talked about.
And then he found out I had original Apollo 13 F1 lines from Brothers Grimm, because originally
he wasn't going to do anything with me.
He's like, hey, dude, how about you send me those seeds, and I'll send you like, you know,
a hundred of the Black Rose.
All right.
Well, that sounds good to me.
Send him those seeds.
And he had an intermediary, this dude named Oso Green, who works for Insane Seed Posse,
and that guy was a fucking another piece of work.
Him and Heath were fucking butt buddies, like on the real butt buddies.
Yeah, so those two just basically fucked me over really hard, didn't send me shit.
But Skunko had already gotten more Black Rose seeds from Pot Pimp, this dude Rips.
That's another accurate name for that dude, Rips.
But he had gotten those seeds from him, and that's where I didn't even make the fucking
line, so I don't know what he's talking about.
You know?
I didn't even make the line.
It didn't work the line.
It had nothing to do with it other than the release name for Skunko.
But yeah, no, I did try to get the seeds from him originally, and we were going to try to
work with him and do stuff with him.
I mean, Shantybaba worked with us back then, and Ernesto from Buddha Seeds worked with
us back then, Delta 9 Labs worked with us back then, and I'm still friends with all
those guys to this day.
All of them.
And they were all happy with what we did with them.
The only people who weren't happy were him.
I mean, I contacted everyone in California to be a part of it.
Rascal, Rascal still talks shit like he knows anything.
But yeah, it was Rascal and Heath Robinson turned out to be the biggest dickheads out
of all that shit.
So what was the deal with Rascal?
Because I mean, he was also someone who claims that you stole his photos of your strains
in that same part of the Heath Robinson thing.
That's fucking brilliant.
You know, I've never...
At that point, I'd never even grown anything of Rascal's.
We'd been growing clone-only stuff for the most part that we were working with.
I don't know why he would claim that.
No, sorry.
I mean that you used some of his photos of his plants for your strains.
Oh no, that's pretty fucking impossible.
The only photo that ever got used was one of Heath Robinson's, and that was for Skunko's
lining.
He passed me the fucking picture.
So it's like, and the second I found that out, I was like, okay, take this shit down.
That's not good.
Bad business, you know?
But Rascal, no, he don't.
The only thing he ever had to fucking do was he got an email from me.
He told me to fucking kiss his ass.
And I said, all right, dude, later.
That's it.
That's my only interaction with that piece of shit.
And he still runs his dick sucker all the time now, but usually that's busy working
on Swerve's fucking knob.
Are you going to have to edit all this?
Only if you want me to.
No, you're not.
No, don't edit anything.
I mean...
So where does Swerve fit into things then?
Oh no, he's just a runt.
I don't know.
He's just fun.
He's just a loud mouth asshole.
He's nothing special.
I don't even dislike Swerve.
I feel bad for him.
He's made quite an ass out of himself over the years.
I pity the guy, but he's never done anything bad to me other than talk shit.
I mean, plenty of people do that.
I don't mind that.
Yeah.
Okay.
A lot of people seem to hold a bit of a grudge about the comments you made about Outlaw when
he was arrested, you know, in that whole situation.
Would you do anything differently if you could do that one again?
What did I say?
He was a piece of shit?
Along those lines.
Yeah, no.
He's still a piece of shit.
He was a piece of shit then.
He's a piece of shit now.
I mean, I said, I specifically said it sucks when anybody gets arrested for this plant.
I don't wish that on anyone, but the guy's a cocksucker.
So, I mean, I don't have any sympathy for him.
I'm risking the same shit.
Everybody's risking the same shit.
We all know what we're risking, especially back then, you know.
It wouldn't have made me any less of a jerk.
I don't know why it would make him any less of a jerk.
So now, hell no, I wouldn't change anything.
Yeah, okay.
And so, I guess maybe a question to tie up this little segment.
The current cannabis community would largely be described on Instagram at least as, you
know, full of drama and backstabbing and things like that.
Do you feel like this is an accurate statement or do you feel like there's always been ongoing
dramas and feuds?
There's, I mean, fuck.
I mean, for me, there's always been ongoing dramas and feuds, but I'm one of the few people
who will snap back at people or say anything.
I mean, you don't see Bodhi in a lot of dramas or feuds.
You don't see, I mean, it doesn't really happen to him, but that's because he's so fucking
nice and he's hard to get a hold of to people.
But I'm not.
I try to be really accessible and that's been a hard part of it.
As far as Instagram goes, though, like, I mean, have you seen my Instagram?
I mostly post pictures or records.
There's a reason for that.
People are assholes on there.
Yeah.
So, yeah, I mean, it's just getting worse because there's a lot more people involved
in the scene.
I mean, back then, there were probably a hundred of us.
Now there's tens of thousands of people calling themselves breeders and it's just worse and
worse every day.
And they're all little back biters.
Like, you're talking about Gromer, Grover, whatever his name is.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's, I mean, he's all up in that shit, you know, all those guys.
The only reason I know their names is because all the shit talk.
But, you know, more power to them.
It makes them happy if that's the way they want to spend their time.
And so, you know, I guess a bit left field of all the previous questions.
I kind of questioned in my mind, how come you don't have any Gorilla Glue hybrids?
It seems like a strain you'd breed with, but I couldn't seem to see any.
Is that a conscious decision?
Yeah, that was a conscious decision.
One being that my friend Jason from Dark Horse, he went out of his way to make sure and get
the right rights from the breeder to be the one who worked with it.
And Jason worked hard to do that.
And I respect that.
And I'm not going to step on his toes.
He's one of my friends, you know.
That was pretty much it.
Okay.
I'm helping him make the S1s in a way right now.
So, I mean, there's work, but it's not my hands on work.
It was originally going to be, but now it's just mostly advisement on how to make the S1s.
And so, how do you feel about all the other brands who offer S1s of it, you know, given
that information we've just learned about the exclusivity rights?
I mean, that's up to them if they want to do that or not.
If they want to make friends or they want to make enemies, that's up to them, you know.
I just don't stab my friends in the back.
And if they're not friends with him and they think that's okay, then that's up to them.
But, I mean, Jason has a lot of friends.
He has a lot of friends like me and I have a lot of friends and it just all backfires
eventually.
I mean, that's up to them.
Yeah, okay.
And so, do you ever want to get any of your lines and try to take them to like a true
breeding point, like maybe an extended BX project or, you know, some kind of IBL?
The right berry is already at that stage towards true breeding and that's all the crosses we
are making with it now are from the true breeding stance.
That's why almost every right berry crosses purple and blueberry.
Which generation are they at?
F7.
The right berry made it to F7 and that's where we stopped it because that was anything further
than that.
It was just not doing anything extra to the line.
As far as IBL, that's quite a heavy undertaking.
I don't know any IBLs that are true IBLs.
Deep chunk maybe, but even that has a green phenotype and a purple phenotype, which means
it's not a true IBL.
Trying to get an IBL in cannabis is not, I can't say it's not achievable, but I've never
seen it fucking happen anywhere.
So, I'm trying to do that.
I mean, I don't know.
I don't know if I want to go down that path of frustration.
Yeah, okay.
And so, when you grow, just for personal use, are you like more of a few strains, like you
get in some variety or you're just like a one or two strain guy?
No, I always have a lot of variety and I prefer a lot of Southeast Asians for myself.
Okay, so what are some of your favorites?
The right rear line would be one.
It's mostly Thai Dominant.
The original Santa Cruz Blue Dream, again, Thai Dominant.
It's just because that works with my chemical body type.
It's happy stuff.
Indicas tend to depress me and make me depressed and anxious.
Hazes don't really make me anxious, but they, I don't know, it's just not my thing.
It's very specific to the Southeast Asian stuff for myself.
Yeah, okay.
And so, if you could only name one, what's your favorite strain?
For personal smoke, it would be the Riot Berry, definitely.
It's not too heavy.
It doesn't end my day because I run a business.
I stay awake.
Yeah.
That's what I tend to like to do.
And so, would you consider the Riot Berry or the Clockwork Orange to be more kind of
the thing that comes to mind when people think of Riot seeds?
I think everybody associates the Clockwork Orange with this just because it's been around the longest.
It's the rarest.
The clones, I mean, it sells for 20 grand a shot.
That's always been a big thing with us.
For a while, I had the record in California selling for 500 an ounce, like constantly,
and never going for under that.
And it was only sold by the ounce.
It was never sold by the pound.
So, it had a lot of really special things to it associated with it.
I wish Riot Berry would probably be more popular associated with this because I did more work
with it and worked harder on it.
And I think a cheap orange, a breeding standpoint, but I think overall, Clockwork Orange is probably
associated with this more.
Okay.
And what's like an upcoming project that you're personally really excited for?
I do want to do more work with our Platinum Banana.
I mean, that has only been released maybe a few times.
We did the S1 a few times and we did the BX1 project.
But there's a lot more to do with that.
Yeah, there's a lot more to do with that.
I've been really stoked with the East Coast Sour Diesel Strawberry Cream Cross,
using that in a bunch of lines because it's been really reliable at all of its outcrosses,
being keepers to someone at some point.
They're all really phenomenal.
And that was kind of a surprise because diesel is very picky and usually not predictable.
But the Strawberry Cream Cross to it, for some reason, gave it a lot more predictability
and it was pretty amazing.
Yeah, okay.
And so what's one of the strains that, you know, if you could only pick one that you'd
really love to get back in your library that's been lost either by you personally or just everyone?
Oh God, that's a hard one.
San Diego Purple Trainwreck was really good.
It was a specific cut of Purple Trainwreck.
And this is before DNA was releasing their Purple Train or whatever the fuck they called it.
It was just across from there.
And it was just really good.
It almost had that Tai Tai Pie from the trainwreck side.
But it was just really, really, really happy.
If you smoked the resin from it, if you smoked enough of it, it would give you almost like
traces like acid has.
And that was really cool.
Okay, interesting.
Yeah.
And so, I mean, you mentioned earlier before selling clones, you're one of the few readers
who I've seen, you know, openly kind of selling clones.
Do you feel that's something that other breeders should do or is it just something you're just
kind of taking advantage of because no one else is?
No one should do it.
No, hell no.
Nobody should do that shit.
Leave it up to me.
No, I mean, like there's been times where I like, where I was moving and I backed up
my whole room like five times over because I didn't want to lose anything.
And I had a lot of shit left over because I didn't lose a single plant.
And I was like, oh my God, what the fuck am I going to do with all this?
Well, so I was like, oh, well, I'll just put up some for sale.
And if any breeders want to get a hold of this stuff that they normally wouldn't even
have a shot at getting.
And I got a lot of good responses from that.
So now when people see like that I'm working with something, they'll make me an offer on
what, you know, whatever they think it's worth.
And if I think it's worth sending it to them for that amount and going through the hassle
of fucking shipping and all that shit, then I'll do it.
If not, then I won't.
But yeah, it's cool.
I don't see a lot of breeders doing that because a lot of breeders are working with stuff that
you can go buy at collectives.
So, it'd be pointless.
So, I mean, how do you feel about the whole concept of kind of like, you know, I'm not
going to say clone hoarding, but like, you know, really not giving clones out to many
people at all.
Do you feel like that's more positive than it is negative or it's just, you know?
I used to be really, really stringent about that.
I mean, if someone asked me like, don't pass this out, it never goes out.
And that's just the way it is.
I mean, that's why I have the connections that I do.
I never break that.
But at the same time, I, you know, Clockwork Orange, I kept that back from so many people
and I've almost lost it so many times that I was like, okay, this is getting kind of
ridiculous.
I'm going to end up losing this.
I just got agreed.
So, now I stopped doing all that shit just for my own personal shit.
It's too easy to lose shit that way.
Yeah.
Okay.
And so, out of all the strains you've tried over the years, what's the worst?
Oh, God.
Probably something I made and it was Deshamon's Purple Widow.
And it was just like I was fucking around with auto flowering shit at the time for no reason.
It was just seeing what would happen.
Crossed Lowrider and it was the worst shit I've ever seen in my life.
The Deshamon's Purple Widow in the first place auto flowered and it shouldn't have made any seeds.
But seeds were left over and I was like, okay, I'll try this shit.
It was terrible.
It was fucking horrible.
It was as bad as any like brick swag I've ever seen.
And I was responsible for that madness.
That was the worst strain ever.
So, I mean like just touching on Lowrider, how do you feel about autos?
Is it something you'd ever look into or no?
I did it a long time ago.
I released a few lines but it was only because I was trying to fill a void in the market,
in the American market.
And really, I wasn't happy with any of the  I mean, they're okay.
People were happy with them that grew them.
But I mean, real growers aren't going to be happy with that.
They grow real strains.
It's just not  it's never going to be the same or equal as long as you're using a Rooter Alice.
But if I was like an aspiring breeder nowadays and I really wanted to learn how to breed
and watch selection and how progeny comes out, I would advise someone,
go get some regular autoflowering seeds because they have a very short cycle
and you can see selection and evolution in action a lot faster than you would using a normal line.
Just to learn how outcrossing works, learning, selecting traits, et cetera, et cetera.
That's what it's good for is training someone how to do that.
And that's about it with that shit.
And of course, like Europeans that have to grow in like little tiny apartments.
I mean, I'm sure they're good for that.
Yeah.
So, I mean, you mentioned earlier that like S1-ing a coin only can be like a good way
to retain the genetics, improve the vigor and things lost over the years.
Do you feel like there's any other ways to improve the traits that have been lost over the years
or you just have to S1 it, so to speak?
No.
I mean, you can also tissue culture.
I mean, that's not necessarily through breeding.
It's just tissue culturing.
You can get a lot of the vigor back.
I tend to use a lot of S1-ing if I'm not using it just to make seeds.
I use it for a lot for parental identification to see what other phenotypes
that the parents would have put out in order to guess the parentage of a line.
That's also a good use of it.
But yeah, I mean, like if we're getting the vigor back to a plant,
the only things you can really do are S1-ing it, outcrossing it,
and selecting for a phenotype and then stabilizing that trait
through a successful or successive breeding or through S1-ing.
That's it.
Okay.
And so is tissue culturing something you're doing at the moment or looking into
or you think it's kind of just more of a dream?
We did it early on, very early on, very, very early on.
Before anybody was like selling kits or anything,
it was very fucking hard to do because we did it in a normal house
without a fucking fume hood, without any kind of HEPA filtration system.
And it was not very successful.
We had very, very little success with it.
And every time I've tried it since, it's been similar spotty stuff.
I have friends that have done it successfully without all that stuff.
And I don't know how they did that.
They must have insanely anal OCD cleaning abilities
and not like wearing masks and shit.
But I think it's a great thing to do.
I just, you really need a lab setting to be able to do it successfully
and make it reliable.
Yeah.
We see like these kits where you can take little cuttings of leaves
of little seedlings and determine their sex and stuff like that.
Do you think that this rise in kind of our use of scientific tools
and techniques is going to continue to rise
or they're just like kind of a moving fad
and we'll always do things kind of the way we have?
I don't know.
I really do think that tissue culturing is going to be the ideal way of the future.
I mean, you can store so many samples in such a small area
with much less light.
I mean, it is the ideal method as long as you have a clean space.
But as heparid filtration and lab settings get cheaper,
you know, you'll probably see people doing that more than cloning.
But as for right now, I mean, cloning is just so easy to do
that I don't see that changing in the near future.
Yeah, of course.
And so, a lucky last question.
Sure.
If you could go and get one, oh, sorry,
if you go and get some land-raised seeds from one period of time
from any region, where would it be?
Oh, that's a good one.
Oh, fuck.
I would like to go back to China during some of the earliest,
earliest, like man's earliest work with cannabis
and harvesting it and growing it
and the first early selections.
I would see what it really looked like.
I mean, there's a lot of guesses on whether it was a broad-leafed
plant or whether it was a narrow-leafed plant
and what exact value it was from
and what it was like, what its early traits were like.
That would probably be the ultimate dream
is to see what the first cannabis plant looked like
before it went all around the world and changed its look and form.
Yeah, interesting.
And so, sorry, just to clarify,
the kind of the cradle of life is in China, you think?
Yeah, that's been the scientific hypothesis since the 70s, yeah.
Oh, fantastic.
Like, I guess, near the mountains maybe or...?
Yeah, or the Golden Triangle, I think.
I think it's either supposed to be that or like the, yeah,
I think the Chinese Yunnan Mountains.
There's some people that say that,
but I think the Golden Triangle is also another place that it could be.
So, yeah.
Yeah, interesting. Awesome.
Well, yeah, I think that just about brings us to the end of it.
Was there any shout-outs or comments you wanted to make?
No, I think I already talked about everyone's
that's been really awesome.
Everyone else that's helped me along the way in Riot Seeds, thank you.
And, yeah, that's it.
Awesome. Well, thanks so much for coming on the show today, Matt.
All right, thank you.
So, what do you think?
Do you like Matt more now?
I think I do.
I hope you had a good time with us.
Thanks again to Organic Gardening Solutions, 420 Australia,
and most importantly, Matt and Riot Seeds.
I'll see you.
