Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, the cannabis podcast for budding
enthusiasts.
You're joined by your host, Heavy Days, and this episode, as always, was brought to you
by our incredible sponsors.
C-Tier now, number one seed bank in the industry, guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Go check them out, all the hottest drugs, all the best breeders.
They've just put up some new stock.
Go see if it's what you need to make your next run fire as hell.
Likewise, in order to get the best run out of your genetics, you need to keep your garden
happy and healthy.
And for that, we'd like to give a shout out to our friends at Coppert Biological Systems.
These guys have all the best predators in the game to keep bug infestations away and
to fight off any unwanted issues you may be experiencing.
Check out their Spidex Vital or their Afipar M, both fantastic products for fighting off
spider mites or aphids respectively, two pests a lot of growers struggle with, but they're
here to help you get on top of it.
Furthermore, huge shout out to Pro-Mix.
These guys have been in the industry for years.
They make great media-based products using peat and mycorrhizal, but guess what?
Now you can get their fantastic mycorrhizal product on its own.
Pro-Mix Connect, the number one mycorrhizal product in the game, helping you to achieve
greater yields, better resin, enhanced flavor and terpenes, helping you to make your next
harvest the best today.
Check out Pro-Mix Connect for all your mycorrhizal needs.
We'd like to welcome our newest sponsor onto the show, Charlie's Cannabis.
These guys are family-owned, small batch craft cannabis out of Oklahoma City, providing you
with fantastic flavors, incredibly high quality flour for anyone who's in need of some high
quality medicine.
Growing strains like Star Pebbles, Chemical Sunset and so many more.
Go check out Charlie's Cannabis for all the best craft, small batch, Oklahoma grown cannabis.
They've got all the flavors and herbs you need to make sure that you're puffin' good.
Last but not least, huge shout out to the Patreon gang.
You guys know you're the lifeblood of the show, helping to ensure episodes happen.
If you would like to help support the show and ensure future content continues to be
created, please go to patreon.com forward slash the podcast and sign up.
You'll get access to unheard content, additional interviews, giveaways and so much more.
Patreon gang, love you guys so much, appreciate you.
On this episode, we're joined by the one and only East Coast Chem King, JJNYC of Top Dog
Genetics, here to talk all things chem and star dog, East Coast history, Top Dog Genetics
going forward and so, so, so much more.
So, without further ado, let's get into it.
Alrighty, a big thank you and welcome for joining us today.
One and only, East Coast Chem King, JJNYC of Top Dog Genetics.
Thank you so much for joining us today.
Thank you for having me.
It's great to have you on finally.
We've had so many requests for you but my first question for you today is, what have
you been smoking on recently?
Well, recently, I just actually did a release with a dispensary, Verde.
So, I started working with them in the beginning of the year.
I gave them some genetics and finally, we got the final product out.
We started this discussions in December.
I got those guys some pollen, some genetics and finally, we got a final product.
So, right now, we're in the process of pheno hunting.
So, I mean, we did like, I don't know, like maybe like a thousand seeds or I don't know
exactly the exact count but I think we did about 200 of the black piths.
I'm sorry, the black piths.
And so, that was the first release and so, I think out of the 200, I think we had a little
over 100 females.
So, just going through all the different phenotypes, judging them by smell, the way that they grow.
We did some test washing and just doing overall evaluation of the flower and everything.
So, we had to do that with the black pith and now this week, we just released the Sour
2018, the New York City Chem F2s, some Star Cookie.
There was the Chem Z and the UW Bat Cross.
So, I've been sifting through all this flower and judging it and I have to go back to the
team with my recommendations of my top three of what I like and everything.
So, luckily for me, this all fell on the holiday weekend.
So, I'm kind of enjoying myself.
That's awesome.
It sounds like you're in for a good weekend.
You just mentioned so many strains that I was interested to talk to you about.
So, thank you for that.
The mango pith, that's an interesting one.
Do you feel like there's a growing demand for those sorts of sativas nowadays?
Yeah.
Well, I mean, the pith has always been a staple in New York City.
So, I mean, it's always been, you know, the people that grew up in the New York metro area,
most of them know about that haze.
And so, I mean, it's always had a reputation, kind of like the sour diesel.
I mean, it's really, you know, comes from the same area that the sour diesel blossomed out of.
And so, I just think that a lot of people, you know, they might have heard about it,
read about it, but never got to experience it.
So, you know, I had done a lot of breeding with some of the mango stuff.
And then, you know, I had the black haze years ago, and I did a breeding with it.
And so, I had acquired the pith S1 clone.
So, I thought it would be, you know, the perfect choice for the mango Nigerian black haze.
And that was the male times the pith S1.
So, that's what made the black pith that we currently released.
Wow, that's great to hear.
I'm one of those people you described who's heard so much about the pith,
but obviously never tried it.
I guess the first question that I sort of think about is,
you hear a lot of names thrown around, like uptown haze, Cuban black haze, the pith.
Are they all the same thing, or are they different?
Yeah, no, they're all the same thing.
They're just different kind of slang terms for that strain.
But also, it's the same as the A5.
The A5 from Amsterdam are the same genetics.
They're a little bit different.
You know, the A5 was a little bit meatier, I think.
But it was still kind of that same Colombian pithy type of genetics, which was very rare.
I don't think that Neville ever really commercially released that strain.
I think that was something that he had a small release of at the time.
And this is what had survived out of that.
Obviously, they have the A5, I think the Katsu in Amsterdam has that.
It's one of their house strains and has been a staple for Amsterdam for a long time.
And then the same could be said for the black haze, which came out of Florida originally.
That's where they originally started growing it.
And then commercial shipments would come up to New York City.
And so there was always a New York, Miami.
That was always like a cocaine route with guns and drugs, etc.
So back then, all that was just balled into one.
So they were trafficking stuff back and forth, bringing up a lot of that up into New York.
And then once they got established, I think they started producing some of the stuff up
in the New York City area.
So I remember hearing a couple of busts back in the day.
And it was uptown.
It was the Dominicans and those guys up there that were running that stuff.
So I mean, even to this day, they still have a stranglehold on that strain.
Yeah, I think that's one of the most interesting aspects about it,
is how it's still so tightly held and so elusive.
I guess another thing which came out about your previous answer was that you work with the S1.
And it made me wonder, do you think that the real one still exists?
Or maybe the S1 is the best we have?
No, no, I think that the real one still exists.
I just reacquired the black haze cutting.
I haven't finished it out, so I can't verify it.
But there seems to be a lot more people in the community that are using it now.
It's getting passed around a lot more now.
But that was around 10 years ago.
So I had done some work with it maybe 9, 10 years ago.
And people just weren't really interested in haze, really.
There were a few people.
But really, since the death of Navel, it seems that there's been a
revitalization of interest of the haze.
And then with people now talking about the black haze and the pith a lot more,
and it being a little bit more available,
people, I think, once they try it, they're interested in growing it.
And my phenos are growing about 70 to 77 days.
So with the breeding that I have done, it originally started with NL5 haze times
the Nigerian, and then back crossed into the Nigerian,
and then crossed into the mango haze.
And that's what made the mango Nigerian.
And that was basically an earlier sativa string,
because there was a little bit of indigo with the NL5 in it.
And then also the Nigerian was an early finishing sativa,
then crossed into the mango.
And that was kind of early finishing, because that was the A5 times skunk one, I believe.
And so that was a little more indigo in there.
So the lines basically have been kind of bred with a little bit of indigo in them.
But they were way more sativa leaning.
And this really just cut down the flowering time on a lot of those long flowering sativas.
You know, so then I, you know, then I crossed that into the black haze.
And then obviously, I crossed that into the S1, which was an early finisher.
But the S1 I felt kind of fell short for me.
I mean, it was really crystally, and it finished it early.
And when you smelled it, and it was grown, it smelled really pithy and everything.
But when you smoked it, it didn't have that psychedelic sativa effect to it.
And when I say that, when you smoke this, it's pretty much like a head high.
And you can take a big hit and blow it out and close your eyes.
And you'll just feel the effect of the third eye and a lot of moving parts inside of your head
almost. It's kind of hard to describe when you, you know, when you smoke some of these
psychedelic sativas, you know, they're more of an up high, more clear, you know, you'll get a
little racy, a little heart race, you know, you feel your heart, you know, beating a little bit.
And, you know, for the seasoned smoker, you know, you're able to handle that.
But if you give that to someone that's not a seasoned smoker, you know, they'll get,
you know, they'll start to get anxiety, the racy effect and what I call cannabis overdose.
When you it's almost like when you eat too much edibles, you know, you get the feeling
that you're almost going to die, your heart is racing, you're breathing heavy, you feel
uncomfortable. And, you know, you just got, you know, with, you know, experienced smokers know
that, you know, that, you know, that you just got to kind of just chill out and relax. And,
you know, it's going to go away. But for people that, you know, don't really know,
they start getting more, they just contribute to the paranoia of the whole thing. And they don't,
you know, instead of trying to relax, they go and start getting more, you know, upset about it.
And it just contributes to their, you know, some people go to the hospital. And so.
Yeah, great answer. You know, I hope all of our listeners have been there at least once.
Well, if you eat too much edibles, we've all been there at one point or another.
Yeah, it's interesting that like the positive feedback loop you describe, it's hilarious. Yeah,
I think we've all been there at some point or another. Something interesting that you just
referenced is like, it's so impressive that you're able to cut down the flowering time
to, you know, like 70 days ish, because those strains often go a lot longer. But something I
specifically wanted to ask you in relation to that anxiety feeling is, I think I'm one of the only
people who says this, but I get that feeling from the C5 and I love it. I like, I love anxiety
inducing weed. I know it's a very like non-popular opinion to express, but I think I'm the only one
who prefers the C5 over the A5. Where do you fall on that one? Do you prefer one over the other?
I'm more of an A5 guy because I like that pissy kind of, yeah, Colombian, where the C5 is kind of
more of that floral tie, which is nice. But I get more of the psychedelic feeling from the A5.
Yeah. And I guess, you know, the combination of the both would be, you know, equivalent to the
Neville's Haze.
Yeah, gosh, I guess that's one I've yet to try, but it would be really nice. I'm betting.
Yeah, no, I mean, I've been able to try some good samples in the past and, you know, the real good
ones, you kind of get a blend of both, you know, surprisingly enough. Yeah. And, yeah,
that's the only way to describe it.
Yeah. Lovely stuff there. Lovely stuff. Okay. To bring us back to sort of the original question
about like sort of what are you smoking and you mentioned the facilities, I guess another question
I'm interested in asking you is if a facility was to come to you and ask to use some of your
genetics, what are some of the genetics that you think would do better in a facility as opposed to
say, just like a home grow where, you know, certain factors aren't as big of a deal? What are the ones
you go to straight away for facilities?
Well, I mean, you got to go to, you know, the Storedogs, the Guavas, the original New York
City Diesels, you know, a lot of that, a lot of the stuff that's been a staple, you know, of the
brand for, for, for the, you know, for a long time, you know, and it depends on what direction
they want to go with it. You know, a lot of it depends on, you know, what the facility, you know,
like the guys that I'm working with now are more into pheno hunting, looking for phenos that are
going to produce terps and hash and good flower. And so they're doing some research and development,
you know, so, you know, each plate, you know, not a lot of places are really willing to do that.
They want to, you know, they have a certain amount of space dedicated to their canopy. And really,
they want to, you know, maximize, you know, every square inch of that. And so, you know, depending
on, you know, you know, it really depends on, you know, the business model of the business, you know,
of the business itself. Yeah, that's so promising to hear that they're willing to do that
pheno hunting. Because I mean, I think a sentiment expressed by many guests in the past is that by
doing that, you sort of create your own brand image because you've got this unique thing that
like no one else has because you went and found it. And then on top of that, it's, you know,
like a star dog from JJ, like what more could you ask for? Right. And it becomes almost an exclusive.
So become your own exclusive house strain or pheno of that strain. And so you can call that your own
and be exclusive with it. And, you know, you know, as well as I do, you know, if you get,
you know, a really popular phenotype, that's really special that, you know, and like just say,
just like a GMO for, for example, you know, if you're able to find something of something of
that magnitude, and keep that, you know, in house as your own, obviously, you're going to be able to
attract that, you know, you know, that market to you because of that. So and I think that's
really going to be the future of cannabis is really going to be branding and strains and
really kind of on the level of wine and beer as in micro brewing. And, you know, you really,
you know, as a, as a cannabis brand, you know, you really got to define yourself on who you want
to be, who, who are your customers, who your customers want to be? Do you want to be a Gucci?
Or do you want to be a Walmart? You know, so I mean, you know, each, each, each model can be
profitable. And, you know, so but you know, you have to, you know, define on who you want to be,
and you want to be a, you know, the connoisseur, you know, and attract knowledgeable people?
Or do you want to be the kind of business that's just going to, you know, attract people that
they're that are not know, that are not regular smokers, they come in there one and done,
and you'll never see him again. And so and a lot of it is, you know, based on price point,
you know, so a lot of people are just based on, you know, they only want to spend so much money,
maybe they only smoke once or twice a week. So, you know, quality to them is not going to be
a big difference, where you have a guy that's, you know, smoking every day and,
or if they're a medical patient. So, you know, you know, when you really, you know, break down
the customer pool, it gets quite intricate and, and the different type of people that
can be your customer. So you really got to, you know, think about who you want to be.
Yeah, most definitely. That's a nice rundown there. And I guess the last sort of question
before we move to a different topic is, we see a few different breeders working with facilities
nowadays. Do you suspect that not just for you, but sort of across the board in the industry,
that this will be the way breeders move in the future where they try to pair up with facilities?
Or do you think it's maybe not a big trend per se? Well, I think, you know, it's really going
to be up to the facilities and how they want to brand themselves. And so, you know, if, you know,
if they just want to create their own brand, you know, and which is quite difficult, but possible,
you know, built on quality or whatever your selling point is going to be,
you know, otherwise, you know, you're going to have to go with recognized brands in the industry.
And, you know, you know, I've said this before, you know, you know, good weed comes from
good strains, good strains come from good clones, and good clones come from good seeds.
So, you know, a lot of, you know, a lot of corporate people don't really, you know,
understand this concept. And just think you can just go out and get some weed, you know,
get whatever, you know, weed is weed. And so, you know, you know, it really, you know,
really goes down to, you know, the type of people that are running the business.
And, you know, do they smoke pot themselves? Or they connoisseurs themselves? Or are they just,
you know, a corporate fund, just, you know, discounting the money. So, you know, there's
a big difference between the two. And, you know, when you're in touch and out of touch with the
culture. So, you know, it depends on, you know, who you want to appeal to. And, but, you know,
for me, I see, like I said, I see as being as branding, as being, you know, like, like,
you're gonna go into, you know, like, the New York structure is going to be, you know,
is not going to be integrated. So, you know, as a dispensary, you're going to be able to
buy wholesale from anyone across the board. So, you know, so, and, you know, so if that's the case,
now, you know, you know, what's going to separate each, each brand from itself, you know, it's just
really going to be the name and reputation on how good the product is. So, you know, in the end,
that's really, you know, you know, what's going to win out is, you know, who has the best product
consistently. And, you know, so I mean, that's the way that I see, you know, the market,
you know, eventually moving to because, you know, you know, when I go shopping, you know, in a
dispensary, you know, I'm looking for the diesels, the chems, the cushions, you know, anything with
the fuel, the high end, you know, and so, you know, that's just the kind of, and I'm willing to
travel and that's just the kind of customer that I am. And I'm looking for certain types of strains
and certain types of quality. So, you know, it doesn't pay for me, you know, just to get some
average, you know, some average stuff for cheap, you know, because it doesn't matter how much I
smoke of it, I'm not going to be satisfied, you know, but when you smoke some cam or some,
some, some, some fire, you know, you can, you just got to take one or two good puffs,
you know, once you blow that out, you just get that warm, fuzzy feeling. And it's almost like
that, you know, warm blanket, you know, over, you know, over you. And, you know, it's just something
that, you know, I can't really, you know, get from something else that, you know, even if I smoke,
you know, a pound of it, I won't, you know, so it just does not have the same effect for me. So.
Yeah. Great sentiment express there. So I'd love if you could take me back.
What's your first experience with cannabis?
I was about 13 years old. And it was, I think it was, it might have been Christmas Day and it had
snowed. And when we were kids, we used to go out, you know, shovel sidewalks and driveways for money.
So it had snowed, you know, and my next door neighbor called me up, you know, and they got
called me up, you know, and again, let's go out, you know, let's do some shoveling. So we go out,
you know, we had our regular people that we used to, you know, shovel on a regular basis.
So we were heading over to the one people's house and we decided, you know, we cut through some
woods and we stopped and he pulled out a joint, you know, and he had older brothers. And so,
and I was the oldest one in my family. So, you know, I had never seen any, you know,
weed before anything like that. So, you know, we, you know, he, he lit it up and, you know,
we smoked it and, you know, I was kind of feeling a little silly and everything. And
we started shoveling and we couldn't finish the job. You know, we got like, you know, we're just
so, you know, kind of silly and, you know, it was just so much work. We just kind of bailed out of
it and just, and just walked away from the job. So, and then after that, I don't know, I might
have been in like seventh grade and, you know, and, you know, I was in middle school. So, you
know, there were maybe a couple other times that, you know, we had gotten weed. I remember we had
bought a nickel bag from someone and that was like $5 worth. And so, we all, you know, there's
three of us. So, we all, you know, chipped in, bought this nickel bag from an older guy in the
neighborhood. And, you know, we smoked a couple bowls of it. We were down by the river. And,
you know, so we smoked a couple of bowls and then a bunch of these older kids started, you know,
coming around and they were having this big party down where we were hanging out. And so, you know,
we started hanging out with them. And so, we were smoking a little bit and some guy was like,
who's got some weed? And so, and we were like, oh, we got some. So, we showed him the bag.
He's like, I'll give you 15 bucks for it. And so, we were like, yeah, sure, you know. So,
we had already smoked, you know, like three or four bowls and then we sold it for 15 bucks. So,
you know, we each wound up, you know, getting high for free and getting five bucks each, you know.
And so, we were really psyched about that. And so, you know, that was one of the other, you know,
early experiences I had. But I really didn't start using regularly until I got into high school,
you know, when I got into ninth grade. And once I got there, I mean, there was like a smoking area
on the school grounds and there was a tree there and it was on a little bit of a knoll. So, it was
like a little bit of a hill there. And so, all the kids used to just, you know, gather up in the
morning before school and everyone used to smoke cigarettes there. And everyone used to just crowd.
It was like a circle around the tree. And so, you know, you can get into that circle and everyone
would be smoking cigarettes. And then, you know, back then, they used to sell joints for a dollar.
And they would have them in cigarette packs. So, you know, someone would come out and they'd
fucking open up their cigarette pack and be like dollar joints. And so, you know, they would, you
know, everyone in that circle would just start buying joints, you know. So, you would get up with
your friends and be like, you know, yeah, we got five dollars. And so, you know, you'd make a deal
be like, all right, give us six for five. We got six for five. So, you know, we would plan, all
right, we're going to smoke one joint in the morning. We'll smoke, you know, one at lunchtime,
one after school, and then two, you know. So, we, you know, we would have all that weed like planned
out for the whole day on how we were going to smoke it. And, you know, we were only kids back
then. So, when you had, you know, three, four, five kids, you know, and you each put up a dollar or two,
you know, all of a sudden you had, you know, five, ten bucks. Now you'd be like, all right, give me
12 for 10. Or, you know, so you'd be able to cut deals. And so, you know, that's how you survived
when we were kids, you know, going to school. We did this with our lunch money and, you know,
we didn't work and just got money from our parents. And, you know, we were just trying to get high.
Great answer. What a nice little stroll down memory lane. I mean,
I don't fault you if you don't know the answer to this, but do you know what you were smoking at
the time? Early on, you know, there was really no names, you know, there was really kind of like
Mexican and Colombian. And, you know, so that was like early on, but there was always some Hawaiian
and there was exotic around, you know, it was really hard to get. There was a lot of Blontash,
the red hash, black hash. But around in the early, I'd say, I don't know, 81, 82,
that's when the real first, we called it Christmas tree scents. So that was really when the first
real kind buds started coming around. And I remember, I think it was, used to be able to
get it for like 200 bucks an ounce, you know, which was a lot of money back then. And, you know,
people, I mean, you could maybe sell a gram for 10 bucks back then, you know, so, you know,
it wasn't really, you know, much of, you know, of a profit margin. Because, you know, back then,
you know, like I was telling you, there were dollar joints, and, you know, a half ounce would
be like $20, an ounce would be $40. And that would be kind of this your typical commercial type of
weed, you know, out of an ounce, you can maybe, you should be able to roll, I don't know, 50 to 60
joints, depending how big they were. So that's how people would sell them, you know, for $1 each,
you know. So, so yeah, the Christmas tree scents used to, you know, come around and used to be
good Hawaiian and stuff like that. But, you know, and I also remember, when I was in school,
the janitor start was selling weed. And he used to get in he had his brother lived in Harlem,
and up in New York City. And I know that he used to get the weed was coming from Harlem.
And he used to get this stuff, I think, you know, and it was, I think it was $50 an ounce,
which there's either 50 or 60. I forget. I know that it was more expensive than your regular,
you know, standard commercial stuff. And originally, he came in and he started, he handed
my friend a pack of, you know, a pack of joints to sell for him. And there were these little tiny,
like pinhead joints. I mean, they were ridiculous. And I mean, people used to laugh at him because
there used to be this guy, Steinmeier, and he used to sell these joints. And I mean, people used to
used to know his route to school, and they would like, they used to wait for him to cut,
they cut him off before he got onto the grounds. Because when you used to get Steinmeier joints,
they were these big, huge bombs, you could actually unroll them and get two joints out of the one,
you know, I mean, so, you know, so, you know, so, but, you know, I had these little skinny pinheads.
And, like, you know, that people used to ridicule me, like, I had to toothpick this and that,
you know, but when you smoke that, man, it fucked you up. So, you know, a lot more than than the
regular stuff. And so, you know, the janitor was, you know, you know, then my friend showed me what
he was getting from the janitor, and then I hooked up with him. And so I was just getting like, you
know, I was just getting ounces from them, and just selling it myself. And I remember I just
pulled a rainbow weed. And but it had all different colors. And it had like some red, some green,
some brown, some gold, and all different colors. But I suspect that was some type of Thai weed,
or, or something like that. Because I just remember that just being, you know, some of the
strongest stuff around, like I was explaining to you, you know, once people smoked it, they were
just like, Oh, let me get some more of that stuff. So that was, you know, another memorable, you
know, strain of day. And also, I remember getting like some, some real gold, some real Colombian
gold, the Santa Marta gold. A friend of mine, he had an older brother, he had two older brothers.
And so, yeah, I guess one of the older brothers, I think it just came down the line of brothers,
the older brother got it gave it to the gave it to the other brother. And then he gave it to
the younger brother who was my friend. So we wound up getting like, I think we got an ounce of it.
And we split it half and half. And yeah, I remember that just being bright gold, like,
you know, like, and back then there was the real gold and then the fool's gold, which they called
so the fool's gold was the stuff that look gold, but it was just trash. It didn't get you high. So
used to call that fool's gold, but the real gold was kind of hazy had like this hazy type of
tip to it. And so I just remember that. And I just remember it being a seedless, and this kind of
bright yellow gold and, you know, just kind of having that real sativa type of look to it. And
if you ever, if you're familiar with Lawrence Chernack, he has a cannabis book, and he actually
has a picture of some some gold in there. And it looked exactly the same. You know, when I saw that
picture, I was like, that's what you know, we got back in the day. And I was only able to get it
once. But it was memorable. And that's how things were back then. You know, you would see something
you'd get at once. And that was it, you know, and so. Wow, what a great little history lesson
right there. I mean, something people probably notice when they look at the collective work done
by Top Dog, and you can see that there's obviously sort of this indica side of things with you know,
the chems and whatnot, but there's also the sativa side of things. Do you think that this sort of
exposure to these really sort of quite legendary strains at a young age instilled in you as sort
of a love for those sativas? Or is it more so you just want to provide a bit of everything?
No, you kind of, you know, hit it on the head, you know, I really built the brand on things that I
like and experienced. So you know, I know that I'm a little older than most of the people. So I was
able to experience, you know, a lot of things early on, you know, I was able to catch kind of
what I call the late 70s Cheats and Chong era, what I explained to you of, you know, $20 halves
and $40 ounces, and all that kind of stuff, where that kind of changed in the early 80s,
or in the early to mid 80s. Once, you know, the drug war really stepped up. And that's what really
cultivated the whole indoor scene. Because in the early 80s, you know, I remember that's when
Ronald Reagan came into, he came, he was the president, you know, and I was in high school
from 80 to 84. And that's when he first took over. So, you know, within the first two years,
you know, things started to change. And by the last two years, you know, you know, like I said,
things, you know, started to change a little bit more. And, you know, by the time I got out of high
school, by 1985, the government really put a halt on a lot of the imports that were coming into the
country. And that prompted a whole, a whole shift in the drug trade, to where they started importing
cocaine instead of bales of marijuana. So by 1985, 1986, the streets just became flooded with
imported cocaine. And, and there wasn't much import marijuana coming in. And looking back at that time
in history, you know, up in the Pacific Northwest, that's kind of like when the indoor grows of
Seattle, Greg McAllister, the NL guys up there, you know, they, they were they started, you know,
those indoor grows in the in the early 80s, during that, during those times. And
yeah, so that just really kind of prompted the whole indoor thing where, you know, that's where
that's where it began, because of the, the pressure, you know, of, you know, of the imports.
So people were just like, well, we'll just start producing it ourselves, to the point, you know,
to where, you know, we, you know, we just started to become a self, self efficient, you know,
producing company, country ourselves, a lot of people have never experienced what I, a drought,
you know, meaning where you couldn't get weed. I mean, like I said, back in the 80s, it was easier
to get cocaine than it was to get weed. And so it became very, you know, difficult.
You know, so I mean, and that just kind of prompted the whole indoor, the whole indoor
scene to, you know, to where it's kind of evolved into today, you know, to where, you know, it's
kind of amazing if you really kind of look back at the history of it, or really know, know anything
about it. What a fascinating sort of way to view back on things. And it all makes perfect sense,
right, with the rise of the drug war and whatnot. If we think back to when you were talking about,
you know, how to sort of befriended the groundskeeper, and you sort of got access
to the better quality stuff. It's clear that you're quite a good networker, which I'm sure
has helped you a lot over the years. Do you remember any of the strains that you were seeing
from those indoor grows, say, before chem came out, sort of, you know, like 80s slash super early
90s? Were there any memorable ones that you can remember at all? Well, I remember seeing my first
grow. And this was a guy who was in Times Square in New York City, on 47, 46th Street.
And he was in between Broadway and Sixth Avenue. So I mean, that was like a block away right from
the center of Times Square. And he was a weed dealer. And so, you know, I had hooked up with him
in the late 80s. Yeah, mid to mid to late 80s. And so, you know, I was just that's where I used
to go and buy my weed from, you know, and he would have, you know, regular Mexican weed,
which was green and sellable, you know, and like an upper mid we used to call them. And then he
would get, you know, exotic strains and different stuff like that. But you know, he wound he wound
up like monopolizing his building and wound up getting like, I don't know, like, the building
itself maybe had only like, I think it had an apartment on each night, two apartments on each
floor. And so there was one guy that was in the building, and he rented one of the places,
but he also lived up in Albany. So he wasn't in the building much. And then there was like a music
repair store downstairs. And then he wound up getting the next three apartments all the way up.
And so he sold weed out of one, he had one that he had storage out of that's where he stored his
weed. And then the other one he had a little grow. And so this was probably like in the late 80s,
like 89 90, somewhere in that range. And so these guys were going to Amsterdam and getting the early
skunk, silver pearl, a lot of the CNC type of strains, and they were growing them, you know,
and they had this little hydro setup. And so that was, you know, some of the first indoor,
you know, stuff that I had seen. And, yeah, and so most of that stuff was seeds that came over
from Amsterdam. And so they were going back and forth. And, you know, I, you know, back then,
you know, I was really green and wet behind the ears. And, you know, I, I didn't really have a lot
of knowledge about it, but I had an interest in it. And so it was probably about that time that I
actually started collecting seeds, you know, I would get a bag of good weed and find the seed out
of it and save it. And I was like, yeah, maybe one day I'll be a grower. And so, yeah, unfortunately,
that, that seed collection got seized by the police in one of my many brushes with the law.
But yeah, and that was even before I really decided to be a grower too.
Okay. I mean, I guess the next question for me is what was it that stimulated you to start
growing as opposed to just sort of being involved in it all?
Well, you know, you know, so, you know, I'll go back, you know, even a little bit farther than
that, you know, like I said, I had this guy in Times Square who was my pot dealer and everything.
So, you know, and everyone from my town was going to this guy and everything. So,
and then I had heard that one of the kids from our town was selling weed up in Central Park.
And I was like, really? I was like, if that kid can do it, I was like, I can do it too,
because the guy was a total loser, you know, so I, so I went up there, and I checked out the scene,
you know, and it but it was late, it was late, it was late in the summer. So, you know, I went
up there and it was up in sheep meadow up in Central Park. And it was just open free drug
market. That's the only way I could describe it, of people just walking around selling
acid mushrooms, weed hash, there's it was so beer. I mean, you could just sit down. And this
used to be able to smoke and people used to, you know, they'd have circles of kids just all around
different circles of people. Some people would bring guitars and drums and have little circles.
And it was just, it was just a really cool scene. I was just like, blown away. I was like, wow,
I can't believe this, you know, but it was late in the season. So I was like, well,
I'm going to come out next year. So, you know, I wound up, you know, getting some really good,
you know, some really good green came in, and we used to call it pretend because it was almost
like real indigo, but it had a few seeds in it. I mean, so the real indigo was seedless,
but this stuff was like, kind of like, squishy and like, spongy, but there was a little bit,
there was a little, there were a few seeds in it. You know, it was more expensive than your
regular commercial, but it was well worth it because, you know, the price you can kick up
the price of it. And if you can find, you know, someone that wasn't really in the know,
and you could squeeze all of them seeds out of it, you could, you know, sell that off as, you know,
as kind buds. So, you know, I was able to get, you know, I think like five pounds of it, you know,
and I just squirreled that away, thinking, all right, this is going to be what I'm going to
bring out to the park in the spring. So that's what I did. So, you know, the day came, you know,
you know, I might've scouted out, you know, and went up there one day and seeing it was happening.
And then I was like, all right, I'm going to go out there. So I got, I had all my, you know,
had my pretend to go with me, you know, and I hit the park, you know, I go through one of the side
gates, you know, start walking through. And I see some guys sitting under a tree with a guitar
with his girlfriend, listening to the Grateful Dead on a little radio. I think to myself, oh,
wow, this guy's got to be cool. You know what I mean? So I go over to him and I try, you know,
hustling them. And I'm like, yeah, you know, I'm trying to sell them weed, this and that.
And then he says to me, well, let me show you what I have that when I'm selling. And he, he,
he whips out some real kind, but, you know, I'm just like, whoa, you know, I'm blowing away,
you know, so I'm like, you know, so I get friendly with the guy and everything. And so, you know,
we've become friends. And, and so, you know, and I was, you know, just trying to learn the ropes
out there. So I was kind of hanging with him and he would tell me, you know, this guy's, but watch
out for this one or that one or, you know, so, you know, we were sitting there one day,
and some guy comes strolling up. And the guy's name was Ben. He's like, Hey, Ben, he's like,
you know, and I guess that someone had sent him out there to look for Ben, because Ben was
a known kind, but dealer in Central Park. So this guy comes up, and he's like, Hey,
you know, I got some kind bud that I grew, do you want to buy some? And so, you know, Ben
is like, Yeah, I only have, you know, x amount of dollars for x amount of weed. You know,
and then he looks to me and he's like, Do you want to buy some? And I'm like, Yeah, I'll buy,
I'm like, I'll buy some, you know, I mean, because back then, I trying to find someone,
you know, to try to find a grower was just like, you know, it was like hitting a gold mine, you
know, because it was just so, you know, there were people out there were doing it. But finding
those people was just so far and few in between that, you know, you know, it was very hard. So,
you know, when I really got the first chance, other than the guy that knew in central, I mean,
in Times Square, who grew, but you know, I was, you know, really excited, you know, to be able
to buy some. So, you know, maybe like a week or two later, I'm out there by myself. No, Ben's not
around. But who do I see walking across the meadow is the kind bud guy. And I'm like, Yo, man, come
on over. You know, he's like, Yo, where's Ben? I'm like, I don't know. He's not here today. I'm like,
what you got some kind? He's like, Yeah, I got you know, whatever. And I was just like, Well,
you know what, I'll take it all. I think he used to come in with quarters. There were like six gram
quarters where he used to come in with, you know. So I was like, I'll take them all. You know what
I mean? And so, you know, you know, I hooked up with the guy. And, you know, unfortunately, for
Ben, he wound up getting all fucked up on drugs. And so you know, I was just out there on a regular
basis, just grinding away, and started working with this guy. And so you know, this guy wound
up being the weasel. You know, this was this was the guy. He came out originally with some,
he used to call it the RFK skunk. And the story behind that was that him and a friend had gone to
a dead show down and down RFK stadium down in Washington, DC, and bought a bag of kind,
and they had some seeds in it. And they, they split up the seeds. And then they both decided
to grow. So you know, they both started growing. And they needed a place to get rid of it. So they
came out to the park, you know, so, you know, his original product was the RFK one, two, and three.
And after that, he wound up going to a fish show and meeting Greg, chem dog Greg. And so I guess,
you know, they, you know, back then, like one grower meeting another grow was another big thing,
because all right, now I have someone that I can trust, trade, genetics and information with. So,
you know, that's, you know, Greg was growing the chem 91 in the super skunk. And, you know,
my friend had the RFK. And, you know, I don't know if you might have had some stuff from Amsterdam,
but he wound up driving up to Massachusetts from Staten Island, bought, you know, traded,
you know, for the chem 91, his mass super skunk. And then he brought that down to,
to Staten Island, you know, and, and by that time, I had kind of, you know,
I cornered that whole market, meaning like, I told him, listen, you know, I'll buy everything
you got, I got cash, I'll pay you COD, you know, I mean, so he loved that, you know, idea. So
he was like, Hey, listen, you know, doing no business up here in the park isn't really a good
idea, we should go down to wetlands. And so he's like down a wetland, you know, it was a bar.
And, you know, on Tuesday nights, you have Grateful Dead night, you know, and so you can
go downstairs and they had like drum circles and guitars and stuff like that. But they, they,
they let you, you know, smoke weed down there. So we would, you know, meet up down there. And,
you know, we wound up meeting AJ down there. And, you know, he just kind of just sniffed us out,
because, you know, I would, I would wait for him, you know, and people, you know, people knew who I
was. And they'd be asking me for weed, and I'd be like, no, wait, wait, wait, you know, and so I'd
be waiting for him, they would see him come over to me, you know, we would do our business. I mean,
and, you know, and once you know, when we were doing our business, obviously, you know, I would
take a bag out and open it up. And as soon as I would open that bag, I would just permeate the
whole room. And so people would just be there, like, stand, stand in there, like staring at us,
you know, the whole time, you know, and then eventually, that's how kind of AJ caught on to us.
And then, you know, I reached a point where he'd be like, Hey, listen, let's go into the back
office. I have access to it. Let's go back and do do do our deals back there. So, you know, so we,
all started, you know, getting friendly, and we used to smoke back there and became exclusive.
And so, you know, I was able to, you know, you know, that was just the beginning of the whole,
you know, the whole chem story, right? You know, when, you know, he, you know, he started
doing a little bit of breeding, he created, you know, the under the underdog, which was, you know,
NL, super skunk times, chem 91. And he had that, and then, you know, he was running that
he was also running some others, some other strains in there. And, you know, that's where we
suspect the, you know, the sour diesel came out of because, you know, I told you earlier that,
you know, I used to collect seeds. So once the chem started coming around, I used to collect
seeds out of the chem. And, you know, once I started growing, when I first started growing,
I popped some of them chem seeds. And they came out, you know, very sour. And I remember,
I wound up giving a member I sex plant, I knew it was a female. And, and I gave it to my friend.
And I told them that, you know, that this is a female. And, you know, we didn't fit, we weren't,
we weren't able to finish it. And so when he finished it, you know, he wound up coin that
the guava cut. And so, you know, that was, that was the original guava, but not the guava that we
know today. You know, and so, you know, the story, you know, you know, behind that is that wound up
just coming back, you know, as in like a, as in Stardog. So he referenced, he thought that was
the closest thing to the original guava that he remembers, but it was, it was it was chem genetics,
but this a different breeding. So yeah, so that was really, you know, I was lucky enough to,
to meet, you know, Mike, you know, the weasel. And really, you know, I am really what really
started to happen. So I was just not there selling weed. And once I met Mike, and, you know, he got
me interested in growing. And so in like 99, you know, I decided I was gonna, you know, I decided
I wanted to start growing. And what I did was I rented an apartment up in Washington Heights,
up by the George Washington Bridge. And I put a hydro table in there and a couple lights.
And Mike wound up giving me some, some, some, some cuttings of the Oasis. He was running the
Oasis from Amsterdam. So those were the very first cuttings that I got of Oasis. And I put them up
there in that apartment. And what wound up happening was that the electrical box burnt out,
you know, somehow, you know, I overjuiced it. And so, you know, yeah, it was, it didn't work out.
So I, you know, I walk in one day and lights are out. And I'm like, What am I gonna do? I couldn't
fix the box myself. I called the super he saying, Well, I got to get into the apartment. You know,
I got all my gross shit in there. And I can't let him in. So what am I gonna do? I was in a dilemma.
And so right at that same time, some people that I used to sell weed to, they were two brothers.
And they had a spot down on a building on Fifth Avenue. And they knew the people that owned the
building and they were like the maintenance workers of the building. And they had charged
all this money on on credit card like $15,000 worth of gross stuff. They bought lights and
tables, hydro, all this stuff. And they were, you know, they had seen something in high times
magazine about perpetual see a green harvest, you can harvest every week, blah, blah, blah. So I
mean, that's, you know, what they were trying to do. And it was just failing. And so, you know,
they asked, you know, and I told them about what I was doing. And so then they had known that I
had a little thing. And so when my apartment went down, I told him, Hey, listen, you know,
you know, I have a whole bunch of plants are going to die. And they're like, Well, just bring them,
bring them down here. And he and they were like, and then we made an agreement to where I was going
to help them, you know, get that room turned around and try to help them get their money back.
So we, we, you know, formed a partnership. And so I moved those plans down to Fifth Avenue. And they
had this maintenance area, that was a pretty big space. And it was like, they made it into like a
locker room. But they made it to where where you open one of the lockers, you walked in to through
into another room. And that's where the grow room was. So they had built a wall. And then they had
these lockers that you walk through. And so that's where the grow room was. And, you know,
it was just kind of like, improperly put together and everything. And they were splicing
into the electric all over the building. And eventually what happened was,
I helped them get their money back and everything. And, you know, we were having problems in a room,
it was getting too hot during the summertime, and you know, working out the bugs. And they,
you know, had ran some new wires and tapped into the the hallway electric, which was on the other
side of the wall, so they spliced into that. So I go in there on a hot day, and it's really hot,
you know, and I, you know, I turn on a, an air conditioner and walk out, not knowing anything,
that I just, you know, overloaded the circuit, you know, so I'm in the city, down at my apartment or
office. And then I get a phone call saying that the fire department in front of the building,
and that there's a fire in the building. So, you know, I hop in my car, I drive past,
and sure enough, the fire department's out front. And so lucky for us, you know,
they located, you know, I guess, in the hallway where the fire was, and it was up in the ceiling.
And lucky for us, it wasn't on the other side of the wall, and that's where the grow was. So they
popped their head up there, they saw where the fire was. And so they didn't discover the grow.
But, you know, but needless to say, that was kind of the beginning of the end to that spot. You know,
there were, we're getting complaints of people in the building that were, you know, like 20 stories
up, and they were smelling weed, because we were just exhausting out. We were on the bottom floor
and just exhausting out of a window. And this is before charcoal filters and all that stuff. So
we were just, you just had raw exhaust just going up. And the thing was, it was like,
they have like courtyards in these buildings. And so where the buildings kind of like,
they all kind of come together, it almost becomes like a shaft in between. So and it just goes
straight up, you know, until you know, but there's like a little space in between, you know, the
buildings. And so that's where we were pumping out of. So the people upstairs, it was just, it was
just shooting up. So when they opened their windows, you know, they could smell weed. And I
had a kid in the building that that I used to sell weed to. And he'd be like, Yeah, you know,
I know that there's someone's growing weed in the building. He goes, there's these, these Russian
mobster guys are down on the first floor. He's like, and I know, I know, it's got to be them,
you know, but, you know, he didn't, he didn't know it was actually us that were that was doing it. So
uh, yeah, so that was really, you know, my first, my first real experience in, in, in, in growing.
And then and then after that, you know, that was like a 99. You know, that lasted like a year or
two. And then I think after that ended, you know, it took me like a year to get my ship back
together on my own. And I just wound up going upstate New York, I rented out a house up by
Hunter Mountain. And that's where I had my first, my own, my first grow myself, and the people,
you know, that I was, you know, and then by this time, you know, the circle of growers had evolved
into, you know, a few more. So the circle had widened, widened. And, you know, I told them,
like, yeah, I want to start growing. And they're like, All right, we'll help you. You know, so they
helped me, you know, build my first room, you know, you know, did it correctly, the right setup,
you know, gave me, gave me sour diesel clones, which I had given them originally, because,
you know, I was, I was selling the weed. So, you know, I would be like, All right, I know what
strains sell, I know what people want, you, you do what what I tell you, if I give you these clones,
you grow them and it's gonna, it's gonna help us all. So, you know, that's what I, you know,
that's what I had started to do was getting, you know, I started networking, and I was able to get
the sour diesel. And so I gave that to them. And then they gave it back to me. And that was one of
the first strains that I started growing. Well, on my own was the sour diesel. And then, and then
eventually, I wound up meeting chem dog Greg. And I wound up trading him the sour diesel for the chem
D. And so, and then when I first, you know, and then once I got my own place, you know, and I had
been, you know, selling weed all these years, and, you know, like I was saying, I would tell these
people what to grow. And a lot of times, I'd be like, you know, we'd have certain strains a big,
well, what happened to this kush or this and now maybe like, Oh, we lost it. You know, we don't
have it anymore. I'd be like, man, that fucking shit. I was good. What happened? You know? Well,
whatever, whatever reason we lost it. So once I started growing myself, and getting these elite
clones, that's when I decided I wanted to start in, you know, preservation. And it was really,
you know, all right, I got this sour diesel. And I was like, All right, now, you know, the clone
only strain, you know, so we'd have no there is no sour diesel male. So, you know, so I was just
like, Well, you know, I was just like, Well, I'm gonna make my own male, you know, so you know,
so I was growing the chem D and, you know, all these different things. So I was like, Well,
if I'm going to make my own male, I'm going to use whatever the best weed, the strongest weed
that I have, you know, and back then it was the chem weed. So I decided, all right, chem D is what
I'm going to base my male off of. And so, you know, then I was like, Well, what are you going
to use for a donor male. So I had a guy going to, to Amsterdam, and I gave him, you know, a bunch
of money. And I'm like, you know, get me know, I gave a whole bunch of lists of strains to get me
from sensei seeds. And that's what he did. So he comes back. And he had he had the Hindu Kush,
Afghan one, skunk, and now a whole bunch of different ones. But you know, I, you know,
I was like, No, I'll have to grow these out to see what they are, how and how they grow. So I,
I grew all you know, well, really, I just grew the Hindu Kush and Afghan out and decided that
the Afghan would be a better choice of a male donor. Because it was, it wasn't very dominant
in in taste and smell. It kind of had like a piney you know, like a, yeah, like a kind of
like a piney kind of I'm trying to think of the different word to describe it. But
it wasn't really dominant, you know, it was kind of blandish, you know, it grew really thick stemmed
and single cola, you know, this just a really big top single cola. And so I decided, you know,
that would probably be the best, you know, male donor for, you know, the cross into the chem day.
And so that, you know, that's what I did. I did the first cross the Afghan chem D. And then I
back crossed into the chem D again and made the double dog and then did the third cross,
which would have been the second back cross with were made the trade dog. And so once I made the
trade dog, you know, I decided that, you know, that that would probably be a good representation
of the chem D a good, you know, strong male. And so, you know, I decided, you know, one of the
first, you know, breedings that I was going to do, I had just gotten a chem for at that time. So I
was like, well, you know, combine two different chems and see what what happens. And, you know,
that eventually became a star dog. And when I made those seeds, you know, I just wound up,
you know, I grew some out myself, found the quarry cut within the first, I think, only only pop,
like, maybe like four or five seeds, I found a quarry cut. And then I wound up giving some seeds
to people that were affiliated with high times. And some of the seeds got into the hands of Kyle
Cushman. He grew out the star dog, found his Fino keeper, which he entered, I think it was in the San
Francisco Medical Cup in 2010. And one second place with that. So that really kind of, you know,
put the star dog, you know, on the map, people started noticing it. Some some of the other seeds
got into Andre Grossman. He was a freelance photographer who had an apartment in New York
City. He was affiliated with high times. And he held the and always grew the strawberry cloth.
And so that was Kyle Cushman's strain that he brought to high times. And that became the office
strain. So anytime you know, you can used to be able to go down to the Park Avenue office,
and they might even have had a mother of the of the strawberry cough in the office and you used
to be able to get clones from it. And they didn't have it there. They had it like really close by.
So you used to be able to go down there and be like, you know, I want some strawberry cough,
and they would get it to you within an hour or two. So Andre started growing the guava,
I mean, a star dog and found a guava cut. And so he brought that into the office. And that also
became an office stream and accessible to people to high times. And so when Andre started growing,
you know, he started obviously taking pictures of it, they did a centerfold of it, they did a
write up on it and everything. And so getting back to the the original guava thing, so that that
cutting started getting out around town. And my friend who I had given the original guava to wound
up getting that cutting and he calls me up one day. And he's like, all excited. He's like, I got
it. I got it back. I got it back. I got the guava back. And so, you know, I first saw the guava from
him, not knowing that it was my seeds that I had given to, you know, so it was like a whole
a read. Eventually, it all came full circle. And we figured out everything. And, and that's been
kind of like the story of the chem dog. And a lot of the stuff that's been on the internet, because
a lot of it has come full circle, because a lot of these people have popped up on the internet,
we've been able to connect. And we've been able to figure out, you know, the chem dog story. And,
you know, all of that now that's really become legend.
Wow, what a phenomenal answer. I think everyone's gonna have to go listen to that a few times. You
just tied so many pieces of the puzzle together for me. So thank you so much. I guess one of the
first questions and I'm gonna have about a million questions for you. I think I read somewhere that
you were involved in being able to help reconnect P Butt and Joe Brand with chem dog. Is that correct?
Yes, that is originally. Well, my original interaction with the internet was, you know, I was
sitting in my office one day and a guy comes in, he's like, Hey, he's like, you see on the internet,
you know, where this guy is, you know, taking credit for the sour diesel. And, you know, back
then I wasn't very internet savvy or didn't really, you know, it wasn't really, really of my interest
at that time. So I wind up, you know, going on this site called overgrow. And I see this guy
dog talking about sour diesel. And I'm like, sour diesel. I'm like, that's, that's us. Like, I'm like,
I know what, you know, the whole story, you know, of, you know, I have all of this knowledge and
all of this stuff. So, you know, you know, and at that time, I had been, you know, I had been growing
already a few years and stuff. So, you know, and then that's kind of like when Soma came out with
the New York City diesel, which we were, you know, quite offended by. And so, you know, I, you know,
decided to, you know, to create an account and set the record straight. So, you know, that's where,
you know, I, I became JJ NYC. I logged on there. And my very first post was just this kind of a
rant that just kind of, you know, kind of set the record straight and called out Soma. And,
you know, people are kind of like, shocked by it and being like, Who the fuck are you?
You know what I mean? And so, you know, eventually, you know,
you know, the whole chem thing started, you know, started out on Overgrow and all that. And then,
and then, and then it went down, it got, it got shut down. And, you know, I got all kind of freaked
out by it. And I kind of dropped offline for six months to a year. And, you know, and then, you know,
decided, you know, to pop back on, and, you know, found out that everyone had moved to IC Mag.
So, you know, I started, you know, posting on IC Mag. And this was probably right around the time
that I had gotten to Chem D. And so, you know, I remember the, you know, the very first time I
did a search on Chem Dog. And this guy, this guy's account popped up is called Joe Brand.
And he made a post saying, Does anyone know anything about Chem or Dog or what it was? You
know, I mean, so, you know, I started a whole dialogue with him. I mean, and yeah, I mean,
eventually, it just kind of led to the, you know, you know, getting those guys back together. Now,
we figured out the whole, you know, I mean, and, you know, when it was coming, you know, when it
was happening, it was, you know, it was really, it was really incredible to really, you know,
start piecing all that history together and figuring out the puzzle. So yeah, I was able to,
you know, we figured out that, you know, it had, you know, that, you know, that Greg had gotten,
there was Greg and that Greg still had some of those original seeds left. And so I had, you know,
I hooked those guys up, and they reunited. And, and Greg wound up sending Joe for the original
seeds that he found in that dog bud. And that wound up being the Chem 1234. So yeah, I was,
you know, very instrumental in doing all of that.
Yeah, wow. It's so impressive how interconnected all the relationships and stories are. If I could
just go back a moment to when you were talking about, you know, how the Staten Island crew first
sort of linked with Mass G and all those sorts of things. I guess something I'd love to ask you is,
what was your first experience like when you first smoked the Chem 91?
It was just kind of game changing, because we'd never saw anything like that.
Even like the Super Skunk too. I mean, when you, when you would crack a jar of that Super Skunk,
it would just, it would just permeate the room. It was just something that, you know,
it's just something that you just cannot find today. You know, and so when people talk about
roadkill, and all this other stuff, you know, you know, I know what it is. I experienced it,
you know, it was something at one time, and why it's changed, and it's gotten lost. You know,
no one really knows the reason why. And a lot of it, you know, is people, you could say it's
genetic drift, you know, and, and which could be a part of it. I think it was really hard for people
to really hold on to a lot of these genetics, because they were so loud. So many people had
gotten busted with those genetics over the years. And I mean, yeah, I mean, if you if you really
think about it, you know, a lot of the strains that we have today, were are really responsible
because of one person, you know, I mean, if you look at the chem, the chem, if it wasn't for Greg,
we wouldn't have the chems. You know, if you look in and you can go down a list of different
strains that people are associated with. And, you know, so if it really wasn't for those people who,
who preserved them, and then shared them, you know, we wouldn't have what we have today. So I mean,
you know, we did have those genetics were, you know, plentiful at one time. But unfortunately,
you know, that was during a time of, of the drug war and heavy prohibition.
And a lot of that stuff just got snuffed out, unfortunately.
Yeah, yeah, it's a real shame, isn't it? And I guess some of the more smelly stuff
before carbon filters is obviously just logistically hard to sort of manage long term.
I had a question or two about the sour diesel for you that I was hoping you might be able to
shed some light on. Back when around that time when you know, the sour first came out,
were people running primarily just like one strain in a room or were there multiple? Because I guess
I'm trying to figure out, is it more likely that it was just an S1 or like some sort of cross
pollination? And then as a little follow up, do you accept the versions given by people like Weasel
or Vondo on say, the Adam Dunn show when they talk about the sour diesel history? Or do you think it
maybe went down a little differently to what we see online?
Well, I do know, you know, what he, you know, what he was growing at the time,
because I was selling it, you know, I know that he had the 91. He had the Mass Super Skunk.
He had the RFK stuff, I think he had the DNL. And so, you know, that's, you know, you know,
what, you know, I suspect, you know, something in the room hermit and got into the into the 91,
obviously. And that's where the sour diesel came from. Now, I mean, there's a lot of speculation
on, you know, is it super skunk? Is it DNA, you know, or, but you know, the one thing that I can
point to is the skunk VA, and he's very adamant. And I'm sure you're familiar with some of his
early super skunk photos that kind of show big, stretchy, kind of sour like plants. And
I'm from what I remember, and what's also documented in high times when they did the
photo shoot of the Mass Super Skunk, and of the chem dog from Greg back in the day,
that that plant was more of a more medium squat plant, you know, the plant that that the weasel
had was the same exact one that Greg had. And I mean, I sold the bud of it, I saw it grow.
And it was not the big, super stretchy. Fino that skunk VA
had. So I don't know if it was the same genetics. I know that, you know, there's a whole different
story on that super skunk. It was down in Virginia originally. It I think that it Yeah,
I think it came. There was a trade me the super skunk came up from Virginia to Massachusetts.
And then the chem dog was picked up from Massachusetts and brought out to California
to skunk VA. And that was the 91. And so um, yeah, I don't really know what if that was a
different Fino that they gave him or what, you know, I know at that time, I think skunk VA was
out in California. I think he set up the deal with his friends. So what was actually brought up
and traded? I mean, is anyone is anyone's guess? Because I think there's a big discrepancy
between the super skunk that Greg had. And then the super skunk skunk VA had because they were two
totally different phenotypes. I mean, if you want to do your research on Greg's mass super skunk,
and, and, you know, find out the characteristics of it, you can but you will find that it's not
that really tall, stretchy, sour, like Fino that skunk VA had. So who's right? Who's wrong?
I mean, we'll never know. I mean, I mean, I guess if you can really get into some
sequencing and stuff like that, maybe some of that stuff could, you know, come out in the future.
But you know, you know, it to me, it's just speculation. And I can only go by with what I know
in new at the time. So I mean, I have my doubts on it, just because I think they're they're two
different phenotypes. I mean, I could be wrong. There's another, a whole nother story behind that,
which I don't know. So I mean, there's more, I guess there's more investigating
facts that need to come out, you know, from I guess, the Virginia, the Virginia Beach crew
in skunk VA.
Yeah, look, I think you might be on the money there, because when I've spoken to skunk VA
more recently, he sort of said to me that now that he thinks back on it, the skunk cutting he
got back from Greg years later, he goes, I was so excited to have it back, you know, like, I'm like,
oh, the super skunks back and he goes, but now that I really think about it, he goes, I'm not
sure it was the same plant, which is sort of what you're saying that the plant Greg got
might not have been the original one skunk VA had.
It's not. It's not. And so that's why and I and I and I've seen phenos that came out of that skunk,
you know, that that underdog, it was NL, NL super skunk times 91. And that was not a big stretcher,
it kind of grew kind of cushy, kind of like the cush but not as stretchy. It was more of the bud
structure. It was more of a medium stout plant. It didn't yield very well. But unfortunately,
that underdog, we killed it because of genetic drift. It just petered out after a while.
And we had the original cut. And it just changed. I mean, I've seen it with different strains over
the years, not only strength strains that I've grown, but strains that I've sold,
you know, and I can remember the stuff, the wheelchair used to be in the city. And I mean,
the early wheelchair was exactly that wheelchair read. I mean, you would smoke that shit and you
incapacitated. Towards the end, it just kind of got in like bland and just kind of petered out.
And so yeah, I've seen genetic drift in in in strains just kind of just died out.
So there you have it, gang, part one of three done and dusted. What'd you think?
Some major history lessons being dropped on the East Coast scene there and huge shout out again
to JJ for taking the time to come on the show and a huge shout out to our amazing sponsors for
helping us to make the show happen. CT now, best seed bank in the game. Go hit them up for all the
hottest drops from all the breeders you know, you love. Guarantee on satisfaction at the end of the
cycle, not just guarantee on germination. Why would you go elsewhere? Likewise, go check out
Coppert Biological Systems with all the most advanced technologies. These guys have got you
covered and will keep the pests at bay. Check out the AfiparM or the Spidex Vital, both of them
incredible products going to help you overcome any infestation you have, or more importantly,
keep away a potential infestation. Nothing better than being proactive and getting on top of a
problem before it even exists, guys. Go check out Coppert Biological Systems, incredible sponsors,
we really appreciate them. And last but not least, Pro-Mix Connect, your number one mycorrhizal
product in the game. You know Pro-Mix, you've probably bought their peat before. Guess what,
they've got a killer mycorrhizal product now and if you check it out, I promise you, your plants
will be better off for it, no questions asked. Better resin, better flavor, better yield,
you know mycorrhizal is fantastic, I don't need to sell you on it. Go check it out, Pro-Mix Connect,
number one mycorrhizal product in the game.
Furthermore, huge shout out to Charlie's Cannabis, your number one family-owned small batch craft
cannabis producer out of Oklahoma, providing you with incredible qualities, chemical sunset,
star pebbles, so many more on the horizon. Check out their Instagram to see what they're
phenohunting at the moment. I'm really excited to have these guys on board and I think it's
going to be magical to see what they produce going forward. If you need some high quality
smoke and you're in Oklahoma, go check out Charlie's Cannabis, you'll be puffing good, I promise.
Finally, a shout out to the Patreon gang, I love you, I appreciate you, you are the best.
If you want to get access to unheard content, early access to interviews, giveaways, so much
more, go check it out. We recently got a Discord guys, I'm a bit late for the Discord party but I
tell you what, I'm loving it, some good chats going on there. Be sure to check out Patreon
if you want to help support the show and ensure content continues to be made.
That's it for part one guys, I'll see you back for part two and part three.
Thanks for hanging around.
We'll see ya.
