Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode was brought to you by Seeds Here Now, your number one seed bank, not only a
guarantee on germination, but also on satisfaction, as well as 420 Australia and Organic Gardening
Solutions.
If you go anywhere else to get your organic gardening products or, you know, tastefully
subtle weed-inclined shirts, you're kidding yourself.
On this episode, we're joined by the man, One Eye, who's going to give us the lowdown
on so many different things.
I don't think I can even squeeze them all in.
Hope you're ready for a good one, guys.
Here we go.
All righty, so a big welcome and thank you to the Oregon hero himself, One Eye.
How are you doing?
I'm doing fantastic.
Heavy days.
How are you?
I'm doing great.
Good times.
So, first question I'd like to ask everyone, what was your first experience with cannabis?
Wow, that goes back many years for me.
Believe it or not, this is going to sound really strange, but when I was growing up
in Virginia Beach, Virginia, I had a group of friends, a few guys who were about four
years older than me, and they were pretty much my surfing buddies.
So they were all able to drive long before I was, so getting down to places like Cape
Hatteras created quite an advantage for me, having these older guys.
But one of the other things that came along with the surfing capabilities were the opportunities
to see some cool music and also playing Dungeons and Dragons, of all things.
So the summer that I turned 12 years old, after a game of Dungeons and Dragons, one
of my older friends pulled me aside and said, hey, you know, we're going to go out to the
porch here and smoke a joint.
Would you care to do so?
And you know, you got to remember, this is roughly 1986.
The Just Say No campaign was very much part of our existence.
So I was pretty hesitant in the beginning, but I caved eventually after a little bit
of peer pressure.
And that, you know, I can't remember, I don't remember that I really got too high off that
first joint, but I knew it was something that I was willing to do again.
And over the next few years, primarily getting high with friends and smoking joints and taking
bong hits, all that good stuff.
Of course, as I got older, the frequency certainly increased.
But you know, it was a groundbreaking moment for sure, because it certainly opened my eyes
to a whole new world and a way to experience the world for sure.
And so how did you transition from that to a grower?
Because you sound like you're quite apprehensive, so I imagine it would have taken a little
bit for you to really get head first in, so to speak.
That's very, very true.
Growing up during that era, it was very taboo and certainly wasn't wildly accepted by the
masses.
But there was a group of us, and we certainly kept to ourselves and kept to the, stayed
dedicated to the smoking of cannabis.
It really wasn't until my, I don't know, 11th or 12th grade year in high school that a friend
of mine and I decided to sprout some seeds and put them outside and see what we could
do.
And I think that was the beginning of several failed attempts in the hometown where I grew
up.
It wasn't really until I went off to college in the early 90s that I decided to be a bit
more committed to the growing cause.
And it really just started with cracking bag seeds as new things came through.
Back then it was all kind bud, of course.
We certainly got to learn some of the different names of strains, but we were just more or
less cracking random seeds, primarily outdoor, but there was some early indoor cultivation
in closets while I was in college.
And back then we were really winging it.
There was no grow store that you could, there were a couple of hydro stores within an hour's
drive of my college, but you certainly weren't going there for any advice during that era.
So we really had to just kind of figure it out the best we could, maybe a couple of articles
in high times here and there, but the beginnings were very rudimentary at best.
But we did what we could and there were some good things that turned out of some of those
early gardens, but the success rates were not very high.
Yeah, and so who were the people that you were looking up to during that time?
Was there anyone?
Like often we hear people like Ed Rosenthal and the guys who were around back in those
days.
Did you look to them at all or you were really just out in the ocean on your own?
I mean, you know, as far as breeders were concerned or expert growers or whatever, the
only access that I really had to that world was via the High Times Magazine.
So people like Neville, for example, fascinated me and his whole story of lore and legend.
But there weren't a lot of gurus to look up to that we were really that aware of.
It wasn't until later on, you know, after college of late 90s that I started looking
up to some folks who were making impacts in the industry.
And of course, early on, Jack Herrera comes to mind.
He was someone and I volunteered with Normal one year when I was in college and was exposed
to the emperor wears clothes and Jack's whole kind of pursuit of legal, you know, why legalized
cannabis is such a good thing and why hemp was so important.
So between, you know, in the very early days, Jack Herrera would be one popular individual
and then Neville would have been the other.
So knowing what you know now, if you had to guess what the origins of a lot of that kind
bud and by extension the seeds you were getting from it, what do you think that stuff would
have been predominantly?
So well, a couple of them, one of them, in fact, I can attest to specifically and that
would have been the Afghani number one, which was so lovely, Dawn, the Virginia Beach Afghani.
And this was the first kind bud that I was exposed to when I was in high school.
And it set kind of the gold standard for me in those very, very early years.
There were other, you know, of course, skunk, skunk, skunk was still around in the railroad
kill skunk.
There were some northern lights that would pop up here and there.
We would see blueberry from time to time.
And then, you know, as the years progressed into the early 90s, I started to get exposed
to more, more of a variety.
I went to school around the D.C. area in northern Virginia and we would see things like G13
and pluton.
And now we would see NL2 and NL5 and NL5 haze crosses, black domina.
As you get deeper into the mid 90s, the four way, which is now known, the cut is known
as the Fairfax four way.
That one just about changed my life.
And I was, so this was right around 96 now that I was fortunate enough to be in close
proximity to the group who was responsible for producing those very early four way, the
Fairfax four way plants.
And that strain, when it hit our scene, just dominated the scene and it became the standard
by which we judged everything else.
And it's really the strain that got me into eventually exploring the whole concept of
breeding and creating new strains.
I kind of set myself out on a mission to kind of meet or beat the four way, which was a
daunting task at that part of my career.
But we eventually got there after several years.
So it was definitely a game changing strain.
And many others followed after that.
We eventually got into the white line, so the white widows and white rhino, the great
white shark.
Some of those come to mind.
Now we're getting a little deeper into the 90s.
And then of course, it wasn't until I moved out west that I actually was exposed to things
like OG Kush.
And of course, we're getting later into the mid 2000s at this point.
But we had, I'd say when I was in that Northern Virginia area, just due to location, there
was quite an interesting scene going in and around that area with pretty high quality
cannabis.
You know, nevermind the Canadian influence, which was certainly present at that time.
But we really sought to source the best domestic that we could find at that time.
And we're attempting on the side to produce some decent cannabis as well.
Yeah, wow.
So many different avenues we could jump off into.
First thing that comes to mind though, you must have been friends with Mr. Bob Hemphill
for quite a while then.
Yes.
We've known each other for a couple, gosh, going on probably a couple decades now.
We've definitely gone and seen some fish shows back in the day together.
It's really interesting, he and I, and this will be a great example of how deep the code
went back then.
So back in those days, in the early days, especially back in Virginia, neither one of
us ever once had the conversation about growing, even though we were both actively cultivating
and probably knew each other were.
But it was just so tight back then that you just didn't even, you know, it was just, you
just didn't want to breach the subject because you didn't want someone else to really know.
But you know, he has forever, you know, since those days been an amazing, just incredible,
incredible cultivator.
I have a lot of respect for not only his ability to preserve genetics and keep them over the
years, but also as a cultivator, he is really spectacular in my opinion.
Yeah, agreed.
And I mean, if we just touch back to a point you made yourself, the VA scene, you know,
the more you learn about it, the more it seems like this place was like the mecca of weed
back in the day.
What do you think contributed to being such a hotspot?
You know, that's a really good question.
I think there was a desire, you know, at that point in time, at least for the circle
of folks that I ran with, which overlaps a lot of these other, you know, Virginia breeders
and growers, there was a need for self-sufficiency, you know, you didn't always want to rely on
what was coming in next on what load or whatnot, you know, and we certainly didn't want to
all sit around and have to consume, you know, Canadian.
So I think, you know, there's a lot of rural countries, especially in Southwestern Virginia,
Floyd County comes to mind, that was always a mecca for just incredibly grown cannabis
over the years.
But you know, you find even in the Richmond scene, you know, there's a lot of really important,
in my opinion, you know, important breeders and some of these kind of gurus of the industry
that all hailed from, you know, the Dominion State and it's, to me, it's quite remarkable.
I don't know, maybe it was something in the water, who knows, but there, you know, for
us, it came out of self-sufficiency.
We didn't want to have to rely, you know, always on others.
So we set forth, you know, to do our own thing and produce our own cannabis, even if it was
small amounts and a lot of it, you know, was just head stashed.
We weren't at that time necessarily, you know, producing for production on a, you know, certainly
not on a commercial level or anything close to it, but it was always pleasant to know
that you had a nice head stash of, you know, nicely grown cannabis with, you know, great
flavor and stupendous highs and you didn't have to rely on Mexi-Brick or Canadian.
So you know, and it really, I mean, it just, but your point is, and I think about this
a lot about, you know, how many of these great individuals have hailed from the home state.
Yeah, it's kind of perplexing to see it all happen.
I think VA in New York is where a lot of the best stuff and best breeders have come from,
in my opinion, and I'm sorry to anyone who's not from there if you're a butthurt, but anyway.
Another thing you brought up, which is really interesting, actually, no, sorry, I want to
quickly ask this one.
Did you get any of that VA super skunk?
Yes, yes.
The super skunk was definitely, you know, available and I do remember it.
It just, it's so strange, you know, as soon as you talk about, as soon as we got into
that four-way era, it really became difficult for other varieties to be memorable, just
because we kind of, it's just because it was so many things were scoffed at, but the VA
super skunk is fantastic.
I, you know, there's not enough nice things that I can say about that strain and I, you
know, I applaud anyone who pursues it during this era because it's, you know, it's a special
strain.
So another one with the VA tag in the name, you referenced it, the VA Afghani.
I think what's interesting about this one is it's actually making quite a comeback,
incredibly Duke Diamonds worked into some of his more recent lines.
I think what's interesting about this one is for the people who haven't seen or smoked
it in real life, I think it would really catch you off guard.
That's the way I felt.
It was nothing like what I expected, like didn't smell like what I expected.
The high was nothing like what I expected.
Like I knew it was going to be good, but it was like a...
How do you feel about that one?
Because it's really, I think it's the real anomaly and I'd love to hear Europeans on
it.
So that's a great one.
The Virginia Beach Afghani is a standout for me for one specific reason, and that's the
flavor.
It almost has a, to me, almost like a minty note to it.
And there is something so very distinct about it that it's, you know, it's certainly one
of those strains that if you smoke it once or twice, you'll know it forever.
The plants aren't highly, you know, and from what I remember, you know, and of course going
back many years to the Virginia Beach days when our friends were cultivating it, you
know, it was all closet cultivated.
So these were smaller plants.
They didn't yield an incredible amount, but they, but what came out of that was, you know,
an incredible high.
To me, it is almost, you know, mind numbing and a flavor that is just remarkable.
I mean, it does have that kind of slight Ghani kind of hash plant taste to it, but like I
said, there's something almost a minty note in it that makes it unmistakable every time.
And I was, I actually went at the Emerald Cup this year when I saw that Duke Diamond
was breeding with the Ghani skunk, with the granny skunk or whatever.
I was so excited to see that back.
I couldn't resist, you know, and certainly grabbed some for myself.
To me, that's, you know, an homage to the old days.
And it's, like I said, that Ghani is, there's just nothing like it else in the world.
Yeah, definitely.
I think the one thing that I picked up on for me, Elise, was that mintiness you speak
of.
I feel like it's one of the many components to that Jack Herra flavor.
Like that's what I found really weird.
Like I thought it was really one of the more tropical, like maybe not tropical, but you
know what I mean?
It had a lot of body to it for an Afghani and it just took me back.
And the other thing I found was the high.
It's like, I'm just going to quote Dookie, he said, it's almost like paranoia inducing
it's so strong.
It's not typical of an Afghani.
People think, you know, like strong indicators do the opposite.
They'd chill you out.
Not that one.
It is unmistakable.
Yeah.
One that hopefully everyone gets to try.
The final thing I want to loop back on quickly.
You mentioned the Northern Lights and the Blueberry being as some of the other ones
around at the time.
Out of all those ones that you do think back on, what's the most memorable for you?
G13.
Okay.
We don't hear a lot of that anymore.
What was it about the G13 that you liked?
That's another one.
You know, the real G13 and it's a complex one to try to describe.
It is, has a very distinct taste.
I really enjoyed the high.
The G13 that we were getting back then actually was coming from San Diego.
It was, it just, I'll tell you what.
So I got a bag seat of it.
I think this is why I like it so much.
So I got a bag seat out of it and grew a plant of it outdoors in Northern Virginia.
And it was the only plant I've ever grown in my life to actually have the magenta pistils,
which when it dried, when the flower was dried and cured out.
So G13 itself has that kind of almost grayish green tone to it to me.
It has a lot to do with the trichome coating, but if you can imagine that kind of grayish
green color with coated in trichomes and these beautiful like purple hairs that are interlaced
in it, it just, it turned out to be one of the most beautiful flowers I've ever grown.
And then the, the, just the complexity of flavor of G13 is another one that, and that's
what I'm, it's, those are the really, the genetics that really get to me are the ones
that have multiple layers of flavor, you know, something on the inhale, something else on
the exhale.
And then those flares continue to evolve even after the exhale.
So for me, the standout strains going, even going back in time are the ones that had that
same quality.
And G13 certainly has that same quality.
Yeah.
Okay.
And so, I mean, you just touched on it.
You said you popped a bag seed.
What was the first strain you ever grew?
Wow.
Let's see here.
So let me think about that.
That is, so there were some seeds that we had gotten out of what was supposed to have
been, back then it was just called purple haze.
Who knows really what it was.
Those were probably some of the first seeds that we cracked where I actually had successful
plants.
And those were actually indoor.
And then there was also a Durban poison back then, but that wasn't, that wasn't bag seed.
That was actually purchased from a friend of mine who went over to Amsterdam and brought
some seeds back.
So there was some Durban poison back then.
There was the purple haze.
There was once a bag seed from a blueberry, let's see, we squirted a blueberry in 95 after
a fish show outside the spectrum in Philadelphia.
And there was a blue, and you know, these, who knows what the actual crosses were.
That's the whole fun of bag seeds, right?
Back in the day is you knew pretty much what the female was, but had no idea what created
the seed in that female.
Of course, you know, nobody was sending lineage information with the cannabis that we were
receiving.
So there, you know, I have to say, you know, just going back, I'm pretty sure there was
the purple haze and then the Durban.
Those would have been the very first ones that were successfully grown.
And then after that, you know, I wish, I wish I, back in those days I kept better notes,
but I didn't.
We weren't certainly thinking about recording anything on paper back then.
That would have been way too risky.
All too common of an answer, don't worry.
Sure.
So the difference that the four-way was one of the things which kind of inspired you to
start breeding, with that being said, what was your first ever breeding project?
So the very first one, and I'm going to kind of skip to the second or third because it's
the one that really made a difference.
So there was an NL5 haze that I had at the time, and then there was some big bud and
it was a big bud male that was used to pollinate the NL5 haze.
And this would be the first cross.
And you know, of course you have to keep in mind, bear in mind here, these are names that
were given to strains.
And in those days, I have to be very blunt here, it's anybody's guess what it really
was.
You know, unless it came out of a seed pack, it was very hard to validate anything.
I can't tell you how many flowers we saw that were called skunk that certainly weren't skunk
or even for that matter, you know, northern lights that weren't truly northern lights.
It was just kind of blanket labels given to whatever looked good.
So but that first very successful one was NL5 haze big bud cross.
And that's actually the one that I had sent back to Virginia to a friend of mine who gave
me kind of the two thumbs up, you know, as good as the four way.
And from that point forward, I really didn't want to slow down the process.
Once I got the gold stamp approval from my buddy, and from there, there were so I started
playing around with silver pearl in the late 90s.
And another strain called KC36, which was from KC Brains in Brazil.
And I the silver pearl I had was a cut female that was from Sensi seed bank.
KC Brains, a pack of seeds that I got provided me and very interesting male.
And so I worked with that one in the late 90s and developed a strain that I called proof.
And the proof was a due to the silver pearl content, what was a strain that finished up
in about 47 days.
And it was just to prove and we called it proof just because to prove that things didn't
have to go eight or nine weeks.
Did it take a little bit?
A little bit.
Yeah, just a little bit.
And the proof was something that I worked with.
You know, that's the only genetic that I've ever taken to an F3.
But it became also a foundation that I have built off here over the years.
Whenever I want to induce a short flowering period, I can generally crack one of them.
And at this point, the proof seeds are somewhat homogenous.
They're very predictable in what they'll actually grow out to.
So if I have a good male donor, then I can throw that onto a female.
And if I want, if I've got a good proof male, then I can throw that on to something else.
But that one, that cross was one that made me very happy for a period of time.
And then, you know, as soon as we get into the early 2000s, really right around 04, 05,
that's when more breeding happened.
And most of the breeding that I have done in the past has been intentional S1s.
There have been some true breeding projects, but those are a little bit more recent.
And, you know, sometimes S1s get a bad rap from some folks.
But I think most of, some of the greatest genetics we've seen on this planet are generally
a result of S1 situations.
Yeah, that's definitely a topic I'd love to get into in just a moment.
But I just want to quickly draw you back.
You referenced Casey Brains.
It's a really, really kind of obscure breeder.
The thing I am most interested in him is, is that, oh, you know, the collective, whoever
it was, whoever they were, essentially they're notable because they never released the information
around any of their strains.
And yet at the time, they were still regarded as quite really good, like, you know, very
good breeders essentially.
And I just thought it's so interesting.
It's such a polarization because you could never be successful in today's market doing
that.
And yet it just, I guess it goes to show like it wasn't a concern back in the time.
Right.
Yeah.
You know, lineages were, as far as I remember, you know, lineages weren't something that
we were overly concerned about in the early days.
I know that, you know, the Casey 36, and I've, you know, years gone past, I've gone and tried
to look up as much as I could on it, but haven't really been able to find much of anything.
Because, you know, he's at that, at that, in that era, you know, he's simply giving
the label to the strain of the, you know, during the, during whatever, however old he
was that year.
So the 36 is the strain he created when he was 36 years old.
But yeah, you know, the, the, that was not necessarily something that, you know, even
that I was even aware of that people were really that concerned about back in the day
is, you know, what is the lineage here?
More, you know, more important to folks was what kind of flower is this going to produce?
And so with that being said, do you think that a lot of the stuff was quite inbred?
Or do you think it had like a diverse variety within it?
You know, I think that really has a lot to do with the commitment level of the breeder
back then.
I mean, you know, you can take someone as certain, like someone like DJ Short, you know,
he's, he's stabilized his blueberry line was an F4, F5 cross these, the one that's touted
now and you know, it's a, it's a predictable strain at this point.
And you know, someone who like that has worked with the genetics over year and year and year
to try to kind of homogenize the outcome.
However, then there were also, you know, a lot of F1s that get out there in the world
and you're going to see a ton of diversity from those.
So I think it kind of goes back to the breeder and how important it was to that particular
breeder to stabilize that genetic for, you know, for market, you know, to put it in,
to put into the market.
I, you know, I don't really think that, you know, it had anything to do with, you know,
the company so much as, you know, just, just, just the breeder, just, you know, and, and
how committed they were to trying to create stability in the strain.
I mean, the further you get, you know, the F1, 2, 3, and 4 and 5, and the deeper you
get into that, certainly the more stable the genetic comes.
And of course that generally reduces the diversity as well.
So something you referenced earlier, just a second ago, in fact, was Sensi.
Those were some of the seeds that were popular at one point when you were applying.
You also referenced Neville.
So golden segue for me.
This is a bit of a weird question, a little bit controversial, but at the same time, it's
so obvious.
I can't believe that it's even like a bit of a weird thing.
You know, Sensi went to shit at some point.
Why do you think that happened and who's responsible?
Hmm.
You know, I really feel like Sensi kind of took the fun out of genetics.
And I think a lot of that had to do with trying to make their seed outcome more marketable
based on what they thought people liked.
You know, the, the first genetic that certainly comes to mind here is something like the skunk,
you know, we all kind of agree that Sensi is the one that added sweetness to skunk one.
That original roadkill skunk wasn't a, you know, wasn't a sweet tasting strain at all.
It was kind of offensive to, in some respects.
But Sensi certainly produced a skunk one that had a very sweet note to it.
That to me, you know, ruined that, that, that strain, you know, forever.
So you know, that's what I think Sensi did is they took a lot of diversity out of the
game and they did that over the years too, because I feel like they continued to like
further try to stabilize, you know, the strain so that they could create something that was
predictable.
But I don't know that, you know, that which is predictable is all that much fun, especially
when it comes to something like cannabis and, and you know, growing from seed.
Part of the fun of growing from seed is exploring the depths of what that, that strain can produce.
And if you're, you know, if, if what's important to you is, you know, a marketable strain or
a marketable seed pack and you want stability and you want something predictable, it just
kind of, it waters it down.
And I think they did a very good job of watering down a lot of genetics.
So I mean, while we're on the general topic, if we do look back at all the companies that
have existed throughout time, which one do you think was the best?
That's a good question.
If I had to, you know, Super Sativa Seed Club, if I'm looking back in time a little bit,
I think they brought forth some very, very important genetics to the, to the world.
And I thought, I think that they also provided us with some of the foundations that a lot
of really popular strains now are built off of.
And if I look to more recent times, you know, when I was still going over to Amsterdam back
in the 2000s, I really had, I really, I really had a, a general love for TH seeds, for Adam
Dunn's group.
Oh, there you go.
Nice.
And I thought some of the strains that they were, I really loved his MK Ultra, especially
before it was feminized.
Do you think something changed beyond the obvious?
Yes, I do.
So I had grown, so I had gotten some MK Ultra seeds over in Amsterdam before it was feminized.
And the, there's a particular chemovar that is just straight mothballs.
And I love that.
It's a complex, deep smelling flower.
Like I said, the mothballs comes to mind first on the nose.
It's a phenomenal hash maker.
So I fell in love with that particular selection.
And I had a friend go back over to Amsterdam a couple of years later and bring back some
of the feminized version.
And what we saw fairly consistently out of that was a, kind of had a light purplish hue
to it and had this sweeter note that kind of overpowered anything that was chemical
or fuely.
And it just wasn't as exciting as the version, as the chemovar that we had seen come out
of the pre-feminized days.
So the genetics have always been listed as G13 and OG Kush.
Yes.
However, you know, I love you Adam, but that's never made sense to me.
How do you make regular seeds with two clone onlys?
Well, so, you know, I don't know if there was a reversal done, which is somewhat possible.
Maybe there was access to the G13 seed somewhere in that vault.
I don't know.
That's a very good question.
And interestingly enough, if I think back on it, you know, I can see both genetics in
that flower.
You know, you can definitely see the OG Kush in there.
You can taste the OG Kush in there.
There's a little bit of that earthiness for sure.
But it's something I've never really given too much thought to.
And the only thing I can think of is either there was something going on with the G13
or perhaps something was reversed, which little colloidal silver.
Who knows?
But that's just going to create S1s.
Yeah, that's a very good question.
I'd like to hear his answer on that actually.
I forgot to ask him.
Hopefully we'll find out one day.
Someday, yes.
Just take a step back.
We'll wind down a little.
Something which everyone remembers fondly.
What was your first experience with the chemdog?
Well, that definitely goes back to the East Coast.
And it was definitely at a fish show.
It was definitely at Hampton Coliseum.
I'm trying to remember what year.
I think it was 97, probably.
And it was a friend of mine who had packed a nice glass bowl
and passed it to me during the show.
And wow, that was one explosive hit back then.
There was just nothing like it.
Nothing that at that point had even come close to that super chemical fuel taste.
It was definitely – that one changed the game.
It was interesting because I knew of chem back in the day,
but I knew him only as a glass blower.
Really, the connection to the genetic had not been made at that point for me at all.
It wasn't until years later that I actually made that connection.
But, yeah, that flower was just phenomenal.
I will never forget the nose burn and the eyes watering
and just how it hit the frontal of the head
and kicked your body temp up about two degrees just about immediately.
It's the one that hits me.
It's kind of like taking that first – the first dab you ever take.
It's a whole new experience.
I didn't have really the opportunity to find out where it came from
or purchase any or anything like that.
So I had that experience in the 90s,
and then it wasn't until I moved out west
and then met a few folks, some folks who were growing one version or another,
that we saw more of it.
But that was definitely one memorable bowl hit, I can tell you that much.
And so do you think that was the 91?
So 1998.
You know, at this point of my career, I'm pretty sure it was.
I don't think it was the D.
And, of course, nobody was really running some of the others at that point.
It certainly was way too early for the four,
which we'll, of course, talk about that a little bit later.
But at that point, yes, I'm pretty sure that was the 91.
I was about to say that.
That temperature one got me.
I always get crushed by that one.
And the other one me and my friends love to say is you get sweaty feet.
That's a good one.
I might have to use that.
Yeah, uncomfortably high.
Right, right, right.
Oh, absolutely.
Don't I know about that sometimes.
So, hard question, which out of all the Chem cuts is your favorite?
And just know, if you say Chem 4, you are dead to me.
Well, you know, okay, so can we sidebar for a second?
Okay.
So sidebar for a second.
So there's been this whole thing where I've had to change up the genetics on Dog Walker, right?
I don't know if you're aware of this, but, you know, I did it on Instagram, whatever.
So for many years I was under the impression that I had the 91, and it turns out it's the 4.
Now going back to the 91, now that I have gone back and resampled it, 91 is probably my favorite.
But I don't mind the 4.
She's certainly been a good foundation for me to breed with.
So 91 is going to be my favorite.
So you're saying you're half dead to me.
I'm only half dead, that's right, only half dead.
And I wish I could say I think it's deplorable, but I don't.
It's been good to me, and I certainly can't complain.
And, you know, somewhere hiding in that genome is a whole lot of gas, because it certainly has shown off in some of my offspring.
Oh yeah, I get this weird betadine taste from it, like iodine, it's weird, you know.
Interesting, yeah, I like that.
So I guess just to kind of summarize for people who maybe missed what we were talking about there,
I guess the reason why that's important is because you've gone on to create a few very well-known strains using your cut,
which you thought was 91, turns out to be the number 4.
So I think that's the reason why maybe it's a little more relevant that that post was made.
But just to essentially explain it for everyone, one eye put up a post saying,
hey everyone, just so you know, we thought that the dog walker was 91 cross Albert Walker,
it's actually the chem 4 cross Albert Walker.
So there you go, everyone's on the same page now.
So I guess the first thing is, that obviously suggests that the chem was the pollen donor in the dog walker, correct?
Not correct.
Not correct.
So, okay, so this is a game of selfing genetics.
And it really starts off with what I call the AWOG.
It's actually an Albert Walker OG cross.
So going back to, we got the OG here in Portland, the OG Kush in 04.
And in 05, I had a plant that selfed, and all I could find was a single pollen spike.
So I plucked that spike, and a lot of people have a hard time believing this, but this is God's honest truth.
Plucked the little spike, put it in a little tent, put it in my fridge,
and later that summer, fall, maybe it was summertime,
I had the Albert Walker plant, and decided to take that little bit of pollen on a little tiny paintbrush,
and just dust a branch of the Albert Walker plant.
And that little process yielded a measly six seeds.
And I got four of those to crack.
I actually lost two of the seeds somehow.
But four of those were cracked.
And I went with the most vigorous one that showed a pre-flowered female.
And that one ended up selfing itself in somewhere around week three.
So I kind of went through this process of pulling pollen spikes and trying to keep up with it.
But of course, certain things got – that plant got pollinated, and that produced about 200 seeds,
which we called the AWOG, Albert Walker OG.
The AWOG, I decided, again, to revive it some years later, right around 2009,
and had at that point had just acquired the, what we now know as Chem IV plant.
And the AWOG that I – I was growing two different AWOG plants.
One of them was just a beast and super stable.
The other one turned out not to be so stable.
So she then spit onto the Chem IV, and then I actually collected some of her stamen
and kept that in a little container that I later used to create another strain called the WALK,
crossing it with Forum Cut.
So what we do have here, admittingly, is a lot of instability,
but very intentional uses of those unstable plants.
And when it came time to crack the dog walker seeds, the original cracking,
it was just – I had a few hundred of the seeds, and we cracked about 10 of them.
And knowing that they – no males were going to get produced out of this project,
I decided to look at – I think there were four particular ones that were growing really nicely.
We liked the stem rub, the odor that came off of that.
And one of those kind of was a bit muskier, if you will, than the others.
And that one was just selected, and I ran with that one.
And so what you have is the Albert Walker OG actually selfing onto the Chem IV plant.
And that's how we got the original and current dog walker seeds.
And so I guess what might be surprising out of that whole story is that the dog walker OG
is not regarded as an unstable plant.
Would you agree with that, or do you think it does throw pollen?
Well, so one of the things we saw very early on, and this is only in the first probably year,
year and a half of its existence, was that it did not – it was very hypersensitive to oversaturation with light.
And so in the very early days, there were a couple of us who experienced –
and you've got to remember, in the early days, there's only eight gardens that are running this strain.
But a couple of us were seeing this phenomenon where it would try to self kind of towards the end of the round.
And so believe it or not, I think it was a friend of mine out at Heroes of the Farm
who decided to pull his lights back another 12 inches or something like that,
went from like 24 inches to 36 inches.
This is under single-ended thousand-watt lights.
And then all of a sudden, that issue went away.
So we kind of went – word went around the small group of, hey, she gets oversaturated pretty easily.
Back your lights off. It'll prevent any of these issues.
And since that era, I have yet to see a single unstable response from that plant, period.
And certainly don't hear lots of murmurs about that being – about it being unstable.
Whenever there – whenever someone calls or contacts or comes in the store to ask me about growing it,
the first recommendation I make is put her on the perimeter if you can't raise your lights.
She does a lot better on the perimeter around and not – and splash over or crossover zones than she does directly under in the crossover.
She's a perimeter plant for sure.
Or get those lights up high.
So in general, the Dog Walker OG, it's really kind of gained itself a cult status along with the Scooby Snacks,
which we'll get into shortly.
How do you think that happened?
What do you kind of attribute it to?
Just the quality or do you think there was – like the right people were growing it at the right time type of thing?
Full disclosure?
Yeah, go for it.
OK.
So it was all intentional.
Oh, yeah.
So this was during a time here in Oregon where some of the best cultivators that I knew were starting to have to take less and less and less,
chipping away at the bottom line of what they were getting for their product.
And it was also right at the beginning of the cookie craze, so 2009.
And I'd been down in northern California at a friend's farm.
I got – he showed me the cookie and he was explaining like, oh, people pay $1,000, $2,000 a cut for this stuff and you get top end at all the dispensaries.
And when I sampled the plant, I mean it was amazing flour.
It's super tasty.
But I was like, what gives?
What is the driving force behind the craze?
And he said, well, just it's really hard to get a cut of it and they really limit the release.
And so I came back here to Oregon and thought about that a bit and I said, you know, if there's some way somehow to come up with something here that I could create, give to a limited number of people, we control the release of it.
We don't give it out.
And if it's good enough, perhaps we can kind of start this same kind of craze here in Oregon just with an Oregon-produced genetic.
And at that time, I had the Chem IV.
There was the selfing of the AWOG.
I think this is a good thing.
I think this could be the cross.
And it was really a stroke of luck that the Chem IV that we selected was the one that is out and available today.
As soon as we finished that plant, that first bong hit of it was this is it.
We know we have something here.
So I did a limited release to eight other growers that I knew in the area that were all friends.
And we kind of had a powwow.
This is the plant.
Here is what it's worth.
Don't take anything less than that.
Don't give out cuts.
This was also during the very first early days of our quasi-dispensary system here in Portland or medical dispensary.
So there were only a couple at that point, just two or three, that were definitely operating very much in the gray.
But if these places wanted this, this is what it cost.
Everything else was significantly cheaper.
And we kind of stuck to our guns.
And that project worked great for about 18 months.
And then cuts were stolen and partnerships fractured and people got butt hurt.
But to this day, it still is a crowd pleaser.
For me personally, it's still a strain that I never get bored or tired of.
And it's kind of legend and lore was born out of trying – me, my attempt to give something back to my friends, to give them an opportunity to do a little better.
So it came from a good place, but it was certainly an exercise in market manipulation.
Do you feel like that is a negative thing in the cannabis industry, given it's so rampant in other industries?
There's a growing movement in Australia that people want everything to be as cheap as possible or that type of thing because they're like, oh, it's medicine.
And it's like no one can see that there's obviously a literal business side of things as well.
And like – you know what I mean?
It's an interesting thing because it's like people almost think that all the regular rules don't apply to cannabis because it's – for some people, it's more than just a recreational thing.
Well, yeah. There's a lot of altruistic dreamers in the cannabis industry.
But at the end of the day, this is now and has been for many years people's livelihoods.
We've certainly watched here in our state prices go from 3,000 – and this is going in the medical market of course and now the rec market and medical market.
But people years – just a few years ago getting upwards of $3,000, $3,200 a pound and now they're having to settle for $1,200, $1,400 for the same quality.
And it's not that it costs any less to cultivate it.
You certainly have to figure out how to survive in a lower-margin market.
But I think it has great value and I think it should – eventually, the boutique side of this industry – and I'm speaking more for our state at this point.
The boutique side of the industry and the mass cultivation side of the industry will separate.
And there will be added value and value given – higher value given to boutique-produced cannabis.
Right now, there's no dichotomy there. There's just no separation.
There are – at least there's very little.
So, I think that it's important to have – to place greater value on cannabis that is produced with great thought, great passion, intense work, not total automated systems and so forth and so on.
So, I kind of – I don't think it should be the cheapest thing in the world because once again, for a small producer, that's a death sentence.
And I think it should be a free market to where there's opportunity for all.
Yeah, exactly.
And the thing that I like is – not taking any personal stabs but I find a lot of the people making these broad types of claims are generally people who still buy into that whole bullshit of like Gucci brands and they want a Mercedes car.
It's like, oh, so you want premium everything else, just not premium cannabis.
Right, right, right.
You'll pay – you'll buy a $4,500 handbag for your lady but you don't want to pay more than $5 a gram for cannabis.
Yeah, I don't get that.
When I first – so one of my first dispensary experiences in Portland was at a place here that had kind of a farmer's market style approach.
You pay a booth fee each day and you could sit there and pass out your wares.
And it used to amaze me how many people came in under the medical program and they'd want to sit there and go to the smoking room and roll a blunt up.
But then every so often, somebody would actually come in in a wheelchair.
Or someone would actually come in who's going through chemo and needs help getting through the door.
And it was just such a stark contrast between the people who really needed the medicine and then the people who just kind of wanted the medicine.
And I make no ill claim to anyone who just wants to smoke cannabis.
I mean that's primarily my take on it.
But for those folks that really need the medicine, there should be programs for those individuals.
It's just – the way the state hands out the medical cards, it's kind of hard to tell if they need it or if they just want it.
Speaking on the medical model in Oregon in general, I've heard whispers from people that the general trend in Oregon is that there's a few companies opening up really big facilities and their production is so high.
That's one of the major contributing forces to that downward trend on pricing.
Do you feel that is actually an accurate analysis of the situation?
Absolutely.
Yeah, absolutely.
I mean there's a statistic that came out mid-December of last year where we had about 1.2 or 1.1 million pounds in our metric system.
Wow.
Now, the year before, the entire state for an entire year consumed about 430,000 or 460,000 pounds.
Doubled?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, absolutely.
I mean almost tripled.
And so there is an absolute glut in our industry here.
And once that product's entered into metric, you don't have that old backdoor opportunity anymore.
It's locked up in the system.
So there are – I think we are going to see a lot of folks having hard times weathering this storm in our state, recreational growers.
It's going to be – and I think who really survives here or has the best opportunity to survive are these smaller producers.
Their necks aren't extended out quite as far as some of – financially as some of these large, well-funded operations.
But if you're not turning a profit and it's still dumping more money into something, it's a hard hole to get out of with prices plummeting.
I don't think we've seen the bottom here yet.
Oh, wow.
Where do you think they'll bottom out at?
I don't know.
500 maybe?
Wow.
Yeah.
So something I was interested in, a little kind of peripheral but kind of the same vein.
When I was in Oregon, I thought it was a really interesting place.
It was almost like the twilight zone in a lot of regards because it's extremely similar to Australia in regards to like people's general attitudes, the mood.
You know, it's really laid back, pretty welcoming, that type of thing.
That was really cool.
The biggest thing that stood out in my mind though was I thought people were far more environmentally and kind of ethically aware of their actions and their decisions and, you know, everyone wants to be as organic as possible, things like that far more in Oregon than in Australia.
The dichotomy which slapped me in the face though is it doesn't seem to be that same focus in regards to cannabis in regards to organically grown versus synthetically grown.
How do you think that exists?
Like a lot of the cannabis I tried in Oregon myself was not organic as far as I could tell.
So, yeah, that's a great – that's actually a great point.
And being in the retail side of the industry, I can actually speak volumes to this.
So it really depends where you are in Oregon.
And it can even be as simple as what part of a county you're in, whether you're seeing salt synthetic growers, organic bottle growers, organic no-till.
You go down to a place like Eugene, which is just a little bit south here of Portland, a college town full of loads of hippie and counterculture folks, and you're going to see tons of organically produced cannabis.
You get back up here to Portland and the city kind of divides between Portland and then the west side, which is Beaverton and Hellsboro.
You see a lot more salt growers out in that zone.
But then as you go closer – you go further east towards Mount Hood from Portland, you start to get into rural farm country.
And there's certainly a lot of organic producers there.
Now, the other thing to keep in mind here is a lot of these cultivators 10 years ago – not even 10 years ago, six years or five years ago were still running smaller operations and not necessarily producing for – they were clandestine operations.
They're not necessarily producing for the medical market.
So it's all about production.
And you're starting to see that kind of turn now.
There's a lot of commercial groups that are just about production.
But we actually see – the store that I work for, we're very – as far as what we focus on and what we kind of preach, we certainly preach and focus more on organic and sustainable approaches to cultivation.
It doesn't mean that we won't sell canna or advanced or botanical.
We certainly do.
But we try to push for the organic thing through our store.
There are other stores that rarely push organics, and you'll find a lot more synthetic products on their shelves.
And so as you skip around from store to store in the city, you can see really what that main customer base is based on the nutrients that are more than readily available.
Totally.
I can agree with that last point 100 percent because we're kind of experiencing that ourselves in that previously there's only been synthetic options.
And over the past few years, we've seen the rise in organic options becoming more available, and it really is a direct reflection of the market demand as far as I can see.
Yeah, and it's true.
And believe it or not, we end up having to educate a lot of growers, both small home growers and commercial growers, in how to turn that operation into an organic operation.
And so many – a lot of your synthetic growers have kind of had it drilled into their head that this is the way to yield.
This is how you yield.
This is – organics doesn't yield enough.
And that couldn't be any further from the truth.
There are certainly organic approaches that not only deliver incredibly flavorful cannabis but also can produce phenomenal yields.
And the yields are so much more strain contingent than anything else, if you ask me.
And so I think there's this kind of blockade in the salt grower's mind that I can't go organic because I'm going to lose out on my yield.
And even cost-wise, you can get very competitive cost-wise with organics.
I understand what you mean.
I think the other thing I've noticed – maybe this is just a little bit of personal bias because I'm organic.
But I think that the learning curve with organics is a little steeper.
And that's how we got to that point where people say the yield isn't as good.
And it's like, no, if you get up there high enough on the curve, you'll get the same yield.
Absolutely.
I couldn't agree with that anymore.
There is – you're right about one thing.
The curve is a little steeper and it's a little longer on fine-tuning organics.
But really, one of the best pieces of advice that I give out at the shop is to pick a program, an organic program, whatever, and really figure out how to – how that program can bring your strains to their full genetic expression.
So don't switch programs.
Don't switch up genetics.
Work with those genetics with that nutrient program or that no-till approach or whatever.
But learn – see what inputs are really influencing that – your group of genetics or your strain or whatever so that you can get that best expression possible.
And I truly believe that it's certainly achievable through organics.
It's achievable in synthetics too to some degree.
But the people that are pushing tons of FOSS salts into their product and bloom boosting with their 35-40 – zero 35-40 product at the end, they're going to end up with a bunch of road flare product for sure.
And it's not going to be very flavorful, but it's going to yield.
Not to hate on our salt growers.
We've got a few out there.
No, absolutely.
And some of them do a really good job still.
So on a lighter note, I constantly hear this analogy.
I want to know if you agree.
It's a bit of tongue in cheek, but people say to me, Colorado weeds too dry, Oregon weeds too wet.
Do you agree?
Well, Colorado is too dry and we're too wet.
Sure.
I always make the comment that whenever I – because I do go to Denver generally once or twice a year.
And as soon as I walk off the airplane, I can feel the moisture leaving my lips because it is that dry there.
And it is.
You see that in Colorado with – I take cannabis there and within two days, if it's not in a sealed container with a humidity pack, it's turned to rock hard and eventually dust.
And, yeah, it's damp up here in Oregon.
But a great example for Colorado, I have a friend of mine who used to run – and he probably still does – runs humidifiers in his drying room.
That's a testament to how freaking dry it is there.
And here, it's really about how you dry your cannabis and how you cure it after that.
So I could understand someone's gripe with Oregon being a little too damp and Colorado is certainly dry.
Yeah, okay.
So get back to our industry talk.
In case we didn't make it a bit obvious, you've obviously managed and run hydroponic stores slash grow stores in general for many years.
I'm sure you've seen the fads come and go.
What products do you think fall under that general fad cycle?
To me, it feels like we've had the Sheila Jeet trend.
It's almost completely died off.
Not almost.
There's maybe a few stragglers, but they'll die off soon.
Yeah, I mean there have been a load of what I just call kind of flash-in-the-pan products.
And you'll have to forgive me because I can't in good conscience call out too many of them on the negative just because I'm going to sell some of them and I'll probably hear back from others.
But they're the hype products that companies invest loads of money on into the marketing of those products.
Some of them are here to stay for a long time.
Some of them have come and gone already.
But at the end of the day, I kind of split the industry into two groups.
There's the products that are made to market and then the products that are just made.
And what I often find is that the hyped companies, if you will, products, they all work.
Otherwise, they wouldn't be in business.
But you're going to pay out the wazoo for them because, gosh, they have to back all that marketing somehow.
And two, it's generally pretty cannabis but not the best tasting cannabis.
So, for me, things like – what's a good program that falls into this kind of flash-in-the-pan category?
That's three a lot.
Yeah.
Look, that book – it was so funny when that book came out, how so many people clamored into the store and wanted us to explain to them how to do it.
I'm like, I don't know. You got to buy the $500 book.
They explained how to do it.
And of course that led to all the stripping the leaves and everything like that.
And people are like, oh, all you got to do is strip leaves.
Well, no. There's a whole nutrient fee that they put in that book that compensates for the loss of your storage houses.
So, it's – I don't want to pick on anybody in particular, but there's a few of them out there.
And I keep stressing the heavily marketed thing.
Products that work and produce well don't need a lot of hype.
They speak for themselves.
The results speak for themselves.
And so, I have sold product on and off for the last 17 years and seen a lot of good ones come and I've seen a few bad ones go.
There was a point in time here in the States a few years back, going back to the mid-2000s to 2010 era roughly, where there was paclobutrazole showing up in all these flower-boosting products.
Phospholode, Red Dragon.
And it was funny because the companies that were creating these products were just simply – they create one.
It would get banned, and then they would just rename, relabel the same product and wait for that one to get banned.
Paclobutrazole is definitely not a very pleasant compound.
Non-carcinogen, especially if you're smoking it.
In fact, there was a company down in California that had been called out by a couple of states for their content of it.
And eventually, if I'm not mistaken, the EPA got involved and banned the product nationally.
So, some of these – and a few of these products were pretty heavily marketed.
And this is a game-changer.
Increase your yields tenfold, whatever.
But all at what expense to the end user?
And so, it was that – and you've got to remember, too, that there was very, very, very, very little regulation on our industry until just a few years ago.
You described the Australian market right now, the rampant with plant growth regulators.
I guess the issue which I'm really interested in knowing, and you probably have the answer, is you just referenced one situation where it happened.
How rampant do you think the problem is of companies having off-label PGRs?
Do you think it really is a common occurrence or it's more of a rare thing?
I think – in all honesty, I believe that it's not as rampant as it used to be in this country.
If you go back five or six years, it was pretty rampant.
Once states like California and Oregon, for their registration, required full disclosure of contents, that started – that ceased the frequency of products like that ever making it back into our market.
A few of these companies were shut down and sued and made a lot of – kind of a racket throughout the industry.
That got people to notice.
Before, nobody really noticed. Nobody really knew to ask if this had a harmful PGR in it.
They just saw the results that it created and thought like, well, if this product works, let's keep using it.
That's unfortunately the result of having – back then, which was really an uneducated customer base, which allowed a lot of bad actors to thrive in our industry here.
But once there was state intervention on the level – by the Department of Agriculture in various states, then the situation started to correct itself.
I feel like we're at a point now where it is, at least in our state and certainly in California, very, very difficult to register a product that has – for our industry that has a PGR.
You've got to remember, the states, we don't have a unified registration for the entire country.
Each state has its own registration for nutrients, pesticides, fungicides, whatever.
The reason why I bring up that question is because on your Instagram page, there's a post kind of referencing that there was some – I believe the product is called Azitrol.
Yeah, it had some adulterants in it, but they weren't actually plant growth regulators.
They were more like in – what's the word?
They're pesticides.
Yeah, pesticides. I was going to say insecticides.
Yeah, pesticides.
Do you think this is something which is a little more rampant given – and I was going to ask you this as a question as well.
What do you think the next trend will be in terms of these fad products we mentioned?
I feel like pesticides, fungicides, these are the ones on the rise.
It seems like every day there's a new one, especially organic ones.
Right.
So, we have a registration here through the EPA, which is 25B compliant, which is low or minimum risk pesticides, which those generally do not have to be thoroughly tested.
You just have to register as such as long as the ingredients that you provide are all 25B compliant.
Then the EPA approves your product.
And it's a lot of these 25B compliant products, quote-unquote, that seem to be sneaking things into their products.
And of course, when rubber meets the road with this and the company has their back against the wall, they blame their partners.
They blame some nefarious force that slipped this into their product.
But at the end of the day, they're adding adulterants for some reason or another or there's some kind of cross-contamination happening at their facility.
The azatrol-1 is very interesting and intriguing to me because when I looked into the compounds that were showing up in those tests as adulterants, the addition of those particular compounds made zero zilch, no sense whatsoever from a IPM or knockdown approach strategy, even if you're a big ag person.
That particular group just didn't make any sense why we'd all be in there together.
So part of me wants to think that perhaps there's some kind of residual contamination that's happening at that – I mean the company that manufactures that product manufactures every single one of those compounds in some shape or form through their company and manufactures a load.
So it doesn't make sense for a company of that magnitude because you've got to remember that's not a hydro industry company.
That's an ag company.
So it doesn't make any sense for them to intentionally adulter their product.
Now, the fact that it hasn't come back to market yet, that's very curious to me.
But something – that one was very strange.
There have been a couple others and believe it or not, our store has kind of been ground zero for the discovery of these products.
What really brought the adulterant of pesticides to light for our industry was the testing of finished product of the cannabis and concentrates.
And so one of the first major cases we had here was with a product called Guardian.
And Guardian was being produced I think out of a company out of Michigan, lemongrass oil, cinnamon, a couple other little essential oils.
And it was being sold, believe it or not, to organic growers as a way to knock back russet mites, which had just kind of found their way into the Oregon scene.
And everyone was just having this incredible success with these essential oils.
And none of us were like, wow, they've just kind of unlocked the key here because no one at that point in time was having very much success getting rid of russet mites.
And eventually I think it was two or three cultivators down in Eugene or in that area failed their pesticide screening because abamectin was present.
And a lot of folks will know the brand name Avid.
Some people say it was Ivermectin.
Some people say it was abamectin, but whatever.
So what the Department of Ag – so the lab that found these test results called all the growers and said, everybody write down your list of all of your inputs.
And the three gardens all had one common denominator, which was this Guardian product.
So that lab, OG Analytical down in Eugene, called the Department of Ag and said, hey, we have a suspicion here.
So the Department of Ag contacted our store because we had sold one of the bottles and said, hey, do you have this product?
We said, yeah, we do.
They're like, OK, we're going to come by and grab a bottle off your shelf.
So they bought a bottle off of our shelf.
They went down to Eugene, which is about two hours away south, bought a bottle off their shelf and then went down to southern Oregon and bought a bottle of those, tested all three of those independently.
Voila, there's abamectin.
So then the Department of Ag calls the company, the manufacturer, and the guy says, oh, my partner just put some of that in.
No, your partner didn't just slip some of that in.
It's been there all along.
That's why it's actually killing russet mites because – I'm sorry, lemongrass and cinnamon oil isn't going to kill a russet mite.
They're great repellents but not necessarily a kill factor.
So that was the first case where pesticide screening actually benefited the community.
And it was that event that got me very, very interested in looking at adulterants that were currently in products in our industry.
And right after the Guardian situation, there was another one with a product called Mighty Wash that was wildly and rampantly available as a 25B.
This one had frequency water in it, right, quote unquote.
And it was killing mites.
It was destroying mites, spider mites, two-spotted, right?
And, oh, it's – what was the gag?
It was a vortex implosion.
Yes.
It sounds like it.
The frequency would stun the mite and the oil would suffocate it, and that was its mode of action.
Well, so one of our customers comes back to us and says, hey, I've failed a couple of tests now for pyrethrum.
Oh, well, what are you using?
Go down the list.
Oh, Mighty Wash, huh?
So I call up the Department of Ag and said, hey, at this point we have a nice relationship.
I say, hey, we've got this product here and our customer keeps failing for pyrethrum.
You want to come check this out?
So I said, we'll be right up.
So they came and bought a bottle off of our shelf, did the same thing, bottled down in southern Oregon, bottled in Salem, Oregon, state capital.
Sorry, not Springfield.
But then they discovered pyrethrum in a product that was 25B compliant.
Now, pyrethrum isn't the nastiest of compounds.
Really, of all of the knockdown, takedown pesticides, it's fairly safe to use.
But if you don't disclose it in your product and people are using your product up to the day of harvest and then making concentrates from your product, see how things scale up very quickly here?
It's a problem.
And this, of course, then goes back to the micobutanol thing and EGLE 20 and the cyanide hydrogen or hydrogen cyanide that's released from that when it's combusted.
And that actually got me very heavily involved with a couple of groups.
And there's one – at least one white paper out there that's published that I was a part of.
And then I actually went to speak at a cannabis conference in New York City that a group called Botech Analytical put on.
It was an international cannabis conference and spoke on a panel with a couple of other individuals specifically about adulterants entering into the supply chain for products used to cultivate cannabis.
And it was very important to me for – at that point to – because a lot of these folks who came to this conference were very policy-oriented or financial-oriented individuals.
And they – it was something you had to explain.
You have to understand that the majority of the customers who are using these products that are going to the grocery store are not necessarily – they certainly don't have pesticide applicator's licenses.
So they're not educated in the world of pesticides, pesticide application.
So the old just use twice as much as what the label recommends was a pretty popular way of approaching pesticide and fungicide use.
So for me, whenever a bulletin – and I'm always linked in with ODA alerts, Oregon Department of Agricultural Alerts.
Whenever a bulletin gets posted, I'm going to very quickly put it up on the Instagram there because the folks who do follow me in this state, that's important for them to know.
Yeah, okay.
So just kind of touching back on like I guess maybe a general undertone that's been going on in the whole conversation.
Do you view a lot of these new organic-based pesticides with an eye of caution or do you think that there is a legitimate kind of area of research that could be done to develop better organic pesticides?
And the reason why I bring this up is because there's obviously just such a vast contrast in the effectiveness of synthetic versus organic.
Like synthetic, it's like one application and stuff just dies.
With organic, it seems like we're really trying to just like chase our tails but you can kind of get on top of it eventually.
Do you think that's the general situation and it's not going to change too much?
By looking at what California is allowing, I'd say that's definitely the situation.
What you're dealing with once again is an uneducated customer base.
So until things like pesticide – and if you look at – so the way the Environmental Protection Agency works here in the states is if you have a product that you're bringing to market, the EPA tests it.
It goes through a rigorous testing, 120-some different tests.
But they test it on specific crops and on most labels of most pesticides, it lists the specific crops that it is legal to use that pesticide, fungicide or miticide on.
If you use it on some other crop, let's say cannabis, then you're absolutely violating EPA regulation and you can be fined and all kinds of horrible things can happen, right?
So the big fear of the states in allowing any pesticide or fungicide is that they would be defying EPA regulation by allowing cultivators to do so.
So what you find in most states as far as what is allowed are a lot of 25B-compliant products that are safe or that are generally safe – generally regarded as safe.
What do they call that?
Gras.
So these products are somewhat benign in the sense that they are good control measures.
They are very difficult.
They're not as easy to create a solution from it.
But we're getting better.
There's a couple of companies out there, Marone BioInnovations, that are putting forth some pretty interesting products that I certainly can get behind.
For me, it's not about pesticides that control pests.
It's good practices, beneficials, predatory insects that can play well with biopesticides.
To me, that's the best – prevention is obviously the first step.
But if you are dealing with certain pests or certain funguses, there is generally a very good and sound, quote-unquote, organic approach to solving that problem.
But it generally requires multiple steps because there – look, even with chemicals, there's no magic bullet in any of this.
So it – repeat applications of certain products and, of course, for me, when it comes to insects, I love the idea of using predators coupled with biopesticides.
Generally, between those two arms, you can solve many, many, many problems.
They have a pretty far reach.
So something I noticed on your Instagram was that you do the gas lantern method.
Yes.
Yeah, a little bit of an unusual thing, something everyone's curious about but I find –
Sure.
Certainly myself never tried it.
What initially stimulated you to do it and what about it causes you to keep doing it?
So – oh, gosh.
How many years ago was this?
Probably 2012 or 13.
I was at a trade show in Denver and a very good friend of mine came up behind me and whispered, gas lantern, check it out, and then walked away.
So I was like, OK.
So I was back in my hotel room that night after the event and started looking online, Google gas lantern, gas lantern, and it comes across, Joe's, Piatri's thing.
OK.
So I'm looking at this whole lighting schedule first.
I'm like, wow, this is mind-blowing.
I don't see how this could ever work out.
But then I'm reading the – he had put together kind of a reasoning of why this works so well.
And his whole theory is that we are constantly oversaturating cannabis more so than it typically needs to be lit.
He starts with people who like to do 24 hours of veg, for example.
He's like, well, look at where it's 24 hours of light for extended periods of time.
That's generally the polar regions.
If you look around the polar regions, granted it's cold, but not much grows there.
You can even come down a little bit further and then you get into tundra regions.
But you're getting lichen and grasses but nothing that's lush and supple.
Once again, it's probably more temperature-related.
But he's using this to drive a point home.
And then out of that he states that if you look at plants that are vegged six, eight, ten weeks to get these large plants indoors under artificial lighting, we generally see pre-flowering occurring somewhere in that fifth to sixth week of running like 18-6.
And for a photoperiod-obligate plant, this is his theory now, which I somewhat subscribe to, for a photoperiod-obligate plant, that is a very unnatural reaction.
So floral hormones should stay bottled up in that plant until that photoperiod triggers and then that should release the hormone.
So he says, so why are we seeing these little pistils showing up five, six weeks into a veg?
Well, it has a lot to do with this over-lighting of plants and it's more of a stress response.
So the plant's letting out little bits of floral hormones during a time when it should be keeping those bottled up.
So that's kind of the reasoning why he says.
So I read this and I think, OK, well, this kind of makes sense.
So I get back to Portland and pretty soon thereafter decide, OK, I'm going to try – I'm going to start with the veg.
13 on, five and a half off, one on, five and a half off.
Or 12 on, excuse me, 12 on, five and a half off, one on, five and a half off again.
So anyway, so the light break is what kind of keeps these floral hormones bottled up.
And the way he rationalizes that is – the reason why they call it the gas lantern is northern latitudinal glass houses in the wintertime trying to keep flowering crops from flowering.
They go through in the middle of the night, light up these gas lanterns.
And that little bit of a light break in the middle of the dark cycle would keep those hormones bottled up so that the flowers wouldn't express or shift gears so to speak.
So I applied that practice to my own garden pretty quickly and was kind of amazed when I saw that eight weeks into veg, there's no pistil showing up.
And then as soon as I put a plant into flower – and the theory here is you get this kind of rush of floral hormones because they've been bottled up so long.
When you put a plant in the flower, you get a rush of floral hormones.
And so flower set does tend to occur a couple of days early.
So I did the veg side of it for about five rounds, almost for an entire year before I ever subscribed to the flowering and the diminishing light on the flowering end.
And I just – in the beginning, the first couple of runs, I just knew something bad was going to come out of it and fortunately nothing ever did.
But it's such a leap of faith when your entire growing career, you're told 18-6, 18-6, 18-6, this is how you do it.
People say, oh, you've got to have 24 hours of light over your clones.
One of the things people suggested, 24 hours of light over clones, is to keep the temperature stable.
That was it.
I clone under gas lantern, great success from it.
So on the veg side of things, it's a great money-saving opportunity, especially for a large commercial grow.
And I've heard lots of people think, oh, it decreases your yield or it slows down the veg.
And I couldn't – that certainly has not been my experience whatsoever.
I certainly haven't had any yield loss over the years and the veg keeps up just as good as ever.
So – but it is.
It's a huge leap of faith and I can't stress that.
It's such a hard shift to make in your head to say, OK, I'm only going to light these veg plants up 13 hours a day now.
Yeah.
So I guess maybe if we try to condense all that down into one line, would you advocate everyone uses the gas lantern method?
No, because there are some strains that will act adversely to it, equatorial strains especially.
I think that – and I've only had – I've had one strain in my life not work with it, and that was Senex.
Senex did not react very good to the veg program at all.
Senex can be kind of a wild plant to begin with.
But it – yeah, I mean I think for someone who's coming out of the gates, maybe a hobbyist, if you want to have that guaranteed your genetics are going to work fine with it, then run your 18-6.
But I think for someone with a little more experience that's willing to experiment with their genetics to see how they react, like I said, all of mine except for that one strain, which I don't run anymore.
All of mine have done fine by it.
So I think someone with some experience that's willing to take a risk, it's better for them than perhaps someone who's completely green to the game.
So just to completely clarify because I only very briefly referenced it earlier.
Do you believe in defoliation at all?
Like we kind of were talking shit about three of life.
Right.
Do you believe there's any merit in defoliation of any kind or you just kind of not into it at all?
I mean I do periodic – I don't strip my plants personally.
And keep in mind too, I'm a smaller cultivator, so I don't have a giant warehouse or anything like that.
So I have the ability to work very closely with the number of plants that I do have on a very personal level.
So I will remove fan leaves as I see fit.
If they're shadowing out a lower branch or I want to get a little bit more light down that one branch, I will do periodic removal throughout the bloom process.
But I am not a fan leaf stripper.
It can work.
I've done it before.
A couple of my varieties reacted fairly decently to it.
A couple of them didn't react so well.
So I bagged it after two attempts.
But keep in mind too that it's more than just the stripping of the leaves.
There's also this augmenting of the feed to provide kind of consistent flow of nutrients because you are removing those storage houses when you strip them all away from the plant.
Yeah, totally.
So let's take a step back.
I realize we didn't go over it and I really want to know.
The Albert Walker itself, it's an interesting strain.
It's a bit of an enigma.
No one can tell me too much about it and no one ever has any to smoke.
Yeah.
Sure.
So the Albert Walker that we had in the mid-2000s was a very finicky plant but had this incredible kind of combination of like a rose note, like from roses, you know, a very floral, sweet rose note.
But with this crazy kind of garlic funk as well.
So it was like – yeah.
It was a very, very strange and, you know, interesting plant to me.
It was a bit finicky so I didn't run it for very long.
But it just – yeah, it just had such this clash of noses on it that it was just remarkable.
The high was decent.
It wasn't stupendous or anything like that.
But the – it was the flavor that really got me and it's that unmistakable rose note with that garlic kind of buried in there that just – it just gets me every time.
And you know what?
I haven't seen it for years.
I've seen a lot of things come through.
I've actually had a lot of folks because I've – at one point was kind of in this headspace of getting back to the root genetics of Dog Walker.
And so a couple years ago I went on a hunt for the Albert Walker and I don't know.
Three or four different specimens have been brought to me and none of them were there.
None of them were it.
So I don't – I'm sure it is still in existence.
I hear a lot of folks kind of on the west – there's a crew on the west side of our area that runs Albert Walker pretty heavy.
But I've yet to see what they're producing.
So yeah, it's kind of – and it is.
It's a bit of an enigma string because I think there's a lot of imposters out there.
It's just like chem.
There's so many imposters out there.
Finding – getting to the origin, to the real – to that real cut can be a very daunting task.
And so do you give any credence to the current online story which says that originates from the Grateful Dead?
I think it says roadie crew.
I'm doubtful on that.
But like some kind of Grateful Dead genesis.
Do you think that's true?
And it also says that the suspected genetics are Afghan skunk.
Yeah.
Look, we have – a lot of incredible genetics came out of the Grateful Dead scene.
That's for sure.
There's – well, there's loads of stories we can tell.
But yeah, I do buy into the – I buy into the northwest origin of it.
I buy into the – that it was something that evolved out of the Grateful Dead scene.
Now, whether it was the roadie crew or someone else who really knows.
And you said Swazi skunk?
Sorry, Afghan skunk.
Oh, an Afghan skunk.
Not as interesting as Swazi skunk.
No.
I was just going to say Swazi skunk sounds great.
Yeah, I mean I could see that.
I mean it was definitely a squatter plant.
What was really remarkable to me is this very light-colored green, almost like a pale green.
It was never really a super dark, robust plant for us.
That could have been part of its finickiness and us at that time not being able to really dial it in nutrient-wise.
But it – yeah, I think it gets its origin from the Grateful Dead scene.
I don't doubt that at all.
It's interesting because it's certainly gone on to make a wide variety of well-known strains.
But if we just take a bit of a step forward to after you'd made the Dog Walker OG.
Let's get into the Scoobies.
At what point did it become a thought in your mind to cross Dog Walker with the cookies?
So that came out of my cookie experience.
And it was very interesting with cookies for me.
So I was running the forum cut.
This is going to sound really hard to believe.
But if I only ran one plant in the room, one cookie plant, it would always produce a tiny male cluster on one of the bottom branches.
Just one, though.
The first time it happened, I thought it was a phenomenon.
The second time it happened, it made me pay attention.
And the third time it happened, I did it intentionally.
And so it was the pollen from that forum cut that I used on that second event to pollinate the Dog Walker.
Because I thought to myself, well, here's this.
How cool would it be to have all these purples and stuff wrapped up in Dog Walker?
And it was a risk.
For me, I didn't want, though, to create another cookie plant.
You know what I mean?
I didn't want to grow like that.
Cookie structure just drives me crazy.
So at the time, I actually pollinated with that little cluster that I developed, dusted a Dog Walker plant.
And then also at the time, I was running a cotton candy cush and dusted a cotton candy cush plant as well with it.
And once again, just using collected pollen in a small container, little paint brush, short bristles, just painting it on.
And we ended up, oh, gosh, what did I have?
Probably close to 100, 150 of the Scooby seeds.
And how many of those still exist?
Probably about 60 at this point.
That's cool.
I mean, a lot of them went out for a big pheno hunt this summer out at Heroes of the Farm.
And unfortunately, a lot of those were lost to a mouse issue when they were still young and tender.
A couple flats, I think, got chewed up at some point.
But there were some others that were explored this summer, which I've yet to – I saw them right as they were finishing when they were still in the greenhouse.
But the original is a hard one to beat.
And originally, I had two different phenos, the one that I kept and the other one wasn't very stable.
So I called it the Scrappy-Doo, little tongue-in-cheek there.
And that got actually passed on to some folks, and they did whatever they did with it.
And it still kind of pops up around town here off and on.
But the Scooby that was selected – and there's really kind of a heartwarming story from that one.
So that original, the one that I liked – so the reason I liked it is that the flower was more – structure-wise was a little more dog walker dominant.
It had some of the cookie coloring in it.
And then it just had this just extremely offensive nose.
And I passed it off to a coworker of mine for safekeeping because I was running out of room and I just – I couldn't – I was exploring other stuff at the same time.
So I said, hey, can you hold this for me?
And the coworker passed away at an untimely time.
And when that happened, a small group of us went over to his house before his family arrived to clean up the garden so that wouldn't be something they would have to deal with because maybe they didn't know he had a garden or something.
And so we get over there, and I walk into the room, and I see the Scooby plant over in the corner.
And I kind of looked around.
There was a couple other people there, and I grabbed a pair of scissors and I cut, I don't know, maybe a dozen cuttings and wrapped them up with a wet paper towel and threw them in a Ziploc.
And then I just massacred what was left of that plant because I didn't want anybody else to get it.
And I took those clones back to my house and called my friend Pat, who's a guy who started Piers of the Farm.
And I said, hey, I have these cuts that I got from my buddy's house and I need them to go somewhere safe.
And Pat says, oh, yeah, I'll come and get them.
And Pat actually took them back to his house and kind of forgot about them, I think, for almost a week, maybe ten days.
And when he finally remembered they were in the back of his fridge, he was like, oh, shit, those cuts were in there.
And he actually got, I think, two of them to root.
So out of great tragedy came something phenomenal, I think.
And those guys out at Heroes were very good to keep that strain.
Interestingly enough, I actually just got it back for the first time about three and a half months ago now.
So I haven't run it in all these years since that very first run and then passing it on to the co-worker and eventually passing it on to Heroes.
Wow. What a kind of journey it's taken.
Yes, it has. And she wears her badge as well.
So let's take a step back for a moment.
I'm going to play devil's advocate, throw you in the hot seat.
You think Archive knew what he was doing?
You know what I mean.
Oh, man.
You know, I have a lot of respect for those guys.
They're phenomenal breeders.
They're phenomenal growers.
They do a lot of good work.
You know, Fletcher's a fellow Virginian, so I've got mad respect for that as well.
There's another one for you.
It's very interesting to me because so we had it working pretty heavily through the dispensary system here in Portland and Eugene, Oregon in general.
And, you know, I was doing I would always do searches to make sure it wasn't showing up in other people's gardens and stuff like that because that was another one that we were trying to keep super kind of contained.
And I'll never forget the day that I looked up and Leafly had Scooby Snacks.
Whoa, what is this?
And then I go on the Leafly page and I'm like, oh, this isn't right.
And, of course, a lot of the comments that were shortly thereafter to follow were like, oh, we thought this was this and not that.
And, you know, to me at that point in time, my biggest concern was, you know, if someone went, you know, had tried one version and then went and bought seeds of another version and didn't get anything that was close, you know, how is that person going to feel as a customer?
And so, you know, I was a little concerned at that point.
And, you know, there was a point in time where I was probably a little more hyped up about it than I am now.
I mean, at this point, it's water under the bridge.
And I think I finally actually got to see some of the archive Scooby Snacks last year.
And it's a good strain.
Of course, they have I know they have some other ones that that one pales in comparison when you compare them to some of this really, really high end stuff.
But it's, you know, I don't know.
You know, the purist in me wants to think that or the purist, the lover in me wants to think that it was just happenstance.
The industry side of me says, you know, perhaps there was a little advantage taken up there.
But I don't know.
You know, we've never had the conversation.
We've met briefly a couple times.
Like I said, I have a lot of respect for what the guy what those guys do there.
But, you know, what really kind of settled me on it was when I went to the Emerald Cup two years ago in 2016.
And at that point, I was a little more concerned.
And, you know, everyone that I met there knew the one I version.
So, you know, that kind of made me feel good, you know, and it calmed me down a bit.
And, you know, they so the people to me that, you know, that eventually would matter, they knew which one.
So, you know, it's so it's hard to it's hard to I don't want to guess.
And like I said, I don't want to you know what I mean?
Like I want to I kind of want to play Switzerland on this one because like I said, there's a part of me that believes one thing.
There's other side that believes something else.
And at this point, I'm going with the do right person.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
The way I see the situation, I just think if you do boil it down, the genetics do seem really similar.
Although dog walk is not the same as the face off, still kind of like OG to cookies, still kind of similar thing.
And the big thing that I noted is Oregon above other places, in my opinion, has very much kind of like, you know, there's cult followings.
The J1, the Blue Magoo and Scooby Snacks, you know.
So, I would find it hard to believe that he wasn't aware of the strain given that it is a cult followed one.
Oregon has that culture of locking onto a few strains and really loving them.
And so, I just tend to think that it would be very hard for him to have not been aware.
And I'll just say one little thing.
One of the names when you look at the lineage is serendipitous.
Yeah.
Okay, we'll leave it at that.
Yep.
So, this, you know, very loosely touches on the idea of ownership.
What does ownership of a plant mean to you?
When do you get ownership of a plant?
When do you have to stop listening to other people in regards to what you want to do with the plant?
Yeah, I mean, my experience with Dog Walker taught me a lot about that.
There was a point of time for the first couple years where I was obsessed with, you know, contacting people who claimed they were, you know, they had clones of it.
And, you know, because at that point, it was trying to figure out how did this leak out.
How did it get outside our small group of eight?
And, you know, over time, you eventually find out the cracks in the wall occur.
But, you know, it's – the ownership thing to me, it's a tough subject because as a breeder, you know, I don't necessarily want to forever profit off my work but at least want to, you know, just be known for what I've done.
And to me, you know, if you've created something and you're using – you know, for example, if I'm going to be breeding with something, I'm not going to necessarily release it at that time because I want to work with it and kind of hold it back.
But, you know, look, some of these amazing genetics that are out there get – you know, start off in this amazing realm and then just kind of get played out for one reason or another.
And I don't know because it's overpopulated, you know, the cannabis scene or what.
And then some of them, you know, are still major players and the industry never gets tired of them.
So, you know, on the ownership tip, it's – you know, it depends on I guess what the – you know, and I'm very – you know, intellectual property is something to me that's very important moving forward in this industry, especially for those who are creating these genetics.
I think that there – you know, I wish there was some way for someone to protect it.
You know, there's – if you think about something – think about all the folks who have profited off of Chemdog and Chemdog crosses, but the guy who originally cracks the seeds doesn't get jack squat from it.
And there's folks out there who have made millions off of those crosses.
So, you know, if there was a easy, foreseeable way for folks to stake ownership and now that it's become more commercialized, I think that's more important than it was maybe in the past.
But what I don't want is for, you know, all these breeders to have done these amazing, you know, projects with genetics and then all to have it swooped up in the future by some corporate giant that's figured out a way to get a utility patent.
Okay. And so what if we simplify that a little bit because I understand it's a little bit of a complex issue in the way I outlined it.
What if we make it a bit more simpler and it's – we're talking about seeds you've purchased.
So not just like, you know, in the case of the dog walk, you know, it was a bit of a complex issue because it was given out under these specific conditions.
But what if you just bought seeds from someone you don't know?
You know, is that – as far as you're concerned, free for all, whatever you want to do at that point?
Yeah. I mean I actually – so when I grab seeds from different seed – from different breeders, you know, at events like the Emerald Cup, I'm up front about and asking, say, hey, do you mind if I breed with this?
To me, that is a very important question for me to ask.
And although I've rarely had anyone ask me about that, about any of my genetics, some have come forward and asked, and I think that's kind of doing the do-right rule.
So I think it is something that if there is a virtual, like online relationship or an existing personal relationship with the purveyor of the seed, I think if you're trying to do right in this industry, it's a conversation that you should have as a breeder.
Do you mind if I work with your genetics?
Now, I'm going to create something new. I'm not going to redo what you've done, right?
But – so I think it's – to me it's important to have that conversation with a breeder because sometimes people do get a little chapped about people breeding with their gear and stuff like that and not – and kind of staking ownership and not giving credit to the breeder of those root genetics.
So if we follow that same thought, you know, you referenced what you got at the Emerald Cup and things like that.
If we check your IG, we can see a nice little stash from the most recent Emerald Cup.
What do you plan to pop first?
So first is definitely the Burmese Landraich from Coastal.
I'm going to be doing a male hunt with that.
And then I was actually just recently gifted some Magna Rosa, which is a Brazilian from Brazilian Sea Company, the Magna Rosa Landraich.
I'm going to peel through some of those as well.
Right now I'm kind of on this – actually, not kind of.
I'm on a male hunt right now, which I have to do very, very carefully in my smaller space.
But the other one that I would really be – there was the roadkill ganny from Matt Riott from Riot Seeds was also one that I'm very interested in looking into.
That comes out of the – they call it the heirloom Afghani.
And I think that comes out of the project that maybe he and Bodhi did looking for roadkill skunk through all these various Afghani seeds.
Maybe the – I think it was like a nine-year project or something like that.
And they finally came up with one that truly is – they feel it's the roadkill skunk.
So getting into that is going to be interesting.
And what was the other one I was going to do?
Oh, well, just because I have to, the granny skunk from Dominion.
You have to?
Yeah, I have to.
I can't resist that one at all.
No, there isn't.
Yeah, yeah. No, no. No, there isn't.
And then we've got a couple of them.
I did a little breeding this past summer with a Puk-Ya male.
The Puk-Ya is one of the Bob Hempo crosses out at Coastal.
Yeah, you just stole my next question.
I was going to say, we also see you've been growing out the Puk-Ya from our friend Bob at Coastal.
How do you find this line?
And more interestingly in my opinion is the Puk or the Skelly hash plant quickly becoming one of the most sought-after cuts around.
Do you like it and do you think it lives up to the hype in terms of what it brought as a parent to the cross?
Okay, so funny thing about the Puk.
So I know the Puk from years in the past and it was definitely very popular with some of the folks who were dealing with chem back in the day, the chem dogs.
Some of the Virginia guys too that I knew, very big up in New England.
And when I – at the Emerald Cup in 2016, I walked up to the Coastal booth and I saw that on their list and I – it was the – one of the guys behind the booth.
I said, oh, what do you guys know about the Puk?
And he said, well, let me get the guy who bred it and come talk to you.
I said, okay.
And the guy comes up and he's like, oh, he's like, hey, I hear you want to talk about the Puk.
I said, yeah, I breed with some of the chem genetics.
This was real popular in the chem family, yada, yada.
He's like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
He's like, what chem genetics did you bring?
What did you breed?
And I said, oh, well, I bred Dog Walker.
And the guy looks down at me and he says – the first words that come out of his mouth were DJ Rich.
DJ is our mutual friend.
And I looked up at him and I said Bob Hemphill.
I hadn't seen Bob in 15 years.
Yeah, wow.
And so, you know, back when I knew him, dreads and beard and, you know, he's clean shaven.
I was like, holy crap.
So we had this kind of reintroduction after a 15-year gap.
And it was all over the Puk.
And so as far as the Puk, you know, living up to its hype,
I can certainly say that the chemivore that I went with from the Puk, yeah,
definitely has that hash plant structure, the way it grows, you know,
so you can get some really nice nugs off of it.
But it was heavily influenced from that NL1 male.
The one I have has this kind of just straight up, just about acetate nose to it.
It's almost like rubber cement.
It's really, really, really intense.
Now, by the look of it, you know, it's that kind of old hash plant look.
It's not super frosty.
You know, it's not caked and glistening.
But man, the nose on that thing is just unmistakable.
So the male that I went with actually had the same growth,
very similar growth pattern to the female I selected.
And then as much as you can get out of the stem rub, just about spot on with each other.
So that male pollen was used this past summer on some stuff.
So some new things coming down the pike from that.
But, yeah, the Puk is an amazing plant.
Bob Hemphill's Puk, yeah, is definitely out of this world, at least the one that I found.
And actually the selection that I made when I brought it to him this past year at the Emerald Cup,
he was like, he's super stoked.
He's like, I got to come up and get that cut, which I thought was kind of funny.
I think I actually got to try some of it.
It had almost like this watermelon vibe to it.
Okay, so there was another one that has a little more watermelon side.
There was two that I gave him.
And one has a little bit – and that one actually was not super stable.
So I've – unfortunately I've scrapped that one.
The other one, like I said, is just – it's just very interesting.
Like – and I guess, you know, taking a step back, I guess you could get a little bit of watermelon out of the one we kept.
But that being said, you know, it's an amazing plant.
It's super vigorous.
I can't say enough good things about it.
It's definitely become one of my new favorites.
And I can't wait to explore some of these new crosses that it's providing.
So I don't know if you're purposely trying to not spill the beans, but what crosses did you make?
So we did – let's see here.
So we did the Puk-Ya on the Chem-4, the Puk-Ya on the Biz, which is a Dog Walker's sister.
We did Puk-Ya onto Dog Walker.
We did Puk-Ya onto the Wook-3, which is the AWOG Forum Cut.
Those were the Puk-Ya dustings.
And then we actually also worked with another male from another cross from Bob Hemphill.
That was the Fairfax-4-Way-Crossed-with-South Fork Seeds Sirius, which the Sirius is basically just a bunch of chems thrown back and forth on each other.
So we had a four-way Sirius stud that just was beautiful in structure.
And that one was used to actually back cross our F-2.
And then that also went onto the Chem-4 as well.
Okay. And so which one are you personally most excited for?
To be very blunt, the Biz and the Puk-Ya.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, that's the one.
You know, the Biz is Dog Walker's sister, and she definitely yields a little more.
She tests a little higher.
And there's an – once it cures out, there's this amazing amount of limonene that comes out of that flower that's pretty spectacular.
The gas is there.
The woodiness is there, although the gas and the woodiness seem to kind of flip-flop on the Biz.
On the Dog Walker, I feel like you get this like kind of cedar sandalwood on the inhale with loads of gas on the exhale.
And this one you get this kind of gassy on the inhale with the cedar sandalwood finish.
But then there's this limonene thing happening in there that's – once again, it's one of those strains that the layers from a flavor evolve well after the exhale.
And once again, you know, something that I'm always shooting for.
So, taking that female and then throwing in this very kind of acrid astringent note to it, I'm hoping the sky's the limit for that one.
Awesome.
So, if we just take a jump back to kind of some growing style questions, this is something I've been interested in for a while.
What do you think is kind of the hierarchy or shall we just say the order, you know, the list of what needs to be mastered in terms of a grower?
I think the fundamental thing you first have to do as a grower is you have to learn to read the plant, not on like the holistic level of like what a crazy good grower can do, but on the most simple level, which is like when does it need water?
I think that's the first thing you learn to visually tell.
And then you go from there.
But anyway, put that in the back of your mind for the moment.
What's your list?
What do you think is the kind of the things you look to master?
Because the underlying kind of, you know, how should I say, vein of this question is that people seem to want to skip the basics.
How do you see all of this?
Sure.
So, I really believe that the foundation to all of this begins with observation.
And you bring a very valid point.
For example, something as simple as when does the plant need water?
What does a yellowing leaf mean?
And, you know, asking these questions and answering them either through research or through a Q&A with someone who's a little bit more knowledgeable.
But really, the, you know, everything can kind of be cookie-cuttered for most growers.
You know, a feed schedule can be provided.
A lighting schedule you can look up in a book.
You know, back when I started, these resources weren't there.
So, there's so many more resources today that people can utilize to get them into those good growing practices.
And it does start with the basics.
I think a small, you know, at least rudimentary understanding of, you know, what are the important nutrients?
You know, your NPK, calcium, magnesium, iron, sulfur, manganese, name a few.
And understanding at least for nitrogen, potassium, phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, what those elements really do for the plant.
And why they're important at certain times and not as important at others.
So, you know, just having a rudimentary understanding of how the plant uses nutrients to me is a really, really good foundation.
And that does take a little bit of brief reading to discover.
It doesn't have to be super in-depth to have that kind of general understanding.
You know, and after that, you know, and really, so much of this is, and I tell people this all the time, is just experience-based.
You know, it's facing these, facing challenges and learning how to overcome them.
You know, when someone says that, you know, they want to, like, well, they ask me all the time, how do you know all this?
I get this question all the time at the shop.
And I just, you know, it's 25 plus years of trying to understand it better.
And constantly wanting to learn and to better my practice, to improve, you know, my results.
It's this constant need and desire to do better.
So, you know, for that, for the general purpose of, you know, where does it all begin?
Well, it all begins with having that just basic understanding of plants and nutrients.
And so, kind of a little extension of that idea is on top of trying to continually get better at reading the plant, things like that,
how important is it to you to constantly be popping new genetics?
Is that something you put value on, or do you think it's fine to just run the same thing again and again?
Well, you know, and I'll go back to what I was talking, kind of touched on this earlier.
I think it's very important, and I tell a lot of my customers this, to work, you know, your genetics with your nutrients to see how to best, you know,
to get to that full genetic expression via the nutrients that you're using or you're provided, or the method or however your, whatever your approach is.
So I think it's important if you want to, you know, it depends what your goal is.
If you want to, you know, see what a new strain does, you know, running it one time isn't a very good, you know, litmus test for that.
You know, I believe a lot of the scientific method, you know, things need to be done at least three times to make a conscious or valuable.
Try to validate something.
Yeah, for validation.
Yeah, absolutely.
So it's, to me, you know, I encourage, and of course this all goes back to like skill level too.
You know, someone who's new, I'm not going to recommend skipping around genetics every round.
You'll never, it'll be such a longer, prolonged learning curve with that approach.
I think that, you know, working with a specific strain or two, learning that genetic inside and out, if it's interesting to you, that's how you learn.
Now, of course, if it's not interesting, you're going to bail on it anyway.
But I see way too many folks who change genetics every round or change their nutrient, you know, regimen every round and not necessarily for the sake of bettering but just to try something new.
And I think that's a pretty haphazard way of going about, you know, cultivating cannabis for sure.
Without a doubt.
So what do you think is the biggest kind of mistake you see from customers coming to the store?
Overwatering.
Most common mistake.
So many problems start, especially overwatering of starter plants, you know, or transplanted plants.
It's the beginning of so many issues and that's hands down the most common one.
You know, I, if the way I tried to rationalize it with my customers, especially with a younger plant, you know, a lot of folks tend to overwater a clone significantly.
You know, they'll put a small root clone into a larger vessel of dirt, let's say a one or two gallon pot and want to keep hammering water to keep that pot saturated in the beginning.
And the problem with that is that compacted muddy media is now kind of choking off the oxygen supply, making it harder for those roots to excel and to grow out.
And of course, you slow down the root process, you slow down the growth process, slow down the growth process, you're, you know, you're causing all kinds of ripple effects throughout the life of that plant.
You know, I'm a very, very big believer in starting off with really good healthy plants.
And if you start off with a not so healthy plant, then, you know, you can almost expect to face significant challenges throughout the life cycle of that plant.
So, one thing we've heard anecdotally from previous guest, Jeremy of Builder Soil, was that he thinks there's certain plants which are just pretty good regardless of your skill level.
Like, as in, like, you know, they tend to come in pretty good.
He noted GG4 is one that he finds to fall in that category.
Do you find there's some that fall into that category?
And, you know, like I guess these would be kind of like the more newbie-friendly type stuff.
What's your recommendations?
Yeah, we, the Bulletproof Strains.
There was, there's a strain that's been very popular here in Oregon.
It's not as popular as it was back in the early 2000s but still around today called Green Queen.
And Green Queen was a strain that, and back then, you know, we're, you know, we're actually teaching friends to grow and stuff like this.
You could hand Green Queen to anybody and they would see marginal or decent success from the Green Queen even on their first round out.
And it was pretty much, you know, powdery mildew resistant.
It could take an under or overfeeding.
Didn't really matter.
Fairly decent yield.
I wouldn't say it was absolutely spider mite resistant because that certainly wasn't the case.
But it certainly wasn't ground zero for infestations.
So it, you know, it, that particular plant was, you know, it was a newbie plant.
You could give it to anybody and they could see some success.
So, yeah, I do believe that there are some of those bulletproof strains out there.
You know, I personally haven't worked with Gorilla, excuse me, GG4.
So, you know, I can't speak to the ease of that one.
But I do see a lot of our novice growers, you know, through the store who grow it.
And they don't seem to be coming to me with too many headaches.
You know, and a lot of those, I feel like kind of Blue Dream is another one of those more current strains that's kind of bulletproof.
It's pretty easy for folks to, you know, follow a simple nutrient regimen.
You know, keep your lights on schedule.
Keep the humidity where it should be, temperatures where they should be.
And that plant's going to turn and burn for most people.
But then there are strains like, you know, like some of those OGs and even chem can kind of be this way.
But they're a little bit more finicky and definitely require a little bit more skill to finesse that plant into its, you know, prime potential.
Definitely. I feel like the chem is one of those ones for me where I think it's lucky that plant didn't get thrown out.
In the sense that, you know, if certain conditions aren't right, I just feel like it doesn't come out anywhere near its full potential.
Like not obviously having a lot of experience growing the chem myself, but just through the variants.
And I've got a lot of really chem dominant leading plants.
And you can see, you know, like for example, for me at least being in Australia, the heat absolutely just destroys that plant.
It doesn't perform well in the heat.
And I think to myself, what if that happened with chem and he just ran it and was like, this is just bunk.
Let's just throw it out.
Oh, Lord. What a different world this would be.
Yeah, no, I'm glad that wasn't the case with his experience.
And yeah, you know, you bring up actually a very valid point.
There was a group down in Cali that ran, I think it was Dog Walker and Scooby in two locations.
One was inland, right, on the east side of the hills.
The other one was more in a coastal region.
And the plants grown on the east side of the hills, more inland.
So in that more kind of dry, drier climate of NorCal didn't do that great.
The ones at the coastal location were some of their highest yielding plants.
So, yes, you know, it can make a significant difference.
And, you know, is that because, you know, of where the Dog Walker and Scooby come from?
And they've just kind of naturally acclimated to that cooler, damper climate?
Perhaps. I don't know.
You know, the majority of it's cultivated indoors.
So I kind of have a hard time believing that.
But maybe there's something to it.
But that happened, that test that was done down there, run, was it was hard to ignore the results.
That's for sure.
So just as a bit of a random oddball question, what strain has been lost that either you had or that you knew of that you'd love to get back if possible?
My sugar cookies.
I lost that one recently and that was a good one.
That was the one that was the that one was the forum cut, the male, the selfing pollen that I collected onto a cotton candy cush.
And it made this the structure was still very much cookie in the flour.
But the flavor was just there was like blueberry and like a haze spice in there that was just fricking off the charts.
Good to me and made phenomenal bubble hash.
And that one, unfortunately, was lost recently to a to a cloning mix up labeling issue.
But the other one, you know, it's interesting because Bob brought it up because I remember this one, too.
He brought up the rapture from.
Yeah.
Yeah. And that one was always this kind of never.
It's ever did not see it for very long and only saw it a couple of times.
But from what I remember of it, just everything about that was just about picture perfect.
You know, that one I do remember.
And that's interesting because I have some folks back east recently that are like, oh, you know, if it's there, we'll find it.
You know, so I put them to task on the raft.
But I have a feeling that one's probably been long gone.
I'm sure Bob Hill can speak more to that than I can.
But that one was absolutely very special and it was very short lived in my experience.
But that's one I'd love to see again.
If I could think of any of those, you know, the real Trinity would be nice to see again.
Yeah. OK.
And not the Trinity blueberry that everyone else has, but that old real Trinity that was, you know, almost velvety.
And it's, you know, it's trichome production.
And it's just kind of that was another one of those kind of silver, gray, green plants that, you know, once you got it, once you once again, once you've had it, just it's.
It leaves a mark on your palate and you never forget.
That's why it's so easy now to pick out the imposters.
You should you should hunt down Notso Dog.
I think he's got the real deal.
Oh, I'll write that down.
Yeah. No, I try.
I tried it at the cup and it sounds like what you're describing.
All right. Cool. That's cool to hear, man.
Thank you.
Yeah. No, check that out.
I'm going to try to get him on soon.
What's interesting, though, when you mentioned that rapture thing, I'm actually going to get Hannibal to come on soon.
I didn't know this.
She smoked more rapture than anyone.
No way.
Yeah. Like without trying to give away all the details, essentially, the guy who had it with the source, she was much closer to him than what Bob was.
So she would kind of get first offerings before Bob did.
And so she ended up getting access to a lot of it.
Oh, wow.
That's pretty cool because mine had to trickle down from probably him to another friend to eventually to me.
So what I was exposed to, like I said, was super limited but definitely very memorable.
How fun for her to have that advantage, though.
Good for her.
That's awesome.
Yeah. I can't wait to get the rundown.
It's mythical.
So last couple of questions I've got are actually kind of more legalization-based ones.
And I think you'd be a good source of this.
In terms of Oregon, at least, do you view legalization as having had a net positive?
You know, I was – I've always been more of a decriminalization and legalization regulation fan.
With legalization plus regulation, the inevitable will happen everywhere.
It will provide opportunity for the few.
It will eliminate the many factor.
Unfortunately, I think it's – I've seen so many folks who are passionate for many years kind of turn away from the entire industry recently.
Shut down, stop something that they've been doing for the last 15 or 20 years, some of them.
And I think they just get kind of jaded by the reality of commercialization.
And so it's kind of a careful what you wish for scenario for me.
This is – it doesn't happen.
It didn't happen, of course, early on in Oregon.
Same thing in Colorado.
It's kind of like even back in Montana when things were going on there for legalization.
It was kind of the wild, wild west for a while.
And the hustlers and outlaws and growers were all kind of making the moves to make the scene work.
But eventually the states have to step in and institute regulation.
And that ends that whole kind of wild west situation.
And brings it into a very much more controlled environment.
And what you've seen is a couple of states, Oregon, Washington, even in Colorado, have to kind of have these evolutions to the law because what was – what made sense or what was found in good favor six months ago now all of a sudden for some reason is not.
So we have to change the law.
We have to evolve.
And emerging states are having that opportunity to see some of these other states make the mistakes along the way and hopefully put forth their more strict legislation and restricting legislation that much more easily.
Because you can say, hey, well, look here's what happened in these states.
Didn't work out there.
So we're going to follow suit and start with these laws that are a little bit more restrictive.
So it's a mixed bag of emotions for me.
I love the fact that I can walk down the street with a few joints in my pocket or a bag of Tough Walker and I'm not going to get arrested for it.
I can have it in my car.
I can drive around with a plant in my car and nobody is going to pull me over for it.
That to me is amazing and mind-blowing all at the same time.
But also there is this whole thing lurking in the back, in the shadows of all this, of larger corporations making more of an impact than they have up until this point.
And I don't mean the Philip Morris's and stuff like that.
I'm not a big believer that they want to convert their customers yet.
But there are large entities afoot.
And that to me is – to me, whenever it's used to destroy the medical situation, that's the scary part to me.
And that is kind of what happened like in Washington, for example.
I would hate it if they took away the Oregonian resident's ability to have a home grow.
I think to me that would be unfortunate and that's something that's happened to our neighbors to the north.
Do you view that as the fundamentally paramount right we need to protect?
I mean I see that as a state taking – creating the opportunity to make more financial – a more stable financial gain from the situation.
Does that make sense?
I mean I really do.
I think that it's – because when you take away home grows, you're not just taking away that person or patient's ability to cultivate their own medicine.
But you're also taking away that person's ability to go to their local retail store, to go buy the grow equipment and the nutrients and the stuff.
It's had this incredible effect up in Washington where it's really disrupted the retail – the hydro industry retail stores there.
And so many of them have had to close after many, many years of operation due to the fact that home grows are no longer legal there.
So to me, as long as everybody has their right to produce their own and not being forced into a retail store to purchase cannabis grown by whatever cultivation group, then I'm OK with it.
But as soon as you take that individual right away to produce and cultivate your own cannabis, that's dangerous territory as far as I'm concerned.
I guess the reason why I ask that specifically is because the kind of medical option that's being rolled out in Australia, as much as a farce as I believe it to be, you could kind of boil it down to be the case that they don't want you to grow your own but you've got to accept Philip Morrison's offering, whatever that may be, so to speak.
Would you settle with that or would you just be like, no, I cannot get down with that?
Yeah, no. That to me is not the best path moving forward for a medical program at all.
I think that it's – I think for a lot of folks, if they have the – if someone had the opportunity to grow their aspirin, which you can with cannabis, right?
They probably would.
I think that cannabis, because it is such – it can be absolutely personalized medicine in the sense that people can find specific genetics that target whatever they want to – whatever they're dealing with specifically.
That if the corporate groups that are mass-producing whatever flower or concentrate they're producing doesn't have that particular genetic, then that individual may not find that combination of secondary metabolites that hit all the right spots.
I think that's very restrictive and unfair to a patient.
In the medical days here, even today, we have folks who are constantly – those are the folks that are trying to find that strain that really target and best affects whatever condition they're dealing with or gives them the best result.
So I think that's unfortunately very restrictive and doesn't necessarily allow for that personalized medicine to occur.
I mean, yeah, you can hit for some folks, but to me, it's an unfortunate way to pursue the medical.
So Oregon specifically has been criticized in the past with having what some might regard as kind of some laws that are just – maybe you'd say a bit pedantic, I guess.
Like most notably, the whole naming thing, like you can't call certain strains what they're usually called because it's deemed too appealing to kids.
Girl Scout cookies, Cinderella 99, bubble gum.
You can kind of see where they're coming from, but where do you sit on that?
So essentially, dispensary just I think two weeks ago got – we got our first cease and desist for using Scooby Snacks at a dispensary.
So hey, look. I get it. I do.
I think one of the things you have to have as a state that's pursuing legal cannabis is this appearance that you're hitting all the things that the federal government said you shouldn't do.
And making these – and avoiding marketing to children is something the federal government has absolutely spelled out.
And so it's a fear response from the state.
Like feds say we should do this.
OK, well, let's do this one little thing because this won't have a huge negative impact on anyone really.
But we've got to kind of play by their rules to have – to make the appearance that we're doing it right or we're doing it by whatever protocol they spit out.
The federal government hasn't spit out very many protocols, but that was definitely one of them.
So does that make me change the name of my strain?
No, absolutely not.
But does it mean that the next time you go into a dispensary, it might say S-Snacks?
Yeah, probably.
Does that make the flower any worse?
No.
It's that whole name thing.
It's still going to be the same genetic that I know and love.
So yeah, I get why the state did it.
To me, it's kind of a – it's sacrificing a pawn, so to speak.
OK.
So I guess, to kind of wrap up this whole idea, what do you think was the most unexpected negative thing to come out of legalization?
This would be pretty unanimous with everyone.
Just the plummeting of the value of cannabis.
I don't think anyone – we all knew it would drop some, but I don't think anybody expected this big of a tumble in the market.
No way.
That one was – that's the one that's hit everybody, I think, the hardest.
It's unfortunate, though, a result of the greed that ensued as soon as legal cannabis was a thing here.
I think that states would do well by not allowing out-of-state investment as they go online to keeping those businesses to state resident businesses.
Everybody – I can't tell you how many – and we still see them.
We still see 100 and 120 lighters going up all the time.
When you look at the glut that we had back in December, over a million pounds in our rec system, what good is 120 new lights going to do for our state?
I don't know.
So, yeah, it's the pricing.
It's just – it's just made it very, very difficult for extremely talented, committed cultivators to stay in a profitable game.
It's really hard right now.
You have to be so focused on the bottom line that you start to see people slipping on things like inputs.
And it's why all of a sudden salts are so much more attractive to some of these commercial growers.
It is cheaper.
Now, yeah, there's some organic practices that get close, but when you get down to someone who's actually mixing their own raw salts, it's tough to beat that financially.
That's a pretty – that's about as low as you can go on input cost.
And like I said, as the price plummets, that focus on input cost becomes more and more significant.
So I think there's a lot of things that are getting glossed and passed over because of the cost.
And like I said, it's just – that's the one thing that's most unfortunate.
Absolutely.
As an individual, not in Oregon obviously, but in, say, an illegal environment, what do you think is your best advice to someone in terms of what they can do on the individual level?
Because – and I guess what I mean by that is not looking for an answer that's like try to change the law because that's not really something you can do as an individual.
You can try to be more politically active, sure, but you know what I mean?
More so looking on like what's something everyone can do in your opinion that will help collectively?
Be a responsible grower and not just responsible in your growing practices, but just how you conduct yourself in life.
Don't be a beacon of light for attention – for the wrong attention.
Be a beacon of light for the right attention.
And I think that goes to using – not using products that will potentially slowly kill your customers.
It's a reputation builder.
Building a good reputation for yourself as a responsible individual even in the illicit market side of things will help to paint a better picture for the collective.
So it starts on an individual level, but what it does is if that responsibility is shared in practice between many individuals, then when states do start turning and looking at what's going on, perhaps there are some kind of pillars in the industry at that point that can cross over and become leaders in the industry – of the legal industry.
I think I've seen that here.
We've definitely seen that here in Oregon where some very well-respected and good, honest cultivators came out of the shadows and stepped into the limelight and became leaders for the state.
And I think that that's something that the state pays attention to.
And I think it also can be very inspirational to those who haven't gotten there yet.
But be responsible.
Keep your house in order.
Do things the right way.
Don't do people wrong.
It will definitely come back and bite you.
Yeah, without a doubt.
I would say that really it's not profound advice, I know.
But I guess if there's one thing that I say that I kind of try to carry around with me all the time is just try to do things the right way.
Do people the right way, too.
Yeah, I mean, maybe not profound, but nevertheless, it still needs to be said.
So I guess that says something.
Sure.
So final little section, our little quickfire questions.
So these ones you can be assured of.
So currently, who's the best grower you know?
Pig farmer.
Hell yeah, shout out pig farmer.
Yes, indeed.
He definitely, and I base it purely on his Scooby Snack results.
He crushes that strain as good or if not better than anyone that's ever run it that I know.
So I'm a big fan of his work.
I definitely am a fan of his work.
I definitely am a fan of Green Bodhi's work here in Oregon.
He's another phenomenal cultivator and a phenomenal breeder at that.
Next one is, what's your prediction for the hottest strain of 2018?
Whatever comes out with the biz and that puck, yeah, I hope.
No, the hottest strain, you know, this is such a weird question for me because I don't know.
It looks like via Instagram, it looks like Archives has some cool things in the works.
Mean Gene always has neat stuff coming down the pike.
Gene Finder out at Wilcox Farms, even though he's exploring other people's genetics, he's doing phenohunting.
So I'm not sure what that is.
I'm not sure what that is.
Gene Finder out at Wilcox Farms, even though he's exploring other people's genetics, he's doing phenohunting like no other.
So I can't imagine that we wouldn't see something amazing come out of his stable.
So there's, you know, even the guys at Heroes, you know, those guys are constantly breeding, turning out good stuff.
So I don't know if I could pick one particular strain or something like that.
But, you know, there's at least a short list of some breeders and groups to certainly pay attention to.
You know, I'm sure something will come out of the Cookies family or the Turp Hogs or whatever, third gen or whatever.
You know, I'm sure something really big will come out of those groups.
But, you know, the ones that I mentioned prior are the ones that I'm really paying attention to.
And of course, whatever Coastal does.
Well, that ties into the next one.
If you could only pick one land race, which one would it be?
Well, for me, because of the effect that I really am looking for in cannabis, it'd have to be a land race Afghani.
And I can't say a particular one, but land race Afghani for me.
Yeah, I'm in the same boat. I love sativas, but nothing beats a good indica.
I'm already a little high strung, so too much sativa can make me a little shaky.
All right, so next one. What is the worst strain, in your opinion, that got some serious traction behind it?
Cinex. And I just don't get it.
I mean, and it has a close tie to here in Portland and some very close friends of mine.
But it's just one that loads of people love it around here.
I just it's one of those ones that I just don't get. I don't get it.
It's there's just not much appeal to me personally.
But once again, we're dealing with pallets and stuff like that.
And some people like, you know, I don't know, escargot and some people don't.
Some people like apples and some people think they taste awful.
So, you know, it's so I get that part of it.
But, yeah, that's one that's the one strain for me that I just I've never understood.
OK, so opposite end of the spectrum, Desert Island weed.
You can only pick two strains for the rest of your life. What are they?
Hmm. Well, the dog walker is definitely with me for sure.
And if I was going to couple that with something else, the lemon diesel.
Nice. So what's the lineage on that one?
The lemon D. I don't know. That's kind of one of those mystery strains that nobody I've never gotten the full lineage.
In fact, there's only a few people who don't even cultivate it anymore.
We call it the lemon D here in Oregon.
It seems like it came out of the Eugene scene, but just just a phenomenal, just amazing, just sour lemon flavor that just resonates for days on the palate.
I love it.
Indo or ato? You can only have one.
Endor.
I love it.
There you go. Sorry, one word answer there.
But yeah, that's it. That's it. Man after my own heart.
So this one, you know, probably going to be something you don't sell. But what's the worst grow product you've ever seen?
The bio wave.
I don't know what that is.
Something that resonates acoustics and then it's supposed to get rid of bugs and increase your yields.
And we sold a couple already this week. It's weird. It's been around for, I don't know, it's been around for 10 years now, 15 years in our industry.
And it's just, you know, it's just one of those junk science. Lots of, you know, no scientific data to back it up devices.
And I'm sure some people, you know, see something, who knows what, but, you know, just anecdotal evidence at best and kind of touted.
It's just one of those things that, like, if this thing was so groundbreaking and it was, you know, increasing everybody, Big Ag would have these things all over the place.
And guess where you don't see them? Big Ag.
If something's really effective, those guys will have it first, always.
So, final question.
What is the best thing to happen to cannabis, period, since you've been involved in it?
Medical cannabis.
Medical cannabis for sure.
That was absolutely a huge turning point I know for myself.
And a huge turning point for a lot of individuals that I've been involved with now for a decade plus.
It gave it finally a little bit of validation for the rest of the country and for the rest of the world for that matter.
So, the explosion of medical cannabis is definitely, probably in my opinion, the best thing to come out of it since I've started.
Yeah, what a great answer.
So, I think that probably does just about wrap it up.
Did you have any comments or shout outs you wanted to make?
Well, I mean, obviously I want to shout out to, if I can, to my store Roots Garden Supply in Portland, Oregon.
I definitely want to give a shout out to BioBiz.
And there's a few of you out there, Bob Hemphill, Pat out at Heroes, Pig Farmer, a couple others I've probably forgotten.
But those are good friends of mine and great cultivators and great people to know.
So, surround yourself with good people, people.
That's the best advice I can give.
Awesome. So, thanks again for coming on.
Thank you so much for having me too. It's been a pleasure and I look forward to reading all your comments here in the near future.
Big, big, big, big thank you to the Scooby Snacks master himself.
Why don't I thank you for joining us again.
Huge shout out to our Patreon supporters as always.
You guys are the lifeblood of this show.
See it's here now.
Organic Gardening Solutions, 420 Australia.
The Three Amigos.
What can I say?
We'll see you.
