Alright, alright, alright.
Welcome to the next episode of the podcast.
You're joined as always by your boy Heavy Daze here from the Upside Down Library, bringing
you all that inside information.
But guess what?
We couldn't do it without our amazing sponsors.
Huge shout out to CT, our number one seed bank in the game.
All the best breeders, all the best genetics and the latest drops.
If you're not satisfied at the end of your harvest, hit them up.
They'll sort you out.
Best in the industry.
CT and I thank you so much.
But in order to be able to properly evaluate the crop, you've got to make sure you have
a good harvest free of pests and contamination.
And for that, you need to check out the good people at Coppett Biological Systems.
These guys have all the latest and greatest predators and technology to ensure that your
garden is happy, thriving, pathogen and pest free.
If you got spider mites, check out the Spidex Vital with proof of predation technology built
in.
They turn orange in front of your eyes to show you that they're killing bugs.
What more could you want?
Well, you got aphids, check out the Aphipar M, another killer product.
Both of these specifically designed for cannabis crops.
Going to help you to have the most successful harvest to date.
There's nothing better than knowing that garden is free of pathogens.
Guys, get on it.
You won't regret it.
Likewise, huge shout out to our friends at Pro-Mix.
You've known them and loved them for years.
They make the most killer mediums in the game, already inoculated with microbes, Trichoderma
and Mycorrhiza.
But guess what?
Now you can get their standalone Pro-Mix Connect, a Mycorrhizal product designed to improve
the yields, increase the resin, increase the weight, terpenes, flavonoids, all of it's
going to the moon.
Do your garden a disservice by not using a high quality Mycorrhizal product.
Truly the best in the game.
Guaranteed score viability.
It's going to improve your crop.
No second thoughts about it.
Pro-Mix Connect, thank you so much.
Get on board, guys.
It's going to make a huge difference.
Finally, shout out to our friends at Charlie's Cannabis.
You know them and you love them.
Oklahoma-based, veteran-owned, producing some of the most fire, top shelf, commercially
available cannabis you've ever seen.
They recently started making their own missiles.
You will not believe the quality of these products.
Phenohunted from scratch, using new, exciting genetics, all in-house.
Any product you get from them uses a material they've grown.
None of this passing through a million hand stuff, made from, trimmed from God knows who's
growth.
Everything in-house, high quality.
Charlie's Cannabis.
Just remember guys, Charlie's your bug.
Finally, a huge shout out to the Patreon gang.
You are the lifeblood of the show.
You guys help to ensure the episodes continue to be made.
If you want early access to content, you want to hear unheard interviews, get access to
exclusive giveaways, prizes, discord, so much more, go check out the Patreon.
www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
Welcome back to part two of our chat with Todd McCormick of AGC Co.
Hope you're excited to get back into it.
Let's do it.
Speaking of that joint, you're obviously aware you're quite lucky to be smoking original
haze.
You know, not many people are able to say they've had that.
I guess the question is how would you describe it?
How do you describe the effect?
What's the flavors you get?
Do you think it's the sort of thing that's for everyone or it's only for a certain type
of smoker?
I think if more people had access to it, they would really enjoy it.
It's spicy.
It's like an incense almost.
It's not really sweet, but it has sweet tones.
The high is really energetic.
The part I like about it is if I smoke haze in the morning, it really invigorates me to
want to go do the dishes, get to work, jump on my tasks.
I don't really know what it is because I've tested it.
I've tested haze and tested OG Kush.
I would have thought the OG Kush was more potent than the haze, but the OG Kush that
I grew that time, I think came back like 21.66.
The haze that I tested was at like 24.9.
They were grown same soil, same system, same everything, all by me.
I don't know.
It's not just the THC in a way.
It's something in the synergy of the terpenes.
The terpenes play this really important role.
Skunk Man Sam uses a really good analogy that when you get high, it's like getting into
an airplane.
When you get into that airplane, the cannabinoids are the engines that bring you up to your
height.
Then the terpenes are the rudders that will shape the flow of it, the softness of your
landing, the whole thing.
Without the terpenes, the cannabinoids don't really feel as good.
Anybody listening to this can actually try it themselves.
They literally could take a good bud, smoke half of it, leave it on the coffee table for
a couple of days, let it dry up.
All the cannabinoids are still present, but the terpenes will have been lost.
When the terpenes are lost, it won't have the same height, it won't have the same taste,
it won't have the same flavor, and it changes even though all the cannabinoids are still
there.
I think it really shows that there's this true importance when it comes to the synergy
between the terpenes and the modulation that they create with the cannabinoids.
I urge more people, especially the ones that buy my seeds, to start selecting on organoleptic
testing rather than analytical testing, because at the end of the day, the machine's not
the one buying the wheat.
It's the human.
If something doesn't really have that allure to it, you're going to pass on it.
I think that a lot of breeders are going to find out that the market's going to drive
the product towards the quality that the market can get.
It's going to be about effect more than it's about bag appeal or anything else, or about
more than a name, more than anything.
When I started selling pot when I was 12, everybody would always ask me, what's it like?
What's this one like?
It's a little different to everybody, but the haze is really not narcotic, more spacey,
more of that you get high, you get high, and you get high some more, and you get forgetful,
and you get giddy, and you're looking for the ice cream.
I don't know.
It's the fun high.
The Northern Lights is more heavy, more like, whoa, more go sit in the hot tub and grab
the remote control and relax or go to bed early, that more narcotic-like effect.
The haze to me is, I don't know, I think more people are going to love it, and I think more
people are going to breed with it.
I've sold quite a few seeds in the last two and a half years of it, and I'm hoping more
and more and more people start introducing it into their crosses, because it's been long
enough now, about two seasons since I offered it in 2019, that people have been able to
now grow it and work with it.
I personally think we're going to start seeing more and more of it.
My joke when I started doing this was, I want to haze the world.
That would be cool to see for sure.
And something that I noticed about the photos you'd post on your Instagram was that the
buds were sort of a lot more plump, and I guess just fatter than I was expecting.
I think in a lot of people's minds, like myself, you imagine sort of like you're going to get
one tiny, piddly little joint per branch.
I guess the question arises, do you think maybe it yields more than what people expect,
or it is very much like what people expect?
No, it blew my mind.
That's great.
You know, I actually hesitated to post all the variations of photos I was getting from
the variety, because some of them look so unlike what people think haze is, and they
get set in their mind.
There's an old quote that I used to write into all of the Emperor Wears No Clothes books
that I used to give away, and there's hundreds of them.
It was by Daniel Bornstein.
The quote is, the greatest obstacle to discovery is not ignorance, it is the illusion of knowledge.
I used to write that in all the books, because I felt it summarized the message we were putting
out about cannabis being enshrouded in lies that only the noble could see.
That was the whole mission of the Emperor Wears No Clothes.
For those people listening, the book was named the Emperor Wears No Clothes from the fable
No Clothes, where the emperor was sold cloth that only the noble could see.
Jack felt that cannabis was enshrouded in lies that only the noble could see, and he
named the book the Emperor Wears No Clothes, because it was really, anyone who looked at
this would see that it really wasn't what they partake it to be.
So that said, I feel as if a lot of people have these pre-existing notions about original
haze, and because they haven't had experience with the variety, only hybrids of the variety
for the most part, they really don't know what it's like.
I say to people that original haze and skunk one are like polar opposites.
Skunk one is a relatively true breeding, super uniform, super consistent.
Original haze seeds are like inbred, F God knows what at this point.
Ask Sam, he's like, who knows?
F11, who knows?
How many generations of times he's bred them together.
But he was doing so because he wanted to maintain the variety within the variety so that he
could come through it phenotype-wise and pick things to work with, which makes pure sense
to me.
When I grow them out, I found phenotypes that go from literally eight, nine weeks that are,
I would say mid leaflet.
But again, I grow in a greenhouse, I grow fairly big plants.
I posted some Norton Lights leaves that were so gigantic, biggest I've ever seen in all
my years growing on this last run with Norton Lights number two.
It was also the one that morphed into looking like duck's foot.
But the more I researched it, duck's foot has a narrower, more like, dare I say sativa,
but I hate to, but a more narrow leaflet.
And this one was just plain fat, it's just ridiculous.
But the haze itself has a lot of variation and you get everything from these like 16
week narrow, narrow, narrow leaflet, very few florets on the stem to stuff that's pretty
beefy.
One of the females out of the entire greenhouse turned purple and it wasn't because it was
cold.
My greenhouse is completely environmentally controlled.
And I was just like, damn.
And I had Rob Clark here visiting during the harvest and he was down there taking photos
and just enjoying the shit out of it because he went to University of Santa Cruz in the
70s, he was around, he used to trim haze when he was in college.
He's closer to this than any of us really.
And I don't doubt he had his hands in making the seeds that I was given because he worked
at the time at, and he was in charge of the greenhouses.
So he knew exactly what I was growing because I don't doubt he made the seeds with Skunk
Man Sam.
So he was just having a blast.
And when he saw the purple one, he was the one that was like, oh, this is, people used
to love this one because it had like a silvery kind of purplish to it.
You see color expressions in them start to come out.
I love it.
And I had Mishka here, you know, who used to be Neville's girlfriend a little bit.
And she was sitting at my desk and we were talking about the origin of haze.
And I told her straight up, I said, it's not with Neville, it's with Sam.
It's with Santa Cruz.
I says, come downstairs and touch these plants.
They were not in flower at the time.
And you tell me what they are.
And me and Mishka went downstairs and she touched the plants and she immediately smelled
it and went, oh yeah, yeah, that's haze.
And I was like, right.
I got these from the same person Neville did.
You know, is there any surprise?
Because I guess since he named a variety that has haze in it after Mishka in the last few
years.
So that's what she was wondering about this.
And she was the one that showed me, she gave me a pre-copy of a book before it was released.
And it has the interview at Neville.
And it's interesting because in the interview, Neville isn't listening to himself because
in it he says that you couldn't improve haze by breeding it together.
That's what Sam told him.
So the only way Sam would know that you can't improve it by breeding it together is if he
did it.
So when Neville was talking about these seeds from 1969, the original seeds that I have
are from that 1969 cross that Sam kept, isolated from all his other work and reproduced as
that 69 cross.
The seed or the plants, I believe that Neville was given two male plants in 1987.
Those came from these original haze seeds from one of those generations.
You get what I'm saying?
So the seeds I got from Sam were also from that IBL preservation and are basically brothers
and sisters, cousins, sort of, of those original seeds that go all the way back.
And they kind of are what they are, if that makes sense.
And what I find unique about the original haze is out of everything in my collection,
they are the only seeds that I have that have no Afghan influence in them.
Yeah, that's a really interesting point to make.
And you sort of touch on the broader topic of the genetics within the strains we discuss.
And there's a lot of, for a long time, I used to hear people talk about haze as though it
wasn't until the tie was crossed into it at the end that it truly became haze.
And then in more recent discussions with people in the know, I realized that that obviously
wasn't quite correct because a lot of people talk about haze as like the real Colombian
rich sort of psychedelic high that those cultivars bring to it all.
I guess what I'm wondering is, at what point did you think it was haze?
Do you think the commonly discussed Indian genetics are actually in there at all?
And finally, what are your thoughts on the different phenos?
You just referenced the blue, the silver, the purple.
Were they real things or was it just potluck?
According to Skunkman Sam, the original haze was a three-way Colombian combination
that was based around three different...
There was Pantarosa, which meant red, basically.
And then there was a silver and I think a blue.
And I suck for this, I'm stoned right now, but I've asked him a zillion times.
Same damn question, tells me the same damn answer every time.
But a three-way Colombian.
And every single year, what kind of ruined haze?
And by the mid-70s, they had outcrossed that 1969 first hybrid so many times that it really
wasn't hazy anymore.
It had Mexican cross with it, it had Thai cross with it.
Every single year was a different outcross because they were trying to improve it.
And by 76, 77, according to Skunkman Sam, they gave up growing it because he introduced
Skunk One, which was two-thirds tropical, one-third Afghan, Colombian gold and Acapulco
gold, but it was coming down late August, early September and it changed the game.
I mean, if you're a commercial cropper, you got to wait until November, December to get
down what you could be pulling down at the beginning of September, same location.
There's no question.
So they didn't want to expose themselves to get busted.
And they started switching over to this amazing fucking weed that was Skunkman Sam's and they
stopped growing haze.
And by the late 70s, haze was nothing but a legend on a lot of levels and the genetics
were all but lost, even by the people who originally held them because they didn't
preserve them like Sam did.
Yeah, wow.
That's so interesting.
I had another question sort of similar, but I think you sort of answered already where
I was going to ask you about the photos we see on your Instagram where it's like haze
cross to Thai.
And I guess I was sort of wondering, like, is that an extra Thai cross or sounds like
it's the first one?
I don't have a Thai cross.
I don't.
Well, wait a minute.
I have Skunk's, Skunk Haze Thai.
He calls it Thunk.
Thai Haze Skunk calls Thunk.
But I'm not growing that right now.
I have seeds of it.
I have grown that in, I think I grew it like 2014 or 2015.
I have a lot of seeds of it.
He was very generous back in 2012 and he sent me home with enough to play with for a while.
And for the first few years, I would just grow some of the seeds and just do fennel
hunts and then save a plant and throw the rest away.
It wasn't really until I started AGC Co that I considered IBLing them and trying to bring
them back to the community.
I didn't feel like it was my variety to do that with, especially after the story he told
me about how he viewed his relationship with Neville and why Neville didn't have all the
seeds of haze and Neville made up a story.
It kind of made sense.
And so I didn't want to be that guy and I wasn't.
But I think that trying to get these out to the world is a good thing.
I think that trying to save these and spread these around is a good thing.
Sam himself did too.
For I would say late 80s, early 90s, he was still selling seeds by the kilo probably to
a lot of the Dutch breeders.
And by that time, the green team, which was Wernhard and Positronics, which became Positronics,
Wernhard was clearly knocking off, remaking, F2ing, F3ing, F4ing, everything that he had
ever got from Sam, which was quite a bit.
You know what I mean?
He got the whole collection.
It's clear to me that Wernhard and the green team, Wernhard had haze before Neville did.
Wernhard had haze probably right from 85 onward, but had very little interest in it.
You know what I'm saying?
Because it was, again, his favorite variety was something called Citral, which I would,
it was like a little bit, it took a little longer than maybe B52, which at the time was
a Chronic, which was like a big bud, like a super skunk time, super cropper type thing.
It wasn't my favorite, but Wernhard was looking for stuff that fit what he was trying to do,
which was promoting door cultivation and a lot of little lollipop plants.
And I love it.
I mean, the first time I walked into Positronics and saw all those little plants and the perfect
little square meters, and I immediately thought to myself, oh, that's how you're supposed to do it.
And my life was never the same.
I never grew the same after that.
Once I realized how efficient it was to grow smaller plants that had less veg time,
it was no going back.
You know what I mean?
It was just, that's also why I got busted with so many plants.
There's a picture of me standing in front of a wall of clones on the back of my book,
and I got busted, I think with like 4,100 plants or whatever at the time.
It was just because I, you know, see green, it's the most efficient way to grow.
And that's why I think that these tropical equatorials have come back too, because one
of the tips Neville gave me and my friend Tom was don't give it any pre-grow.
If you have plants that take over 10, 11 weeks to finish flowering,
move them straight from rooting into flowering and allow them to grow and flower simultaneously.
Because even though they're in flower, they will grow continually as they're flowering,
and you'll still get plants that are almost a meter tall after 11 weeks, if not taller,
even though they started off, you know, barely a few centimeters tall in comparison to where
they ended up.
So it was good advice, and I still pass that along to people to this day, because if you
take a bunch of equatorial tropicals and put them in when they're, you know, just a day
or two after rooting and pop them next to each other, you can get fantastic harvests,
you know, 20 plus grams per plant, you know, in a tight, close grouping that way exceeds
what you would get from, you know, six weeks of grow and letting it go up and then having
a bunch of wasted space at the bottom.
It's way more efficient.
Yeah, some solid advice there for sure.
I guess just to quickly wrap up the haze part, I was wondering, there's obviously no notable
haze cuts that go around, but there are a few NL5 hazes that have got a bit of a reputation.
I guess I was wondering if you had tried any of the notable ones like the A5, the C5, or
even like the Cuban black haze by any chance?
Cuban haze I have.
I think it's NL5.
You know, when you look at the dating of it, I believe that late 80s, early 90s, NL5 was
a hugely popular variety and that a lot of people were growing that.
And some of the others tend to disappoint a bit.
I like Cali Mist a lot.
I think that, but you know, it was funny, I was having a conversation with Simon once
and he didn't think that the long flowering female that he used in the original combination
was haze.
And I was just like, what did you think it was?
And he said, Colombian.
And I went, well, I think it is haze, you know, like, but, you know, it just, it's interesting
how the names change and people don't really realize what they have sometimes.
And even though they're using it successfully and, you know, I think haze has been amazing.
I mean, my two favorite haze plants when I lived in Amsterdam was NL5 haze.
Neville's haze wasn't out yet.
Or he just started to release it actually at the Tolstrat greenhouse, if I remember
correctly, and Cali Mist.
Now I liked Neville's haze though over NL5 by haze.
NL5 by haze was great, but it was more normalites.
When he crossed it, when he crossed the NL5 by haze back to that haze A, I think it made
it spicier, made it more hazy.
And I liked it better, yielded less.
And it took, I think a little longer, but it was worth the wait and worth the loss of
yield.
Do you think we'll ever see Neville's haze make a comeback?
It's something which is really always popular among the heads.
I have a lot of stuff close.
You know, it's funny because like I have the genetics, it's like bacon brownies.
And then it comes to selecting the proper salt and the proper sugar and the proper molasses,
the proper wheat, you know, to make your cookie just the way you remember it.
And I think that this is similar.
And I mean, we can't go back and smell those phenotypes that he had, but for those of us
that have been around the genetics, I mean, we can test the prodigy and see if it reminds
us.
And, you know, for me, I mean, I already have a lot of those hazy combinations.
Most of the stuff I'm smoking would remind you or anybody who wasn't familiar with like,
oh, that, this is that haze because it's overwhelms the gassiness of the NL with the
spicy overtones of the haze.
You know what I mean?
So like if you came over, I think you would be in haze heaven over here because I've touched
it to damn near everything.
But now that I'm growing the NL, I have a lot of stuff that has not been touched to
the NL.
But, you know, it's been hard to resist.
I was doing a room for my head and I was in the middle of flowering the, meaning I was
doing a room for my head.
I was doing a room seedless because I only use one male at a time at my facility because
I'm not trying to fuck around.
And I had the NL2 going in the greenhouse and I took a branch of it and I brought it
into the room that I was going to do seedless and shook it over the plants is because even
though I had original haze going and I had these skunk haze crosses I had going and I
had these super glue, I crossed it with on haze and then did a selection, crossed that
selection to original haze to try to pump up the haze again, kind of going for that
nevel haze vibe, if you will.
I liked it, but then I just hit it with the NL2 because now I can't wait.
You know, I was like, frig it.
Instead of getting the sensimilia, I'll just get to play with the seeds because the NL2
is so impressive and I want to see what the effects are with this male against a lot of
these other genetics that I'm so familiar with to see how it, you know, how it dominates
the prodigy that comes off of it and how it affects it.
Like what kind of sense I get, what kind of body I get from the buds, what kind of like
width I get from the leaves and things like that.
And I just did a combination of original haze as the female crossed with NL2 as the male
in this and it's hanging up right now and it's funny because I keep going down there
and I keep, I just can't, I go downstairs sometimes just to go to the haze plant to
just smell them because they, you get an upper from smelling them.
It's weird.
Like I get happy just smelling the fucking thing.
So, but it's that unique, everything else.
I mean, I don't know, the skunks that are down there smell sweet, the supergals smell
gassy, but that haze just, I don't know, I mean, it calls my name.
That's special.
That's cool to hear.
I think it's going to be a neat combination because the genetics are dissimilar and the,
we'll see how it comes out, but it's kind of close to what Neville was doing back then
with the NL, depending on which, but I think he used the NL2 a lot.
I think NL did because it was the one that was spectacular and I just did the opposite
of what he did.
Instead of an NL5 female crossed with the haze male, I went with the original haze female
and crossed it with the NL2 male.
So we're going to start seeing how some of these things pop up and I already like it.
One of the superglue by Ann Hays was on the cover of Grow Magazine.
A lot of the people that's grown it love it because it has that afghan, but it has
that spice.
Interesting.
So, I mean, can you give us a little bit of a rundown on the different smells and effects
from the different NL lines you have?
The purist indica is heavy.
The NL2 is heavy.
The NL5 is a little more light, meaning like when I say light, like for more tropical plants,
I get more of a, I don't know, like a light high.
I don't know how to put it.
It's more in your head and you're just kind of like happy high.
A lot of the stuff like the NL is more physically relaxing.
My neck pain recedes more, but I can't say that the haze doesn't make my neck pain go
away.
It's just that it gets so high I forget about it.
But the NL feels like it actually like, I don't forget about it, but I feel kind of
chill.
So I think there's the, you know, the NyQuil compared to caffeine effect.
I would consider haze is more like in my body acts as a caffeine and the NLs, the purist
indica is just very resiny.
And it's when I broke up the buds, my fingers smell like import hash.
Like if you've ever been to Amsterdam, you smoke like King Hassan hash and shit like
that.
It just smells like hash, man.
It smells like old glass and I love it.
And then the flowers smell kind of skunky stinky when they were growing, which reminds
me of the 80s too, because that's what it kind of smelled like.
And when it would cure, it would depend on when you got it.
So depending on how fresh the flowers were, we're going to depend on how much of the
terpenes they were emitting at any given time.
So if you were getting pot from your friend who was growing in their closet, they probably
weren't waiting that long for the dry and the cure because we were also excited and
you were actually getting cannabis was probably two or three weeks from being cut down a lot
of the time.
And when you smell it, smell it was so overwhelming and so strong.
But now with the legal market, we get pot that's like fucking months old.
You know what I mean?
It's like cured and dried and wasn't even handled well.
And then, you know, like it's unbelievable and it's different.
So I just think, not the best at describing the flavors and tastes and stuff, but more
of the highs and the excitement I get from it.
But I like the Northern Lights and I like feeling relaxed, but I like the hazes and
I like feeling creative too.
Yeah, look, they sound fantastic.
I'm with you.
I think I'm more of a haze guy than a kush guy, so to speak.
But as a follow-up question to that, can we ever expect to maybe see any feminized work
from you or specifically S1s of any of these lines, the NLs or the Purist Indicas?
Yeah, actually, totally.
The plans in my future are to start collecting a lot of these clone-only cultivars that are
floating around and S1ing them so other people can experience green crack and train wreck
and other things.
Mel Frank already does that.
He not only makes S1s, he's been breeding with female pollen for a long time.
And he makes crosses by, he'll take his females that he likes and then he'll reverse them.
He will collect the pollen, he will stall the pollen, and then he will administer that
pollen on another plant that he likes and he will do feminized breeding.
I mean, this is Mel Frank.
I mean, I expect him to be a little ahead of the curve when it comes to what he does.
First time he showed me something, it was S1, F1, and S1, F2.
And I went, no, this isn't how it could be.
And he goes, well, I don't know what else you'd call it.
I collected the pollen from one plant and I bred it to the other.
And I was just like, oh, really?
And I was like, and that's why the name's like this?
He's like, well, I put the plant that I collect, the female plant that I collected
the pollen from as the second name because it would be the male, right?
I was like, right.
And he was like, and it was the second time I do it, so what do you think I should call
it other than an F2?
I was like, I get it.
I get it.
So you pop those seeds, you bred those seeds together, so here you get.
Like dealing with him is so much fun.
I'm the first person in his whole life that he's allowed to sell the seeds.
And it's kind of an honor to say the very least.
And I learn something from him every time we talk, which is fortunately quite often.
But he's been releasing S1 seeds of his since I've been selling seeds because he's had them
for a long time.
And we have the bread, feminized bread.
So he's still doing that.
He's making more feminized GDP seeds.
I couldn't keep them in stock last time he gave them to me.
I'm expecting more soon.
But then what I'm also going to do is the guy that's famous for GDP actually gave the
seeds to him back some years back.
And I know the guy myself, his name's Ken.
And I'm going to try to get the cutting that's been floating around of GDP and then S1 that.
There's a lot of plants that are on our hit list to kind of collect an S1 because I think
they're great breeding material and people deserve a right to work with them.
And I don't want to cross them with something because I want them to be as close to what
they are.
And the only way I can put them in a seed form is to S1 them.
The plants that the seed varieties that I got from Skunk Man Sam that I can't reproduce
like Thunk, Taihei Skunk, I'm just going to go through my seeds, do selections, pick
the best examples, and then S1 those so that people can experience those as well.
I asked him if I could do that and he was totally cool with it because I don't know
another way of releasing proper representations of them except to S1 them.
You know what I mean.
So I think that's going to be fun.
I mean, at this rate with the seed collection I have and the plants I have, I can only hope
to have like three more lifetimes at least maybe if I'm lucky.
Watching the grass grow, that's all I want to do.
Stand around, work and watch the grass grow.
It's a good life.
It's a good life.
So it sounds like you got a lot of exciting breeding projects sort of in the mix.
My question is, which one are you most excited for and are going to start next?
Hasn't started yet, but it's going to be the next one to get the wheels churning.
Well, breeding projects are going to supersede me.
I don't feel like I'm breeding when I'm F2ing, you know, through permission, some of the
original haze or the skunk or the Northern Lights.
I don't really feel that's breeding.
I feel it's preserving and I'm grateful I'm part of the preservation of these genetics
and I'm passing them on to other people.
I'm going to do that again with NL5 because I ran out of NL5 seeds and everybody's freaking
out over them.
Then I'm going to do it with the pure stendica because Greg really wants to see more people
get pure stendica and experience the medicine.
And it's the best afghan I've ever grown in my life.
And I think people deserve it.
It's so beautiful.
It's so nice.
It's just like leathery leaves and just crusty, crusty buds of flower, of resin.
And I just, I'm in love.
I'm in love with how it smells.
I'm in love with how it smells after it dries.
After that, my goal was actually to spend more time going through more haze seeds and
selecting more phenotypes of haze and spending more time with these because all the seeds
that Greg sent me, I've cloned.
So I have all those genetics and I want to just spend more time going through all of
the different sister phenotypes and really getting to know them for their differences.
And then I really want to spend more time breeding together with original haze because
I think the real key to F1s is dissimilar genetics if you really want to get some fantastic
hybridization.
And so that's kind of, I'm trying to do what everybody else isn't doing, which is breeding
together closely related plants.
So, and I have that unique opportunity to do that.
And I'm not trying to be a jerk about it.
I'm trying to give the opportunity to other people so that they can also experience these
genetics.
And I think there's a lot of artists in the world.
I wrote in Neville's article, I saw him as an artist.
Even though he didn't invent red, blue, gold, what he created with it was beautiful and
we can appreciate his art.
But it doesn't mean other people can't come along with the primary colors and recreate
similar combinations that maybe are even more spectacular.
Yeah, certainly.
So, I'm just going to change topic for a moment.
I was curious to know, how was it that you came about to be the editor of The Emperor
Wears No Clothes?
Did you have a close relationship with Jack before that or was that the start of the relationship?
It was 1993 and I'd read his book and I was living in San Diego on a place called Pacific
Beach.
And the book really pulled me away.
It reinforced a lot of the decisions I'd made for a while.
I'd have, you know, hippie guilt about being a pothead and, you know, kept it secret.
Like I was, you know, less than someone and less than society, you know, and frowned upon.
And when I read his book, it was like liberation.
And I called the number on the back.
It was January of 1994.
And this girl named Summer answered the phone and started explaining to me that they were
doing an initiative to legalize marijuana and camp and I should come up and help.
And I was stunned.
And I wanted to maybe go say hi to him, buy him lunch.
I don't know.
Like I had good money at the time so I could afford to go buy him lunch in LA or something.
And I hope to just say thank you.
And when I got there, I saw what they were doing and I was sitting there one day and
I was literally the first day I got there and then Jack walked into the office and he
goes, who the fuck are you?
I said, who the fuck are you?
And he was like, I'm Jack Harris.
What are you even wondering?
And he liked it.
He said, what are you from the East Coast?
I said, yeah.
And he said, you want to smoke the best goddamn pot you've ever smoked in your life?
And I had a cannabis collection at the time and I had a duffel bag full of different like
eighths and quarters, maybe 20 to 30 of them.
And I said, sure.
Oh, the headphones died.
One minute, let me get my phone.
I have another set of headphones.
One sec.
I followed him in a group of hippies into the back room and he sat down and he showed
me this really great pot, probably a Hindu Kush grown in Northern California by a gentleman
named Richard Davis and who owned the Traveling Hemp Museum.
And it was great.
And then I started pulling out all these different types of weed that like someone would stick
to the baggy and shit.
And Jack is a real pothead.
He wanted to smoke all that shit.
He wasn't going to let me out of his sight till he smoked all my weed.
And we sat there getting high.
And then he brought me over to his place because he was like, you're not driving back to San
Diego.
I said, no.
He said, don't go get a hotel.
You can crash at my house.
I have a couch.
And I said, OK.
So we went to his place and he whipped out the Bible, bro, and starts teaching me about
the epitomology of letters and words and shit because this is what he was tripping on at
the time.
And we sat up all night long, literally reading the Bible and him teaching me all the different
interpretations of what he thought it really meant and really deep shit.
And that morning we went and got food.
It was the last time in my life I ate chicken.
And we were inseparable after that.
That day we became best friends and we started just I started working on the initiative.
I became the San Diego coordinator and I worked with him 94 into 95.
He's the one that introduced me to Dennis Perrone and Brownie Mary and Chris Conrad,
Mickey Norris.
They're the ones that helped put together Ben Tronkers Museum in Amsterdam.
He's the one that introduced me to Ben and the whole Holland scene and High Times and
traveling around with Jack was like having backstage pass to everything we did.
And I made a lot of friends and I was really inspired by everybody I met.
And that's why I started the San Diego Compassion Club in 1995.
Because while we're meeting all these people, it was just really heavy duty to meet people
that were legitimately really sick and not be able to give them some weed.
I would always give them whatever I had.
I just couldn't say no.
I mean, when I was a little kid, my mother didn't charge me for the medicine I needed.
She just gave me the pot.
I just can't imagine denying somebody something that can alleviate their ills.
If you have it, just I don't know, maybe it comes from being a little kid being sick all
the time.
But I have a lot of empathy for people.
So when I started the San Diego Compassion Club, we did not sell marijuana.
We redistributed donated cannabis to people that were sick, you know, and we made edibles
and gave them away.
And, you know, everything we could do to, you know, I don't know.
It's just when you're on the front lines of the activism, you end up meeting people that
have cancer and that have AIDS and that have these different conditions.
And I don't know you feel inclined to help.
And so I started the San Diego Compassion Club in April, March, April of 1995.
And I got busted shortly thereafter.
And, you know, so it's been a struggle the whole way through.
I ended up getting busted in Ohio with 30 pounds of cannabis heading to Rhode Island
because I was going to start another one.
I wanted to do one in my hometown.
And instead I got busted in Ohio along the way.
But because I had and this is a twist, when in 1994, when I was in Holland, I got a doctor's
prescription for medical cannabis from a Rotterdam physician named Dr. Trussell.
And he saw my spinal fusion and felt like my medical use cannabis was quite legit.
So he wrote me an actual prescription for 10 grams a day.
And I didn't believe that it was legitimate until I went home and did some studying at
the University of California.
They have a law library that's really good.
And I was able to look at things like this, the single treaty, Geneva Convention, the
psychotropic substances.
I was able to look up customs laws.
Believe it or not, they did not prohibit the importation of medical cannabis, because if
you look up the way that internationally cannabis was handled, it fell under the opium
rules in the first treaty.
And because of that, if you had opium prescribed legally by a country, you could bring it to
another country under the prescription rules.
So it was really unique.
And cannabis fell onto this, but nobody was doing it.
So I was one of the first people that actually challenged it, the laws that is it, and went
back to Holland and brought back medical cannabis.
Eldy Musica is a woman that gets medical marijuana from the federal government.
She's got glaucoma.
She's an old activist.
She's in her 80s now.
She does no longer get cannabis from the government because they're giving her swag.
But she was one of my first friends as an activist and a real big inspiration.
And Eldy would get in trouble with cops, but she'd have her prescription and they would
not know what to do with this crazy old lady.
She was crazy in a good way, but she was very boisterous and loud and wouldn't give up and
get in their face.
And they just wanted to get away from her.
And I saw the prescription as a real important thing.
So what happened is I came back from the Netherlands with no prescription, well, with
the prescription, but with no pot.
And then I was driving up from San Diego to LA and there's a checkpoint.
It's supposed to be for immigration, they say, but it's really not.
It's at Santa Nofre.
It's right before this military base called Camp Pendleton.
And it's like this random checkpoint that goes up between San Diego and LA.
So they stopped me.
And I had pot on me and I had my prescription and I demanded to keep my pot or arrest me.
And they didn't know what to do with me.
So the cop has this human moment and says, listen, man, I just want you to go away.
And I was like, really?
And he's like, yeah, he's like, can we come to a truce on this?
You can have some of the pot.
You got to give me some pot so I can go show my boss that I confiscated your weed.
And I was like, okay.
And I was like, leave me what's in the backpack and take what's in the bigger bag.
It's bigger anyway.
And because I hate to say it, I had kind bud and I had Mexican import weed.
I used to give away the Mexican import weed and share the kind bud with Jack.
So he did it.
And I went up to Jack's and I was just like, dude, he didn't know what to do with this
fucking piece of paper.
And me and Elvie was there at the time.
And we were all like, this could be huge.
So then Elvie and I and Richard Davis, the guy that threw that pot, went up to the Sacramento
law library and did all the studying we could.
We came to the conclusion that there's a lot of legitimacy to an international prescription.
So then Elvie went back home to Florida and she used to routinely debate the DEA, crazy
as it sounds.
But she invited me and Florida Normal, which stood for the National Organization to Reform
Marijuana Laws, invited me out to go debate the DEA with Elvie.
I have this on video.
And I went out there and I debated the Southeast Quadrant leader.
And I basically asked him, will you arrest me if I go to the Netherlands to pick up my
prescription and fly back?
And he said, no.
And I said, really?
OK.
And I said it was like 300 people there.
I said, you're all my witness.
I will fly to the Netherlands tomorrow.
I will pick up my prescription.
I'll fly back and we see if I get arrested.
And he looked at me like, if looks could kill, kid, I would zap you right now.
And I went back to Elvie's place.
I called, at the time, Martin Airlines, which was owned by KLM, is Dutch owned.
And they allowed smoking on planes.
And when I called, they said, would you like smoking or non-smoking?
I said, you can smoke on an airplane?
They said, yeah.
International flights over nine and a half hours.
And I said, well, I have a prescription from my Dutch physician for medical cannabis and
I'm supposed to smoke it about every two hours.
Would that be acceptable?
And she said, are you willing to provide a copy of your prescription to the stewardess?
I said, oh, yeah.
She said, then I don't think it's a problem at all.
But you have to sit in a smoking section.
So I literally smoked weed from Florida to the Netherlands in the smoking section legally
after giving them my prescription.
It was fucking great.
And I felt like freedom was happening.
And I flew back and they didn't arrest me.
I declared it.
They freaked out a little bit.
They wanted me to sign this form that said that I failed to declare a controlled substance.
And I said, no, no, no, no.
I want the form that says I declared the controlled substance and you're taking away my prescribed
medicine.
I'll sign that form, but I don't think you have it.
And they freaked out and they let me walk out.
They didn't even search my other bag.
They would just go away.
And the guy actually said, good luck to you in secondary.
It was amazing.
He walked me out the double doors and I realized, wow, there's a lot of power to this.
So that's when I came back home and I went right back up to Dennis and really Dr. Todd
McArea, who was one of the OG doctors that wrote the hemp drug commission report and
was really one of him and Lester Grinspoon first real first physicians on this in America.
And he saw it too.
So he prescribed me.
He gave me a recommendation for cannabis as well.
And then I got busted.
And it's interesting because as soon as Dr. Todd McArea gave me a prescription, he started
giving a lot of people prescriptions, like, but they weren't, they were recommendations
or they were letters of condition.
Because at the time, all that Dennis required wasn't a prescription.
It wasn't a recommendation until 1996.
It was just a letter of your condition.
That was it, you know, but that's kind of like, I don't know.
It's a little much, you know, you don't want to go to, hey, I got AIDS, I got cancer.
It's none of their business, you know, so it's a little invasive.
But Dr. McArea was one of my good friends and he started writing me prescriptions.
And for a little while in California, at the very beginning of 1995, I was the only person
that I knew that had a doctor's note in California that was using it to try to validate their
controlled carry of cannabis.
LV did have a prescription, but she was getting her shit from the federal government.
I was not.
I was just trying to assert that my doctor would back it up.
And then what happened is I got busted in Ohio and the public defender was more like
a public pretender.
And I got flustered and the judge saw that and he asked me if I had something to say.
So I stood up while I was still chained and explained that I was a medical cannabis patient
and that I had an international prescription and that they should look at this on the merits
of the law and not on their opinions, you know, and base it all on fact.
And he liked it.
And he accepted the single treaty Geneva Convention.
He accepted the customs laws.
He accepted the 79 psychotropic substances because it also, you come to the realization
that they were not trying to prohibit the medical usefulness of cannabis or opium.
They were trying to prohibit the potential narcotic nuisance of it.
So they really never intended to inhibit medical use per se.
And they couldn't have if they wanted to, because everybody would have been, what the
fuck is that?
But realistically, that's how it stood.
So the judge in Ohio said, if I could get one American doctor to validate my Dutch physician's
prescription, he'd let me use cannabis while I was incarcerated.
And I went home and called my good friend, who's a lawyer in Ohio, and he called Dr.
Todd McArea, Dr. John Mogan, who wrote Marijuana Miss, Marijuana Facts.
And he called Dr. Lester Grinspoon, who wrote Marijuana Reconsidered and Marijuana for
Prevented Medicine.
And all three of them wrote me notes that night and said that they had personal knowledge
of me and they've met me and that they were friends with me and that they all backed it
up.
Dr. John Morgan, who was a professor at the City University of New York, actually called
the FDA and said, question, if a person, an American goes to Europe and picks up a schedule
one substance under prescription, can they bring it back?
They said, yeah, three months supply.
He said, interesting.
What if it's cannabis?
They said, well, I don't see why not.
But what country is prescribing cannabis?
He said, the Netherlands.
And John told me later, he said it was funny because the guy laughed and he said, I guess
he found the hole in the dike.
And they laughed on it.
And he wrote that in the letter, not the part about the hole in the dike, but that he contacted
the FDA and they assured him that the importation of a schedule one substance under prescription
from a foreign country for 30 days supply is most absolutely legal.
And the judge in Ohio didn't know what to do.
So he released me.
And it was amazing because the AP, Associated Press, sat in on this.
And when the judge didn't give me the pot, she released the story.
And the front page of the newspaper said, inmates smoke pot at CCNO.
And then the USA Today picked it up and made this great editorial about why medical cannabis
should be legal.
They started off with Todd McCormick left his home to help seriously ill people.
The only problem is the help he intended to deliver is illegal.
And then he ended it by saying sick people deserve help, not a ticket to jail.
It was fucking great.
And then after that, the New York Times picked up the story.
And the fucking Ohio just dismissed the case was like, go away.
And when they released me, they told me you have to leave the state.
It's really quite funny.
And then I was like, what about my pot?
And he goes, I knew you were going to say that it was my public pretender.
He goes, I don't have to handle that for you.
That's a civil matter.
And I only do criminal work.
So you're on your own with that.
You can go see the city.
And I was just like, hmm.
And so I left and then High Times flew me over because then I basically showed 60 Minutes,
which is a pretty big news station around Amsterdam and brought them to my doctor and
everything and had like the more serious side of the of the High Times event.
And they were so impressed that they actually didn't add any of that to the story because
they didn't want to discredit what I was doing because they really thought it was valid.
It was really quite cool.
So I'm only in a clip of it, which is funny.
But and I spent days with them.
High Times literally flew me out there so I could spend time with Wally Schaefer.
So but while I was there, the judge was deciding on whether or not he gave me permission to
go back.
The judge released my passport and let me fly back to the Netherlands.
He was deciding if he was going to let me basically if he's going to prosecute me or
not.
And so I while I was in Holland, ended up getting a job for High Life magazine and became
their first English editor of their English edition of High Life, which was really an
honor and really cool.
So I put out an issue with them, but I hated the winter and I hated the cold and I hated
the rain and all the hash in Holland couldn't make me want to stay.
So that's why after a year, I ended up moving back to California, mainly chasing the summer.
And it was quite an experience.
But but then I went to L.A. and had the most crazy experience because I met a multimillionaire
publisher who had actually contracted AIDS and cancer.
And he was working on a book about medical cannabis, and he titled it A Question of
Compassion.
And ironically, I named my place the San Diego Cannabis Compassion Club.
And in the media, I always used to say that it was it was not a question of capitalism.
It was more a question of compassion.
Now, you know, at somebody's suffer, if you can help them, that seems rather, you know,
mean.
And he liked that.
And when I met him and I was in his office and I said, oh, a question of compassion,
where did you get that title?
He said, oh, I stole it.
And I said, really?
And he goes, yeah, come here.
And he shows me this big computer and he goes, yeah, look it up.
And he looks at the newspaper article.
He goes, see you, San Diego Union Tribune, somebody named Todd McCormick.
And he was like, kid, you're supposed to be here right now.
And it was really funny.
And and it was like, we just had this meeting and he was just he he wanted me to write a
book.
He wanted me to make a grow video and he wanted me to go around the country going to like
lectures and teaching people how to grow their own medicine.
So he got the website GrowMedicine.com.
And that was what the whole concept was going to be.
He gave me a quarter million dollars.
And I went and looked for a place to live.
And that's how I happened to trip into the Bel Air mansion that looked like a castle.
And just we had passed Prop 60, Prop 215.
And I was naive and thought it mattered.
And I didn't understand federalism as well at the time.
And I didn't understand that it did not create a positive conflict between the feds and the
state of California.
So I got some misinformation from a good attorney that if I didn't sell pot, I really couldn't
be prosecuted.
So I didn't sell pot.
But then I was prosecuted because even though they didn't have me for actually selling pot,
they charged me with intent to distribute.
So they got into my head and they knew that overwriting books and putting out movies and
traveling around as a lecturer that I really wanted to just sell pot.
So that was the basis they prosecuted me on.
And it was crazy.
Initially, they held me on a million dollar bail for over 4,000 plants.
And my friends at the time was Woody Harrelson, the actor, and Larry Flint, the publisher.
And they arrested me at 7 p.m.
And by 6 a.m., I had Larry's attorneys at the police station introducing themselves
as my new attorneys and trying to help me get out of the place.
And Woody posted my bond in cash.
It was lowered to half a million dollars and Woody posted it in cash, which was pretty
incredible.
I never would have expected to have that kind of support.
And went on to fight them for years.
I fought them in 97, 98, 99.
And they kind of railroaded me.
They took away my medical necessity defense.
They said I couldn't say the word medical before the word marijuana.
They redacted my book, How to Grow Medical Marijuana.
It was really just like they just, the truth didn't matter.
And basically, they gave me, they faced a 10-year mandatory minimum if I go to trial
and I was going to lose.
Or I could do a five-year sentence and retain my appeal rights.
And at the time, I was naive and I still believed that appeal could win.
Or they wanted me to release my appeal rights, plead guilty, and go in and plead to the judge
for fucking, you know, to be easy on me.
And it's just not me, man.
And I wasn't going to go grovel.
I wasn't going to denounce cannabis.
I wasn't going to debrief.
I just wasn't going to play their game.
So I accepted the five-year sentence with the hopes that I could appeal the sentence
I did, and I lost.
And then while I was traveling to the airport in December of 99, I got a traffic ticket.
And they used the traffic ticket to revoke my half-million-dollar bond and pulled me
back into jail.
And I started my five-year prison sentence because really, they just wanted a pound of
flesh.
They didn't care how they got it, if that makes sense.
I self-surrendered on January 3, 2000 and started doing five years.
It sucked.
And then after a year and a half, they sent my lawyer in to ask me if I would debrief.
It means cooperate.
And I said, fuck no.
And I sat there for another three and a half years because if you don't cooperate, you
do time.
It really boils down to it.
That simple.
So I just ate shit and sat in prison.
But I'm glad I did.
I wouldn't have been able to live myself if I hadn't.
It was difficult, but I'm grateful at how it all worked out.
There's a line in A Grateful Dead song where they sing, sometimes you get shown the light
in the greatest...
Sometimes you get shown the light in the strangest of places if you look at it right.
And that's exactly how I felt.
Even though I was being prosecuted, I had a lot of support and love from my friends.
They were there when I got out.
You never want to fuck up and find out you don't have friends there for you.
But to have something happen and find out you're surrounded by people that care about
you is really a beautiful experience.
And I'm still grateful for that element of it to this day, as weird as it may sound.
I've always felt like cancer was a beautiful, beneficial experience that I had a hard time
appreciating while I was going through it.
But I'm grateful that I went through it.
Because I think it made me the person I am today, and I'm proud of myself.
But would you want to see a little kid have cancer?
Never mind over and over and over again.
Fuck no.
But if somebody had a magic wand and said they could wave it over my head and take away
my cancer experience, I would break the wand.
Yeah, wow.
What a beautiful life story.
And the way you've gone on to accept it all just is almost inspirational.
I guess after you got out, at what point did the idea of AG Seed Co. cross your mind?
Was there a specific moment where you thought, God, I got to do something with this?
When did it all start?
My intention when I came home in the 90s was to start a seed company because I had been
collecting genetics in Amsterdam.
And I had been collecting genetics from California for years.
And I had a lot of great connections in California for genetics.
So when I came home, that was part of what I was doing, was growing out varieties and
starting breeding and making seeds.
I was trying to convince my publisher that I needed, at the time, like a quarter million
dollar GCMS and a technician to run it because I wasn't educated in how to run it.
But I needed the output.
I needed the data that would come out of it as I was working because I needed continual
monitoring of my genetics.
Because I saw them as little laboratories and I wanted to look into the laboratory window
and see what the chemistry was that the lab technician was making on that day.
Because I feel that the carbolic acid profiles build up and break down over the course of
the flower.
And instead of just taking it at one point and looking at one peak and saying, there
it is.
I didn't.
I wanted to test daily if I could afford it and look at it all the way past peak to rejuvenation
and just take an honest look at the way that, at the time, the terpenes were not part of
the conversation, but just the way the carbolic acid built up and broke down.
When I was working in Amsterdam and I had the job, I became good friends with Robert
Clark, who was a historian we all know.
And he was working on hashish at the time and he schooled me on so much.
So I came home a student of Rob's and I was very enthusiastic.
I had first tried CBD in Amsterdam when he gave me some cannabis that was CBD and had
no THC because he was a very good chemist.
He wanted to see if it helped my neck pain because he felt like my medical condition
was obviously legitimate and he just wanted my feedback.
So the first time I ever used it was from Rob and he taught me so much about the complexity
of the cannabinoids, the profiles, the resin glands.
He was working on hashish and if you've read hashish, it's just such a fucking awesome
book.
And I was right there.
So I had the professor as my drinking buddy almost nightly for quite a long time while
I lived in Amsterdam.
I can't count the amount of nights that we spent together and between spending time with
him and Old Ed, because he wanted to spend time with Old Ed Holloway because Ed had come
to Holland before Rob did.
And Ed was already legendary when he left.
And he was one of the old timers.
There wasn't many guys like Greg that were actually growing cannabis in the 60s that
are still around.
And Ed turned 80 in 1996.
So he was fucking old and he was a really smart guy, dude.
He was on the team of engineers that broke the speed of sound out at Edwards Air Force
Base in the late 50s.
And he took an early retirement from either General Dynamics or one of these big companies.
And when in the early 60s, his kids were coming back from the first tours of Vietnam
and his wife, he said, was drinking.
And she had what he called the empty nest syndrome because their kids were gone at college
and now at war.
And he, when his kids came home, they brought him some Vietnamese and Cambodian cannabis.
And Ed wasn't a drinker and he fucking loved the weed.
And he told me that after a few years, he couldn't stand his wife's drinking anymore.
And he left her everything but a couple of his favorite airplanes because he owned his
own airplanes.
And he started flying around, going to military bases in places where cannabis was indigenous.
And he could land and just say, hey, I'm doing research.
And they didn't question him because he had clearance from his job that he still kind
of worked for because he was an engineer.
And he collected cannabis genetics through the 60s until the 70s.
And old Ed then met Bernard Bruning when Bernard started the Mellow Yellow.
And Ed was credited with teaching Bernard and all these young hippies at the time how
to grow seedless cannabis and how he helped them improve the quality of cannabis they
grew.
And at the time, they called him old Ed because he was already in his 40s and 50s when they
were still in their early 20s.
And when I met him, he was 79, turned 80 in 96 when I was with him.
And then when I left and came back to California, we had a very good friendship.
He left and he went to my house in Bel Air.
And he went home to his family and got a cold.
So he didn't come back to the mansion right away.
And I got raided.
And he fortunately wasn't there when I got raided.
But we still were friends.
Even after that, he didn't come back and live with me while I was prosecuted, of course.
But I did pick him up and he did stay with me when I was in various places in LA because
one of his daughters lives outside of LA.
So I go pick him up and hang out with the old man.
I absolutely adored him.
I would squeeze cannabis and hold it to his nose.
And he'd give me countries of origin, not names.
It was fucking awesome.
I love spending time.
I started martial arts when I was 12.
And I've always appreciated our elders.
And I see guys like Skunkman Sam and Greg and Old Ed and Rob and Mel Frank.
And they were the people I looked up to when it came to information and experience.
Wow, what an incredible story.
I didn't know any of that.
That's so very enlightening.
And you just mentioned Mel Frank there.
I was wondering, what was the first seed you ever got from Mel?
Funny enough, a weird thing you say that because in 1996, when I met him at the 96th
Cannabis Cup, I told him I was coming home.
I was coming home to California and I would look him up when I got there.
So when I came back and I got that place in Bel Air, he was invited over, but he never
made it.
And he invited me over to pick up some of these skunk seeds that he had made the summer
before, which is this 1996 skunk seeds.
So I drove over there and I picked them up and I drove home and I got busted like two
weeks later.
So I lost them.
And then I go to prison.
I get out of prison.
Years go by.
I move out of L.A.
And Jim would always come visit me.
I don't know.
I just always had hangout houses.
So he would just make his way to come see me.
And then when I moved up here, I have a really big house and he would come and stay with
me and we go to the Cannabis Cups and the other cannabis events.
So we would always be buddies.
So I get this idea like the AG Seed Co happened when the Farm Bill passed.
And I realized that, you know, hey, seeds are legal, you know, because all parts of
the plant that contain less than three tenths of a percent THC were now taken out of the
CSA and seeds contain zero cannabinoids.
So I saw an opportunity there as well as maybe may take other people a little while to figure
it out, but seeds are legal.
So I was like, hmm.
And because we passed Prop 64 here in California, I'm legally growing the seeds.
Everyone in the state of California over the age of 21 doesn't even need a doctor's note.
They can legally grow six plants cannabis and you can get a good amount of seeds off
of six plants cannabis.
So technically, you can legally grow your seeds in some ways because they're not federally
illegal or anything like that.
They're much like heirloom tomato seeds where it's, you know, you can grow tomato seeds
and then sell them on what we call eBay.
And it's not really a big deal.
And I think the same is with cannabis seeds now, because I don't know of any prosecutions
that are going specifically for seeds.
I mean, there's no drug content.
They're not really manufactured.
I mean, they're a product of nature, to say the very least.
And I think it's a difficult case for a prosecutor.
And I don't think a prosecutor really wants to prosecute somebody for like a few grams
of seeds.
So as long as you pay your taxes and you're not, you know, getting caught selling kilos
of butter hash out to the world, I don't think it's that dangerous to sell seeds anymore.
Lots and lots of seed companies have popped up, believe it or not.
If you drive up what we have called Interstate 5 up in Oregon, there are full-size billboards
with 1-800 numbers and websites for seeds.
So it's changing really big over here.
And so I started selling seeds.
And when I contacted Jim, I was already in contact with Jim, but I made a catalog and
I sent it over to him.
And like the dad he is, he corrected my grammar and sent it back to me.
And I only messed up like a comma and something else.
It was really pretty good.
I got like pretty much at 99.
And I was just like, and I said to him, I said, you know, man, you should let me sell
your seeds too.
They're not going to do anybody any good sitting in your refrigerator.
And he said, you're right.
He said, come over and get some.
So I drove all the way back down to LA.
And when I got there, I had a deja vu because I hadn't visited him.
And it felt like a long time.
I said, hey man, how long you been living in this house?
He said, I moved into it just a couple of years before you first visited it.
And I said, really?
He goes, yeah.
And it was cute because at the time he had some seeds on the table.
He goes, yeah, remember you came up here to pick up these exact seeds.
And I went, wow, talk about life interrupted.
He goes, yeah.
Because here we were 23 years later.
And I was just picking up the seeds just to do the same thing I was going to do in 1997.
And they were still sitting in the refrigerator for me, which was kind of a touching thing.
I know it sounds weird, but sometimes it's the little things in life that just blow you away.
And he didn't particularly save those seeds for me.
But he still had some when I was able to come back and get some.
So he's just, I don't know, man.
I absolutely adore Mel Frank.
He's, I think, one of the coolest, kindest, humblest, best historians, best photographers.
His cannabis photography back to the 70s is stunning.
His use of the camera is magnificent.
And I don't know anybody with as good of photos from the 1970s and early 80s of cannabis as Mel Frank.
His real name is Jim Goodwin, of course.
But, you know, so that's kind of how it all started, really.
And I didn't expect the Skunk One seeds to smell anything but sweet.
And when I grew them, he gave me multiple.
He gave me 2010 seeds, too, that he made in 2010.
And those did still smell sweet.
But when I stopped and started thinking about the genetics, I kind of found it kind of like
not too particular because him being friends with Skunk Man Sam
and them both being old heads, he would have most likely gave him seeds from the selections
that would have been more like what Jim would like, rather than the newer stuff, which was
more fruity.
You know what I mean?
So kind of not surprised that it was more Afghan dominant rather than the Acapulco gold
slash Columbian gold.
As he was doing his selections, I think that there was a certain amount of time where Skunk
One was evolving, we would say.
You know what I mean?
From really stinky and acrid, probably a lot more thiols than it has now, to a lot less
thiols and a lot more fruity kind of, you know, that passion fruit kind of yummy terpenes
that you smell and you just want to keep smelling.
At least that's my opinion of the evolution after talking to them both.
But they're kind of old.
And when I've asked Skunk Man Sam what he gave him, he said, I don't remember.
You know, when you ask Nell, you know, kind of, you know, they know there's skunk seeds,
they know there are the Skunk One seeds, but where along the line, I don't know.
And I don't know how old they were in 1988, but I would easily think that they could have
predated Sam moving there in 85, because by mid 88, he'd only been there for like, let's
say two and a half years, you know, part of 85, 86, 87, and now you're in 88.
So it could have easily been seeds that he had had that pre, that goat went back to Santa
Cruz before he went over there and started doing more selections and redefining what
became Skunk One.
Because you understand the evolution of species in a way, you get exactly what I'm saying,
you know, a lot of people don't, they think it was like a light bulb turning on.
And it's like, it doesn't work that way.
You know, I think we slowly moved away from the thiols, you know what I mean?
Like, I think they're still present.
I just think they're present in minute amounts.
Yeah, certainly.
I mean, I've considered that sort of thing for a long time, but it's good to hear that
validated by your similar thoughts on it all.
I was interested in asking you if you could give us a little rundown of the skunk you
offer.
I guess I hear a lot of people in the past few years talk about skunk as though it's
cool because it's this good strain, but it's also like one of those older ones, which like
tended to yield quite nicely.
And a lot of people these days are really over the lower exotic plant yields.
Do you think that skunk could be something for those type people?
I think a lot of people, I've sold quite a few skunk seeds since I've released them.
These seeds that are currently available are the seeds that have only been reproduced twice
since the 80s, once in 1996, and again by me in 2019, 2020.
They are old cannabis.
I mean, I don't know another way to put it.
They haven't had any outside influence.
They've been inbred with themselves twice, once in 1996, once in...
And they are old pot.
I don't know another way to put it.
A lot of people who've been growing them out love them.
A lot of people have been talking about finding skunk scent and taste and aroma.
A lot of people want to shoot them down, but I think it's like the haze.
The more people that get the genetics, the more people are going to have to shut up and
realize they're still around.
And I think that's the similar situation with thiols present in the skunk.
They're still around.
I mean, it's impossible for me to believe that these terpene and thiol combinations
that were existing 30 years ago just disappeared.
It's not that they disappeared.
It's just that we slowly bred away for them in favor of higher cannabinoid combinations
with sweeter, more aromatic scents.
It's really that simple.
And as we did that, it made our gardens easier to hide because now it took on a sweet floral
fragrance rather than a stinky, skunky, nasty,
what's that dead shit in your backyard fragrance.
And that made a big difference in the way that we were able to cultivate cannabis
in urban communities.
And I think a lot of people don't get that.
And until the 90s and beyond when carbon filters became the norm, a lot of people were stinking
up their rooms in their neighborhoods trying to grow this stuff.
I know I did.
My friend once, we used to sleep over all the time, he used to say to me, bro, now when
I smell a skunk, he's like, I like it because it reminds me of your bedroom and your garden.
And I was like, oh, that's kind of funny.
But when we were teenagers, we used to sit up in my bedroom and smoke weed because my
grandma used to let us.
So it was the hangout spot.
What it's like when you're 14, 15, 16 years old, you got nowhere to go.
And it was funny.
But it's funny how you start to like scents.
Like now when I smell skunk, I like it.
I like it.
On the side of the road, it makes me, reminds me of old weed.
And the skunk I have still reminds me of old weed.
There's still files present in it.
I just tell anybody that doesn't believe it, just freaking grow them.
You tell me after you've flowered it.
Yeah, I agree.
It's interesting because we don't see files in any other mixture other than like on their
own.
You know, people talk as if there's one roadkill skunk and then nothing else like it.
Do you think we'll ever see it mixed with other things?
Yeah, you know, the RKS that I got from Jaime in Alaska, to me, is just very Afghan.
It's a decent smoke.
It's a beautiful bud.
I've taken high quality photos of it and shared them.
People loved it.
My girlfriend likes to smoke it.
It's peppery.
It's not my favorite, but I'm a haze head.
But it's just not overwhelming.
I left two of them and I sold a small batch of them and people that have grown them have
agreed with me.
But people are still condemning, oh, you can't have them.
Like it's the holy grail or something silly.
But you still see these skunk problems in hemp fields.
So when I say problems, like the overwhelming scent of skunk or something rancid or acrid,
so there's still files in high numbers.
So these people that are growing large amounts of low THC cannabis are also having neighbors
complain about the smell of skunk.
And it's just not from a small batch.
It's from fucking hemp fields.
So that just tells me they're present.
It's just a matter of us breeding them up if we really want them back.
I say this, though, just like there's a synergy between the terpenes and the cannabinoids,
there might be more of a synergy between the thiols and the cannabinoids and the terpenes
that we know right now and we perhaps are underestimating.
So it might be worth it for people to take the time to try to detect thiols and to try
to bring back that funky, musty, stinky smell.
I say it in two words because I feel like it's already very present in the skunk one
seeds that I'm offering and that I have and that people are reporting the same thing I
am.
But you could do more with it.
If somebody were to take tens of thousands of these seeds or thousands of these seeds
and start really going through them, you're going to find the Einsteins, the real genius
plants in there.
And you're going to find the terpene combinations that are one in a thousand or one in a whatever,
one in whatever your lottery ticket ends up being.
And if you have the ability to clone it and carry on those genetics, maybe the whole community
could share them because I have a feeling, unfortunately, a lot of times when these good
plants pop up, they may fall into the hands of people that are not making cuttings, are
not making seeds, are not sharing it.
I've had a lot of my great friends in Northern California hand me one of the best buds I've
ever smoked.
And then I say, can I get a cutting?
And they say, oh, dude, that's disappointing.
I cut that down.
I don't have cuttings of it.
And I do like, really?
He's like, dude, I had 100 of them.
And it's like, I get it.
And then they're not home to take care of the cuttings.
It's not their, it's not the way they do their, they did their thing back in the 90s.
You know what I mean?
Hey, they leave and they have to go sell their weed.
It gets cold up there.
There's no point of being up where you don't have electricity and you have outdoor plumbing
in the winter if you don't have to be.
And a lot of my friends used to go up, open up their places in the spring, crop out, leave
in the fall and spend their summers down, their winters down in LA and Southern Cal
selling their pot and enjoying the beach and taking some time to themselves before they
went and worked their ass off and prayed the helicopters didn't find them.
That was the life of many of my friends for a long time.
Wow.
One of your earlier answers, you mentioned how you're a friend with Woody Harrelson.
Harrelson, yeah.
Harrelson, yeah.
And I've seen on your Instagram, you've also, you know, you've been in photos with Tommy
Chong and Willie Nelson and Hugh Hefner.
It's quite a good mixture you got there.
I guess what I'm interested in is-
They're all stoners.
Yeah, right?
Hugh Hefner gave the money to Found Normal in 1970.
Keith Strope presented his idea to the Playboy Foundation and half liked it, gave him 5 grand
and then gave him 50 and then funded him through the early 70s and used to even let
Normal use the Playboy Mansion for their parties.
And when I met Hef, it was after I got raided and I was in the news a lot.
And when he met me, he shook my hand.
He wouldn't let it go.
And he started telling me about his involvement with Normal.
And I said, Hef, I know I'm friends with Keith.
And he said, really?
He goes, let's have him out for dinner.
And I said, and he invited me and Keith over for dinner.
And I went and we sat in the backyard and smoked weed together.
And he talked to me about how he first smoked cannabis in the 1950s when the Beats brought
it to him, the Beatniks, the pre-hippies and the Allen Ginsbergs and those poets.
And he ate cookies because he couldn't smoke weed comfortably around a lot of the people
that were in the magazine.
So he had cookies made and he would secretly eat cannabis edibles.
That was his trip.
And I was an amazing experience, man.
I mean, I met him in 97, I guess, and then started going.
He allowed me to come over.
I guess the first time I had dinner with him was in 98.
And then he let me come to all the Playboy parties, 98, 99, which was a lot of fun.
And it was really quite touching.
I actually have a picture of him and the woman that was his assistant on the wall because
Joanie was her name.
And Joanie took a liking to me.
She was a cannabis user.
And unbelievably, she came down with cancer in 1999.
And during the summer of 99, I was the one bringing her her medicine and spending time
with her.
And she passed away in September and I attended a funeral at the Playboy Mansion.
It was pretty heavy.
And I spent my last weekend at the Playboy Mansion, 1999 to 2000.
That's where I was for the New Year's Eve.
And then I had self, I didn't even tell Hef I had to go to prison because I didn't have
the heart to ruin his evening.
I just felt so bad about projecting my sadness onto my friends that only the few people I
was there with actually knew that I had to go to prison on Monday because I just didn't
want to ruin anybody's New Year's Eve.
I mean, it's fucking 1999, 2000.
I didn't want to be a wet blanket.
It was sad.
And when I got out of prison, actually, I had the opportunity to use the Playboy Mansion
to raise money for the legalization effort.
And I produced parties at the Playboy Mansion in 2007, 2008, and 2009.
It was a total honor.
In 2009, I even received a lifetime achievement award or a lifetime dedication award from
Marijuana Policy Project on stage at the Playboy Mansion.
And my mom was there.
I let my mom come to the fucking Playboy Party.
It was pretty funny.
And it wasn't a Playboy Party.
It was a Marijuana Policy Project Party at the Playboy Mansion.
But I was one of the producers of the party, so I couldn't invite anybody I wanted.
But it was pretty funny to have my mom at Hef's house while I get a fucking lifetime
achievement award.
Like, who would have ever?
It's weird.
The whole experience, bro, has been so strange.
As you said earlier, the truth is much stranger than fiction.
My first party, I had Joe Rogan emcee, blues traveler played, and the gentleman named DJ
Pooh, who's one of my best friends to this day, who made the movie Friday and produced
all the albums with Snoop Dogg and Ice Cube.
He DJed for me.
He was my DJ at my party because I didn't know anyone else.
So I asked DJ Pooh, and it was really fucking great.
And my second year, Perry Farrell of Jane's Addiction played for me because back in the
90s, we were on this thing called Spitfire Tour together.
And even crazier than that, in July of 1999, I got to open up Woodstock.
I got to walk up on stage at 11.35 AM on Friday, the 23rd of July, and say, welcome to Woodstock.
My name's Todd McCormick.
I'm with Spitfire Tour.
And I talked about legalizing cannabis.
And I got to do that Friday with, oh, come on, Andy Dick and then Kennedy.
And she got booed off stage.
And I had to do 20 minutes at Woodstock, improvised, because the other girl that was supposed to
speak made it two minutes.
And she got booed off the stage.
The people at Woodstock were going, they were screaming, show your tits, show your tits.
And she was the girl that was the DJ from MTV.
And she's like, I will not show you my boobies.
It was fucking a moment.
And I looked at her like, do you want me to get the mic?
Because I was kind of emceeing our little set.
And she went like this.
And I went and got the mic.
And everybody started cheering.
And I was like, and my manager's like yelling, keep going.
You have another 20 minutes.
And I was like, who wants 20 more minutes of me?
And everybody started cheering.
And I was like, oh, my God.
And I had to go out and do 20 more minutes of like, let's end the drug war.
Which wasn't really hard for me to do.
I mean, me talking about cannabis is really quite fluid.
But it was quite the experience.
And then the next day, I got to do it with Miki Hart of The Grateful Dead.
Me and Miki Hart and this girl, Julia Butterfly, was fucking great.
Miki Hart and Rosie Perez, she was there too.
She spoke about AIDS activism.
Miki Hart spoke about deforestation and why we have to stop deforesting.
And it was really cool.
I was actually pretty blown away.
Like, what the fuck?
I grew up listening to Woodstock on my mom's albums.
And here I was, like, meeting Michael Lang and fucking wearing an all-access mask and
going out on stage as myself talking about weed.
And nobody knew who I was, which was really quite strange, you know, because I'm not a
musician.
I'm not famous on any level.
But I showed a short video of me getting busted and a little bit of history of cannabis.
And then I started talking and people just clicked and they loved it.
And the whole little thing went over really well.
But while I was being prosecuted, I really turned it into a soapbox.
Believe it or not, I toured around to almost all, not all of them, but quite a few of the
major universities speaking about legalizing cannabis.
We created this group called Spitfire, which was actors, musicians, and activists.
It was the idea of Zak De La Rocha of Rage Against the Machine.
And he had the idea of, like, putting rock stars and activists together and going to
colleges because then the kids would show up and listen to the rock stars and maybe,
you know, get a little bit taken away from the activists.
So it was cool, man.
I toured with Woody Harrelson, Chris Novoselic of Nirvana.
He spoke about censorship in music.
Amy Rae of the Indigo Girls, she spoke about gay and lesbian rights.
Kennedy, she spoke about conservative issues.
Jello Biafra of the Dead Kennedys, he was just fucking dynamic and spoke about everything
that blew our mind.
We had quite a few people.
Andy Dick was on tour with us.
Mickey Hart joined us for an event.
It was really quite cool because the woman that put it together was normally a music
industry, like, she would produce concerts.
So she knew all these, like, Red Hot Chili, she knew everybody.
And so she could just put us, like, you know, what the fuck am I doing touring around with
a guy from Nirvana?
But it was great.
And me and Chris became good friends and still friends, still friends, last time I checked.
So I think the world of him, really, he does this thing called Fear Vote, and he's trying
to get ranked choice voting passed in North America, where your vote always counts, meaning
that you pick your favorites.
And then if your first one doesn't win, all your votes go to your second choice.
And then it just creates a situation where every vote counts.
It's really cool.
The politicians are scared shit of it because it's not just 50-50 at that point.
It's like, you can't be an asshole because if the person you're, you would get the votes
from as their second choice if you don't do good.
It's really cool.
I love the work he does politically.
But it was fucking dynamic and I got to do a lot of fun shit.
When I got out of prison, I was really more determined to be an activist than I was ever.
And I met up with some guys from Canada.
We made the first documentary called The Union, the business behind getting high.
That did really well for us.
And then I got the opportunity to produce Playboy Parties.
And that went really well for us.
And then I rented 100,000 square feet at the Los Angeles Convention Center in 2009.
And I held the first THC Expo.
I had almost 300 companies.
And I had over 40,000 people show up that first Saturday.
The fire marshal almost shut me down multiple times.
It was really quite amazing.
And Tommy Chong is somebody I met in the neighborhood of LA.
When I moved to Bel Air, I started meeting celebrities.
And it's kind of strange like that.
But you just meet your neighbors.
And if you are friendly with them, you never know.
You make friends in the strangest places.
So Tommy and I became kind of buddies, like shared numbers and would talk.
And Tommy was very supportive of me before I went to prison because he felt like what?
The prosecution was just fucking horrible.
And then they prosecuted him for bongs while I was in prison.
I couldn't believe it.
Tommy and I went through the same halfway house within a few months of each other
and stayed in touch after we got out of prison.
And he was helpful with the Playboy parties in the way that he was trying to help me connect
with other celebrities because we were just trying to get them to try to speak up and get involved.
I mean, we're not rich like Nike.
We can't just hire Michael Jordan.
I got to like sit down with Kareem Abdul-Dabbar and try to like guilt him into saying good
things about medical cannabis, even though he uses medical cannabis for his own headaches.
And true story, actually.
And but the funny part is, is realistically, the party wasn't the point.
It was the networking that was important.
You know what I mean?
Because it gave us like a, hey, can I talk to you about our activism?
And would you donate or would you help out?
Tommy was always down to help out, but he never wanted to come to the parties because he hated
being like signature mode and he just hated it.
But he always came to the pre-planning parties, which was really more like touching to me
that he was like, he cared.
He's a great, great person.
I can adore Tommy Chong, but I called him up one day and he has an electric hot rod.
And I said, I was high, I'm always high.
But I said, hey, Tommy, do you still have your electric hot rod?
And he's like, yeah.
And I said, hey, can I borrow it?
And he got real quiet for a good minute.
And he's like, yeah, yeah, I suppose you can.
He's like, where is it you want to go, Todd?
I said, oh, Tommy, I'm not trying to go anywhere.
I rented the LA Convention Center and I'm going to hold the first indoor cannabis convention
on a large scale here in North America.
And I want to put your car on display because I'm doing this whole hemp education.
It's good for the environment thing.
And I love what you're doing with your electric hot rod.
To me, it's like the environmental side of you that nobody knows.
He drives a blacked out Prius.
He's not a flashy dude.
He's not wearing Rolexes and fucking gold watches.
And he's not that dude.
He's like environmentalist, like politically cool.
They say when you meet your heroes, you're often disappointed.
If you get to meet Tommy, you'll be nothing but blown away because he's just such a good
person.
His family is so cool.
His kids are so cool.
He's just amazing.
And he let me borrow his car, man.
He hooked me up with Hippie Motors and they delivered the car to the LA Convention Center.
And he came down that day to see what I was up to.
And I opened the doors and the place got flooded.
And he was so proud of me.
It was fucking great.
I got countless photos of him giving me hugs and being happier than anything because it
felt like vindication.
Here we are standing here as a demographic that can't be ignored.
And it felt good.
It was a real powerful moment.
Woody flew out from Hawaii just to come to my event.
It was really quite touching.
My friends have been great friends.
I feel nothing but blessed for the people I've had in my life and so, so fortunate.
And not just because they're famous, just because they're such good people on such a
spectrum of doing good things in the community on different levels.
And it's been beautiful.
And then I did my second documentary with the same guys.
We did the Culture High, which included really a great cast.
In 2012, I happened to be getting the Cannabis Culture Award from Ben Dronkers with Richard
Branson and Dr. Lester Grinspoon.
And I used the opportunity to ask Richard Branson if he would consider being in our
second documentary.
And he said, maybe.
And then he said, yes.
And then when he saw the film, he liked it so much that he took it on his own accord
and launched it for us on October 1st, 2014, which was pretty incredible.
And he wrote this beautiful blog about legalizing cannabis and what's going on with the war
on drugs.
And I mean, it was really amazing because you can't get a billionaire to do anything
he doesn't want to do if he doesn't want to do it.
And to have that purity was just incredible.
And I think a lot of because of that, he helped us get a lot of international press.
And then it was picked up by Netflix and it was shown in 70 countries in 15 languages
for three years with various transcriptions and voiceovers.
So it was, I don't know, this whole way through.
And then unfortunately, when Jack died in 2010, his publisher contacted me and said,
hey, you're it.
We got to put the book back out.
And at that point, we only had the 11th edition done.
So I put together the 12th edition of the book.
And I reached out to a bunch of our friends like Woody and Tommy and Vivian McPeak of
Hemp Fest and Debbie Colesberry of Cannes.
And I asked them to write memorials to Jack, Steve Hager of High Times, Steve Bloom, I
think I got in there too, maybe Malcolm McKinnon as well.
I'd have to go through the list, but they were all really nice to me.
I mean, Tommy, when I wrote to him and asked him to write a memorial for Jack Kerouac,
he didn't answer my email with a yes or a no.
He just wrote it and sent it back.
That was his reply.
And I was just like, wow.
And I don't know, it was touching because Jack touched all our lives.
I mean, I used to say that he didn't just touch our lives, he penetrated our lives.
And it was beautiful to know him and to be so close to him.
And I'm honored to still be close to all of his kids.
And I wish he was still here.
I love him very much.
He was the father I never had on a lot of levels.
I mean, Jack was great.
And yeah, I wish we still had him here today for sure.
And I think he'd be really proud to see legalization and the changes that have occurred.
I mean, for Jack, it was not about protecting the profits of farmers.
It was about liberating the people that were affected by the drug war and that were sitting
in prison.
And he made me promise that I would fight as an activist until I was 84 or dead.
And I don't know.
I just feel like a lot of my passion and determination came from him.
Yeah, I miss him.
I know he was someone that really touched my life.
And many others in such a positive way.
I think a lot of us early activists would say that it was reading The Emperor Wears
No Clothes that kicked us in the ass and really motivated us to do something about the injustice
that was cannabis prohibition.
Yeah.
And then in 2011, on a brighter note, Seattle Hemp Fest turned 20 years old.
So I helped Vivian McPeak put together a 20 chapter book called Protestable, which kind
of stands for protest and festival.
And we wanted to highlight all the work that Seattle Hemp Fest had done to work to legalize.
And it's been a hell of a journey, to be really blunt.
I mean, I don't know.
I'm proud of where we are now.
I'm glad to see the liberation.
I'm happy to see cannabis stores.
I believe in cannabinoids that it will help society like it's helped me.
And I wish more people had access to cannabis because I believe that if they did, society
would be a much more beautiful place and less people would be addicted to pharmaceuticals
and alcohol and various substances that you just don't need if you have good herb in your
life.
So yeah, hell of a journey.
So here we are now.
And I feel like even selling seeds is a form of activism because I've lived in the same
place for 11 years.
I've only been selling seeds for two and a half.
My life hasn't really changed since I started selling seeds.
It's really not about the money.
It's really just about trying to do good for a community that's meant a lot to me for a
long time.
And that's kind of helped me survive.
I don't think I would be where I am today if it wasn't for cannabis or the insightful
doctors that I had that were willing to give me cannabis over opiates.
And I'm just really grateful.
So cannabis is my form of appreciation.
And I think the best way I can honor it is to spread the seeds around and give other
people the opportunity of growing and experiencing the varieties that have come through me.
And I didn't invent cannabis, so I can breed it together all I want.
But I'm not going to be one of these guys that thinks he's cool or a fucking rockstar
breeder or any of that.
I think everybody should do it.
And I'm just grateful to be the bridge between these old growers, these old breeders and
a new generation.
What a powerful recount there of your life story.
That's incredible to say the least.
And thanks so much for sharing the very personal relationship you have with Jack.
That's really inspiring.
We had just a small number of questions left, including our rapid fire ones.
So we're sort of on the tail end of it all.
I appreciate your time.
Sure, sure, sure.
It's been fun talking to you.
You know, COVID's kept us in the house.
And I used to go to coffee shops and meet strangers and talk to them for hours and become
friends.
And it was great.
I haven't been out of the house in a while.
I just meet my girlfriend working all the time.
So it's kind of nice to have been talking to you and going over this stuff.
I didn't realize I haven't talked about Jack in a while.
So my own surprises in this conversation.
But thanks for entertaining it.
And I hope that people take something from it, to say the least.
Look, I'm sure they will.
It's been great from my position, that's for sure.
I think I could probably guess the answer to this question, but I haven't asked you.
What style of growing do you like?
Are you a soil organics guy?
How do you do it?
Yeah, I organic pots.
I get LED lights and I get drip run to waste irrigation.
I use Dosatrons, right?
But I use Roots Organic 707 as a medium.
I love it.
I swear by it.
I think it's a very good company.
They put out a very good product.
I use some of Arien's greenhouse powder feeding.
I like his Bio line and his Mineral line, both very good.
I use those in addition.
I don't really spray much on my plants.
I like extracts and I don't want anything on the flowers other than water.
As far as growing tips, I would say that a long time ago, I started using ionized water,
which is electronically ionized for its acidity or alkalinity.
You can use this water to either degrease or basically debug.
It doesn't leave anything behind.
I've been recommending to my friends that they buy these water ionizers and they start to use
high alkaline water in order to rinse off powder and mildew and acidic water to deal with bugs
because acid rain showed us that we kill the insects, but acid rain also kills the insects.
If you use an acidic water, you can actually do it without harming the plants.
The alkaline water, though, I am very hesitant to spray on flowering plants because
the high alkalinity will emulsify the oils.
You want to use it more sparingly than the acidic water, but it works great.
Also, if anybody's still this deep in there listening,
I recommend using hemp seed oil as a solvent to dissolve the trichrome heads on the cannabis
flowers that people grow.
20 years ago, I was sitting home rather stoned and I was using a maranol and I had used an AB
epoxy that day, which is two parts resin that makes a hard bind.
I was thinking, shit, synthetic molecules suspended in sesame oil, what if I used organic
cannabinoids and suspended them in hemp seed oil?
I went and I scooped up some resin powder and I put it in some hemp seed oil that I had
heating up in a frying pan and it melted into the hemp seed oil and decarboxylated and I put it on
muffins like it was a butter and I got really high.
I started playing with putting the grinding up the cannabis or just using my, because I have
seed screens, 60 mesh and 150 mesh and a bunch in between, so I would collect my resin powder.
Now, if you just put resin powder in a jar of hemp seed oil and you agitate it a little,
the hemp seed oil being an oil will break down the trichrome, which is also an oil,
and it will release the acids and the terpenes into the oil.
Then you can take a stainless steel strainer or whatever you want and you can actually
strain the hemp seed oil of any of the thicker waxes that didn't dissolve with the hemp seed oil
as easily and you can get that out.
Then what you have left is phyto cannabinoid infused, non-decarboxylated and all the terpenes
in the hemp seed oil and you can do this in your refrigerator.
It takes like 10 to 20 days sometimes for the oil to break down the trichrome and you can
it's so much better than an alcohol-based ethanol extract because alcohol doesn't evaporate off to
like a buck set, 170 degrees Fahrenheit and by the time it does, it's evaporated away most of
the more monotropines and it has decarboxylated the cannabinoids.
I had this realization that if we could consume higher amounts of cannabis,
if we could consume higher amounts of phyto cannabinoids without decarboxylating them,
we might find that it's a better medicine for a lot of people who are not trying to get
like loopy, like if you have a little kid that's having seizures or like me, a little kid at the
time that was going through chemo, you probably don't want them all stoned out.
But if you can actually give him phyto cannabinoids in hemp seed oil,
which in itself has a perfect balance of essential fatty acids, then you can actually
medicate the child without drugging the child for lack of better terminology, but people would get
it and that can be very beneficial because cancer patients have shown that using like
a thousand milligrams of decarboxylated THC was beneficial for the anti-inflammatory effects of
like reducing tumor sizes. And my thought is that you can actually take thousands of milligrams of
phyto cannabinoids that are not decarboxylated and have the anti-inflammation properties
without being completely sleeping for the next 48 hours, which is nice if you're dying,
you want to be awake for most of the rest of your life and not completely drugged out and loopy.
So I really recommend that people start looking at that. Home growing is blowing up now that
it's legal and people have the ability of making their own medicine instead of going out and buying
it, you know, $80 an eighth in a jar. They can have big branches of it for practically nothing.
So, you know, once they have an abundance of cannabis, starting to look at hemp seed oil
and preserving it is much better because if you make jars of phyto cannabinoid infused hemp seed
oil, you can keep that in cold storage for a very long time. And those phyto cannabinoids
and terpenes will remain very viable. And the oil smells amazing, man. Some flower terpene
combinations smell so good with the nutty scent of hemp seed oil. It's crazy. It's absolutely wonderful.
So my little bit of advice to anyone still listening.
No, that's great. I'm going to have to give that a try myself, actually.
We've spoken a lot about some of the more old school strains and so I would be keen to hear
what are your thoughts specifically on the new stuff, you know, the hype, exotic stuff. So you're
a fan of it? Are you not a fan of it? And will we ever see any of it blended in with some of your lines?
Sure. I love cannabis. I'm a big pothead. I mean, I probably smoked four joints before we've been
sitting here talking, but I love pot. I mean, my complaints about the pot that has been floating
around prior to me starting AG is that it's all very similar. And I think that it's not good for
the community to the degree in which there's a lot more diversity in the genetics that I've
experienced than we're seeing in the marketplace. So I'm trying to affect that.
It's just that in a way, I don't think the high is as good as it could be on many levels. I mean,
I unfortunately think that, you know, unless you grow your own cannabis, you kind of don't
understand what I'm saying. But there's so much that happens negatively to cannabis in post-harvest.
It's really handling that ruins most pot. And when people get it and they don't try it correctly,
and they lose some of those terpenes in a flash cure or a flash dry, they bottle it up,
or it was too moist. And it kind of gets that funky little smell that doesn't go away.
If it's not handled properly, the variety itself isn't going to matter. And I've joked with people
that I can go pick hemp and cure it and dry it properly. And it'll smoke and taste and smell
better than some of the stuff I get from commercial farms. Just because if you put the
time into retaining the terpenes and the oil content and doing that slow dry and slow cure,
because a lot of people don't understand, well, even what's a cure. Well, the flower is covered
with oil and think of it like varnish on a piece of wood. If you put varnish on a piece of wood and
you leave the piece of wood in the sun, the sun will go away. And you'll have a lot of
people who don't understand that. But if you take that same varnish piece of wood and you put it in
the shade, and that coat of oil doesn't soak in, but it thickens, it then becomes a protected to
the wood and you can pour water on it and it just runs off. That happens on a microscopic level on
cannabis flowers. And when people allow that thin covering of oil residue to that waxiness
to harden up, it protects the humidity that's left, should be less than 10%. But then the bud has
body, it has flavor, it has terpenes present, and it's a really good smoke. And I like fresh pot. I
like smoking weed a week after I cut it down and I can barely get it to burn, but it burns perfect
because there's so much oil content. But then I also like pot that I've let sit in the freaking
can of troll for eight months or whatever. Literally, I have a lot of old weed. I have RKS
from last year. I smoked some of it earlier today and I still like it, but it's September last year.
So now it's a year and a month old. But I don't sell it. So I end up with bags of weed and then
they turn brown after they oxidize because the lights cut to them and it's freaking hilarious.
But if you cure it well and those oils are still present, the quality of it lasts a lot longer.
So a lot of how you're going to feel cannabis is determined by how well it was handled and
how well it was cured before it got to your plate. So I think if you had every clone that
all these people were growing all the new stuff, I bet you'd grow great weed with it. I bet you'd
grow it and you might leave it a little longer. You might bring it into late stage. You might let
little pistols wither away and turn into little resin globs. You might treat it a little differently
than the grower that you got it from. And you might like it a little. You might on the other
side, you might harvest it a little early, might like the high a little lighter. And that dial a
high is something a lot of people don't realize either. Because if you harvest early, you get a
different sensation from the smoke if you harvest it late stage. And you can take things like haze
and let it go really late stage. And it's really trippy, man. And you can take like Afghanis
and harvest them early, like week six, week seven. And they're not heavy body highs. They're
really almost kind of hazy where they're light and trippy. So trying to teach people that there's so
much more than one dimensional cannabis has been kind of tough. Because a lot of people don't,
they just don't see the spectrum. Like you were saying, they think there's one RKS, there was one
skunk. And it's like, no, man. It was a body of plants. It was like, I don't even know what region.
But when I talked to Rob Clark and I talked to Skunk Man Sam, Skunk Man Sam has gone through
Afghanistan and collected seeds. I believe him. I don't know many other people that have been there
and done that. And he has the genetics. So what the fuck? Take his experience. It's what it is.
But when all those Afghans started coming over, it was this region that produced these plants that
were like that. And I think that a lot of people are going to find them again. I think that if
ever this world goes to peace and stuff, maybe we would find a lot of these absolutely amazing
Hindu Kush, Indian varieties, Chinese varieties, Afghan, Pakistan. I mean, this is the birthplace
of cannabis, people. This is where we need to go back and start looking around. I mean,
the Himalayas, Nepal. I mean, every time I see people that are in foreign countries like this
and they contact me for seeds, I'm like, no, no, no. You should be going out and collecting seeds
and geographically collecting those so you know where they came from, what region. You're not
going to give people up, but make them available. Bring them out of the, bring them to market,
because that's what we need to have happen again. I would love to be able to buy seeds from Thailand
tomorrow on Amazon and then actually come from Thailand or some seeds from Columbia or some from
Michoacan or Acapulco. Please, it'd be great. I would be thrilled. The only sad part is that I
think there's been a lot of European seed merchant influence in almost all the cannabis producing
regions around the world. And unfortunately, almost all of it has been contaminated with
good intention genetics. So, when we move on to our final questions, we have a few
fan submitted questions that I think are interesting. And the first one is,
how far do you plan on taking the Northern Lights lines? Like, do you see yourself going to like an
F5 and F6 sort of thing? And as a follow up, would you ever release the famous Northern Light
as an S1? I think maybe they're referring to Pura Sindica.
Pura Sindica. You know, it's funny, Greg told me that he didn't send Pura Sindica to Neville
and I get it. And I'm going to release it because it's Greg's wishes. And I feel like I'm just like,
you know, I was on the phone with Greg earlier today, you know, whatever you want me to do is
fine. You know, I feel like I'm more of a conduit than I am. You know, I'm trusted and I'm lucky.
I'm grateful that these people like me and I'm grateful that they've entrusted me with the
genetics. I don't know another way to put it. I am going to release Pura Sindica. Like I released,
you know, instead of just hybrids, I kind of wanted people to have the ability to have these
things isolated. And as an F2 is the only way I can do it realistically other than S1 and S1
and kind of takes away the male ability of people to breed and I'm, I'm really not trying
to stifle other people's ability to work with these genetics. I'm trying to enable it. And
I do, you know, something that gets confused though is taking things F2, F3, F4, F5 does not
necessarily make them better. It does not necessarily make them more stable. According
to Rob in Marijuana Botany, it creates more variation within the prodigies the further you
get into this inbreeding. So you're always, you know, cannabis is an obligate outcrosser,
just like humans. It doesn't want to be inbred with its family. It wants to be outcrossed
if you really want to make good things. I'm definitely going to make the genetics I have
available to people as I have been, like, you know, F2 and the Hays, the Skunk and BNL. But
I've been selling hybrids of my own since I started. They were the first things I started
selling were the crosses with on Hays. And I'm going to continue to be making, you know, I'm
just so into it, like I'm going to constantly release the genetics because, you know, you only
live so long and, you know, I'd like to, you know, leave as big of a mark on the planet as I
can in a positive way before I check out, which I will inevitably do at some point. So, you know,
trying to get it out there is cool. And, you know, as long as I'm improving what I'm doing,
I'm going to keep doing it. But like trying to, you know, these people, they're like, oh,
F99 or whatever. It's like cut out with the bullshit, really. You know, I mean, I'm happy
with a really good F1 and consistency and uniformity, like, you know, head over heels
for the serious seeds offerings that Simon puts out because they're true F1s. And he'll always
put out awesome weed because they're true F1s. And I'll make I'll always be making F1s and S1s. And
when it's appropriate, like it is right now, I'll be making F2s. But I don't see myself,
you know, I don't know, you know, once you've once you have I'll make original hay seeds again
when I run low on the amount I've already made, if that makes sense. But there's no need for me to
to replicate it now while I still have pretty good quantity of original hay seeds for 2019.
But I will in the future. I mean, I know I have dreams of, you know, I've, you know,
you know, I want all the plants, all the plants. I'm a gardener, you know, I, you know, people like,
how can you have 4000 plants and when I was like, so easy, like, I was partying all the time, too.
If I had actually been focused, I would have had 40,000 plants in that fucking place. It's just
you just you want all the phenotypes, you want to go through all of them, you want to try all of them,
you know, and what's funny is, I would have thrown 90% of those plants away and only taken the 10%
that I really liked if I had left to my own devices and allowed to continue on what I was
doing. And now it's the same way. I go through shit tons of plants and throw shit tons of plants
away that I don't like. You know, I won't replicate anything that I don't fall in love with,
you know, so if it and testing to me is not as important as falling in love with it. If,
if it doesn't, you know, if it doesn't appeal to the human, I really don't care if it appeals to
the machine. And I'm not doing this to have fast quarter mile times or the highest THC levels.
And I think a lot of that's missing the point entirely.
Yeah, no, very comprehensive. I like that. And it sort of segues nicely into the next question,
which is, if you had to give a generalized answer, where would you like to see the future
of breeding going? Quality over quantity. You know, that's my goal. I mean, I'm,
I think that we're going to see the bottleneck kind of come off and we're going to see cannabis
varieties, you know, from all weeks of its potential start to surface as time goes on.
And more and more and more people are going to realize that, you know, there's a lot more,
you know, to cannabis than just, you know, quick, thick buds that are full of resin. You know,
there's nuances to these terpenes and these, you know, subtle cannabinoid combinations that
are amazing. I mean, Mel Frank told me one of his favorite varieties that he grew when he smoked,
he got tested and he came back at like sub 9% THC. And he was like,
didn't expect that, you know, but the way it smelled, the way it tasted, the way it made him
feel felt great. And, you know, that's that, you know, if that makes sense, you know what I mean?
Like, really, I guess it isn't just THC at the end of the conversation that matters. It's,
did you enjoy it? And if you didn't enjoy it, you're probably not going to smoke any more of it.
But if you didn't enjoy it, you'd probably be quick to roll up another, you know, second or third
joint, do a second or third dab, you know. Yeah, here, here, quality over quantity for sure.
Final fan submitted question we have is, how did you develop your cloning tech with the domes and
the fluorescent lighting? Or did you get that from someone else? That was all tech. I mean,
um, so I don't use domes downstairs right now. I have a humidity controlled room, I monitor my
PPD levels. I keep my mother room at around 72 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit. And I keep my humidity
around 70, you know. And if you keep your humidity levels at high, the plants don't wither.
The domes are, when I was living in LA, it's a lot more dry. So if you were looking at that
rack of shells, that was from the, that was from select strains when I started my nursery.
And that was one of the clone racks for my nursery. But LA is a really dry place. So in
order to compensate for the dryness, I can't humidify the whole room. And I had hardwood
floors and you don't want to humidify a room with hardwood floors. So, so I just use domes. And they
work rather good. Cloning is easy. I mean, my problem has been I've had too green of a thumb,
you know, it's gotten me in trouble over and over again. I got out of prison in 2004. And in between
all the activism that I explained, I got prosecuted in 2006, 2009. And also 2013 through 2017.
For cultivating cannabis, I was rated in 2006, 2009 and 2012. And I wouldn't cooperate. So
I got prosecuted every single time. And I think there's no other way to do it, actually.
But it's been a pain. And this is why kind of now I'm kind of doing what I'm doing, because
I'm able to kind of grow on a small scale. And it is all about quality. It's not about quantity.
And it's, and I kind of feel like I'm doing a service for the community. It's kind of sounds
weird, but it's true. Now I don't have, I don't know. I'm already happy. I'm already where I want
to live. I'm already, you know, doing what I want to do. So like I said, my life hasn't changed much
in the time I've started the seed company. You know, in many cases, I'm using the same table,
same equipment that was used before I had the seed company. So, you know, I'll just continue this. I
could see in the future trying to sell authentic genetics to a bigger company so that I could,
you know, get like my own winery and have my own crew and have greenhouses and be able to,
on a much larger scale, be able to breed. That would be my dream and be able to then sell the,
you know, the plants, the seeds that I make through my, you know, sold company. Because,
you know, there's a part of me that doesn't want to be a secretary and doesn't enjoy the
business side of it as much as I just enjoy growing. That's where my heart is. That's where
my passion is. I like writing. I like creating content and educating, you know, sitting there,
you know, sending invoices and packing seeds is rather a burden, but I'm grateful for it. But it's
not exactly what I wanted to be when I grew up, you know, but it's cool. I'm dealing with it for
the time being. My eyes hurt from doing emails, but it's cool. Now, I can understand. Yeah,
you're a man who wants to be among the plants, not the computer screens I feel for you. So,
with that, we're on to our final five quick questions. Before we wrap this one up, we'd
love to ask everyone these questions. So, the first one is what's the single most memorable
experience with cannabis you've ever had? I'm probably getting my mom that first time in the
car because it was so what the fuck, you know? It was like, I just never felt that way before.
Giddy and hungry, like everything was funny and I didn't have any pain. I wasn't nauseous.
And, you know, when you're going through cancer, you're feeling pretty low, you know, like you're
depressed, you physically ache, you're mentally strained, you're worried, you're anxious. And
to be able to get high, I can't underestimate that. It was just a huge difference, you know?
And that's probably why I became such a passionate advocate and activist because it made a really
deep impact on my life, my health and my well-being. And I feel grateful to it because of it.
Yeah, powerful. So, on the other end of the spectrum, was there ever a time when maybe all
your peers or your friends are really hyping something up and you're getting really excited
for it and then you finally try and you're like, this is it? What is runts?
No, that's cute. But, you know, Skittles was one of those too, you know? I'm old. So, when I first
got handed a Skittles bud, I was like, guys, I smell skunk one. And they're like, Skittles. I'm
like, no, skunk one. Because I've had the ability to work with some of these old genetics in their
pure form, I kind of can smell them. I can see the primary colors, if that makes sense. I can
smell the primary colors coming through. So, yeah, you can't really hide it. And
it's happened more than once. A lot of the stuff that's come out in the last, you know,
cookies, please, you know, like a lot of the stuff that's come out has been like,
it's okay, you know? I mean, I like cookies. I'll smoke cookies. Sometimes it's really good.
Sometimes not so great. Jack Harrah, same thing. You know, I used to love Jack Harrah when we first
got it from Scents of Seeds when it was really hazy. But then they changed it in 1996. They
crossed it with the skunk, kind of imitated the SSH. It was their version of SSH. It was called
Jack Flash. And it was a heavier version that came out around 1996 from Scents of Seeds.
And they kind of replaced Jack Harrah with Jack Flash. And a lot of the Jack Harrah that we now
refer to 1997 onward is really Jack Flash. And it's really like a super silver haze-ish,
because it's really a haze crossed with skunk, which is what super silver haze was. It was
a cross with skunk. So it was a similar recipe done a little differently with similar plants.
And it's funny because I like the original Jack Harrah and I like the original Neville Says more
than I like the super silver haze or the Jack Flash. But Jack Forrest, XJ39, a lot of these
Jack crosses that we see now are not very hazy. But I don't, you know, Jack, his kids are using
the name and they're trying to create a brand. And I'm not trying to exploit an old friend.
And I, you know, I have haze, so I can make really hazy stuff. And when people talk about
Jack Harrah, really they're smelling a little bit of haze, but I have the whole pie. So I can make
stuff that's way hazier than the Jack Harrah hazy hybrids that are floating around right now.
So it's like different, if that makes sense. So I'm definitely going to be bringing way more
haze hybrids back in the years to come because it's my fancy and my fascination.
And because I have the genetics. Yeah, exciting to see that happen.
So if you could only pick one for the rest of your life, what would you pick, indoor or outdoor?
I'm indoor all day. I don't like birds shitting on my flowers.
I don't think that's very sanitary. And the problem with growing outdoors is that you're
susceptible to mother nature. She, you know, she gives you can work so hard and so true and so
valiantly and she just comes along and has a really damp, you know, August or a really dry
one or, you know, fucking fires and that you get fallout and, you know, or some kid next door is
frigging playing with some seeds and he pops some nails. And next thing you knew, you've got
fertilized flowers that you didn't expect to have because pollen travels really easily.
So I think there's a lot of drawbacks to outdoor. I think outdoor will mostly be used for extracts
because it can be cleaned up. I think that small batch outdoor can be freaking awesome
because there's nothing like the sun. But my favorite is mixed light indoor greenhouse because
my greenhouse also has LED supplementation and I have, you know, VPD control and heat and
the ability to cool it off. And it's, you know, I'm mother nature at that point. If
the environment fucks up, it's my fault, not hers. I'm just, you know, surfing the wave as she gives
it to me on hot days or dry days or rainy days. I just readjust the equalizer. That's my greenhouse
and try to stay in my perimeters and keep my plants happy. And I like that. I prefer to have
a roof over my plants head and I like avoiding the winds and everything, but I still grow indoors for
practical reasons because I got to keep mother plants and I got to keep clones and you're not
going to do that in the sunshine. And I also, I like indoor flowers. I think they're great. And
it gives me an ability to kind of see the expressions of the phenotypes in a controlled
environment where everything's equal, you know, where when you're outside, you know, one can get
a little more sun or what could be in a little sweet spot, but when it's indoors, it's it's,
they're all sweet spots or you're not setting up your environment correctly. So for testing reasons,
I'll always be an indoor grower, you know, for, you know, greenhouse, I'll always have a greenhouse
too. I'll always, yeah. But outdoor, I don't, I like putting plants outdoors. I've done it many
times, but I don't know. I feel like it's like rolling dice with mother nature. Maybe you'll
get a good harvest, but if she's mad, maybe you won't. No, I completely agree with you. I completely
agree. So I'm interested to know if I'm going to drop you off on a desert Island and you can only
take three strains with you for the rest of your life, what three are you going to take?
Oh, it'd be haze for sure. It would be now Northern Lights probably. I don't know.
NL2 or purest indica would have to be one of those two. That's really tough. That'd be tough.
Maybe the purest indica, but then I wouldn't have an afghan to make the NL2. And then third,
that's tough, you know, for the diversity of it, it would be something similar to skunk one,
because I like the tropicalness of it. And when I say skunk one, I like the sweet version of skunk
one as well as the acrid version I found in the Mel Frank's old seeds. So I kind of, I like the
fruity tropical varieties. And if I had haze skunk one, even the sweet skunk one, and
either the purest indica or the NL2, I'd be pretty happy because at that point I would have the
gassy, I would have the fruity and I have the spicy and I would be thrilled. And then I could
make all sorts of great shit because, and I'd need a few more lifetimes on the Island just because
of all the hybrids I'd want to make. And then time to test them, of course. And then time to
make cash with them. Covering all the bases. I like it. I like it. On to our final question,
one I love to ask everyone. If you could get in a time machine and go back in time,
anywhere you wanted, any time, presumably to collect either seeds or a cutting,
where would you go and what would you be collecting? That's heavy, man.
That's heavy. I came home from Amsterdam with over 50,000 seeds and they were stolen from me
when I got raided. And I don't know, that's tough because I had such a diversity in genetics at that
point. I wish I could have my old seeds because it sounds really weird to say, but I admit,
it hurt to lose them. It took me up to that point, a lifetime of collecting. And then they took them
all and I just, that hurt. And I don't know, like that, I could still see them in front of me. I
just, I don't know. That's partly why people listening, you know, partly how I got the deal
from Peter is he offered me 10 grand and he offered me, that's Scott Fancy I'm calling
there right now actually. He offered me 10 grand and 8% of my book and I turned them down. And then
I had mailed back some seeds and when I mailed them back,
he was there with me when I opened the packages, the boxes. He had boxes too. I sent him goodies
as well. I'm sure the statute of limitations is long as I'm long up. But I started pulling seeds
out instead of hashing grass, which is what he wanted. I started pulling seeds out packages of
1000 all neatly marked with the varieties. And he was shocked, you know, and when he grabbed a bag
of seeds, he was like, how much is a seed worth? And I was like, I don't know, five bucks, 10 bucks.
And he's like, this little bag is worth 10 grand. And I was like, yeah. And there was like a pile
and a half of there was a huge amount of in front of me. And he was like, how many seeds are there?
I sent an excess of 50,000. And he said, no wonder you said no to my money. And he was like,
what are you going to do with those? And I was like, hopefully keep them, you know, but I want
to start, you know, I want to start a seed company. And he said, no, you have to keep them. He's like,
you have to grow them. Every one of them, they're important. And I was just like, oh my God. And he
was just like, would you take a quarter million with that? I'll give you a credit card too,
but like, let's get you started. And I was just like, yeah. And he literally turned to my
girlfriend and he was like, do you still have the keys to my car? Cause we've used this car.
And I said, and he said, yeah, I said, yeah, she said yes. And he said, let's bring him to the
bank before he changes his mind. And he got up in a robe with fucking shower shoes, little fucking
fuzzies. Cause he was gay. He was hilarious. And a bird ruck running around on his shoulders,
shitting on his white robe. And he had us drive him down to the Wells Fargo bank in LA.
And we walked in, this dude's wearing a robe and got bed head for days. And we go in there and the
manager runs up to him. He's like, Mr. McWilliams, how are you doing? Would you like some organic
milk? We have it in the fridge for you. And he's like, yeah, sure. And then he whisks us into the
manager's office. And just, it was that easy. Peter's like, I want to put a quarter million
in his bank account. He's going to need a company card. What else do you need? And I was like, I
can't think of much more now. And he's like, we'll get back to you if we need more stuff.
It was like my life changed in a minute. And I, and that's kind of how it happened. I mean,
I immediately started looking for a place to live. I found the castle,
which was utterly ridiculous, but had a lot of space. I moved into it and I had a fucking,
I literally had a card with no limit. Peter was like, very encouraging. He was very wealthy at
the time. And he was like, he thought he was dying. I mean, unfortunately he died two and
a half years after we met. And he just, he was living like his life was ending. And I had no
limit. So I bought fucking diamond lights and fucking built the tables, brought electricians in.
I fucking, everything was amazing, man. I put my ballast in my elevator shaft because I had this
like 70 foot elevator shaft that went from the ground floor all the way up. And I put massive
fans in my attic and I pulled the air all the way through fresh air from my garage, which was like a
six car garage. I had 38 lights in one room and I used to pull all the air through up into my
elevator shaft, up the elevator shaft and through out of the house. The place was incredible.
It was located directly cost from something called the stone Canyon reservoir. And it created
this little humid zone in the Canyon I lived in. And I didn't even have to use domes when I made
clones. It was like perfect VPD all the time. And I was crazy. Like you could put any plant you
wanted outside and it loved it. I had plants going up my staircases all over my patios in the courtyard.
I had them everywhere. I took this Hayes plant that was like, I'd say almost 16 feet tall and
dragged it into my elevator with a twisty fluorescent light bulb. And the plant was like
half bent over. So when you got in the elevator, this Hayes plant was like really big leaves, but
super thin. And like, it was weird. It was like a big bear hugging you. You know what I mean?
Cause it was just stuff that the quarter of the stem was like bent all the way, all the way over
at an angle. And then I put a little table in it where you could do like single bong hits as you
took elevator rides. It was a kid's fantasy. It was really what it was. I mean, for a stoner,
a psychedelic pot grower, it was great while it lasted, you know, and I don't know. I don't regret
it. It was, it was a lot of fun. I never planned for it to happen. I hope nobody listening thinks
that I had some stupid dream of moving to Bel Air and growing thousands of plants in a
fucking mansion, but it just, it's, it's, it's what happened. You know, sometimes when you're
letting life take you, it takes you some strange places, you know.
That's it. I think that's the theme of this interview. It's taken us to some strange places,
but nevertheless, incredibly knowledgeable, insightful, very grateful to have been able to
hear all your insights. I think that's just about the end of it. Did you have any comments or
shout outs you wanted to make? No, we've talked about a lot, you know, it was really nice, Jordan,
to sit and talk with you, go over this stuff. I mean, I hope it's inspirational to people listening.
I don't know if anything, I think that's been the point of my life is to inspire others. And
I've been very inspired. So it was great to have this inspiring conversation with you.
Thank you for taking the time. And I hope people enjoy it. It's the longest conversation I've ever
had on a podcast. But I've never gone over this much material and, you know, for the history books.
And there you have it, friends, part two of two with the legend Todd McCormick of AGC Co.
Huge shout out and thank you again for taking the time to stop by,
share all your knowledge and thoughts on various topics we've discussed,
and a little bit of an idea for what might come in the future.
As usual, we want to give another quick shout out to our fantastic sponsors.
Seeds here now, best seeds in the game, you know, you love them, go check them out.
Coppert Biological Systems, your number one choice for beneficial predators and keeping any pests or
pathogens at bay. Check out the Afipar M, the Spidex Vital, both killer products.
Likewise, Pro-Mix Connect, your number one mycorrhizal product from the good people at Pro-Mix.
You know them, you love them, they've been around forever. Try their mycorrhizal product,
I promise. It's amazing. Highest spore count there is,
guaranteed viability, your plants are going to just go insane.
And last but not least, your buds at Charlie's Cannabis,
check them out. If you're in Oklahoma, there's no other choice, simply the highest quality
available. Exciting genetics, new phenos and new strains on the horizon as always.
Check them out, our good buddies, veteran owned, in-house produced, Charlie's your bud.
Finally, a huge shout out to the Patreon gang, you are the lifeblood of the show.
You guys help to ensure the episodes continue to be made. If you want early access to content,
if you want to hear unheard interviews, get access to exclusive giveaways, prizes,
discords, so much more, go check out the Patreon, www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
That's it, friends. Thanks for joining me again for this one, guys. Make it to the end.
I'll see you for the next one.
See you.
