Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode, as always, was brought to you by 420 Australia, your premier lifestyle company,
as well as Johnston Genetics, makers of awesome strains such as the Grandma's Sugar Cookies
and the newly released Ron Swanson Kudus.
In this episode, we're joined by Johnny of Johnston Genetics, who fills us in on some
of the details around Johnston Genetics, as well as some of his plans for the future and
much more.
So, here we go.
Okeydokey.
So, a big welcome to our guest, Johnny from Johnston Genetics and thank you so much for
coming on the show today.
How's it going?
Pretty good.
So, we'll just jump straight into it.
So, the first question I like to ask everyone, growing up, what were some of the reasons
you decided to get into cannabis and what was your first experience with it?
Was it with some friends?
Was it with your uncle in the backyard?
Wow.
That goes way back.
I got into the cannabis industry at a young age.
Earlier than 13, I don't remember my exact age.
Started smoking, just hanging out with friends as everyone did.
It was known to me.
That's what my dad did growing up.
So, it wasn't anything new to me.
I wasn't doing it to rebel.
But that was kind of the original time of whenever I had my first instance with marijuana.
Just hanging out with friends, busted out a joint.
So, I was just like, yeah, let's go for it.
I fell in love immediately.
I think I had kind of a hyper mind.
It settled me down.
That was just amazing for me.
Literally at that moment, that joint was life-changing for me.
Yeah.
And so, when you first started growing, what were some of the first strains you were growing?
You mentioned that your dad was already doing it.
So, did he have kind of like a library already or were you guys kind of trialing out breeders
at the time?
And if so, who were some of the breeders around at that time, like when your dad was doing
it, or were there no breeders yet?
There were breeders, but not in our local area.
It was extremely underground.
We started in Oklahoma, which is a completely no-tolerance state, zero tolerance.
And so, breeding was not really talked about amongst groups of people.
It was done basically back then as a necessity to have the next round of seeds to grow for
the next year.
We basically had a lot of our, or my dad had a lot of his old stuff that I don't know all
of the exact sources and stuff, but he's acquired them over the years.
And whenever I first started, he didn't give me anything.
It was me starting out on my own.
I didn't exactly have like a free gift of genetics from him.
But later on, I did.
Let's see.
But he picked up seeds from all over.
He picked up seeds from Africa, a lot from Africa.
He spent 12 years in Africa.
Oh, wow.
So, yeah, all over.
And then in Middle East, it was basically that was the real two main locations he acquired
from, and then some through some South American travel.
He spent 12 years in the Middle East and Africa.
So that's where a lot of my influence comes from is what his kind of choices were growing
up that I watched.
That's incredible.
So, did he kind of work these lines out himself or were they just kind of run as they were
and probably would have been pretty game changer to have Afghan seeds at that time, right?
I mean, I'm imagining this was probably 20, 30 years ago.
Correct.
Yes.
So, yeah, that's one of our biggest, I guess you could say staples that I have in the storage
vault is old school Afghan.
And I'm going to be breaking that out very soon for my next breeding projects in the
next six months or so, I think.
Basically, when he started the seeds, they were just land race.
Essentially, he just brought them back, started and then we would just have to like, it would
be each year the best that would be selected.
We'd keep the seeds that we ran from it and then every year we'd progress with it.
Yep.
So, I mean, what generation do you think they would be at just like since he's had them
probably like F20 or something or they won't work that much?
No, I don't know.
His health isn't very good anymore.
He's no longer doing anything himself.
But when he stopped, they would have probably been in the teens possibly at least.
We don't always grow the exact same thing every single year, but we make sure to get
the seed stock of most things for the next year.
And that's kind of where that love of that and watching things progress, change, watching
the genetics mix with each other.
And from a young age, that's what inspired me to want to start doing this.
Then with the switch of legalization here, that kind of just gave me the kick in the
ass to get it going.
Yeah.
So, it sounds like you were pretty self-sufficient for quite a while.
At what point did you decide to bring in kind of some foreign genetics, so to speak, maybe
some clones from some other people or you bought some seeds from some other people or
was it really just working with your own stock until then?
Well, I felt like a lot of stuff, I don't always just smoke what I grow and I smoke
things from other breeders.
I've probably smoked something from every breeder out there, but I have my favorites
and my favorite smokes as a tip of the hat kind of respect to the breeders that did breed
some of the genetics I've used.
That's the main reason.
If they bred something that I fall in love with, I'll probably be throwing something
of mine that I think would work out well with it, genetics come into it.
It's mostly a show of respect to the other breeders.
Yeah, okay.
The ones that I put in.
And that really started around the legalization time for here, maybe a year or two before
that, because medically here, it's been quite open for a long time.
So, I've been working with other genetics for a while, I guess I could say.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, let's talk about some of your strains because in my opinion, almost all
of them use what I would call like a unique strain in that like one of the parents is
not used by really any other breeders.
So, we'll start off with what I assume is probably the main stud in your garden, the
black sugarberry.
I've found at least eight or 10 or so crosses that use it as the male.
It's obviously pretty good in your opinion, but there's not a lot of info on it online.
How would you describe it to someone who is interested?
What's your sales pitch for the black sugarberry as a male?
Well, that one came out, it was pretty underground when it came out.
That's why there wasn't a whole lot of info out there, I guess you could say.
It's big winning traits or for the most part, just nice size colas, good purple hues with
a good even base flavor, I guess you could say.
It's just an all around real winner in my opinion, as far as like production, I guess
you could say.
And so, that was my main focus was to use that larger bud pattern to add into some of
my other favorite genetics to see if I could push that purple into them.
It really was one of my big pushes, which a lot of them did take.
So another line that I think is really interesting of yours is the Paki Valley line.
And as far as I know, I mean, I'm probably wrong, but I can only off the top of my head
think of you and two other breeders who have done a similar project where basically they
work the one line out in multiple different directions, like multiple different phenotypes.
And I was wondering, what's the inspiration behind this?
Was it like a pre-planned idea or was it just like a happy mistake where maybe you pop the
first F1s and you found that there were two fairly different phenotypes and both were
standout or did you have a plan from the start and you knew the Paki Valley was something
that was going to be worth digging into?
Well, it really happened, I guess you could call it the happy mistake.
I ran into two phenotypes that when I was selecting down to my always, I'd select down
to my best and that's what makes it to the next generation for breeding.
When I came down to making that choice, I just couldn't decide between two.
I couldn't throw one away.
I couldn't do it.
And so I just went the two routes with that.
I went number one and number two or the magenta and the white as a lot of people call them.
And how would you describe the two different lines?
I've been able to find some information that says, I believe it was the magenta is, you
describe it as a little bit more of a medicinal line.
But yeah, how would you describe the two lines and how they differ from each other?
Yeah, the magenta would be more along the, I don't know how you'd explain it.
The medicating, it was more heavy in the medicating field, like a heavy indica effect,
I guess you could call it.
It really would sit you in your seat.
The white was a little more on the brighter flavor note and not quite so couch lucky.
And so the experience of the smoke between the two just was completely different to me
and as was the flavor profiles.
So I just went ahead and split them up and kept running with them.
That was my real basis for keeping two going because it was hard to see if I could get
rid of one or not.
Yeah, painstaking choices.
Yeah.
I've actually had a lot.
Oh, go ahead.
No, no, no, no.
Keep going, please.
I was going to say I've actually had a lot of people send thank you emails saying that
they've ran both and they appreciated the flavor effect of one more than the other and
they said thank you for giving them the option of both.
Because at first I was kind of self-battle whether I was going to do that or not.
I think it was a good choice.
I think it's something unique and something that needs to be done more.
Yeah, I definitely agree that at least in my mind, it seems like there's this seesaw
so to speak of breeding and in my mind, there's kind of like flavor on one end of it and yield
and potency on the other.
And I always tend to think you're always kind of trying to balance it out.
So why try to hit both if you can make two that kind of sit well at either end?
Right, right.
Exactly.
So that brings up kind of my next question a little bit tied into that.
On the website strainfinder.com or seedfinder, basically it says that the packy you run
was from World of Seeds.
I was wondering first of all, is that true?
Because that seemed a little odd to me.
And then two, how does a site like that interact with a breeder?
Do they request the information from you?
Because I've found that like a lot of their stuff is wrong.
So I tend to think that maybe they scout the information themselves and that's why
the errors are there or?
I think they do.
They have touched base with me on a couple of my things because kind of as you say, I
have several things that are very underground, not much info on.
So they have touched base with me on a few things.
And actually the World of Seeds deal is correct.
I did have a good amount of World of Seeds Packy Valley that was gifted to me and I ran
a good number of them and I found a couple that I like.
That's where that comes from.
I believe so.
That was a couple of years ago, but I do believe it was World of Seeds.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I've actually had some all right success with World of Seeds myself, but I've heard some
conflicting reports.
But I also just thought given what you said earlier about the Afghan land race stuff,
maybe it had been stuff you doubted maybe collected.
No, no, it is not.
I don't want to take credit from them.
It was and I will say in all honesty, I ran a good number of seeds to find the ones that
I found.
Had I just had like a 10 pack and popped them, I probably would have came out with a complaint.
But I ran more than that.
But I did find what I consider to be some good winners.
So it's with numbers you'll find winners.
Yeah, for sure.
So on to what I think is maybe kind of your new main breeding project, the Pine Tar Cush.
Well, sorry, that was it was used in the making of the Ron Swanson.
So back to the start, the Pine Tar Cush was made by Tom Hill.
This is a strain which has actually been quite in demand for a while.
A lot of people have been calling for its resurgence.
Was that part of the inspiration for you working it into the Ron Swanson line?
Like, did you think to yourself, I'm going to make this new strain and I want the Pine
Tar Cush to be a part of it because there's certain traits that I'm looking to put into
this new stud, for example?
Well, I wasn't aware that there was very much of a movement going on with it.
It was a favorite of mine.
I had been growing it for a couple of years just for personal smoke.
And at some point I just decided, hey, and I started running outdoors instead of indoors.
And I was getting some very large plants, nine, 10 feet tall on average and several
feet around.
And so I wanted to take it.
It had a full bushiness where it bud all the way down the branch, very tight.
And so I wanted to take it with a couple of my other strains.
And I did several breedings with it.
Only a couple were released.
But I just really enjoyed it personally as a smoke.
And it was one of my kind of personal pushes in my genetics.
I do about 50-50, half of what I would like to see bred and half of kind of what I feel
like the industry would like to see bred.
So it's kind of a balance.
I don't like forcing people upon only what the strains that I would like to smoke.
So I try to give a good variance, I guess.
Yeah.
And so in your mind, did you just kind of think that the black sugarberry, given how
you mentioned earlier that it adds those nice colors, did you think that would just kind
of complement the pine tar or was it for different reasons you chose the black sugarberry
to mate with it?
Yeah, I was trying to make a super plant.
The way that the pine tar grew for me consistently for a couple of years and my love for the
black sugarberry, I knew that they would work well together.
I just didn't intend to, I guess I didn't know that I would like the Ron Swanson as
much as I did.
It turned out to be a long-term personal favorite of mine.
Yeah.
How would you describe that to anyone who is interested in just the pure Ron Swanson?
Ron Swanson by itself, it tends to grow very much like the pine tar with a heavier lemon
lime influence.
Whereas the Fennel I was running of the pine tar was very floral.
It had a, you understand a floral flavor, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It was very, very floral.
And so it kind of shocked me that it came out so lemon lime being bred with the black
sugarberry.
But it translates real well, pure Ron Swanson.
If you ever run live resin, it's one of the most flavorful live resins I've ever smoked.
Oh, awesome.
Yeah.
So in the case of maybe the Ron Swanson or just any of your own projects where you feel
they really stand out, have you ever considered the idea of maybe doing like a deeper breeding
project, maybe a back cross or taking something to the F2, F3?
Or do you think that a lot of your strains are kind of more suited as F1s?
Well, actually, I don't post a lot of my old breeding, but most of my stuff when it's released
as F2 or F3, there have been a few that have been F1 breedings, but for the most part,
they are F2 or F3s.
I am actually about to start an F1 only project that will allow people with a wider variety
of options, like that kind of lottery ticket seed.
Yes.
Some refer to it.
But they would be sold at a discounted rate.
I'm trying to get people where they can feel like they have something that's a little more
special than other people may have.
That's the whole reason I do the limited edition.
I could run a lot more seeds and sell a lot more seeds, but I think when people can trade
cuts of something that's a little rarer, I think that adds a little more prestige to
the strains themselves, every breeder.
Yes, of course.
You can look at examples from say the Brothers Grimm with Apollo 11 and 13, where I think
they're pretty good examples of how the limited stock has kind of added to the mystique of them.
Right.
It's interesting you say that about how they're F2s.
Do you choose to not list on, because a lot of companies will say, these are F2s.
I've never seen that on any of your packaging.
Do you purposely choose not to do that?
I guess I've never considered it.
I'm fairly old school.
I have designers that do most of the packaging design for me and stuff.
I basically send them a list of what I want on there.
That never has been a part of what I've sent them.
I am going to be redoing my packaging soon though, which would probably include what
generation it would be.
Yes, I think it would be cool to include that because it kind of makes sense that you said
they were F2s, F3s, because I've always noticed a lot of consistency with your stock.
I guess the next question would be though, in terms of that limited edition and limited
releases, back to one of my favorite strains from you, it's such a mouthful, the Grandaddy
Platinum Pert Berry Cookies.
This is one that came out initially and then I've seen it on one other seed bank since
then, but as you said, you don't really restock it too much.
When we see this with your strains, is that due to the fact that you are just pretty much
following that limited edition route or maybe some of them you just later on decided, oh
look, that strain doesn't really stand up to some of the others we've got now, I'm not
going to redo it for that reason.
It's a mixture of both actually.
It gives me...
It doesn't lock me into something that I don't feel confident about breeding in the
future.
If people like it, then they had to get it while it was limited edition, but it also
gives me time and room to work on something new.
Along with this F1 line that I'll be coming out with in the near future, I'm also going
to be coming out with a classics line, which will be the Grandaddy Platinum Pert Berry
Cookies, Grandma's Sugar Cookies, and a few other strains that have been requested heavily
for returns.
Those will be coming back out.
Then those will be less of a limited edition release.
They'll still be numbered.
As of right now, I limit everything no matter the strain.
I won't sell more than 250 packs of a strain.
On the classic line and the F1 line, I will probably both allow those to be 500 packs
maximum.
They'll still be limited, just not quite as limited.
Yeah, a little more available for maybe the people who are after it.
That's part of my plan.
There's certain people that want, say, Grandaddy Platinum Pert Berry Cookies, a known and trusted
strain, but it's not available to them.
They'll be in the future, within the year probably.
I'll be dropping actually another drop of those.
Yeah, fantastic.
Moving on, you've got your CBD Diesel.
This is a broader topic I wanted to talk about.
When you were creating your CBD Diesel, obviously, you were probably thinking something along
the lines of, I would like to make a CBD strain.
What type of lab testing goes into the making of a CBD strain?
If there wasn't any, how much kind of testing on the butt itself do you have to do?
As much as people might kind of cringe at this idea, I have spoken to a breeder before
who said they didn't use a lot of lab testing to make their CBD strain.
They did at the very last step, but up until that point, they had just gone on kind of
anecdotal results from people of what is the most medicinal in your opinion.
They said that they kind of got to a good point using that method, but a lot of people
would kind of disagree and say, no, you should be using lab tests every step of the way.
How did your project work?
What kind of side of that argument do you fall on?
I don't really have an argument there, but I do know where I lie as in the testing for
myself.
I run Final Stage, a tested flower product, but I start with known genetics.
I work with a few dispensaries here that we're trying to put out medicine for the patients.
They give me a cut of something that they have that they know what it tests at, and
then I work with it to alter it, change it for what we want, and then send it back to
be tested multiple batches to find out which pheno, and then we keep progressing on from
there.
I've actually been working with a guy here in town.
I don't know if he wants me to call him out by name, and I don't have permission yet,
so I'm not going to, but he's got an extremely high CBD, extremely low THC cut of cannatonic
that I'm working with that I really think is going to put out some good medicine for
the patients.
Nice.
Sorry.
What's your dream for your CBD lines?
Do you just want to make a really good CBD strain and leave it there for people to do
what they want with it, or are you thinking, no, there's a specific illness I'm actually
looking to target, so I might refine it towards that, for example?
Well, I'm actually, the reason I wanted to get into it, and if I had my dream come true,
I'd be able to come up with an amazing CBD strain or multiple strains, some high THCV
strains, something that will be free to anyone that needs it.
Any dispensary that wants to provide it to a patient, any grower that wants to grow it
for themselves, that's the true medicine side of the industry.
I don't want to be a pharmaceutical company ever.
I want to be a helper of people.
So if that could ever be free to the people, whether it's from me or other growers or whoever,
that would be my dream for the CBD field.
My CBD projects as of now have basically been to start my working in it and kind of inspire
some of the other people around me that, hey, we're not after 35% THC.
That can be a goal, but there's other stuff that you can be doing also.
Yeah, exactly.
So your Mayday OG, this is an interesting one to me because a few people have done a
similar route to you where they decide to leave one of the parents kind of non-documented,
like they're not going to fully release the details of it.
What in your mind is the reason for doing this?
It obviously adds a bit of mystique.
I think in my mind, the first person who comes to mind is the cookie fan with the Girl Scout
cookies.
That's probably the most notable one where we don't know the full genetics.
Do you think that it's a little bit of a marketing move?
And if so, I think it's a good one, but is it maybe something else for you?
Maybe you don't quite know the father?
What's the reason for that?
No, it's actually like kind of a, it was a marketing move, but in a way that you wouldn't
think.
There have been several genetics that have been swindled from me.
I'll call it, I won't call people thieves on that, but, and I don't want them getting
the credit locally to me.
So I just, I sometimes keep certain things secret to not blow up the strain that they're
holding.
Okay.
So it's not for my marketing, it's for like anti-marketing to the people who have my strains
that shouldn't have them.
For certain, I have a few ones that I didn't want out there and they're out there.
So I just don't give them the credit so they don't, you know, yeah.
And so that kind of brings us to an interesting point.
What is your thoughts on sharing of genetics?
And I guess more specifically for someone who buys your genetics, maybe even a future
breeder, what would be your kind of your protocol or your, you know, your recommendation
for them for using yours or someone else's strain?
Do you think that as long as they ask you first, you know, like, Hey, I'm going to make
this strain, I'd like to use this.
That's fine with you?
Or do you think now they don't even need to ask or, you know, what's your thoughts on
it?
I think asking is polite, but people are going to do what they want to do.
And as far as like, I was going to be kind of a smart ass and answer your protocol call
question.
All they got to do is put it in the ground.
That's all they have to do.
Like I said, asking is polite.
I appreciate it when people ask me and I feel honored when somebody feels like breeding
with my stock.
I'm never pissed about it.
That's you know, there's nothing but love in the industry.
It's a plant.
We're all just working to try to make it better.
Yeah.
And so I've spoken to another breeder before and they said, I think that people should
try to make it their own in a way, you know, like if you're going to breed with my work,
take it to the F2 first and try to refine a characteristic you like about it first.
And then you've got more of a claim to say that, you know, like this is my strain.
I've actually done, you know, like take it to the F2 and then use it to make your new
strain.
How do you feel about that?
You know, if someone just wants to use my strain straight from the generation they get
it, I'm okay with that.
No, I agree with what you said.
I think putting work into it is part of paying the dues and calling yourself a breeder.
If you just throw pollen on a plant, you successfully bred something.
But I wouldn't call that breeding yet.
You know, put in a few grows, get it stabilized a little bit in what direction you want and
then let people know about it.
Yeah.
Okay.
So people shouldn't announce the new best breeder in the world when they've made their
first F1.
No, no.
I'm sure that must get on the mind of a lot of breeders.
It must be really annoying.
Yeah, it happens a lot.
And nowadays just more than ever.
I remember when you could count the breeders out there on two hands, you know.
Now there's unique pages on the internet to list the breeders.
Yeah.
So how do you...
Sorry, go on.
No, go ahead.
Yeah, I was going to say, how do you manage to kind of stay relevant in the industry in
your mind?
Do you just take the approach of I'll let my work speak for itself or do you feel that
as you kind of referenced, there are just so many people, breeders at least, it's kind
of hard to get lost in the sea of marketing almost.
What do you think is required these days for a breeder?
Do you think, as you mentioned before the interview, do you think having a social media
presence is like a good or a bad thing or what do you think?
These days in 2016, it's definitely a good thing.
I wish that I could be better at it.
I'm kind of old school.
I don't get on the internet much.
I don't surf.
I recently figured out what a meme was.
So I'm not real big on the internet stuff and I'm going to work at it.
That's something that I owe to the other growers, the people that want knowledge about my strains,
connect with the fan base.
I've got to get better at it.
Posting pictures is not that hard and answering people's questions is not that hard.
I'm going to get better at it.
But in this day and time, it's almost a necessity.
I could probably be one of the finalists.
I'm not here for money or fame or anything like that.
I'm here as a behind the scenes breeder that is doing the real work in my mind to get this
industry headed towards an even more positive progression.
Yeah.
So do you like to go to the cups and the events and to meet the guests or do you think that's
something I'd like to do but I don't do it quite yet?
No, I go.
We've had a couple booths at the cups.
I haven't competed yet.
I don't know.
I'm not nervous or not wanting to be disappointed but I haven't competed yet.
So I'm hoping that whenever I throw something in, I'll get a cup my first go around but
I highly doubt that.
That would make me feel good though.
Yeah.
Sorry.
I enjoy meeting the fans, the customers, the growers, people that come up to the booth
and don't buy anything and talk for 20 minutes.
Some of my favorite people.
I am not there for sales.
I'm there to meet people and hang out with people with like minds, you know.
Yeah, for sure.
I've actually I was going to say I've spoken to similarly in these stories, they're all
the same breed.
I just don't know have their name to give out but they were saying that winning a cup
as a breeder is not the be all end all because you know like the cut that wins a cup, it
could just be like a one in a million like that strain could be garbage overall but like
that one bean was really good, you know what I mean?
Definitely.
So I think they were kind of saying as a breeder, yeah, it's not the biggest reflection of your
skills as a breeder.
Definitely.
That's why I haven't competed or at least to a small extent.
I want to pay my dues in the industry.
A lot of people are like, who's this new guy?
We're not actually that new.
We're just new to the mainstream scene, I guess you could say.
We're pretty leery.
Like I said, we came from a zero tolerance state and you know over a decade ago though
I moved to Colorado and that's kind of opened my mind and opened the doors to this.
Yeah.
So what was it like to transition to a full-time breeder as your job especially I guess when
you're in that legal environment, you know, was there like kind of a defining moment where
you just thought, yeah, now is the time, this is what I want to do or did you just kind
of stumble into it?
There was.
Well, I guess it's a mixture of both.
I've always bred.
I remember breeding my first personal like for me growing.
Probably like 18 years old, I started.
I'm now 34.
But that was when I started off on my own.
Sorry, I'm smoking a blunt right now and I totally got sidetracked.
Basically in between working, I decided, hey, I could start now and start putting my full
attention to this and really kind of make something not even for myself.
I figured, you know, it could be something for my children as the US kind of started
changing its laws and things started opening up.
I figured it might be good to put my name out there as like, hey, you know, this is
what we've been doing for a while.
We're ready to announce it and be out in the industry with everyone else.
There was a moment and that was basically when everyone's seen everything starting to
come online.
I decided like, hey, it's just time to put your name out there.
And I was going through a lot of flack from family, from friends.
Everyone was like, man, you're going to get arrested.
I said, you know, somebody's got to do it.
We got to let everyone know this is what we got to do.
Yeah.
And have you ever had any run-ins with the law after that point?
Like after the, you know, like it kind of looked like things were becoming less and
less strict, so to speak?
No, I've not had any altercations or issues at all.
And where I'm at locally, though, things are pretty relaxed.
Colorado's very relaxed on the marijuana scene.
So as long as you mind your Ps and Qs and do what the state tells you to do, there's,
you know, nothing to fear.
Yeah. And so at the Johnston Farm, are you guys organic or synthetic?
And what's your reasons behind that?
Well, through at our location, it's organic, but we do have other growers that grow by
other means. Everything from
aeroponics, hydroponics and more.
So I've seen my strains tested locally, you know, amongst my grower friends.
Before they hit the market, I see what they do on almost like every setup with every
growing feeding schedule you could imagine almost.
And which one do you think do your plants come out the best in?
Or do you think it's maybe a grower by grower basis?
I would probably say by grower basis.
I recommend growers when they ask me what nutrient line to grow with, I ask them
whatever they're comfortable with.
That's the main thing.
Having experience with the line or knowing the line and knowing how to run it, that's
going to give you the best success.
I've seen amazing buds grown every method.
My personal favorite is organic.
But yeah, including insecticides, no insecticides.
My seeds, like even though they would be an expensive treat, I welcome people to pop a
pack in their mouth and chew them up and eat them.
They're quite healthy.
That's the first time I've ever heard that.
You never know what something's going to do with them.
Yeah.
You never know.
Well, my uncle maintains his defense will always be that it's bird feed.
It is.
I actually years and years ago, I started a thing on a I think it was on a UK chat forum
that I was on and I started something called Operation Bird Drop.
And I was just promoting everyone to put their seeds, whatever spare seeds they had in
their bird feeders.
And, you know, if everyone did that, could you imagine what the wild marijuana
population would be?
You couldn't have something that was you couldn't make it illegal if it was on every
street corner, literally.
Yeah, they'd struggle.
It works. I had pot plants all up and down my neighborhood.
Cool. So just going back to that point you made about, you know, no insecticides, keeping
it nice and healthy. Have you ever noticed a difference in the quality of seeds produced
from a plant that is say treated, you know, organically really healthy the way you do it
versus say maybe one that's not grown with the same love, you know, not the same
attention. Have you ever noticed that the seeds maybe from yours come out better or maybe
worse than the other, you know, the less well-maintained plant?
I have, and I can't say specifically, but comparing my seeds, my average seeds to a
multitude of other genetic company seeds, I see a size difference.
And that to me speaks for the health of the seed, you know, a teeny, teeny, tiny seed
that's not well colored to me.
You know, it's just not as healthy as a big fat plum, you know, properly colored seed.
And I don't know if that's coming from use of chemicals or not.
That's why I can't really say.
But I do see a size difference between mine and some other companies, not all other
companies. There are definitely some good breeders out there.
Yeah. So recently we've seen that there's a bit of a crowd mentality in terms of hating
on Blue Dream. I'm sure you're pretty familiar with it.
What do you think about this?
And what do you think about the idea of like that?
Sure, it's Blue Dream hate today, but like what will it be tomorrow?
And the reason why I ask is because, you know, you breed with the Girl Scout Cookies and
I'm a firm believer that one day Girl Scout Cookies will be on that bandwagon with Blue
Dream or maybe Blue Dream won't be on it anymore.
But you know what I mean? People will be hating on it.
Do you think that's already started?
Anything that gets real big starts to get too much positive attention.
Someone out there is going to speak out and bring some negative attention towards it.
And then mob mentality, you know, somebody's always going to be there to jump on the
bandwagon. That's really all it is, in my opinion.
Yeah. So do you just kind of disregard that when you're breeding?
And like so, like I guess maybe the bigger question is, are you not scared to breed with
certain strains based on maybe how they'll be perceived in the future?
Are you just like, no, if it's good today, I'm going to use it?
Yeah, not at all. I the only things that I have like steered clear from are some
of some strains that have some kind of like outrageous names or kind of names that I
wouldn't want to keep going.
That's the only thing I've stopped, not because of people's views on what the strain
will be now or in the future, though.
OK. And by when you say the names of strains, you mean like maybe the more hard drug
referenced ones?
Correct. Yeah. I don't want to name them out because I don't call no one out.
But yeah, I think we all know what you're talking about.
Yeah. I try to keep a positive vibe or, you know, or at least not a negative vibe.
Yeah. Yeah.
So like the name with the strain carries a little bit of like I don't want to call it
karma, but, you know, it's the name associated with it.
Yeah. You don't want something to have a name.
So how do you feel about people who make F1s giving the strains names before they've
even kind of grown them out?
I guess this maybe ties into a breeder type of question.
But if you're a breeder and you make a new F1 and you're just giving it out to your
friends straight away, you haven't even tested it yourself and you're giving it this,
you know, some crazy, you know, purple spaceship or, you know, just some crazy name or
whatever. Do you think that that's like a bit of a misservice to the people who like have
done the work? Like in my opinion, if you're just goofing around and you make an F1, I
don't think you should really name it until you've like, you know, like I think a name
should kind of reflect some of the characteristics of the strain.
Like, do you think the same or do you think like, nah, you might just have a hunch before
you've even grown it out? And you know what I mean?
I definitely agree.
Especially like you may name something this cool ass name and now you put it paired with
this stupid plant that you grew and now that cool name's taken, you know, you should
have saved that for a cooler plant.
Yeah, that's a good point.
Yeah, so save the cool names, wait till you know it's a legit plant and then give it
its badass name.
So, if we looked at a typical Johnston breeding project, what would you list as in, and
this might be a hard one, in order of priority, what are the traits you're breeding for?
Do you value, you know, flavor as the utmost priority or potency or, you know, bag
appeal? Like how do you kind of rate these traits in terms of what you're aiming for?
I always throw one in that my number one is one that I never hear anyone name.
It's structure.
The structure of the plant itself is my number one.
Having a healthy plant body is my first.
That's what I look for.
Once I have that, I look for, like you say, that holy trinity of like flavor, potency,
yield. That's a hard one to balance.
And those three obviously come right there in second, third and fourth.
My favorite, though, would be taste.
The flavor is number one for me.
Potency would be second and yield would be third in that order of those three.
And so that's basically how I judge all of them.
Now, certain strains, they get restructured in that priority order there.
Yeah.
Mostly for like medical stuff.
And so as like a bit of a follow up, do you think that kind of how I mentioned earlier with that kind of seesaw analogy, do you think you always are kind of trading off some traits for the other?
Or do you think it is possible to kind of get that the trifecta in one?
Or if you do, it's very much like a one in a million.
Yes, you can you can find that perfect one or what will be right then at that moment seem perfect.
But for the most part, the plus percent of the time, it's a seesaw effect, as you say, you're giving and taking.
But you will find every once in a while that one plant that just even amongst all its peers, it tastes better, yields better, you know, affects better everything.
You will find some, but it's rare.
Yeah.
What type of testing do you like to do on a strain ideally?
Like what type of numbers would you ideally like to run before you're confident a strain can go to market?
At least 100.
At least 100.
Sometimes I don't get happy with my breeding project and I start over.
I've had to run things, you know, over and over, redo my breeding to a different vino and start over, throw the seeds away.
I won't let them out.
And so sometimes for one strain to get out there, it'll be a lot more than 100.
It could be three or 400 that I've ran to get that strain going and out there.
Yeah.
And during this stage where you've got these nice big numbers, is that where you're also potentially looking to maybe find a new strain?
Is that where you're also potentially looking to maybe find a male for future breeding projects?
Or is that a different project and maybe even more numbers than 100?
No, I do in the 100, I look for both always of any plant, any planting of any strain that I do.
I look for a winter male and a winter female or at least even a few, you know, but I'm sourcing down in the end result to one or two.
But I do always search for the males while I'm running numbers with the females.
Yeah.
Separately.
Once they're sexed separately, I don't want people to get confused.
And so what's it like for you as kind of, you know, I'm not going to say a smaller breeder, but maybe as a lesser known breeder.
What's it like for you to interact with the big seed banks?
Obviously your gear is on Attitude, which is really cool.
What was that process like to get on there?
Because a lot of breeders I speak to say it's actually harder than you think to get on there.
So you seem to have gotten over that hurdle.
What's it like for you to interact with the seed banks and the distributors and,
you know, all of that behind the end of the seed business?
In a short word, weird.
It's all new to me.
But it all came real fast.
I had started giving seeds away.
Like I said, I wasn't ever there for the money.
I didn't even expect to gain the attention that I did.
I was just doing what I wanted to do and giving people seeds.
And then people were asking me how they buy my seeds.
And I didn't have any avenues to send them to.
I didn't even have any weight.
So I told them, well, if there's a demand for it, hit your seed banks up and ask them to hit me up.
And so in the end, and quite quickly, actually, several seed banks, including Attitude,
were contacting me saying, how do we carry your gear?
And then we just, you know, we had to work out the business side of things.
But as far as dealing with the distributors and stuff, everyone contacted me.
Awesome.
So what would be your advice for someone who's in a similar position to what you were before you were selling?
Would you just say, yeah, just get your stuff out there,
get a good name and ask people to hit up the banks?
Yeah, Bill, you know, pay some dues first, get some credit to your name.
Do the right thing.
That's, you know, number one, don't be in there just to try to get on Attitude to try and get your name out there.
Be in there just to try to get on Attitude to try to make some money and stuff,
because in my opinion, karma will catch up.
You know, things won't work out, something will trip up along the way.
Just do what you like doing if you really want to be a breeder,
because that's a long time consuming thing and you got to be very patient.
It's, you know, just stick with it.
If you put in the work, the work will show, you know, people want to grow those seeds.
Everybody else doesn't have the time to do all that work to try to get,
you know, quality seeds for other people to grow.
Yeah, exactly.
Okay, so just going back to one of the points we spoke about earlier,
you mentioned that, you know, F1 seeds being the kind of, you know, this lottery idea of a seed.
A fairly well-known breeder made a statement at a breeding panel a few years ago
and basically said, we make F1s because that's what the market dictates.
That really sounds like it doesn't sound entirely true.
Do you think that's the truth?
Do you think people want F1s?
Because I always say to people, you know,
a clone only isn't three different phenotypes, it's just one, you know.
So, right, yeah.
No, I agree 100%.
Stability is king.
There is a place in the market for F1s now, because people do want something different.
And that's why I decided that here in the future,
I'm going to be coming out with a F1 specific line.
Stability is king, though.
The work that the breeders put in to make, you know, the strains come out the same,
that's what really shows a breeder's skill and gets my appreciation.
There's some breeders out there that have put in many years of hard work to achieve the stability.
So, to say that only F1s is all that people need,
that almost like discredits all the years of the like the founding fathers of breeding.
Yeah.
And so, what would be one of your little tips or tricks you're willing to share for your selection?
You know, when you're looking for a male, what's one of your go-to techniques?
A lot of people, they love to go to their stem rub.
What's one of your tips for all our viewers on how to pick a good male?
Wow.
The stem rub is, you know, classic, but in my opinion, also generic.
I look for like, it's hard to explain.
I kind of like sense the plant and look at it.
And I look at the plant as a whole.
How is its flower production?
Yeah.
How is its flower production?
Like the density of its clusters, the structure of the plant as a whole,
like robustness of the individual branches.
I look for, you know, what you would picture in a male of any breeding program of other animals.
I look for a good stud, a healthy, big, robust stud for its strain profile.
Yeah.
Smells can be varied.
I trust usually with what I'm working with.
I kind of know the smell profile with what I'm working with.
So, for my breedings, I'm looking at its structure a lot.
Yeah.
So, kind of on an idea you just picked up on, is breeding a art or a science to you?
You know, like, so to put it in, you know, the most extreme terms,
do you think a robot with a set of traits to look at would be able to breed as well as a human?
Or do you think, no, there's always that kind of that hunch, that vibe, which makes maybe a breeder,
the difference between a good and a great breeder?
No, I don't think a robot would be able to come close.
They would be able to grow a plant, but they wouldn't have the same love connection
where you could feel what the plant needs, what the plant, you know,
it, you could see capabilities in plants that a robot wouldn't be able to.
There's no connection.
There's no love with a machine like that.
I definitely feel a deep connection with all my plants.
So, I, for me personally, it's a, got a huge art form to it, or at least
some form of connection between the grower or breeder, you know, the plant.
Yeah.
So, how do you feel about, kind of these, I don't know, I don't think it's the case in America,
but in Australia, for example, there's proposals of having these really big kind of, you know,
almost like your tobacco conglomerates, like your Philip Morrisons would be the ones owning
and operating these big warehouses producing the medical weed for the Australian market.
Do you think in that situation where you've say got, you know, one grower looking after a thousand
plants, you know, obviously they can't give the love to each plant that you would be able to on
a smaller scale.
Would you think that that would really impact the quality or do you think that at the end of the
day, it may be a little bit, you know, like it's not going to impact it as much as you might think
to be looking after tons of plants and to not be able to give them that little bit of extra love?
Well, I think when that starts, because it will start at some point,
um, I think that the people that are doing it will have enough money to figure out the systems
to run it. Well, um, they won't have the connections with the plants because the numbers are there.
It'll be a commercialized product. It won't be like, uh, what is in Colorado right now.
That's more like a craft product, like a micro brew of beers. Uh, theirs will be the,
you know, the natural light.
And so, yeah, sorry, go on.
No, go ahead. I'm sorry.
Yeah. Well, I was just going to say, um, so with just kind of, you just spurred the idea,
the natural light, you know, how do you feel indoor rates to outdoor in terms of
the medicinal quality? You know, it's that time of the year where me personally,
I'm seeing Instagram flooded with pictures of how outdoor is better than indoor, blah, blah, blah.
You know, I don't really care for the debate myself, but do you think it is just like a
tit for tat thing? Or do you think there is a legitimate argument to be had?
Everything has its pros and cons. Um, with outdoor, you can have a longer season as far as,
uh, one individual plant and have the right amount of light and space for it to grow. Um,
but indoors, you, you can have a more isolated controlled environment and you can do things
outdoors that you can't do. Uh, so they both have their pros and cons. Um, I do, I appreciate
both. I can't say that I like one better than the other. I do a lot of work indoors. Um,
but I also have greenhouses. So, uh, we, we appreciate both. It's, you just have,
you have different perks and different downfalls for each one.
Yep. And so we often hear people talk about, um, this idea of how we've hybridized strains too far.
We need to go back to our land race roots and we need to, you know, start fresh. This idea has been
around for ages. Um, do you, and you, you kind of referenced earlier that you're going to do it
yourself. Do you think the general mainstream will actually do it though? Like everyone always
talks about it, but no one ever actually does it. Or so it seems. Do you think that we will
just keep hybridizing? I think that it'll stay getting more and more hybridized. Uh,
and then at some point the land races will be looked at as a prized possession. Um,
I don't think that most, you know, the profitable breeding, uh, companies out there
are looking at restarting with new land races and taking up parts of their growth for that.
I don't think it is that profitable. Um, but it's something I'm going to be doing and look forward to.
I go, I'm old school. Like I said, I go back to my roots. I watch black and white movies all the
time. Uh, so I have more appreciation for the old school. Uh, so I think, uh, it'll be good to go
back to the roots of some of the old genetics that I have and bring them back out. And a lot of people
like some of the old school smokes. I get people all the time saying, you know, where's the old
weed at this stuff's too strong. That's not, that's not me personally, but some of the old
timers say that. And you know, why are we going to try to, you know, not grow for a certain group
of people that still want something that used to bring them back to that era of thought?
Yeah. Well, I've actually thought about this topic a little bit myself and I,
on a personal note, think that, um, whether it's consciously or subconsciously the, uh, the,
the brand TGA seeds, I think they are kind of, um, filling that niche in a way. Cause I mean,
it's my opinion. And I think a lot of people's opinions that their weed isn't the most potent,
but it's really flavorful. And so you can kind of, you know, like smoke a bit more of it without
getting knocked about. And so I think it's interesting that we are seeing that the rise of,
I think it is probably subconsciously in their case, but, um, you know, like breeders filling
quite specific niches and maybe not even realizing it.
Right. Um, and that's the way that, you know, everything works. Everything finds a way. Uh,
every puzzle has its place or every puzzle piece has its place, um, whether it knows it goes there
or not. Uh, but as far as me, I, I try to make a lot of my moves and breeds, uh, intentional,
whether they all come across that way. I don't know, but, but I try, um, and, and on, you'll see
here soon because everything, uh, we'll be breeding except for the F1 line. Everything
will have an average, uh, percentages for its potency on the, on the seed package. Uh,
cause I'm going to, I doing everything is getting heavily tested now. Uh, so you'll see some here in
the future that will probably be lower percentage numbers. And that will be on purpose. That'll be
in, uh, in reminiscence of the old school strains, because some of them aren't going to be that high
and I'm going to bring them up to what I can, but I'm not going to try to exclude the old school
traits that they had. So, um, so you're stuck on sour is a new strain you've got, and that uses
the sour diesel in it. What are some of the other, you know, clone only slash elite clones? You know,
we spoke about the pine tar kush earlier. What are some of the other clients out there that you
would love to work with, um, in breeding projects? You know, like you consider them to be quite good
and worth working with. Oh, wow. Um, that's a hard one. Uh, there's a few that my buddies have,
uh, that are just old unknown genetics. They call them whatever, but they're not,
you know, anything known. They're just stuff they've ran for a long time. Uh, there's a Cindy,
Cindy 99, uh, clone locally that, uh, I had for a moment and I didn't read to it and I lost it.
You know, I'm sure. Um, but I never got around to reading it and I'll still want to, so I'm gonna
get back to it. Um, and then there's a lime Chernobyl cut around locally that I'm about to
start working with. Hopefully, uh, slimer, the, what's that you're talking about? Slimer.
I don't know. I don't, I'm not real up to date on all the, uh, I think that's what people are
calling the fanos. Like, you know, yeah. The other name for it is the golden ticket. Fino.
I think, yep. That's what they call it. The golden ticket. Yeah. So I've worked with it in
the past. Uh, I have the seed stock that I used when I worked with it and I'm going to try to
get it back again and do some more work with it so I can stabilize something I like and get it out
to the public. Uh, cause I liked that one a lot. Yeah, for sure. So, um, you know, just having
mentioned the Cindy 99 before being friends with Duke, um, that made me realize, um, who's,
who's a breeder you would like to do a collaboration with, um, and do something
with them as opposed to just, you know, buy a packet and go from there. Right. Wow. I mean,
I have, I guess you'd call them heroes. I have so many heroes in the industry. Um, I, there's
a good handful or two breeders out there that I would love to work with. Uh, just it would,
it would make my day, you know? Uh, I, but really, man, who I was going to say is who are some of
those heroes, you know, feel free to list some off if you want it. Well, yeah, I didn't know
how that worked. I didn't know if I was allowed to, um, well there's brother's grim would be a
cool one. Uh, there's, what is it called? Um, I, for a while I wanted to do something with Moxie.
Um, yeah, yeah. They're not old, old heroes of mine or anything, you know, they're not old like
that. But, uh, I had respect for what they were doing for some of their concentrates that are
coming out. I'm, I'm always involved in the concentrate field. So, uh, I got ahold to some
of the concentrates and then, you know, I had kind of had the thought like, man, I'd like to work with
them. Um, so sorry. I was just going to say for a lot of people who don't know, um, there'll be
some people who know that Moxie's are a seed seller and they do pretty good seeds. Um, but they
also primarily do, um, a lot of concentrates over in the States from what I've heard. It's some of
the best. It is. Yeah. It's very good. Um, and so I would really like to work with them, uh,
like old, old school, like, uh, some shanty Baba action. I would like, um,
you know, some of the, I don't want to name out some of the larger companies that I'd like to
work with because it would probably never happen. And then I'd look dumb, but like, it would be
it would be cool to work with rare dankness. I'm like, it seems like when I'm at the cups,
I'm always like near them at the booths and we never talk really or anything, but, uh, I don't
know. You know, a lot of the, a lot of the people here, it seems like they're real clicked up and,
uh, it's hard to get into the clicks. Like you're not cool with certain crews or something. They
don't show you any attention. And I don't go out there, put myself out there to get any attention
anyway. So, uh, it's kind of hard. Like I don't really talk to that many breeders around. I'm
pretty, pretty, uh, I'm pretty much a hermit. I just stay to myself and breed.
Yeah. Yeah. There's, I would be in heavy respect to work with a lot of people.
I'll just leave it there. Like I could, my list would go on because I love a lot of breeders.
Yeah. Well, I mean, just in terms of that clickiness, I mean, even from overseas, I can
kind of observe that quite clearly. I was talking to a friend the other day and he lives in LA and
he said he couldn't get a certain cut that, um, I can't remember which one it was, but I thought it
was, it would be pretty easy to get it living in LA. And he echoed the same sentiments, you know,
like, Oh no, it's still very clicky as to, you know, who can get what and who will help you out.
Thought that was a bit sad.
It is. It is because I'm not that way. I, I want to work with people that are like-minded to me.
Uh, there's other companies out there that have things that I would like to breed to that, uh,
you know, I just don't because I don't know, some of the, some of the companies are a little
too big and they've already got their own. So I don't need to bring any more attention to them.
Yeah.
Something up there.
So what's one strain that, uh, either you yourself or just, you know, society,
the community in general has lost that you really wish you had back and why?
Oh, that's an easy one. Skunk. Uh, good, good skunk is hard to find. I mean, that was like
the original and now it's lost like that. It seems outrageous in my mind. I mean,
it's not completely lost. Uh, but, um, as far as the mainstream goes, like, you,
you know, skunk's just not really that heard of. Uh, it needs, it needs to be there more.
Hazes as well. Like hazes need to make a comeback. Skunks need to make a comeback. That's yeah.
And so did you ever get a chance to grow the roadkill skunk?
No, no, unfortunately. No, I didn't. Uh, big dream of mine, but never happened.
Yeah. I'm always interested in asking people about that one. It's, it's got, you know,
one of those ones where everyone's interested in it, but there's so little information about it.
Well, there's, there's a little old lady that lives down the road from me. And, uh,
I go, when I go for walks, I see her sitting out on her porch every morning.
And, uh, she keeps, she keeps the hope alive for me because she he's got a pretty large greenhouse
in her backyard and it reeks of skunk and some high quality skunk. So, uh, it's still out there.
Very slick. I mean, she's a little, little old braille gray haired lady. And, uh, she's,
she's keeping the skunk alive over there at least. Yeah. That's awesome. Colorado is awesome. I mean,
you can walk a few blocks on the right day and you'll see four or five people sitting outside in
the front yard, toking a bowl. Um, it's, it's pretty funny. It's, it's not supposed to be
that out in the open, but it is if you look, if you keep an eye out. Yeah. And so you mentioned
earlier, you were going to, um, up your packaging, um, and have things like lab percentages on them
and stuff. This kind of brings me to two questions. One, how do you feel about lab
percentages? You know, like, do you feel like a lot of people I've spoken to said that the,
the industry is very driven by percentages. And so it's easy for, you know, them to be inflated
just for purposes of wholesale and selling and whatnot. Um, so, you know, one, how do you feel
about that? Um, I feel like the industry concentrates on it too much. Uh, I can sit down
with anyone that talks about percentages and whip out something that tastes good, smells good, smokes
good, and makes them just as happy as any, uh, high twenties, you know, that you can pull out.
Yeah. Well, I was going to say when someone says they've got some 30% weight, what do you think?
I don't know how I feel about that. That's why I said high twenties.
I would like to see paperwork and I would like to do research afterwards to see what that
laboratory, how their testing methods are and stuff. Um, yeah.
Cool. And so I guess when we expect to see your future packaging, we're not going to see
mid thirties on it or anything like that. Oh, uh, if, if I get tested at thirties, I'm going to have
to send some more in to get tested again. Uh, no, yeah, I don't, uh, I don't see that happening on
anybody's near future. Um, but the, you know, I w I'm going to post realistic numbers. Uh, I'm going
to post an average number. I can't post 23.87, you know, um, on the packaging, but I'll post a
realistic number. I'll do multiple and I'll probably Instagram a picture, all the test sheets,
just, you know, for the public. Cause that's, unfortunately the industry is concentrated on
numbers, but so I'm going to give them those numbers, but I'm not going to strive to try to
shoot for only the highest of high numbers. Uh, I'm going to be TERT, uh, testing as well. Um,
and so, you know, that's, that's my big, my big focus is flavor. Yeah, for sure. So the follow
up to that was, I don't know if you've seen it, but there's a few breeders now who have kind of
this template for their new strains. And it's got a lot of really good info on it. You know, it gives
like the number of phenotypes, what you can maybe expect from each phenotype as well as your general
flowering times and how much it'll stretch. Would you ever consider giving information like this? I
mean, I would assume that based on the work you do, you know, like growing out the strains to
test it, you would have a rough idea of say the number of phenotypes there are in each cross and
what to expect from each. Do you think that that information is overkill or you'd maybe be
interested in including that in the future? Um, I think in the past, I think that was overkill.
A lot of people just wanted quality seeds and wanted to grow it out. Uh, and they needed a
rough number of when they might need to harvest it. Uh, because in the past people did take a
lot of pride on, you know, uh, checking, uh, try, uh, try combs or try combs. Uh, sorry, I'm itching
a mosquito bite from yesterday. Uh, anyways, uh, anyways, people used to check the color of their
try combs and take a lot of pride in when they harvested and knowing that, you know, it was to the
day when they wanted it and stuff. Uh, nowadays people like to see a number on the package and
if it says nine weeks, they've been checking it on their calendar and they're going to harvest it
at nine weeks. Uh, so I think that the new information for the new growers and stuff,
uh, cause there's so many that don't have years of experience and stuff that are
growing legally and illegally now. Um, and so they need a little bit of more reference now,
I think. Uh, so I think in the future you'll probably see more of that from me.
Yeah. So maybe the dreaded topic for you, um, not for some feminized seeds, what's your,
what's your thoughts? And will we ever see any from Johnston genetics? Because I'm sure you've
got some killer females that, you know, like people would say that if you put them, you made
some S ones, you know, that'd be pretty cool. Oh yeah. Yeah. They there's a, yeah, there's
definitely been a lot of talk of it. Um, but if you were to see a feminized come from me,
it probably wouldn't be coming directly from me. It would probably come from another breeder
that does feminized seeds, uh, that I would do a collaboration with. Um, it's not something that I
do and I like doing things I feel comfortable with. And, uh, feminizing isn't something I do.
Uh, so I, I used to say, you know, it's polluting the genetics, genetic pool. Um,
now I like, I understand that it has a place in the industry. Uh, not everyone can, you know,
weed out the mills and not everyone has the skill and stuff. Some people just want the
reliability of planting a seed and having bud to smoke. Um, so I w I would be okay with doing a
collaboration breeder with someone that knew what they were doing there. Um, but just like autos,
like I might work with a couple auto companies. Um, we, it's actually been in discussion. Uh,
so I may do some work with a couple of auto companies this year to do a John's genetics
collab on auto. Yeah. Awesome. You're not against it. Yeah, no, I'm not against it.
And, um, just in, from your experience, do you know if those orders you were thinking about doing,
that's something we've, we often hear spoken about as like, you know, the European market is very
after autos. Do you find that there's much demand in other parts or it really is just in Europe?
Um, it, Europe's obviously the, the big bread winner for the auto market, I think. Um,
you know, just in America, uh, house size, yard size, and everything's just on average,
it's larger. Um, so people have more space and feel more comfortable with, you know,
even just growing a, a shorter Indica or something. Uh, that's, that team tends to be
in built, be the real winner around here. Yeah. Yeah. But in, in Europe, uh, I do see that
that's my biggest, uh, request area for autos and, uh, you know, you may see it come from me as a,
uh, collaboration breeding with another company here in the next, in the next year or so.
Awesome. You mentioned earlier that you are a big fan of the concentrates.
How do you feel about kind of this rise in, uh, the former old traditions of people like Frenchy
Cannoli and just kind of this artisan hash market? How do you feel about that and how it compares to
say our more modern concentrates, like, you know, your Rosin and your live resin and all these
things? Um, I hope that we never lose the old traditions. Uh, it's in fact, something I'm going
to be working on personally. Uh, I don't want to see the art of good quality hash go away. Um,
cause there's going to all like the new market is obviously about all these modern concentrates,
uh, that'll just keep growing. And there's always going to be a ton of people wanting to work with
that. Um, but I think that if, you know, enough people in the right people get into bringing more
attention to what the old school real high quality hash was, uh, I think more people will catch on to
it again in the future. Uh, it's definitely something I love to smoke. Yeah. Nice. And so
at the end of the day, what would be your favorite form of concentrate? Like, you know, live resin,
hash, dry sieve. Wow. Um, wow. The favorite. That's a real tough one because, you know,
real good quality live resin or distillate that's made now. Uh, some of that can just be amazing.
The flavor and the high associated with that. Just amazing. Um, but it sits right there with
smoking it and old, like, uh, you know, a temple ball or something. Uh, you know,
they both are very high on my, my scale of respect for the smoke. Um, but it's hard to
beat a good distillate. That's, it's an amazing hit, uh, for those that haven't hit it, it,
it tastes outrageous and it is very high potency. Yeah. You know, sometimes over 95% in some cases.
Wow. So it can be high and that's other people's numbers. I have not ever personally tested any
form of distillate, but just from seeing what other people say, you know? Yep. And so if we
were to take a look at your garden right now, what type of lights do we have in there? I'm
always interested to know, have you made the conversion to, you know, like you double-ended
bulbs, you know, like the, the, I hate saying it, but you know, you could Vita's or, you know,
do you still more of an old school guy? You got your HID lights or what type of technology do you
use? LEC. Um, yeah. Light emitting ceramic, or some people call it like CMH, uh, ceramic metal
halide. And I think there's even another acronym out there for it, but, um, yeah, the 315 watt
Phillips bulbs, um, they're amazing. I love them. Uh, soon, soon to probably be running double bulb
fixtures. Yep. And so, um, you know, you may or may not have an answer to this, but have you heard
anything at all? You know, maybe whispers or rumors, what do you think is the next step of
growing? You know, have you heard of any, maybe major innovations that are maybe coming through
the pipeline and we might see them in the near future, you know, like maybe for example, you
know, a few years ago, someone would have said, oh, you know, there's this new lighting technology
coming out soon, these double ended bulbs. Well, um, I think that the things that are going to
blow up are things that are already out. Um, I think that in the future, the plasma market will
get bigger. Uh, I think that it will grow, it's, it kind of blew up for a second and then it kind
of went away. Um, not that many people are running plasma. Um, but LED, I think is the big, that's
what a lot of companies are spending the money in to do the research on. Um, and even companies
that aren't making grow lights right now, uh, that are doing, you know, just led research.
They're, they're making some big steps. Uh, uh, I was working with a company for a while and I may
in the future, but we were working on developing new spectrums. They were asking me, you know,
kind of what, what I would like to see. And so we were working on stuff like that. Um, but yeah,
a lot of growth in the led market. Yeah. Yeah. But I would like more attention go into the
LEC market. I would like to see higher power LECs. Um, there is a company out there that has a 400
watt LEC. Um, you can find them on, on the internet, I'm sure. Uh, but it's in that, that
bulb is actually made by GE. Um, so yeah, but it's a, it's also the same technology. I'd like to
see more into that technology. If people could be running thousand watt LECs in a, in a small
room or a tent or something, they would have amazing, uh, spectrum and amazing light output.
Yeah. Yeah. It would be insane. Um, and so, um, onto kind of a bit of a more political based
question. What do you think, um, was one or some of the pitfalls of the American legalization model?
Like what would you have improved if you could have? Um, what about like their standing laws
that we have in, in office right now and what would I like to change? Yeah. Um, I think they
did very good for coming up with a complete new law system for something that's just been, uh,
ignored. Uh, there are some small loopholes that need to be covered. Uh, like there's a lot of
growers here in, in Colorado. They grow over what they need, uh, you know, for their, they harvest
and they trim down and they weigh it and they say, Whoa, I have enough to last me for a year and a
half. And, you know, and they don't need all that product because they're going to be growing again
next year. But Colorado doesn't have a system in, in order, uh, for them to take in their, uh,
product to be tested. And once it's been tested, maybe go in for approval to be sold back to a
dispensary so it can go back out to the, you know, the, the patients, um, little things,
little things like that kind of need to change. Sorry. So are you saying that at the moment in
that situation, they would just be sitting on a surplus and not really have anything to do with
it? All they can do with it is smoke it. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And I mean, I guess the implication
is it's kind of pushing them maybe towards the black market of selling it under the table.
Cause they're just sitting on it. Definitely. Yes. I mean, kind of like they say, idle hands,
you know, uh, when you have some just sitting there and you see it and in temptations around,
there are going to be, you know, percentages of people that will, you know, take that route. Uh,
you know, I recommend everyone here, at least in Colorado where everything's legal, you know,
abide by the laws we're gifted and we're, you know, this, this luxury of having all this weight
lifted off our shoulders. And it's not hard here to abide by the law. I mean, the law is extremely,
uh, relaxed, I guess you could say there's people with crazy plant count numbers that can grow,
you know, crazy numbers at home, uh, which they shouldn't be. Uh, you know, you can have a, a
doctor writes you up where you're allowed to buy a pound a day. Um, that's what you're allowed.
Yeah. And that that's getting rare cause they're cracking out on stuff like that,
but your average, you know, you, when you sign up, I think you're allowed to buy two ounces
any day, every day. Um, so, you know, for a medical card, uh, for recreational, uh, I think
it's an ounce a day. Yeah. But yeah. So, you know, that's a pretty relaxed law. I mean,
even if you are a real heavy partier, uh, smoking good Colorado buds, it's hard to smoke an ounce
a day with your friends. You can do it, but you can always go back tomorrow and buy another one.
Awesome. So just getting to the last part of the interview. Now, we're just going to do
some kind of short lighthearted questions. This is one I always love to ask everyone.
If you could go back to one place, you know, geographically at one point in time
to get some land race seeds, where would it be? And why? Wow. Um,
it would have probably been a couple thousand years ago, Asia. Um, I would have liked to add
some of the early, early stuff. Um, that was, I'm still after some actual true Asian land race
seeds. Uh, anybody out there that's listening? So yeah, I I'm really after that. So I would really
like if I could just take even a time period of seeds that would be, you know, a couple thousand
years ago, old school. Um, yeah, I've never thought of that. That'd be almost scary to
think of what it would be like. Right. Take something with a base foundation, uh, you know,
a genetic structure of old school back then and hybridize it with something from now.
I was going to say, you're going to work it out in a different direction for the next thousand years.
Yeah. That would be interesting to see a whole new evolution of the plant.
So what do you think is the worst thing to happen to the cannabis scene in America?
Wow. Um, as far as politically? Yeah. Or maybe even just in general, you know, maybe, maybe,
you know, people are more, more in it for the money now, you know, that could be maybe one thing.
Yeah, that's, that's one of the things I don't like seeing now. Uh, it is going to be a big money
industry. Uh, but there's, everybody doesn't have to be focused on that right now. You know,
the money will come, uh, put in the work and do, do what's right for the seed, do what's right for
the plant and for the grower and for the people, everything else will come, you know, uh, like I,
the, the greed that's associated with it and, and the clickiness that we talked about earlier,
all that needs to go away. That's not stuff that's associated with people that smoke weed,
that grow weed. That's like new modern day weeds culture and out that thing that needs to go.
Yeah. Yeah. And so what is, uh, the worst strain in your opinion?
Oh, that's crazy. Well,
worst is a funny word. Like the worst for me, like there's like a strain or two out there that
when people bring it around, I won't smoke it. So if you want to call it the worst, uh, and it's
only, it's funny for me because it's great white shark. Uh, it, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's,
it gives me an absolute like panic attack. Every time I smoke it, I get the jitters and I am so
anxiety field. Uh, and everyone else around me is just like, wow, this is great smoke.
And so I pass on that one. So I call it the worst because it just hammers me. I don't know why
there's something about it. I get high anxiety. So it's not because it's bad at all, but for me,
it's the worst. Yeah. And, uh, conversely, what's, what's the best or your favorite strain?
Wow. There's, I have probably a top 10 of strains, but, um, wow. Okay. Uh,
that would probably be kosher kosher, cush, um, chocolate and, uh,
that's hard. Cause I feel like I'm going in order now. I'm trying to pick my number. Uh,
I enjoy a good old school Hayes. Like they're getting pretty hard to find. So like the old
Hayes is that no one cares to take the time to grow anymore. Uh, that would just in general,
that would be my top one also. Yeah. Nice. What is your kind of growing tip for everyone? What's
something where, you know, like most of the time when people contact you and they've got a problem,
you know, it's this or just in general, you know, like what's something where people normally are
just maybe could improve in some way in terms of growing? Well, there, there'll be like a kind
of a three-part answer to that, I guess. Uh, one would be just really be in touch with your plants,
spend a lot of time with them, watch them, you know, watch them grow. Uh, especially if you're
new at this, that they should be your babies, you know, that you should probably watch them like
probably too often. Um, you know, when you start growing out, you're wanting to see,
uh, every, every 10 minutes you want to look at them. Um, so I would just say, spend a lot of
time with them. Uh, number two, talk to other growers nowadays with, with the internet, there's
a lot of information to be had, uh, even without asking a question, you can type in something on
Google or in any kind of these platforms and your questions already been answered somewhere along
the line. Uh, but there are people to talk to. So that's like, that's the biggest thing you could
do to help yourself is, you know, go to other growers when you're having an issue, don't just
try to take it upon yourself and assume you know what you're going to do to fix an issue. Um,
and then like three, uh, you know, bug mitigation, you don't want bugs of any kind, but unless you
use good bugs, um, 100 bugs and you know, things like that. Uh, so keep an eye out for bugs. And
if you have to use something to, uh, control them, there are organic options out there that do a
pretty good job. So look into those, like, cause you will be smoking this product or eating or
ingesting it in some fashion in the future. I assume. Yep. And so what is your random product
endorsement? I, I would say like for an ingredient, like a little tip, uh, look into like insect
frass. Uh, it's, you know, uh, insect dung. Uh, I believe that's what it is. I'm pretty sure it is.
Uh, but it's look into that. It's, uh, it's got quite a few health benefits to your plant. It's
a natural thing that can help, uh, the plant in multiple ways. If you, if you look it up, uh,
insect brass F R A S S for those that don't know. Um, yeah. Is it like something you mix
into your soil or like a top dressing thing or you can actually do both. Um, but yes, it's,
it's something that you would add into the soil. Um, and that it gets, it, it has, uh, some kind
of low numbers of nutrient, uh, but it's stable and it, uh, actually has, uh, I think they could
call it Chitin. Uh, it's a chemical that's in there that helps the plant in a couple of ways of
kind of like it's immune system, I think helps with the sugar polymers.
Right. Yeah. So it's, yeah, it's a, it's good stuff. And that would be like a simple thing.
I'd say to like look into for people, uh, like a little, I guess, additive tip. Yeah. Awesome.
So the Emerald cup this year is looking like it's going to be a really cool event. Um, is there any
chance people will be able to catch you there and have anything maybe for sale? Um, they will be
able to catch me. I won't have anything for sale. Um, I will probably be running around, checking
the place out, uh, in the crowd. And then, you know, a couple of times, uh, throughout the event,
you'll be able to probably catch me at, uh, Ed Rosenthal's booth. Uh, we'll be hanging out there.
Uh, so yeah, I'll definitely be there. That's really cool. So what are you actually with Ed
Rosenthal? Yes. Uh, it's actually pretty cool. Uh, he contacted me here a while back, um,
asking if I wanted to come up, be in his upcoming book, which blew my mind. Um, he is definitely
one of my heroes, uh, for many, many, many years. Uh, so when he contacted me, I was just ecstatic
and honored to be able to have that opportunity. And we did some work, uh, he'll be featuring the
grandma sugar cookies and the granddaddy platinum part, berry cookies. Um, he'll be showcasing both
those strains and talking a little bit about us as a company. Um, but we, the, originally there
was going to be, uh, one book and it was going to be the greatest hits. And I believe it was going
to be called the greatest hits and rising stars, uh, edition of the big book of Bud's series.
And that, that book got too big. Uh, he had, he added too much information, too many pictures.
And so it got split into two books. Um, so right now the big book of Bud's greatest hits is coming
out and here shortly, there'll be another book coming out and I'm not sure of the, the title.
Well, I have an idea of the title, but I can't release that. Um, but that will be coming out
soon. I'll be in that one. Fantastic. That's, um, that's some awesome news to hear, especially,
you know, on a personal note, it must be great to be getting some recognition from
someone, you know, you look up to. Oh, wow. It literally, there's not words that can
describe how I felt when, at that moment, when he contacted me and then actually, uh,
last year when I was having a booth in the Michigan cannabis cup, uh, he popped by the booth
and I was sitting there, you know, talking with customers, we were pretty busy and he walked up
and I looked up and I seen him and I, I'm never starstruck. I've met multiple celebrities and
hang out, you know, they're just people just like you and me. Uh, but when I saw Ed, I was
starstruck. I didn't know what to say. I basically could just answer his questions
with short answers. Uh, he asked us to get together for a picture. Uh, we took a picture
with the group and, uh, we talked a little bit and then he headed out. And after he left,
I turned to the rest of my crew and I said, guys, I just met Ed Rosenthal and I was almost shaking.
That's so cool. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, you brought up a good point there. Um, your grandma sugar
cookies, that's, um, a strain that looked like it was kind of in the run for like your kind of your
staple. It's, it's been worked a lot. It's been worked in a few different directions.
What is it about the grandma sugar cookies that stood out to you?
Um, that's one of the few scenarios where I was looking at the industry and kind of what they
wanted. And I was trying to bring something of mine to the table mixed with, you know,
an obvious favorite, the cookies at the time. Um, and so I, you know, I was trying to get
something for my customer base that where they could have a cookie option for me is really where
that started from. Um, I had no idea that it would turn out to be like, like you said, it is,
it is pretty much my staple. Um, which is, you know, cool for me because, uh, that's actually
reminiscent of, uh, my actual grandmother and her, her actual sugar cookies. Uh, that was,
that was the whole naming behind that process. And, and she's long since passed, uh, which,
so it's nice to see that strain get a little bit of attention. Um, you know, it's a kind of a nod
to her. Yeah. Nice. That's really nice. And the fact that you then decided to work it out, you
know, we've then got the double stuff cookies and the all-star cookies. Was that kind of just a
testament to how, how like solid of a base that strain was on its own? It was through multitude
of feedback that I got from people. People were coming to me saying they, they liked it better
than the original cookie and that it produced more and different things. So, uh, you know, I did,
I won't be the one to say that, but that gave me enough of an, uh, you know, enough of what I
needed to know to keep working with it. Yeah. Yeah. Great. All right. So I think that brings
us basically to the end of the interview. Was there any general comments or shout outs you
wanted to make? Um, yeah, I'd like to give a shout out mainly number one to my fiance, Kristen,
uh, without her, none of this would be possible really. Um, she puts up with a lot for me and
lets me do basically whatever I want. Um, so I definitely want to give a shout out to her.
Uh, I want to give a shout out to Adam, uh, my lead grower, uh, without him, a lot of this also
wouldn't be possible because he handles a lot of stuff when I'm not able to, um, and then to my mom
and pops, uh, without them, I wouldn't be here. Yeah. Awesome. And just, uh, it sounds like there's
always a, um, a strong woman behind every breeder. Yeah. They're, they're always in one form or
another. There's always, I was a great honor. Awesome. So everyone should keep an eye out for
some Johnston genetics and, um, there'll be some new releases in the coming year, I'm sure.
Yes, there'd probably be two drops, uh, one here in a couple of months and then one towards, uh,
after the first of the year for sure. Um, and then, yeah, we'll have some new t-shirt designs
out, some hat pins and stuff. We're working on more gear. Uh, we've got a lot of requests for gear.
So, yeah, I was actually going to say, can I get a shirt?
No, yes, most definitely. Uh, we'll talk in a minute, in a minute about that.
Awesome. All right. Well, thanks for joining us. Oh, sorry. Yeah, no problem. No, no, I was
going to say, and for anyone else, uh, hit me up. I'm not stingy with the shirts. We'll say that.
So awesome. All right. Yeah. So again, thanks so much for joining us. No, thank you.
A huge thank you to Johnny from Johnston genetics again.
And 420 Australia.
Make sure to grab some Johnston genetics.
See you next time.
