Hey there gang, this is your boy Heavy Daze, giving you a big thank you for coming and
checking out this episode.
I just wanted to let you all know that we have a Patreon over at www.patreon.com forward
slash the podcast.
If you enjoy the show and would like to continue to help make it happen, head on over and get
access to a whole range of goodies including early access to episodes, bonus Patreon exclusive
episodes and extra goodies like shirts, stickers, giveaways and a whole lot more.
Thank you so much to everyone who helps support the show, you are truly the lifeblood of it
and you help us to keep the wheels turning so that we can continue to bring you the content
you enjoy.
Now let's get into the episode.
Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding
enthusiasts.
This episode as always was brought to you by 420 Australia, your premier store for lifestyle
and apparel as well as OGS, your number one store for all things organic gardening.
Over the coming few episodes, we're going to be doing a few catch-up episodes and this
one we feature Jeremy of Buildersoil.
Hope you're ready to get all that organic knowledge again.
Here we go.
All righty, so here we are again, Buildersoil 2.0.
Thank you very much Jeremy for coming on the show again and for spending the time with
us.
Yeah, thanks for having me on.
It's exciting to coordinate this from across the ocean.
As always.
So same question as what we did last time, what are you smoking on at the moment?
Right now, I harvested most recently some angel back cross from Boneyard and I think
it was his back cross 2.
So I think he out crossed it with blue cheese and Boneyard, his male is basically the same
for everything that he works with and it's named after his father.
And I'm not sure the exact lineage off the top of my head.
I'd have to look it up.
But I like a lot of his crosses and at the same time, I also grew some Northern Lights
5 Hayes crosses and they were interesting.
The seeds were really old.
I popped them.
It really just kind of has an earthy odor, nothing to get excited about, but it does
pack a pretty good punch.
And so those are the two that I have right now.
And I mean, overall, would you describe yourself as more of like a sativa type of person or
a more indica head?
I like it all.
I'd say that at this point, I'm more attracted to something different, unique odors, unique
flavors, something I haven't had before.
And I like to have a little bit of everything in my house based on the time of day, whether
it's morning, whether I got to work, whether I'm trying to sleep.
And so one of the benefits of having a small home grows, you can grow as many different
flavors as you want and yield doesn't necessarily have to be at the forefront.
And so I have kind of a bad seed habit.
And for my birthday a couple of days ago, I popped some new seeds and got a few different
things in the greenhouse and they're all over the place.
I found that I don't really lean towards sativa or indica one way or the other.
Okay.
And just as a little personal question, do you keep clones at all?
Because I noticed you do really tend to run different things every time.
So do you just kind of like enjoy it and let it move on or do you keep stuff around?
There's been times where I've kept them around for periods of time and now it seems like
with family and everything that I've got going on in my life, it's a lot easier to just pop
seeds when I want them.
And one of the things that I started doing, when I keep clones, I have this feeling that
it's taken away from me going through a lot of the seeds that I'd like to go through.
And so I've always telling myself, you know, one day I'm going to settle down and just
get this one clone, this one girl, and I'm just going to grow her the whole time.
And then I can actually do some comparative testing versus different runs, different
lights.
And so we're going to do that, but I think that's going to become more of the build the
soil test grow.
And then I'm going to always have my personal seed runs.
And from there, if I find something I really like in the pack, then I'll go buy more, run
them and then keep a clone around.
Another way to keep a clone that I've found is to give it to a few different buddies.
And if you ever want it back and they're the types that you know are really good, they
do a good job and we'll keep them.
It's a great way to expand your library without having so many at your house.
And just as maybe like a little bit of a finicky question, do you go to the effort of like
researching the breeders and seeing, you know, does this one breed their stuff in soil?
Yes or no?
I would say yes, I do.
I do do that.
It's not really the first and foremost thing, but the epigenetic quality that I believe
is there.
For instance, with vegetable seeds at our Build-A-Soil shop, we carry locally produced
seed from a similar altitude.
And I feel like that's going to be best for the local gardeners here.
And similarly, if you have a gardener that's going to be growing or cultivating in a certain
style, I think that might be the best way to go.
So.
Yeah, okay, sweet.
So I guess in general, in this episode, I was kind of thinking we could maybe hit a
few more advanced ideas than we did last time.
Because I think last episode we did a good job of hitting most of the basics.
So the first thing I wanted to touch on, because there's just a lot of, I guess, kind of interest
in it in Australia, Mammoth Pea.
You know, it's one of those products where it definitely appears to be one of those more
high-end ones.
From what I've seen, it tends to promote like different growth styles from plants.
Like I've seen plants where when it's used on it, it promotes like really hard fox tailing.
And for some people, that's maybe a bit of a cause for concern.
I also know other organic gurus, so to speak, who say they won't touch it and they don't
consider it to be organic.
What's your opinion on it?
You know, do you think it's a bit getting into the semantics or do you feel it's a product
worth getting?
It seems to be quite cost prohibitive, if nothing else.
These products are really interesting and they play on a few different things, which
I feel from a business background and from a marketing perspective are sure to be successful
in sales.
I think that time is going to predict if it's going to be sure to be successful in results.
And I know that people are using Mammoth Pea and that they're experiencing a plethora of
different results.
I think that there's more to be learned about this stuff.
And so depending on the soil recipe, if we have a really high phosphorus mix, it may
release an undesirably large amount of stuff.
And so depending on the soil recipe, that's something interesting to consider.
And then when we're looking at phosphorus, when we started looking at some of these products,
one of the things that was interesting to me is like where you're at, for instance,
phosphorus is a problem.
And so the hydroponic nutrients are actually different than the products that are sold
here based on the phosphorus being a prohibiting factor.
Is that correct?
That's it.
Okay.
And so it becomes something that obviously we want to be open to and have an open mind
for.
And so now as we're going to see more products come on the market, I think that most importantly,
I would like to base it on results.
But just in thinking about it, it makes sense from an agricultural perspective that phosphorus
mobilization is one of the lag pines that the synthetic nutrients are able to contend
with.
And for the first time, looking at acreage grows and doing soil testing, when you're
confronted with having to raise the phosphorus levels and you need to do it in a short period
of time without using animal husbandry and cover crop and long, long-term approaches,
it becomes pretty clear that it would be advantageous to have an organic way to either release phosphorus
or add phosphorus cost-effectively.
And I don't necessarily mean just to feed the plant, but maybe to balance the soil so
that we're operating with a balance of potassium and phosphorus or whatever is desirable to
the particular agronomist.
And so I'm like, okay, it makes a lot of sense.
You release phosphorus from these microbes and there's white papers that actually study
it and go over it, prove it.
The cost side is very interesting to me.
And so mammoth P, I haven't run all the numbers on it, but that's one of the complaints that
we hear.
I know that there's been some discussions about the type of microbes that may or may
not be present and being dangerous or being non-existent and it may be just a hormone,
but everyone knows there's a lot of conversation about it.
And so to add to that, recently we carry some products under the brand Root Wise.
It's actually a friend of mine, legendary grower and farmer, and he's been using biology
for a long time and he brought a product called BioFoss just released last week and, or I
should say he did, and we got our first order of it in.
And that's what we're going to be going with as opposed to something like mammoth P. And
the reason is we want something to be more of a complete soil support system instead
of so singular.
And this one is a mixture of different microorganisms that will help liberate phosphorus.
But when you start reading up on what's in the package, you'll notice that a lot of them
are just, for instance, one of the largest ones in there is I believe Megatarram and
that one is one of the largest rod shaped bacteria and it's just an enzyme producer
and it feeds the phosphorus mobilizers that are in that.
And so I'm going to have to do some side by side tests.
I'm going to have to really wrap my head around this, but the writing's on the wall that the
industry is moving towards phosphorus solubilizing instead of heavy phosphorus applications,
which makes a lot of sense.
And the other thing that we're looking at right now, if you want to try and play with
this on your own, and I think over the next year I'll probably have a product, should
I'd love to send you guys some stuff all the way up there.
Let's see if we can make it work.
Amino acids are really interesting and we've got a freeze dried fish amino acid under the
name Thrive.N, Thrivin.
And one of the things the manufacturer's been discussing with me is how they've noticed
that when they use it with a mineral calcium like Calphos and it's micronized and they
use the two together, the amino acids actually chelated and release a much higher percentage
of the phosphorus to be available than would be without it.
And so I feel like we're on the cusp of a few different things for phosphorus to be
coming around the corner in organic gardening.
At least that's what I feel like in the discussions I'm having right now.
But one of the things that's nice is if you have typical no-till practices where you have
earthworms and you have a mulch layer and you have products that have phosphorus in
them, even in low amounts, and you're utilizing these processes, especially with compost,
which is usually rich in phosphorus, I don't feel like it's something that is imperative
that we all reach out to as far as a must have, especially when you mentioned the cost
prohibitive side of it.
But I think that anybody who is doing this as a hobby or anybody who's really serious
about it is going to be wanting to try these things and see personally if they make a difference.
What has your experience been?
I've never used Mammoth Pea before.
Well, I actually haven't used it myself, but I've used a similar product which uses what
they described as a phosphorus liberator in conjunction with a phosphorus solubilizer.
So I guess they're, so it's two microbes.
They said it's azobacter and bacillus subtilis.
So it seemed like I actually got a little bit of that foxtailing as well.
And it was from something where I'd never observed foxtailing before.
So I was just wondering if maybe I was like, had expected to see that in a way, you know
what I mean?
Like confirm it, like a false confirmation type thing.
But what was interesting was it struck this idea in my mind of maybe the idea isn't just
to use some really exotic, you know, testosterone type bacteria, which is in Mammoth Pea, but
instead to just use maybe some more common ones like azobacter and subtilis and just
have, you know, like a more symbiotic relationship between the microbes in your pot.
Yeah, it's, I think that where we lack knowledge, a lot of times we make up in diversity and
we notice nature does that.
And so if we're able to find a group or consortium of different phosphorus solubilizers that
work, like in the RootWise product or the one that you found over there or something
a little more singular like the Mammoth Pea, I think that right now the hard part is all
these products have either full transparency or no transparency.
And a lot of times it's based on the labeling loopholes, labeling problems with the lack
of knowledge of these products and how they may affect the environment and how they may
affect the consumer based on agricultural policies, which affects, you know, multi-million
dollar, multi-billion dollar crops, depending on which state or which country they're coming
into.
And so like you mentioned, I don't think we know.
And I think that there's a lot of people have done a lot of research and they're able to
narrow it down using the scientific method, finding out which ones are best for phosphorus,
create phosphatase or whatever is most important there.
But I feel like it's just the very beginning.
There's only a few products out.
There's there's yet to be a dramatic shift.
You know, everybody's using silica or everybody uses certain key products that we always talk
about. But I don't think so far it's really penetrated 100 percent across the board.
And so as the new products come out, we'll be talking about them and we'll see as we
do some some build a soil test grows, maybe we'll do a side by side with and without a
phosphorus additive and see if there's any differences using the same cut.
And as we get a little bit more comfortable around here, I'm thinking we can send that
into the lab and get some analysis that way.
But as far as actual, you know, recommendation right now, I think I would recommend you just
trying it and not believing any of the marketing claims unless you try it for yourself.
And also make sure that you're not wasting a whole bunch of money on something that has
no benefit by doing that trial.
Yeah.
So the last little question on phosphorus, it's actually a bit of a tricky one to find
down under because bone meal is almost non-existent, surprisingly.
So what would you recommend as a good organic source of phosphorus for on scale?
Because I've looked into brands that, you know, like wheat brand, rice brand, seems
like it might be a viable option given it, you know, like in terms of its overall profile,
it seems to be phosphorus heavy, but still nothing abundant outside of like guano, which
a lot of people want to avoid nowadays.
Do you have any minerals that are rich in phosphorus?
Probably not in that area, right?
That you could use?
Yeah.
I mean, there's soft rock phosphate.
I don't know if you consider that heavy in phosphorus, but that's certainly a value.
I would consider feeding that through a warm bin as a more specific type of feed to direct
the amount available phosphorus in the end product.
And then you could use that, which has been chelated through the process of enzyme and
breakdown of the food web and the warm bin.
And so then you'd have something that was, instead of, you know, just a mineral phosphorus
that may not be so bioavailable, you now have something that is more, more nutritionally
available.
And so that might be a possibility.
Other things to consider would be look up material that you could farm on scale, depending
on the environment that produce phosphorus.
So pumpkin seeds, I know cucumber skin has a large amount of phosphorus.
And so if there was something that you could cultivate as opposed to mine, and that could
be cultivated in a method that wasn't super expensive and it was a big biomass producer,
or maybe it was a waste product, that might be a possibility.
And so imagine if you had like a pumpkin seed phosphorus extract that was put together
with some sort of product that actually worked.
And so those are the things that I would think about.
The other thing that I look at is most of the compost test results that we look at have
a lot of phosphorus and a lot of potassium, depending on the source.
And so have you looked at local compost?
Is there any availability of decent compost?
Can you look at any tests?
Yeah, I think honestly, we're in the beginning stages of that.
I think a few of the soil companies are starting to get tests done, which is cool.
But at the moment, it seems like DIY is always going to be the best quality.
Okay, yeah, that makes sense to me.
I would probably be top dressing any material that would have phosphorus in it.
Quick Google search would turn up a number of them.
And then the idea of working things through a worm bin, especially when you don't have
as much available is one of them, it makes it more effective as far as it's used to the
it also has the ability to mitigate a lot of potential problems.
Worms can alleviate some of the toxic properties that may come with some of the mine materials
or some of the lower quality compost.
And so if anyone's in an area where all they have is a compost that they may not be a big
fan of, or it's just not as potent or attractive, or maybe it's just not as good as they think
it should be, you can always run that through a worm bin and make your own superior material
starting with that lower quality starting material.
And so just as a little follow up question, how long do you think you should ideally leave
stuff to mature in a compost bin for?
Because it almost feels like it's becoming a bit of a wanking contest where people are
like, oh, my one year matured worm castings.
It's like I thought three years was pretty adequate.
I thought three months was fairly adequate.
But it almost seems like it's just creeping up and up as a way of trying to make yours
seem better.
Yeah, I think that's always the same in any industry.
There's always going to be a competitive spirit to it.
And there's going to be people that want to show off and that's fine.
But at the end of the day, it also depends on your starting inputs.
And so if you have, if you're trying to make compost from woody material and things that
are higher lignin and take a long time to break down, you're going to have to take a
longer time to make that compost.
And if you're doing thermal compost that you're turning and it's the proper carbon, the nitrogen
ratio in a few weeks, you have something that's closer to finish than most would expect.
And then from there, either finish it through worms or let it finish on its own.
And it shouldn't take very long.
Three to four months, you can have a good finished product if you get really good at
it.
I prefer to buy compost that takes a couple of years to make and is on larger scale.
And one of the only reasons I think that is that it seems to be more stable from batch
to batch and a little more homogenous because it takes so long and it seems to settle in
that like around 6.4 pH where the stuff that is made a little bit faster with manures or
with grasses or whatever makes that carbon to nitrogen ratio.
It seems that a lot of times they're a little bit more volatile.
They have a wider carbon to nitrogen ratio.
They have a little bit more salts, a little bit more potency.
And so using them at a high, high percentage is hard.
And at home, for instance, if you're making vermicompost from newspaper recycling and
waste mail, it's going to be nutritionally very different from something like feeding
it high phosphorus amendments and composts and coffee grounds and stuff that's really
rich.
And so it's just important to consider all that stuff.
And so I wanted to bring up this overarching idea.
I should have probably done it earlier on, but there's been, you know, forever there's
been arguments over the semantics of organic amendments.
In last episode, we referenced how some people don't consider gypsum or pumice to technically
be organic.
And so what I've been thinking of is I've been thinking about this a long time.
And what I basically think is should the topic instead of being, is it organic or not?
Should we not instead maybe rephrase it to be, is it harmful to the micro life?
Because is that not really the real factor?
Like if something's not going to be detrimental to the microbes, does it really matter if
it's organic or not?
I think that's a really good way to look at it.
And I think the other side of that is the process of how it's extracted, the process
of how it's mined, the availability of the materials.
And so sometimes you might find something that wouldn't be quote unquote organic from
maybe a chemistry perspective where we're trying to find carbon in it.
But gypsum is certainly organic as far as approved for organic production, as far as,
you know, minerals or something that plants grow in as well as soil.
And so it's interesting how convoluted that conversation gets.
And I'm right there with you.
The problem is as soon as you open up a policy that says, let's just look if it's good for
the microbe life, we could potentially open ourselves up to using materials that may have
some more negative effects.
And so I guess what I mean by that is even in organics, you know, is it good for the
microbe life?
Is it good for the environment?
Is it good for us in particular, our local area?
Does it make financial sense?
I think that you have to pass it through a number of different tests, particular to either
the farm or the grower.
And when we're working on scale, it becomes a lot more important because we don't have
like luxury budgets for wasteful products that we may not need.
And so it gets real, you know, when you're looking at an acre and you may have said,
no, I'm not going to use any chicken manure, but you notice that there's a local product
that has phosphorus and it's chicken manure and you can use it.
Now it becomes, okay, well that's good.
It's local.
It's a waste product.
Should you visit the farm and see if the chickens are treated good or is it already a waste
and you need to purchase it?
So you have to draw the line in the sand to determine how important it is for you to be
supporting businesses, supporting processes that you would support if you knew all the
details of.
But that line is going to be different for everybody.
And so at the base level, of course, if you have no till soil, the last thing you want
to do is introduce something that would waste your investment in a longterm use of your
soil.
And so right away it becomes a difference of, okay, do I want to use all these fast
release nutrients or do I actually want to have a balanced soil that's going to work
for me in the longterm?
And we found different ways to use different products that help kind of cut corners, if
that makes sense, in living soil.
Like when you're sexing seedlings in smaller containers, you can get away with a few things.
But for your main soil for the longterm, I think it is more than just the microbe life.
So but it's not as simple as just organic.
Yeah, sorry.
Does that make any sense?
It's just it gets convoluted no matter how we do that.
Yeah.
I think at the base, it just doesn't matter if it's organic or not, in my opinion.
It matters especially if you can support the entire idea behind the product, the producer
of the product, if it's good for your soil, if it's good for your local environment.
But if you're shipping it, for instance, like right now, we support the use of neem and
karanja seed and we'll talk a little more about that.
But one of the reasons why is we've been working with a company behind the scenes and we're
going to be locking down a contract on a locally stateside produced product that I think is
going to be really good for the environment and really good for the growers.
And so right now, though, is importing something all the way from India worth it if there's
something in my backyard that I could use?
I don't know.
That's an individual question.
That's what you're doing, I guess.
I was about to say, don't worry, we're going to get to neem gate.
So I guess what you're getting at is the devil really is in the details, isn't it?
And so to highlight an example, this is one I always hear, you know, Subcool Super Soil.
This is a product which has Epsom salt in it.
He advocates if you follow the recipe correctly, it will.
Do you feel Epsom salt is like a majorly detrimental thing to the soil?
And more importantly, do you think it would turn a product, sorry, would a product no
longer be organic if it has a bit of Epsom salt in it, in your opinion?
No, not at all.
I think it's perfectly fine to use it.
I think that the question more becomes why would I be using it?
And is there a purpose?
And in my garden, I've never found a purpose to consciously putting it as far as a soil mix.
And the reason why is we use soil testing.
And when we get a balance back, it looks like for the most part, we're very good in magnesium.
Now there's been cases where we work with farms, whether it's in potting soil or native
soil where it comes back and it's low in magnesium.
So the next question is, where are we on sulfur?
Are we already high or are we low?
If we're low on sulfur, we're low on magnesium.
Using magnesium sulfate or Epsom salt is perfectly fine for organic production and should be
used accordingly.
I've never seen any detriment to the soil.
I've never seen any reason other than the fact that the word salt is in the name not
to use it.
And if you look at comparatively the fact that gypsum is widely used, it's in our soil
recipe and I love it.
It's calcium sulfate.
From a chemicals perspective, magnesium sulfate, if those were just the two names, it'd be
hard to say one is good and one is bad.
But because I think the word is Epsom salt and we think of something we buy at the drug
store with a drug label on it for soaking our feet in, all of a sudden it becomes a
convoluted topic.
But it's not salt, it's not sodium.
And even sodium is required in a soil depending on what the soil test says.
So everything has its purpose on this planet and I think that for better or worse, the
whole organic I'm better than you thing has confused the topic of ingredients a lot.
So you referenced earlier amino acids.
This is another kind of trending topic at the moment.
What is your go-to for amino acids?
I think, and even more so than that, I think underlyingly is a lot of people don't understand
what they're doing.
I think if you've done a bit of research into it, you maybe understand that not all nitrogen
is amino acids and amino acids are generally more valuable than just nitrogen.
But do you want to expand on that a little for us?
And more importantly, what are your go-to sources for them?
Absolutely.
Now with all of this stuff, I am just somebody who likes to do research, someone who is passionate
about this stuff and I encourage you to do your own research.
Most of the time when I'm conversing online, if we're typing, I'm pasting references and
I'm doing a little bit of research before I open my mouth.
And so as we go through this, just take it with a grain of salt.
I'm not a scientist or an agronomist and amino acids from what I understand have always been
important but they're at the forefront because we're finding better ways to produce, to produce
them and from organics.
It is one of those key boosters that you can apply either foliarly or through the soil.
And what we found is they're building blocks.
And so when you look at nitrogen and if you were to think of it as an organic material
like alfalfa and the nitrogen that's there in as a really long chain and if you were
to break it down, they would be kind of a polypeptide chain, they call it.
And then from there, those polypeptides broken down would contain the individual links of
the chain, the amino acids.
And so the amino acids are the building blocks of the nitrogen.
And so I think that if we take a step back and we look at organics and we're talking
about how to use our knowledge and use biomimicry to the highest level to say, okay, how can
we boost this process without taking over?
How can we compliment and better be soil and plant, apply better a plant husbandry
without being in a position where now it's all synthetic and we're in control.
And the key things that we see are folic acids, amino acids, and a lot of it revolves around
lowering the energy required for the plant to do its job.
And if the plant has to do a job that's necessary for every part of its production, would it
be right to supplement that or would it be helpful to give the plant more of it so that
it doesn't have to produce it itself so that it can then continue its job at a more efficient
pace?
And so when I ask these questions, I start to think about human nutrition because I oftentimes
compare it to myself and I think of the stomach as a cation exchange and the colon and that
whole process.
So there's some similarities.
And I think, you know what, if I was going for a bodybuilding contest or if I wanted
to be at an Olympic athlete or whatever it was, and I'm trying to be in peak optimal
condition like we want out of our plants, not just a general run of the mill organic
plant, but one that is at the top of its game with every ability to produce possible according
to its own genetic profile.
So much like a human, it's not like you're going to grow taller because you're taking
a supplement, but you might be healthier and better able to perform your functions.
I feel like it would be like an athlete eating all the square meals and all the vegetables
they're supposed to.
But at a certain point, it takes so much time out of their day to prepare those meals, to
chew them and to digest them alongside with all the work they have to do to maintain their
optimal results.
It makes sense that they would blend stuff in a smoothie and that is micronization.
We do that all the time with organics.
We found that they're faster available when we micronize things.
And the next thing we look at is amino acids as part of the profile for recovery and for
building those muscles and for performing at a higher level instead of just looking
at protein as protein from a McDonald's cheeseburger versus a very selective grass fed protein
product or premium vegetable or whatever you get your protein from.
And so if you think of it that way, of course it makes sense.
No matter who you are, you can always be improved upon with a couple of supplements that are
natural and giving you that peak optimal potential for either keeping your energy up or making
sure that you can perform.
So we go back to plants and it's like, okay, we can do water only.
We can build a soil.
To me, that is eating the three square meals or the four meals a day with the right balance
of vegetables.
But then we look at supplements as the next level that we can start to apply.
So we did the basics in the last episode.
Everyone knows you'd make a good living soil, good compost water only as long as you have
a lot of soil and a mulch layered worms and stuff, you're going to have very good results.
But aminos are kind of that next level.
And so we've been playing with a product called Thrivin and it's a freeze dried fish hydrolyzed
and so it doesn't require the phosphoric acid or the liquid that comes along with the liquid
products.
And we've also played with some soy products.
What do you guys have available out there that might be called an amino acid product?
There's a few different ones.
I've seen, I think someone was using like the coconut pulp.
I see people making a lot of fish hydrosolates, things like that.
Sorry, hydrosolates.
Yeah, I get all the words wrong.
Yeah, a lot of DIY stuff at the moment, basically.
We got the amino acid products and we started with one called pure protein dry.
And the story goes that Root Wise and some of the other big tree outdoor growers he turned
me on to, he mentioned that a lot of them were using these amino acid products to grow
bigger than 10 pound plants outdoors.
And that it became a big thing where people would foliar spray amino acids a couple of
times a week or more, even deep into flower on these outdoor crops and have superior results.
And they wouldn't get the fading of the leaves so early.
They wouldn't get all these problems that would happen when you're really trying to
grow a 10 pound plus plant, which will highlight a lot of your weaknesses much faster than
when you're growing a small plant and on a short season.
And so that got my interest because now I know, okay, the pros, the people that I look
up to a lot of times, they're not talking about a lot of their processes because they'll
get judged from every angle for maybe foliar spraying something in flower or maybe using
a product that is not the typical permaculture style.
And so we started using the pure protein dry and we had really incredible results.
It's really sped up the vegetative process and allowed us to take advantage of the hormonal
change that happens when you go into flower and leverage some very available nitrogen.
That's not the same type that normally causes burn and problems and foxtailing.
And so you can use a small amount of it all the way through flower or at least up near
the end and it'll allow you to leverage the flowering components even better as far as
the building blocks of building those flowers.
And so right away we knew, okay, amino acids are important.
And so from pure protein dry, we found there was actually some extra products mixed into
that.
There was zinc and there was iron and there was some bacterias and we just weren't interested
in all that.
We also started getting a mixture of different packages showing up when we order the product
in bulk.
And so behind the scenes, we talked to a few growers that knew the real story and found
out that the owners had a falling out and beyond all of that drama, the product thrive
and is supposedly the leader in the industry and they're taking their time to get all the
labels right.
We've got the product in our store now and it is a singular ingredient and it is the
more pure form of aminos.
And so right now I'm encouraging others to play with it, share their feedback.
And so if you don't have access to that product, I'd encourage you to research and find something
that may be applicable because I've never been a big foliar spray guy, but these amino
acids are making a big difference.
And I think that besides that also he's just using them as part of the first couple of
weeks during stretch and flower.
It might make a big difference to a lot of growers.
Now, if you've got a huge bed of soil, it's been there for years.
You've got worms in it.
You've got tons of nitrogen.
I just think you're always going to be okay with that.
But as we mentioned, the Olympic athlete compared to the average person, a lot of times a couple
of supplements might make that 1% difference that make that gold medal difference versus
someone who's at home, you know, not achieving the same results.
So I'm open to it.
And I think amino acids is really one of the paramount organic tools, just like Fulvix
and a few other things that are worth the money.
And what I mean by that is around here, when you're looking at the soil, one of the problems
with our clay soil leads a lot of people to getting a fish fertilizer to organically farm
on scale.
And they recommend about, I think it's 10 to 15 gallons per acre for a higher production
crop like corn or tomatoes or, or hemp.
And so when we look at the dry amino acids, because they are, as you mentioned, a more
available form of nitrogen, a smaller, more micronized, more available absorbable form,
you can now use a pound per acre or, and that replaces about five to seven gallons.
And so if you wanted to go up to that 15 gallon mark, you would only use maybe two to three
pounds at the most.
And that dramatically lowers the shipping cost of the material to the farmer.
And so I'm all about those leverage points.
You're at a farm that has no nitrogen.
What are you going to do?
Are you going to dump 10,000 pounds, I mean, tens of thousands of pounds of compost out
there?
Are you going to go till in a typical nitrogen fertilizer?
And so I think that having aminos is a good advantage in that point.
Yeah, definitely.
And I mean, if we use your analogy of the, the athletes or the Olympic athletes and supplements,
let's, let's jump from supplements to steroids.
I've seen that you and myself are playing around with the triacontanol.
What's your thoughts on this one?
I'm really interested in it.
I think it's going to possibly be a game changer.
Have you played around with it yet?
I've seen you did a post about it.
I've played around with it, but I will say, no, I haven't.
What I mean by that is I'm guessing if I'm playing with it, I'm just doing natural processes,
sprouting alfalfa seeds, which I don't think have any in there.
And playing with alfalfa meal.
I really think that alfalfa compost is probably a good way to get some.
And we're talking about the waxy substance, the triacontanol that comes from the plant
and alfalfa makes a very good compost.
It's got a good carbon to nitrogen ratio.
There's some very, very documented processes on making it.
And so I think that might be something that I'm interested in as far as the actual chemical
product.
You can just go buy an extract of triacontanol.
I've not played with it and I would really, really like to.
I guess I haven't because it's not something that I really want to focus on carrying those
particular types of products that are a little bit less documented, a little bit more out
there right now.
I want to make sure when someone goes to build a soil, we've at least put it through its
paces and we know there's some value there.
And so it's not something I've really done.
But I know like you though, that a lot of growers have, and there's a couple of pieces
of information.
One is that a little goes a long way.
They can definitely be abused and cause some weird problems.
But for the most part, I'm hearing that like you, there is some huge potential there.
And so I would encourage everyone to do their own research and see what they can come up
with.
But for right now, I don't have any at my house and I have never even looked at buying
it.
Okay.
Yeah.
I've played around with it.
It's a little bit of a nightmare to be honest, because it's the molecule itself.
It's just a big suspicion.
Is it an extract of a plant or is it like a chemical thing?
I know they're probably both available, right?
Yeah.
I believe this one's just straight chemically derived.
But the problem is because it is such a waxy molecule in nature, it's like 98% surfactant,
2% tricantinol.
That makes sense.
Yeah.
And then as you said, again, a little goes a long way.
I believe it's like one mil of it you mix into like 50 liters or something like this.
It's the craziest dilution I've ever seen basically for an organic product.
Sorry, I shouldn't say that.
Just for a product that's not blatantly salt, I guess.
Yeah.
That's interesting.
A lot of times you'll find that and for instance, we carry a yucca product that is for the saponin.
And the one we carry is 100% yucca.
That's like a molasses and a certain percentage is a saponin.
But when you pour it, it's like molasses.
And I believe that on the market, when someone's making a product, that could be a detracting
factor for the home user because it's sloppy.
It gets on the bottle.
And so why don't we just dilute it down to about 4%, put it in water and now it's really
easy to pour and charge a thousand times the price.
And so there's always this effect where people can sell more if it's easier to use.
But you'll notice the newer products that are really out there like this, they haven't
been really formulated into an easy to use, really expensive.
It's typically these crazy dilution rates, these really small amounts.
And it's, it doesn't make sense on scale.
But once we figure out how to use it and actual dosages, I'd imagine there'll be a lot of
products out there that will contain it.
I feel like right now when people are talking about mammoth pee, one of the things that
there's been a discussion on is, is that really just a tricontinol that they're getting around
saying because they're saying they're fermenting the alfalfa as part of the extract of the
microbes.
And so whether it's politics or whether it's a label, a lot of times you can get away with
the unknown product piggybacking on the one that you can say is the important thing to
be on the label.
And so I have no knowledge of that about mammoth pee.
I could care less.
But in playing with that, have you talked to anybody that has and compared it to maybe
mammoth pee or had issues with it?
I'm just curious.
No, I'm the only one I know who's played around with the tricontinol.
But yeah, it's mostly my American buds who have played around with the mammoth pee because
it's so expensive to get over here.
It's like the normal prices plus an arm and a leg for shipping.
Yep.
Okay, well, interesting.
We'll have to talk about that more later.
Maybe I'll get some and go for it.
I'm going to do a few different test rounds at the Build A Soil store.
One of the things that gets overwhelming is the amount of ideas we have for side by
sides.
I'd love to have a college size or a medical sized facility that just had nothing but well
documented side by sides so we can run tests like this.
But fortunately with the laws, it's not exactly like barley where we can just have a greenhouse
everywhere testing all the varieties for the next year's production.
I know what you mean.
Well, let's jump onto a topic that's probably going to make a lot of people real butthurt.
OMRI registration.
This is one that I actually just cannot stand.
It's like a huge pet peeve because as far as all the research points to that I've done,
a product with OMRI registration is more likely to not be organic than to be organic.
But I want to know your opinions on it.
I've got a great photo on my Instagram of a big bag of calcium sulfate, like the bluest
looking salt you've ever seen and it's got that big old OMRI registration on it.
How do you deal with this conundrum, shall we say?
Well, at a certain level, if you know what OMRI means, you can at least use it as a filter
for getting you a certain direction.
But you hit the nail on the head when you said the word register.
It's not a certification.
And so the Organic Materials Review Institute reviews products, puts them on a list.
So really the proper terminology would be listed.
And that's interesting because all they do is they charge money to put you on a list.
And as we all know, when there's money being exchanged to be on a list, a lot of times
there's ways to get that done where the product may not be necessarily organic, but it's approved
for organic production under one scenario or another.
So it's a little misleading.
And I feel that it probably started out with the right intention.
You know, when you follow and I talked to Clackamas Coots about the origins of some
of the processes and how Oregon TILF used to be called TILF, and it was a group of a
couple of different states.
And then eventually they got big enough and broke off.
And then you have the California Organic Farmers and you have the Oregon TILF and you have
all these different institutes.
And then you have OMRI that comes in and says, OK, well, we've seen all these.
And so as long as it meets all of these different ones, we'll put you on the list, whether you're
Oregon TILF, they might have a Me Too where they say, OK, well, you pass that for sure
you can be OMRI.
Just send us your information.
And so the idea is to communicate about the actual products and make sure that everything's
acceptable and transparent for the consumer.
So I really like the idea, but it starts to convolute things because as soon as you can't
trust it, now you have this misleading badge out there that becomes more of a marketing
ploy and a dollar generating machine, the actual creating transparency for the consumer.
And so I always look for Oregon TILF if I can.
And then second to that, I'm not so concerned with certifications if I can meet the producer
or if I can get a better understanding of how it's created.
A lot of times the barrier to these expensive organic protocols is that you have a lot of
smaller producers that have higher quality products unable to compete by putting these
labels on there, which is a good and a bad thing.
Sometimes the smaller producers also will do things that aren't acceptable on large
scale as far as cleanliness or packing.
And so we're experiencing a lot of this as we grow as a company.
We've never sought to put MPK labels or to put OMRI listing or to put green clean or
anything.
It's completely of no value to us because if our products aren't good enough already,
going out and buying some label to put on it to me doesn't make it any better.
It's just trying to communicate that faster to the customer on the shelf.
We rely on a more direct conversation with our customer and with our material producers.
So what does OMRI is it in Australia?
Do they also list a lot of the products out there?
What do you guys have that would be more like Oregon Tilth?
Damn, you caught me out.
I should know the answer to who's like the good body to refer to, but there's definitely
OMRI out here.
That's okay.
I just, I don't know at all what's out there.
And so I'm wondering if it's similar out here that it's more of like a political thing
than it is an actual site you can make a purchase decision off of.
Because if it says Oregon Tilth, I'm confident buying it.
If it says OMRI, I'm going to do more research.
And so I think that's the difference for me.
Yeah, I'm pretty lucky after our last chat, I messaged Steve Solomon and he's been kind
enough to be in correspondence with me.
So if I've ever got a question, I can usually run it by him and you know, he's a gold mine
of information.
I'm really happy to hear you're talking to him.
You know, I don't speak with him often.
It's only been a couple of times, but he was always so forthcoming with information and
he seemed so passionate that I felt like you two had hit it off well.
Yeah, it's interesting.
After reading his book, The Intelligent Gardener, upon your recommendation and everyone else
should have read it by now, it's been a year.
It definitely brought up the idea of, and you even very briefly touched on it, how there's
this community of people out there who think that it's very possible that like the overall
increase in disease and cancer and things like that could be due to a decrease in the
nutrient density within our food.
Are you kind of very much on board with that or you've maybe changed your mind a little
bit since then?
No, a hundred percent.
I feel that it is definitely related to that.
We are what we eat.
We look at historical numbers.
We look at countries that are doing better and start eating more meat and start eating
products that are not as nutrient dense and the rate of disease goes up.
It's directly correlated.
I feel that anyone that doesn't see that is just lying to themselves because they have
something they're more comfortable with.
When you start growing plants and you see a garden and see how quickly deficiencies
can affect it, it reflects back on you and I think that it makes you someone more aware
of these things.
To convolute that more, a lot of times we see things ... There's a quote out there like
every disease can be related to a mineral deficiency.
When you look it up, that quote's actually completely misquoted.
It doesn't really exist by the scientist it's quoted to.
I feel like people can go a little bit overboard and then that turns into products like Sheila
G and mineral products that may or may not be necessary.
But at the same time, if you're getting food that's made from hydroponic bottles, I really
think that there's going to be a decline in health.
When we start looking at calcium and other things that are important to our body and
we look at the soil that these products are grown in, we see a direct correlation.
It's so obvious to me, it's one of those things that almost upsets me when you hear that people
don't believe that or they think that the new technology is just always the answer and
that farming organically is not sustainable, it can feed the people.
I feel like a lot of the problems are more to do with the fact that we've all just accepted
that.
I feel like it's changed.
Certainly over the last five years there's been a huge movement, at least it feels that
way to me, maybe I'm just involved in it more.
But is it the same over there or is there a division where people just either don't agree
with it at all or it's just obvious?
I feel like there's not a lot of middle ground there.
I think that it'd be a much smaller percentage of people who are aware of it.
I feel like I was almost a bit in the twilight zone when I was in Oregon and it was like
almost everyone was really concerned about the use of glyphosate and stuff like that.
I was just like, man, you'd never get this in Australia.
People are not really that worried about it.
Not to say that it's not to be worried about, but you know what I mean, they just accept
it as you put it.
Yeah, interesting stuff.
But I guess the point it brings to my mind is, do you think it's almost like a responsibility
then if you grow organic to try to just grow some regular stuff as well, seeing as you've
got all the skills and probably all the gear to do it?
Yeah, I think that it's always been that way.
At least for me, I grew up in a cul-de-sac and then when I moved to Colorado, having
land and all of this was a little bit new to me.
So the opportunity was a little bit more available.
I think that people that don't have that land but now know how to use a container, they
go through the same process.
So I realized that this canvas to me was a gateway to a better lifestyle.
It taught me how to garden.
And I realized that you didn't really need a green thumb.
It was just this perpetuated model of, hey, if you want a garden, it's kind of like, you
know, it's like playing.
You're never really going to do anything.
You go get a start from Home Depot and it's never really going to grow because you're
going to buy potting soil that doesn't really have anything in it.
You're going to be frustrated.
You're never going to get any food and then you're going to realize you spent $300 on
four tomatoes and it would have been just better to go to the grocery store.
And as soon as you start producing, you know, really good yields of your own cannabis, you
start to realize, hey man, maybe I could do pretty good over here.
And while I don't need 100% of my food from the garden, it's on my heart to do that.
And I would love it if I had that much time to do that.
And I feel like one of the challenges that we face today is that we have the ability
to spend a lot more of our day doing other things to produce an income that allows us
to buy food.
And so it's just, it starts to happen though.
And all of a sudden when you have lettuce and more produce and more things that are
really a lot, taste a lot better and last longer and are produced by you, they end up
working their way into more of your meals and your health will change.
Everything in your life will change when you start growing organic.
And I think that's definitely different from someone who is farming in the typical, the
typical methodology.
And for me, when I started growing food, because, because of this, I looked at all the NPK bottles
that I had and I thought, well, when do I flush my tomatoes?
Is it safe to eat?
How does this work?
And so a lot of those questions started to be, get other questions that put me down that
rabbit hole of, well, why am I doing this with my cannabis?
And so if we jump back to a point you mentioned earlier, this is another one which, you know,
grinds my gears.
Sheila's Sheet Shills.
There's only really one out there.
We all know who it is.
I'm not going to give him any credibility saying his name, but you know, can we get
like a ruling on it?
Sheila's Sheet is not going to cure your cancer.
It's, it's not Viagra.
It's not your replacement for your antidepressant.
It's, yeah.
What do you think?
Yeah, I think that one of the challenges when we're working with nutritional information
is that it can be skewed so many different ways.
And I highlighted on the conversation of micronutrient and the quote of, you know, every disease
being related to some micronutrient deficiency and then catalyzing that out there saying,
you know, this product X, Y, Z has every micronutrient and look at, they're all in really low levels.
And so I would encourage you to do your own research.
I'm not using any Sheila's Sheet products and I'm not saying that they're bad or that
they don't have a place.
I just didn't jump on the bandwagon because I find that when I do jump on bandwagons,
I end up regretting it, at least for my customer base.
We try and slow down a little bit, do our research and if things hold up to the test
of time and we started to see reason and our research points to a purpose, then we want
to test it.
But one of the things that we've always been a believer of is that if we're after fulvic
acid, get fulvic acid.
And one of the things that we learned when looking for fulvic acids from Dr. Faust is
that it's a golden liquid that is completely free of any of the colloidal minerals or the
fulvic minerals.
And if we are after minerals as a human, I feel like eating plants is the way we're
supposed to get our minerals, not by eating mind and material.
Part of the reason why is there is a ton of research that shows that we don't know much
about the periodic table of elements and the slow buildup in our body of even trace amounts
of a lot of that periodic table.
And so I would feel more comfortable eating kelp because of how long we've eaten it for
and the trace minerals that are available there and the alginic acid and other materials
that come with it to make it safe for us to use.
Or when we look at a product like Sheela G, if I want the fulvic, when it is completely
open to chelated, it has beneficial properties and you can add it to whatever you like to
chelate.
And so if we, without going too far in the word chelate, just think of that as make a
little bit more available because fulvic can, it has this ability of being so molecularly
lightweight that it can carry across into the plant nutrients at an alarming rate.
And so even with normal fulvic acid, if we're using large amounts of alumina, silicate,
rock dust, and the fulvic acid is releasing that aluminum because it's so good at its
job, is that a problem?
And so if we're using Sheila G and it already has all these minerals in it, are any of those
at alarmingly high rates?
Or if they're not, would the slow use add up over time?
And where we have lack of knowledge, I just tend to stay away from and go to stuff that's
been around for a longer period of time when it comes to agriculture and when it comes
to efficacy versus the cost.
For instance, Faust was working with Dr. Sen of the author of the, I forget the name of
the book, but the seaweed book.
And they extracted fulvic and humics from seaweed, but it just wasn't cost effective
for agriculture.
And so I don't think that it's going to take off for any reason.
And so when we look at Sheila G, it comes with the minerals.
And so the red flag goes off immediately.
Dr. Faust pointed in my head, if you're going to be after humic and fulvic, humic are the
molecular weight that are, it's different.
It's a black, darker product, more like the looks of some of these that comes with all
the mineral where the fulvic is like the hash, the extract without any of that stuff.
And so if you're looking for fulvic, the completely open is not only more cost effective,
but it's going to do its job on what you intend.
And if you're looking for a micronutrient, I encourage you to do a soil test.
We can hit the micronutrient on the head.
If you have a micronutrient issue in your body where you feel it's a problem, you can
talk to a doctor and we can figure out exactly what that is because some people need iron
and some people are high on iron.
So it's, I just think that blanket approaches are not necessarily the best way to communicate
these processes.
Perfect answer, I think.
So just loop back on what you mentioned, bandwagoning, you don't like to get on them.
That's a good thing.
I noticed you didn't get on the neem gate bandwagon.
However, our Sheila Zeek friend did, which is all the more hilarious in my opinion.
This was such an interesting one to me, this whole neem controversy thing, because in my
mind it was so stupid.
Like if anyone has ever top dressed with just a handful of neem, within a day or two, they
would have seen it's just totally engulfed in fungal hyphae.
So the idea that neem just totally retards fungal bacterial colony numbers, I think that
was the claim being made ultimately.
I just thought it was ridiculous and, you know, like it just, it was so obvious that
neem was like a positive thing to add to your soil.
How did you feel when you first saw it?
And more importantly, how did you feel when like a few people kind of started to say that
they were believing it and whatnot?
Was it just like the world's gone mad?
Yeah, I felt like the sky was falling.
It was really funny to me.
And I got to tell you, no matter what it is, I treat it seriously.
I don't want to get this cognitive dissonance, I guess, or whatever you'd call it, where
I just, like you said, oh, that's ridiculous.
My firmly held beliefs are superior and correct.
And so I'm always open to challenge those.
And so I just run them through a standard series of questions, so to speak, and I compare
them to research and information.
And so when someone says that it's not going to work because it kills fungus and it's going
to cause a detriment, first I take a step back.
Is there any evidence that a bacterial or fungally dominated soil is going to be any
different in production?
No, we can look at the compost all day long, but I look at the results and growers that
I know are comparing flowers.
They're not comparing the fungal domination.
Now, that being said, we work with a number of greenhouses on large scale that are interested
in documenting every subsect of information so that they can compare against crop to crop
to crop.
And when you keep that in mind, you find out that most of the data is completely irrelevant.
But when you have a problem, you can start to compare data run to run.
And so we're finding that our growers using our soils with neem cake mixed in there and
top dresses of neem and karanja and using neem oils, they're getting tested at the very
same facility, Earth Fort, that does a lot of the testing through the Ingram camp for
the bacterial and fungal domination or the balance there, I should say.
And they're doing phenomenally well as far as would be reviewed in the industry.
And it would appear as if they wouldn't be using neem cake if that was the point.
And so for me, it was just immediately I already knew we already had the testing, we already
had the documentation.
I know that this was a non-issue.
But what I also know is that for every one of my customers that uses products correctly
and uses them with balance and with maturity, I feel like there is another couple of customers
that will use them maybe to learn how they work and where the limits are.
And they'll use them every time.
They'll top dress with massive amounts.
They will double the results because if someone is good and more is better.
And sometimes they're right, sometimes they're wrong.
And I feel like it's possible in this case, maybe that's a possibility.
And maybe that led to some of the conversation.
But the problem with this one is, is it was so ridiculous to me.
I didn't follow most of it.
Soon as I figured out that it didn't pass my test as far as being really something I
needed to pay attention to, I pretty much disconnected at that point.
And I feel like everyone's entitled to their own opinion.
They can share whatever information they feel is true.
And then I always ask if there's some reason for someone to lie or some reason to manipulate
the data for the financial gain.
And some people mentioned that I don't, you know, I didn't do any research there to see
if that's a part of the process.
But it's just not even an issue.
Meme cake is not something that I would worry about at all, especially when used according
to our recommended messages.
For sure.
So an interesting point I picked up, by the way, thanks for pointing out my logical fallacy.
The thing I noticed was a lot of the comments I read in the surrounding the topic was, they
would say, oh, this is just like Ingen's teachings taken to the nth degree, you know?
Do you think that is the truth or that was a misinterpretation in itself?
And I think maybe what they're alluding to is that she believes, maybe not specifically
that name retards, fungal dominance, but that I think less fungal dominance is better.
Yeah.
When you look at the numbers, I'm not somebody who follows that process.
And so it's not of huge importance for me to memorize the balance of bacteria count
versus fungal count that we're looking for in all of these reviews.
But it's not like you want to fumbly dominated soil.
There's a balance that's supposed to be there.
And like I mentioned, we're seeing really good balance and a number of our customers
are using meme cakes.
And so it just became a non-issue to me.
But I do feel that without me getting really deep into researching meme gate,
immediately it was brought to my attention.
And it was a thought that I had that this was taking the Ingem thing to that nth degree.
And the reason I say that is in the past in working with Tim Wilson, micro-meme,
and he's been really helpful in my business and helpful in answering gardening questions
without really any financial motivation.
Even the products he offers are so poorly thought out as far as how much profit would
be there for him.
It's really all about the gardener.
Unlike Ingem, who I have respect for, I don't have any reason.
I've not been to her classes to say that they're bad or anything, but she has a little bit
more of a financial motivation to the information being regarded as absolute truth.
And so when I talked to Koot, and he mentions that Tad over at Keep It Simple, who I think
already did a podcast on this topic, had studies going against that and that his father, Leon,
was actually mentioned in the Ingem intro as really as the creator or the inventor,
the first person to use compost tea in the process that we discussed today.
And they are fully of the agreement that there is a benefit to using meme cake.
It further convalesce the situation.
And so I think that if I were to ask Tim Wilson, if I were to ask Tad, if I were to ask anybody
that's been involved in this whole process, a lot of times there's been a differing viewpoint
and the exact opposite of what the Elaine Ingem camp says.
What's so funny is both of these processes work.
You can use meme cake.
You don't have to.
You can use molasses.
You can use fish.
You could do anaerobic.
You can do aerobic.
And I feel like we're still seeing gardeners produce killer results.
So as with anything in life, does the person you're following have the results you're looking
for?
And if so, do that.
If they don't, don't do that.
And what I can't find is people that are having crazy high fungal dominance, getting amazing
crops and showing me that they're superior than the other methods of bacterial dominated soil.
And so I don't feel like it's a metric that's really worth investing a lot of money into.
I think that quality compost will create a quality result.
Whatever balance that fungal and bacterial is, is irrelevant to me.
Yeah, fantastic.
And I remember I took a look into that myself and I think Tad and his dad were also some
of the first people to take like really high quality photos of like microscopic photos
of the fungal tea and you know, like actually be able to see the bacteria and stuff.
So they're definitely some dudes to listen to on the issue.
What I did like is you mentioned coot there and I've seen recently, you know, you guys
have released your official coots line where you know, like a little bit of that's going
towards coots when someone buys it, which is awesome.
It raised this idea in my mind.
Do you think coot, it's like as a recipe, so to speak, is it just a recipe or is it
something he can kind of claim ownership over in a sense?
Because I was thinking you could just try to build a soil, so to speak, and you've just
built it to what you think is pretty good.
And then someone comes along and they're like, oh yeah, that's like basically coots
mix.
And you know what I mean?
It's kind of like, it's just kind of, it seems to me like it's almost just a name for
a rough amount of amendments in a soil.
You know what I mean?
It's almost like a cake recipe, you know, it's like, and so it raised this idea in my
mind of like, yeah, do you think it's like a name recognition thing or an association
thing?
Like it's a weird topic, you know, like should coot get compensated if someone uses the name
coots mix or is it just in kind of the general domain at this point?
I think that he would say that he doesn't take any right to any of that stuff, that
it's totally in the general domain.
He's regurgitating a complete information that was taken from many other sources.
And so build a soil, as much as we could have a build a soil recipe, it wouldn't be something
that was mine.
And what I mean by that is it's just a culmination of ideas.
And what's so great about this is like he turned me on to the no need bread making process.
If you haven't looked into it, go on a YouTube type in no need bread.
And there's this guy, a artisan bread with Stev or Steve S T E V on there.
You'll find it.
And just the regular recipe is incredible.
It's just a little bit of flour, a little bit of salt water yeast.
And it's key is using time 24 hour or 12 hour, eight hour, you know, at least overnight
type of fermentation.
And it makes one of the best breads I've ever had.
It's just bread, though.
Is it Steve's bread?
No, but that term basically, the no need bread now points to him because he is the one that
has perpetuated sharing that information with everyone so they can benefit from it.
And Koot took the basic Solomon three way lime mix from Steve Solomon.
We mentioned him with the dolomite and the gypsum and the oyster shell or whatever the
recipe was.
And he put his own spin on it.
And he took the recommended amounts of certain dry amendments and played with them over time.
So if you followed Lumperdogs and Clackamas Koot over the years in the forums, the Koot's
mix changed over time.
It was the Koot's fix it mix.
It was these different recommendations.
When Build A Soil started, we tried a number of different soil recipes.
What we found is that the simpler recipe with the best compost always outproduced as far
as from a balance.
And you can you can certainly add to it what it needed.
But if you started with an unbalanced soil that just had the whole kitchen sink thrown
in, it didn't make for a better product.
So I guess what Koot taught us was use critical thinking when finding premium ingredients
that aren't wasteful as far as cost.
And then from there, you cannot amend your way to a good soil.
So our Koot's mix is great, but it is just amendments.
You need the best compost and the amendments to marry this whole process together.
I certainly give him credit for the Koot name.
And the reason why we're actually paying him a percentage is we feel like it's going to
help us sell more in the sense that we want to instead of everyone call whatever out there
is a Koot's mix.
We want the Koot's mix to be exactly what we discussed, what he helped us procure.
And what I mean by that is if you mix some crappy kelp from some random ocean and you
take some seed meal and you take some run of the mill rock dust and you call it a Koot's
mix, I don't think it's doing honor to the name.
And so that's why we wanted to make sure that it's separated and highlighted.
It's also really great that we can pass on some financial compensation to him, mainly
because he helps us behind the scenes so much still, exercising these ideas, running through
processes, looking at different composts.
Talk to him several times a week.
And I just feel like he gives so much without ever asking that if this really does work
and it can provide an income through him through retirement, I would feel like Build a Soil
did something.
And we're not the only ones.
There's some other people that I think are trying to find ways to support Koot.
And I think anybody should support who brought them to the party and support who supported
them when they didn't have anything.
And that name and that association has done really well for us, I think partially because
he's always been a part of my life as far as gardening.
And so it was authentic.
It wasn't something we were just trying to brand off of.
Yeah, really organic.
So and then the next thing was barley was kind of the next evolution and then moving
away from glacial rock dust towards the salt.
So I feel like Koot's Mix is a little bit specific as far as where it's at, but it'll
probably be evolving even forward in the future.
Without a doubt.
So one of the interesting posts I came across last night, which I think some people might
be a little upset about in Australia because it's insect frass.
It's one of those things where people are really excited about it, but it's not widely
available.
There's a few companies who are starting to produce some and a few people are getting
their hands on it.
But then I found your post.
Oh, my God, less than 1% chitin.
Is it just a complete waste of time?
Maybe, but I think that any biologically natural waste product has some benefit.
The challenge is, I feel like if you get a salesperson and a scientist together and you
just start researching the chemical makeup of any product, you can come up with some
benefits to it.
You know, when I was a kid, I remember those cereal commercials that would say it'll take
12 bowls of this cereal to equal one of this.
Like, yeah, for iron.
I mean, it's not exactly an apple to apple comparison.
And so it's just important, I think, to keep that in mind.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, well, I mean, outside of insect frass, then what is a source to get some actual
existent chitin from?
Well, we have a product that is one of the first, you know, documentable, guaranteed
chitin products.
So we're interested in that.
But crustacean meal has chitin in it.
The manufacturer of the chitin product we use makes it from a consortium of ground up
insects.
And so what that's interesting is that normally we would buy the waste products.
So you have an insect farm.
They sell insects to, you know, pet companies and people that use insects for all these
different purposes.
All the waste is considered a frass.
That frass is now sold as a product.
And so the frass is more about the waste.
It's not about the production, but the insects are.
And so this product called Optivege that we carry is an 8.1 percent, I believe is the
number of chitin.
And that's because they actually micronize the insects, not the waste.
And the waste has such a low amount of actual chitin in it is because the chitin comes from
the insect.
And so there's a little bit of dead material along with the waste.
And that determines the variable amount of chitin in the insect frass.
Now, it's still a waste product like a guano or like a chicken manure or anything else.
There's some there's some value.
And it's typically that the input material, whatever they're feeding, these bugs was going
to be micronized and made slightly more bioavailable by working it through a bug.
So there again is this theme.
Instead of taking raw minerals or raw materials, we feed them either through worm bins, through
animals, through bugs, and we get a more bioavailable closer to a plant form of food.
And that is faster to work through the soil food web.
So insect frass has total viability.
In fact, one of the places we're looking at right now is we found a place in Canada.
It's pretty far away, but the size of their facility and their ability to create a product
from a waste makes it still lower cost than what we can find locally.
And the frass they produce is from soldier flies.
And they actually recycle a ton of organic waste, just tons of produce and bad lettuce
and vegetables and everything else.
And it gets worked by these soldier flies, soldier fly larvae are very unfamiliar with
the process.
Turns it into a frass.
We just got our first sample and we're looking at it.
So I think that instead of just paying a top dollar for a new bandwagon type product,
I think that it'd be more important if we're after chitin, get a chitin product.
If we just want a kind of a vegan waste product, because these insects are feeding on vegetables
instead of animal material, it probably has some value.
But if it's super expensive, it's, it would be better if it was recycling a waste locally
and you can get it at a cost effective price.
And so we didn't add frass to any of our new recipes.
It's kept as kind of a side product that we use in recommendation to get an ecosystem.
So what I mean by that is when you're top dressing, you're putting worms in, you're
getting the ecosystem going.
To me, it would make sense to put some dead bugs and some insect waste and all of these
things that might build the ecosystem without actually introducing live bugs and problems
for our type of growing.
So you mentioned Canada just there.
Are you going to look to expand to possibly worldwide shipping now that you guys have
got Canada sorted?
Because I've had a few questions from people who would consider getting some stuff even
here in Australia.
Yeah, we're actually working on that right now.
We've got our logistics team is, we're growing as a company.
And so that allows us to focus on projects that would have taken too much time away from
the day to day.
And so as we go through each winter, which is slightly slower than the chaos of the spring
time, it allows us to grow and expand.
And so we're looking at worldwide shipping.
I don't know how soon it will become available and it'll be on key products that make sense
that are lightweight, that may have some viability.
And I want to be careful not to just start shipping stuff all over the world for no purpose.
But it's interesting.
You start working as a company and someone calls you and says, look, I just want to play
with this kiten product.
I have no way to get it locally.
No one's ever going to make it here.
There's no reason to yet.
Without waiting 10 years for someone to do it, can you just ship me a small amount so
I can satisfy my curiosity?
And I'm like, yeah, I'd love to do that.
And it makes sense.
But there's tariff codes and there's import fees and taxes and there's all these hoops
to jump through.
So we're getting very close.
We've been able to ship to Canada recently and very accurately predict the fees and make
a good experience for our customer.
So as we're more confident that we're not going to just cause customer service nightmares,
we're going to start rolling that out.
And I'd love to look at Australia.
As you and I both know, the shipping costs are just outrageous.
But I think that for the hobbyist and for the enthusiast, a couple of products that
actually might work.
And I know there's products in other countries that I'd love to play with and maybe as a
cool gift idea even, and maybe not as a sustainable practice.
So we'll see.
Just as an overarching question, because this one you could probably answer it forever.
Do you feel as though we're slowly moving towards, how should we say, a homogenized
growing style that will be eventually quite specific for cannabis?
In that at the moment it feels like people are incorporating bits of K&F, Coots Recipe,
a whole bunch of other little supplements here and there.
Do you think after a long enough period of time, we might have our own kind of grow style?
Like the canatil type thing, just some word like that.
Where it's just borrowing principles from a whole bunch of other things to the point
where it's almost its own thing.
I don't know.
I think the reason why I don't think that that's necessarily going to be coined is that
we've stolen from so many other processes.
It seems like anybody at the forefront of production, like any world record pumpkin
grower, world record tomato grower, somebody who's into gardening, we've all come to the
same answers taking a different path.
And same with cannabis growers.
I think the difference is the amount of time and money we're willing to invest in this
crop.
And so where it may become coined is when we look at production.
If we were going to do acreage production and you were to call, for instance, like a
local co-op or a local farmer's outfit that would give you pricing on fertilizer for your
corn or whatever's grown traditionally in your area, I'd imagine we'll have a line drawn
in the sand where they say, hey, are you growing cannabis style or are you growing regular
style?
And the difference there would be the ability to spend $1,000 an acre versus $50 an acre
because of the actual end use of the product.
So I feel like anytime you have a really high cash crop, you're going to see similar practices
where we're just trying to maximize the yield and the quality because those would be important.
But to me, that's permaculture.
I don't really think we're going to have to coin something new.
Yeah, I always figure it'll probably just be continually evolving anyway.
So something that I have noticed, though, which I'm not sure whether it actually works,
I wanted to run it by you.
I've seen people using various dehydrating machines and using vegetable waste, most notably
banana skins.
And so then they'll have these really dehydrated banana skin.
They then grind it up, mix it in the soil.
And I was like, that's so simple and so brilliant.
But does it actually work?
That's interesting.
I've never considered doing that.
To me, it fits one of the processes that we talked about.
And so I like to think of things in groups and then it's easier to think about.
So we talk, you know, the fulvic acid over here, aminos over here.
These are all things that lower energy.
One of the steps that we talked about was micronization.
So you take products that are nutrient dense, you micronize them and they're more available.
To me, in a no-till situation, all of those micronized products are not available to the
plant until they're processed through the soil food web.
So similarly that we mix alfalfa meal, the fact that we mix it with the plant,
neem seed meal, all of those are just more affordable waste products that make sense
to use as a fertilizer.
Nobody says you can't do the same thing with freeze dried expensive high end products
or waste products of your own.
So it totally makes sense.
I think that the difference would be I'd probably use some of those amendments more like a worm
food in my mulch layer so they could then make them available to the plant.
And I always find myself getting infatuated with wanting to learn more about how to be
in control and give them nutrients when they need it and really treat the plants really
well through that soil by feeding it the best stuff on earth, whatever that may be, purple
barley and banana peeled, freeze dried and all this and Korean natural farming.
But I feel like that's just because we all love this end result.
We love the process.
We love the plants.
We want to continue to be working towards them and doing something for it.
I don't know if necessarily the plant cares that it's banana peels or if it's alfalfa
meal or if it's some other source of that nutrient.
And at a certain point, we're getting away from the fact that keeping above that limiting
factor, keeping the soil aerated, keeping an ability to deliver nutrients, keeping everything
watered properly, the environment at a certain point, all these things are much more important
than the exact source of the NPK, the micronutrients and all those things that will be delivered
to the plant.
And that's why we had that discussion about is it better that it's organic or is it
more important that it doesn't hurt the earth?
Because at the end of the day, it gets broken down through the soil food web into basically
a chemical form of nutrient.
The difference is that delivery method being carbon for organics.
And I think that cannabis being a C4 plant, it just makes so much sense that organics
is the best way to go.
So with that being said, what do you think is the big difference between worm castings
and say like a high quality compost?
Are they equal or, you know, I guess we've been alluding to the idea that the castings
is going to be your best bet.
So you know, what makes it better ultimately and for people out there who maybe don't have
a good bulk supplier, do you think it still justifies the cost of, because often it can
be a fair bit more expensive, you know, than just regular compost?
No, I think it's not worth the money.
I think that they're worth the money if you know the qualities there.
The problem is, is that just like compost, it can be made from anything.
Compost doesn't mean anything.
It's just a generic term.
Worm castings doesn't mean anything.
Oftentimes you'll find people feeding really low end products and pureing a worm chow and
just kind of the bare minimum to the worms or they're producing worms for fishing.
And the castings are a waste.
They have no thought into what goes into it.
At home, you can recycle waste like newspaper and stuff, or you could actually feed thermophilic
compost with premium plant materials and be actually after creating the perfect compost
or for you, the perfect compost.
And so there's always going to be quality differences.
The difference with worm castings is they're always expensive and they're always, and they're
often not the same quality.
And so if you find a good source, you know what their feedstock is and you like them,
they're probably worth the money.
But a lot of times once you find that quality casting and they're produced in volume, they're
not as expensive as the, the, um, the lower quality stuff that's bagged up and produced
in large scale.
And so at your house, I would really encourage you to, um, start, set up your own worm bin.
I think it's the biggest difference maker in an organic garden.
It allows you to get worms for a much lower cost and put them in your containers from
your own worm bin.
You breed this, um, consortium of predator mites and rogue beetles and all these things
start to come together and they help complete that no-till ecosystem.
Um, but beyond that, you also have some extras.
So if I was just going to get high quality compost or high quality castings, the difference
to me is that castings are typically a lot more bang for the buck and you can make teas
from them that go further.
They're more nutrient dense.
And so we learned a while ago following Coot's recipe of using, you know, one third castings
was just a recipe for failure when it came to the available castings on the market.
They're just too salty or they're too rich in potassium or some ingredient based on how
they're produced, where using such a high volume produces a lot of issues, at least
in the beginning.
His vermicompost is very different.
It takes a long time to make and it's, it's produced from materials that he has knowledge
of and it's balanced and it's produced with the end result of, of having that.
And so he can do it at the high, high volume that he does and have a really, really good
results.
And you'll experience that also at home if you're able to make your own castings.
Also, we keep going back to this thing where we're talking about micronization.
You take worms and you work a compost, it's going to be a smaller end result.
The red wigglers that we prefer, we'll break it down into very, very small pieces of individual
castings.
Each one of those coated in calcium carbonate, which is part of that balance in the soil
and coated in bacteria and enzymes and secondary metabolites from the plants that we fed through
it.
And that is all richer, a thermophilic compost, which can destroy a lot of those benefits.
So the two compliment each other.
I think they're best used in combination.
And when you don't have the budget for the castings, it makes sense that if you just
put worms in the container, you're going to make your own castings on demand.
And if you can set up your own worm bin, you can just work more affordable compost into
castings.
So I think that from a budget perspective, when we work with larger scale, we just don't
see people buying $20,000 of castings to do the luxury top dresses and teas nonstop because
you get very good results from the quality compost.
And then you can put worms right in the container.
Killer.
So a question people have been asking me a lot, and I don't have a very good answer for
them is fabric pots versus those plastic smart pots.
I got some people who say to me, they think the plastic smart pots are better because
it's like easy to use because a lot of the complaints around fabric pots are how, you
know, like if you water them, sometimes it comes out the side and it's not actually
penetrating down as well as you'd like.
And I always reply to that saying, to me, that sounds like you just need to become a
little more familiar with how to use them.
I understand the problem you're discussing, but I think over time you'll learn to avoid
that and kind of learn to water better within them.
However, the plastic pots, they avoid that issue because there's all the holes on the
outside of them, but the top ones, there's no holes.
So the water has to penetrate down first before it even has a chance to leak out the sides.
Have you got any opinions on these ones?
Like, do you think fabric's better than plastic smart pots?
What's your thoughts?
Yeah, I definitely have an opinion there.
Mine's similar to yours.
To be clear, I think so the plastic out here, the smart pot is a brand from high caliber
and they're a fabric pot.
And so the plastic smart pot that you're mentioning, like a, not a recycled plastic, but
like a hard black nursery pot, right?
Yeah.
It's got these like the concave and convex ridges around the outside with the holes in
them.
Yeah.
I've used all sorts of things and I've used plastic pots and I don't think that there's
really an issue there, but I'll highlight on a couple subjects.
One of them being agronomists I talked to and top soil and the microbial life and ingum
and a lot of the stuff we've talked about, that conversation revolves around aerobic
activity.
And that means more oxygen than not or air in the soil.
And so that can be done by having a highly aerated mix and having soil texture that allows
oxygen to stay in there and the porosity of the drainage or the aeration material.
But to add to that, when you're trying to create this larger soil, which one of the
problems can be over watering, it makes sense to have a fabric container that allows you
to air prune the roots and create that benefit where it doesn't wrap around, where it actually
air prunes and sends a signal for new root growth.
But it also makes sense because the air that it lets in through the sides and creates this
diversity of moisture zones.
And like you mentioned, once you start using either a wetting agent or watering properly,
slowly, more often, whatever it takes, you'll stop that running out the side.
It won't be an issue whatsoever.
And if it does happen, it'll more importantly highlight that you're actually getting dry
pockets and there may be a bigger issue.
And it's time that you slowed down and water properly because you're cutting corners and
now all of a sudden it's running out of the side of your of your fabric pot.
When I have a really good grow and things are going really well, it seems that's never
an issue because I've been tending to it so often that the slow watering, the constant
tension means that it's at an even moisture level the whole time.
And around the edges, it's slightly drier and there's this like root pruning that happens.
And I feel like that's why a larger container does work.
And also when I'm vermicomposting, using that breathable container means the worms are going
to be more alive.
The biology is going to be more aerobic and it's not going to ferment on accident or kill
all the worms.
And so I feel like it gives you an advantage.
It does have disadvantages.
You know, out here in Colorado, it's super dry.
And so outdoors, if you're not able to water consistently and you don't have a big enough
container, maybe something with solid sides would be better.
Worms do just fine in a plastic worm bin as long as you don't overwater and your plants
will do really good in a plastic container as long as you don't overwater.
And if you're someone who wants to water less, maybe that's important and maybe it'll work
for you.
But I just tend to use the fabric pots.
I think they work really well for our style and it's always what I've been taught.
And I've tried to go back and forth and I end up using fabric pots.
So I would just suggest if you haven't tried a fabric one versus a plastic or if you have
and you're having issues, talk to someone who has used one and make sure you're using
it right, just like you mentioned.
So I remember last time we spoke, I think ultimately I kind of got the answer out of
you that if you had to choose between having a cover crop or top dressing, if you could
just do one or the other, you would take top dressing.
And in the recent pictures I saw, I noticed you have a cover crop and so I was a bit surprised.
And then in the very following video, you just dumped a bunch of soil on top of it.
And so I was thinking, have you changed your mind back or maybe you think the two are good
now?
Like where do you sit on that one now?
I guess one of the habits that I've noticed that successful people have is they typically
like to have both.
And you'll always hear that phrase, you can't have your cake and eat it too.
And everybody says, no, I can't.
And it'd be better to have both.
The phrase is actually a little different.
It's you can't eat your cake and have it.
Depending on how you say it, it means something different.
And the same thing goes here.
I like to have cover crop or top dress.
I think they're both really important.
I like the cover crop because it's fun to see more of a diverse crop growing in the
soil.
The challenges that I mentioned before were if I just told everybody to cover crop, a
lot of times there's a lot lost in communication or lost in translation.
And all of a sudden they have six foot tall cover crop growing out of their container
and they have a five inch tall cannabis plant and it becomes competitive against the main
crop.
And so I just recommended people if I was going to choose one to do top dressing, it's
going to be more effective.
And then we look at large scale.
All of a sudden we're looking at an acre.
It doesn't make any sense at all.
The top dress cover crop becomes the absolute gold standard and it has to be done.
It has to be managed over the long term.
And then if you use animal husbandry, that's kind of how you get that top dressing.
And then depending on soil testing, you can always amend, but it's just so expensive.
So I feel like there's always room for both.
I like that mindset whenever I can.
I don't want to have to pick one thing versus the other if they're both good.
But you can certainly abuse both those like I like I'm doing in this grow.
We're doing a lot of everything.
So it's been fun.
Just touching back on the soil testing.
How important is it to soil test in the sense of do you think if you're, you know, reasonably
consistent in your inputs and you know, you're, how should I put this?
You're not a stupid person, you know, like you read the plants, you try to keep a bit
of an idea of what's going on.
Do you think you can get away with not using a soil test and just getting your pots to
go time and time again with a bit of knowledge and, you know, some research at times?
Or do you think at the end of the day, you do really need to get a soil test at some
point?
Otherwise, things will become unmanageable and you're probably not going to be able to
self-diagnose it.
I think the difference on who is asking the question, what I mean by that is that if you
are somebody who is depending on your crop because of the production that's coming from
it, then you can't afford to have variations in yield.
You can't afford to have things take time to balance or the results that come from not
having the soil testing.
I think you can totally get away with it.
And the average gardener is not going to benefit hugely from getting the soil test.
And here's the reason why.
We're starting with recipes where we know every input.
And it's different than testing your native soil, which may have some great disparities
in it.
The then difference becomes, like you said, not messing it up or not being stupid and
really pushing your soil one direction or the other and using products that may not
be acceptable or copious amounts of them.
I think that most gardeners will have tremendous success never using a soil test.
It's just like they're not going to need a microscope to brew compost tea.
But as soon as you're relying on the budget, I think soil testing will be the most affordable
difference maker because it can highlight some things that are important.
Like all of a sudden there's no yield and you just keep trying all these different things,
but none of it overcame the fact that there's no boron in the soil and that's causing a
major deficiency that you weren't aware of.
And it's not very often that we see such an aha moment when we do a soil test because
soil testing is not super accurate.
There's still a lot lacking depending on how it's tested.
And we can go really deep into that.
You have to weigh the soil to get the results to be what you want.
Most people don't weigh it.
There's so many different considerations there.
A lot of times the soil test can sometimes start to provide some problems for the grower
depending on how they interpret that.
And so I feel like most gardeners can just go without it.
But once you start to understand it, like once you read Steve Solomon's book, you go,
oh my goodness, instead of me just doing as he says, put some more on it, have a little
bit of everything, which does work in organics.
You can have a lot of it.
He just highlighted if you're missing something that your everything doesn't have like boron
or manganese or whatever it may be, it's deficient.
You're never going to get there by just adding a whole bunch of stuff.
And that's changing a little bit when we look at no-till because some of the ingredients
that we're using cover those basis.
So if you are using a little bit of kelp, if you are using some dynamic accumulators
that are really well-rounded like in the coots mix, it's much harder to have an issue
that a soil test is going to be required to fix.
And I guess to continue this long thought, when I started testing our soil, I was kind
of holding my breath because I was really scared to see what the results were as far
as what I read was good, even though I knew our soil worked.
And it was funny to find that Coot, although he's not a fan of soil testing and doesn't
really advocate for it based on his requirements, his recipe follows the profile and fits a
soil test perfectly when done with good compost.
So either way, Solomon and Coot ended up at the same place, whether it was from the gut
or from a soil test.
I think the main difference is in those micronutrients, which kelp meal can't necessarily overcome
them from scale and production as far as end times and having to produce your own food
and actually live off of it and nutrient deficiencies would become much more important.
And so just as maybe a bit of a weird question, have you ever heard of anyone doing or I guess
in worst case scenario, any possible negative health effects of trying to Bokashi pet waste?
I've noticed that's something a few of the Bokashi companies are pushing now.
They've got like these kits where you can put the pet manure into it and you know, Bokashi,
I think they say you put it in the ground and then it's like similar to the regular
Bokashi when it's done.
You ever heard of anyone doing that or would you be apprehensive or no?
No, I think it's a great idea.
I wouldn't use it for the garden just like any, you know, off the grid setup.
If you're actually going to be using your own waste and it becomes valuable in your
animal's waste, you have to understand whether it's something that can be used on a food
crop, whether it's composted, whether it's, you know, gray water, whether it's raw.
And some of the stuff is not to be used on your, you know, your main crop.
It would be to grow something else that feeds something else and then is eventually used.
And so, yeah, I guess that's just kind of my thoughts on that.
Okay.
And so I wanted to know your opinion.
When you're doing like a top dress of a whole bunch of amendments, maybe at the end of the
cycle, you know, you're chucking a whole bunch of new goodies on top.
Do you like to blend them all up if possible?
Because what I noticed is I seem to get like a crazy increase in bug numbers if you blend
it up and that's kind of a no-brainer, you know, like it's all the higher surface area,
more stuff available for bugs to eat up.
But in one instance, I noticed it almost got too out of control and it was just like full
on and I was getting a bit worried.
And so I almost started to think, hmm, maybe I shouldn't blend up the malt barley and stuff
because I think that was the source of the issue anyway.
But long story short, yeah, do you have an opinion on whether you should really try to
almost micronize your top dress like we've mentioned or, sorry, micronize like we've
mentioned the top dress or do you view it as more of like a longer lasting and kind
of leaching the nutrients out slowly?
I think it depends on what we're after.
If we know we're after like a singular ingredient, it's going to make a difference.
If we're using a little bit more intelligence to create a product, you know, at home, we
can get away with by using a little bit of extra of a raw material.
But if I'm going to buy an amino acid product, I want it to be the purest and the most available
because of the shipping and the cost that goes into that.
But when you consider all things being the same and you're going to either blend an ingredient
or not at home, I tend to buy stuff like most of us that's at least fairly broken down.
And for the most part, that difference in texture to me provides a little bit of fast
release, a little bit of slow release and a little bit of really slow release depending
on the size of ingredient texture.
And I'm OK with that.
So I never really blend it up like you have done the malted barley and ground it up really
fine.
And I find that you can use smaller amounts like you notice an increased level of activity.
And then we've also played with in our new soil recipe that I've got in a four by four
geo planter over some grow stone as kind of a makeshift sub irrigated planter.
We mixed malted barley into that soil recipe and it was milled, which is kind of like a
chunky texture.
It's like taking each of the barley seed and breaking it into maybe four or five pieces
and mashing it.
It's not really a fine powder.
And we find that that worked really well.
And we hope that the soil test comes back on it and looks equally well.
But the plants in it are doing good.
I think if I micronized it, it may have even increased the effect of how hot the soil
temperature got.
And so that's another thing to consider when you're mixing soils.
If you micronize everything besides just the top dressing, like you mentioned, it can
cause some effects where just everything is released so fast, it may not be advantageous.
So consider what you're using it for.
And I guess factor that in when you're going to consider grinding something.
So one of the recent videos you put up that really caught my eye was one about spinosads.
And you said that people had had lab tests that were like testing hot when they used
it.
In your mind, does this kind of put it in like maybe not the same category, but like a
similar category as using like abamectin?
Like are you like, you know, would you avoid smoking something that's going to test positive
for spinosad?
Or do you think it's like a much more safer thing than the usual things that you are not
wanting to test positive?
I'm not worried about the spinosad at all.
And I just, I guess maybe I should be.
But for whatever reason, I feel it's natural enough and how they found it, how it's been
used for a long time.
I don't think there's any really negative effects.
And I think that there's kind of some bandwagoning that happens when people hear something about
it and jump on it.
And I heard through the grapevine that people were testing hot for it.
I never really did a lot of my own research.
And so I just kind of loosely mentioned that that's the story that's going on right now.
But you'll notice deeper in that post, we got into the conversation.
I was playing a little bit of a devil's advocate.
I wanted that post to get some conversation and have people talking because I knew someone
would say it's going to kill bees.
And I knew someone would say that you're going to fail testing.
I happen to know that since then, people have been using that product out of curiosity and
using it according to the directions.
And they're not failing testing, even when using it in flower.
And we also find people that are saying that it doesn't hurt the bees.
So I did some research and there's white paper showing that when used properly, for instance,
that's not spraying it on bees.
It doesn't hurt them.
And so I mean, water would hurt bees.
A stick would hurt if I go knock their nest down.
And so I feel like you have to take everything with a little bit of grain of salt.
I found it funny.
Some people were recommending other products that were supposedly safe for bees.
And when I researched those products, it said very clearly on the label not to use it around
bees.
And so bees has become kind of the new, I love bees.
I absolutely want them to be safe.
I want no issues with it.
But it's become like a new hype word where everybody's scared about it.
And so I feel like for a while got a little out of control.
And I think that the consensus in the scientific community is the spinosad is safe and it doesn't
hurt the bees when used appropriately and outdoors.
That means using it at night when the bees aren't on your flowers.
And that means probably not using it in flower because you shouldn't need to if it's used
properly.
And that would eliminate all of the reason for concern.
But Avram active is a deworming agent.
And I think that I would be concerned with that.
So it's different when someone says it tests hot, that doesn't mean it's bad.
That means that they tested for it and it was there.
I feel like that also is indicative of them using it probably incorrectly.
Yeah.
Okay.
And so just as a bit of a general question, how do you feel about the Dragonfly Earth
Medicine products?
And would you guys ever consider stocking them?
People have asked us that in the past.
There's not really been a huge reason to as far as I I'm concerned.
What I mean by that is everyone has their own style of growing and I'm trying not to
dictate that style.
And so by doing so, I carry products that are a little bit more ubiquitous in use and
aren't so.
I guess their formulas, a lot of the stuff that when I look at an ingredient list, I
oftentimes find myself not wanting to purchase certain products because I want to have a
more singular product available to my customer, like the amino acid where there's one
ingredient.
The RootWives, I know a lot more about those microbial products.
The humic acid material that's used in their product, I don't like at all.
And it's clearly labeled on there.
And so the red flags went off right away.
Whether that's right or wrong, how I was taught to research ingredients had told me
that I, a certain of the products I didn't want to share with my customers in the sense
that I wasn't certain about them.
Then I sense, found that a lot of our customers use their products and absolutely love them.
And so I found myself in a position where I was thinking, okay, well, there obviously
are products that are being effective.
They are in alignment with our customers' core beliefs.
And so what's in them?
And some of them have some interesting ingredients.
And so if I was to be someone who really wanted to get the product, just the type of person
that I am would probably lead me to making my own, buying some of the source ingredients.
And I love that they're transparent about it.
And if you don't want to go to all the work of making your own stuff and you like their
ingredients, you can go buy their products and use them.
And not only that, there's a whole community of people that can kind of tell you how to
work with it.
So it's been this interesting thing.
But I have never carried them and I just don't really have an interest.
And part of it is I don't think I could really help them, their brand at all.
Anybody that buys Build-A-Soil can certainly go get the Dragonfly directly from them or
from someone probably even closer.
They've done a great job at getting their products out there in the market.
Appropriate answers.
So we've got a few questions on IPM here.
An interesting one I've been thinking about is, have you ever noticed a meaningful effect
from the use of diatomaceous earth in regards to IPM?
Every time I see people use it, I generally try to follow up and say, how did you find
it to work?
And most of them give the same answer.
As soon as your water gets clumpy, don't think it has really any effect after that.
And also that it's just quite hard to manage and use in general.
Do you find it works?
And if so, what's the best way to optimally use it?
Really good question.
You'll notice a recent post that we put on Instagram highlights this and it's a little
bit messy how we do it.
And it may not be the ideal approach, but it's the only way that I've found to work.
And I'll share that methodology with you.
At work, we have a worm bin.
It's a hanging worm in.
It is a breathable fabric, very similar to a backpack.
And it allows it to hold about four cubic feet of heavy compost with worms in it up
on this two by four stand that we built.
And we have a bucket underneath it to pull the worm castings out.
And the top, and it's got a zipper net that keeps most of the flies in.
But typically there's none.
The vermicomposting is really clean when done right.
We top dressed from an outside container that had sunflowers and a whole bunch of soil
and compost, tea scraps and stuff in it.
And it brought in a ton of fungus, gnat and fly larva and all sorts of stuff.
And so it was just full underneath this net.
And a lot of them were flying through because they were so small.
And so we put about an inch layer all the way across with diatomaceous earth just because
we're not growing a plant.
We just wanted to see if it would really work.
Because in the past, I would just dust a little bit and I never had any good results.
If I used too much, it would clump up.
And man, I got to tell you, the gnats were instantly gone.
The flies were instantly gone.
It had such a dramatic effect within 48 hours that I thought, man, I've been missing the
boat on this stuff.
Part of it is just any barrier will work.
So I don't want to say that diatomaceous earth is necessarily the most important way to go.
But I like most of my tools to be multifunction.
And it just sort of happens that if you're going to make a barrier, diatomaceous earth
is a very good way to do that.
And so what we did to get around the problems were this.
We top dressed with about a half pound of diatomaceous earth food grade per 15 gallon
plant.
It created like a half inch layer all the way across the entire top dress surface area.
And it immediately suffocated any attempt at fungus gnats to live in there.
The larvae that would have hatched come through and die.
The flyers can't lay eggs in it because it's so thick and dry and powdery.
And they just die when they land in it and can't fly away.
And it causes problems, just interrupts everything.
And then we also did it because we had thrips and they have part of the life cycle in the
soil.
And so within 48 hours, same effect.
There was nothing moving in that tent as far as flying around flies, gnats.
And so I'm hoping it had the same effect on the thrip larva.
And then instead of trying to water through it, because we did a half inch thick layer,
just decided, hey, you know what?
The, uh, I think two pounds that we ended up using were like a dollar worth of material,
maybe less than that, depending on the quantity of Biden.
So I took the shop back and just sucked it right off the top.
It was so light and that it came off all the top dress stayed.
And, um, since the problem has been completely eliminated as far as anything flying around
in there.
And I think if you do that same process, we'll have the same results and then you won't have
to try and water through it.
That being said, it's still dusty and it's a mess.
And so there are other ways to do it.
But, um, it's as far as I can tell, it's basically a hundred percent effective and
it's pretty affordable.
Fantastic.
I'll have to give that a go.
So one question I get asked in regards to kind of IPM or like at the extreme end of
it, and I just really don't have a good answer.
I haven't been able to get one either is, uh, let's just say you're a first time grower.
Cause normally it's the first time growers who have this issue.
If you're a first time grower and you're worried about getting, you know, spider mites or like,
one of the more nasty things in flower, do you have any real options to get rid of them
once you're in flower, so to speak?
You know, like let's just say you're at week four.
So there's definitely buds there, you know, what are your options realistically for mites?
Are there any?
Yeah, I think there's a lot more options than people give credit for.
I think that the community of cannabis cultivators end up creating this conversation that's taboo
and it's spraying anything on a flower as if it's just going to melt your buds and it's
going to be in all the bud that you smoke.
That's just not how it works.
You can foliar spray and it will not end up in the product.
The very low dilution rates of things like essential oil or additives will volatilize
and off gas and be completely gone.
They will be hit with the light and the air and everything else.
Now here's something else to consider.
If you're not going to spray your plants with something, even your buds, especially when
growing outdoors or in a greenhouse or even in your grow tent, nature is going to be spraying
them anyways.
There's going to be bacteria, indigenous floating in the air that's going to land on there and
there's going to be dirt, debris and other stuff floating around.
Unless you have like a complete sterile, HEPA filtered everything room, there's still some
chance of that.
There's a lot of people will wash their buds.
Some people aren't terribly concerned with it.
Some people make concentrates.
At the end of the day, I think that foliar spring really doesn't have a huge negative
effect on the end result, especially in those first four weeks.
Now, as you get closer to harvest, it definitely can cause a huge issue, especially when products
are abused.
We've seen really safe results using EM1 mixed with treatment, which is an enzyme cleaner
or just using the treatment.
Other products on the market like it would be like Dr. Zimes and big time exterminator
and some of the other enzyme based sprays.
I always recommend following like a quarter dose or a half dose for any recommended, anything
that the manufacturer says.
And that way you're going to be safe, especially in flower.
And then also make sure that you have airflow, make sure that you're not going to harvest,
you know, the next week.
Certainly if you're a week four and you've got spider mites, or if you notice a little
bit, I would much rather see you spray something very natural, like maybe a homemade EM5.
You can go to terragenics.com and look up that.
You can use essential oil.
You can use enzyme sprays.
Heck, I think people even using low dilutions of neem oils and stuff would probably be even
safe on certain genetics at that point.
Now, I don't do that.
Some people say they do.
I'm not sure if it affects their concentrates, but certainly the enzyme products don't.
And some of the homemade products and the essential oils don't.
And so I'd be comfortable recommending that as long as they use an emulsifier.
And, you know, it was no later than say week six at the latest.
So, have you heard the idea being thrown around at all?
And I'll just preface this by saying you certainly didn't advocate this, but some people have
thrown around the idea that cannabis hyper anemus is possibly just actually a code name
for azadactrin poisoning, aka neem poisoning.
So if that were true, it could, you know, give credence to the idea that people who
do experiences have maybe just actually ingested some weed that was sprayed with neem-laden
flower.
Have you heard anything along those lines?
I have, and I think it's grasping for straws.
I don't see any correlation.
I think that it makes a lot of sense when you start thinking about it and you're like,
yeah, people spray stuff.
That's gotta be what it is, not our beloved plant.
But, you know, there's people out there that react differently to everything, good and
bad.
And these are natural products that are quite potent.
And, you know, I've certainly used quite a bit of it.
And so I wouldn't be surprised if there are different times in my life where the plant
treats me differently based on what my needs are.
And I've had some people close to me in my life that went through a potential cannabis
hypermesis or whatever they doctor wanted to call it.
And what's really frustrating for most people to go through this is they feel they're being
written off with some random word that's bullshit.
And they're just being told that they smoke too much to go back home.
And I think there's a really underlying medical cause for concern there.
And it's something that may not be caused by cannabis, but maybe during that time accentuated
by it or highlighted.
And it's real.
It certainly is.
And I've seen that it's not directly correlated to the azadirachtin.
And if that's the case, I would say that the only way it's possible is from azadirachtin
extracts, which are, in my opinion, abused because of the high amounts of parts per million
of percentage of this one singular plant constituent, which to me is doesn't have that
synergistic effect, that natural safe effect, like a plant based neem oil would have that
you can use topically internally and has been used for thousands of years without any sort
of hypermesis syndrome.
Something I've noticed is really trending at the moment, you know, lactobacillus, it's
the shit at the moment, you know, everyone's talking about it.
What do you think about it?
You know, it's one of those ones where it's super easy to make.
So, I think that probably adds to why it's gaining so much momentum.
But the thing I've heard from some friends who I trust their opinions greatly is they
reckon that using it to flush your plants is amazing.
Have you heard anything along those lines?
I've heard things like that, kind of like a bacterial flush where you put it through
in a lactobacillus, which is really good at breaking down organic material, goes through
and supposedly flushes your plants or eats the salts out or whatever.
I don't really mess around with that too much in the sense that I don't have a reason to
flush.
I'm not growing in that style where I'd use it for that purpose.
The other reason I think is a lot of people mix it with molasses to stabilize.
And so, the idea that molasses uses the end of the flush kind of goes along with that
thought methodology and lends itself to it.
So, the molasses thing that I just mentioned, oftentimes if you look in the past, people
would use molasses at the end of their growth cycle to kind of flush and flush with sugars
or whatever meant to kind of sweeten the buds up.
And so, I don't really follow any of those practices, but I see lactobacillus becoming
a trend because of a couple of reasons.
It really does work.
It provides some nitrogens to meet amino acids.
It is a soluble organic nutrient.
It's got some probiotic advantages to it.
And so, it makes a lot of sense to me.
I get it.
Challenges that I have, you know, I don't buy a lot of milk.
And so, now all of a sudden I'm going to buy a jug of milk just for this.
And it's coming from a cow that was fed GMO corn or, you know, fattened up or maybe it's
fed a dairy and it's eating good grass.
I don't know.
But a lot of times, the whole process is in a huge industry I want to support and start
making tons of fertilizer off of purchased milk.
And so, if I happen to have milk on the farm or it's a waste and the milk goes bad and
I can make it, I think it's great.
I like to have lacto around.
But I've got other products like this amino acid product that I think works really well
and this lacto product that I think works a lot better.
And that's just me.
But lacto is cheap to make.
It's one of those products that works.
It has a cool factor.
So, I think it's going to be here to stay and people will be using it for a long time.
You know, beyond that, I just, I think that people, most people that I know, when they
make it for a long time, they get to the point where it's just kind of like, okay, am I going
to make a routine where I make this every so often?
Do I do it once a year?
Do I do it all often?
It just becomes kind of an unnecessary process, at least in a no-till environment, especially
when I've got like this powder to amino that I think just is so much more effective and
easier for me to use.
But if I didn't have that and I didn't want to buy a product, I think that this would
be the go-to first thing that people would want to make as far as a do-it-yourself plant
fertilizer.
So, we haven't really seen any major, major breakthroughs in terms of extremely effective
organic methods of killing pests and bugs.
We, you know, I mean, there's been developments in, you know, the use of the essential oils
with the neems and with the silicas, you know, so the combination of all those is certainly
effective.
But I'm talking about things on the level of like chemicals where, you know, like you're
using the product and it's really wiping everything out pretty much quickly or instantly
almost.
And I thought about it and it seems like using biological agents like predators or, you know,
maybe like enzymes that are just so powerful and specific that like, you know, they literally
just rip things apart similar to the way like a really chemically-based one would.
Do you think that's possibly like a future we could come to or do you think like it's
not really technically viable or do you think the demand would need to be right to develop
such products?
Seems like the Californian market is big enough that the demand would be there for like, you
know, like really good organic pest killers that are really effective consistently.
Yeah, I think you're right.
I think the market's there.
I think the demand's there.
I think we're going to see products like that and they will work.
And if you've read Paul Stamets' Mycelium Running and looked down the rabbit hole of
fungus, you'll see that he's worked on a number of different effective ways to utilize
fungus to kill pests.
And so one of the things he talks about in the book is I believe termites and using creating
like for instance, I think it was ants or termites.
I can't remember which one this one is relative to, but they were smart.
They would sense the material that was poisoned to him in the fungus and it was an odor or
something like that.
They wouldn't bring him.
They wouldn't bring him back to the nest.
And even if they did, they had guards that would then dispose of the product before it
got back to the queen, which is really what you want to infect to kill the colony, I guess
in this case.
And so they were able to produce mushrooms that didn't either spore or created a different
result in how they were grown so that it lacked the property that tipped the ants off.
And so all of a sudden they would just go harvest this stuff as if it was the best food
they could find and bring it back to the queen.
Everybody would give it to her and everybody'd share it and then they would all die very
quickly because the fungus would completely take them over from the inside out.
So I feel like there's going to be opportunity where it's very specific.
The problem is, is that most of the time when you think of a overall blanket targeting effect
where it just eradicates pests, it doesn't necessarily fit nature's profile because
they'll kill good and bad.
And neem oil is fantastic because it typically only kills the herbivores that are eating
the plant, not the pest eating beneficials that we want to stay alive.
And we will look at other products like the Spinosad and other things like that.
It doesn't just blanket target everything and eradicate every stage from adult to larva
to nymph.
I mean, it affects them all differently.
And I think that in nature, at least it makes sense that you don't want to have such a
clear cut killer because it breaks some of the rules of making it possible for something
dramatically bad to happen out there where everything just gets wiped out.
And so one of the stories that I remember reading about, and I think it was like 40,000,
you know, some agricultural book about the Asian horticultural practices and farming
practices.
And one of the stories about, you know, a long, long time ago, a king that wanted to
be great told his people that there was a few different things that were causing major
problems for them.
And if they got rid of them, they would be, you know, just they got rid of all of them.
100% they would be rich.
And it was a bird that was eating their grain and it was like a bug that was causing problems
and, you know, whatever the pests were.
And so they went and they killed all of the mice or killed all the birds and they kill
all of those bugs.
And it was basically like called upon by the nation to do so.
And everyone had to work endlessly to do it.
And they had the worst season ever because unbeknownst to them, the bird ate a bug that
actually ate the crop and kept it in balance, even though they did take some grain.
And unbeknownst to them, the mice or whatever it was, cause some other function that was
integral to the ecosystem and its function.
And so I don't pretend to know why all these bugs are there, but I know that Masanobu
Fukuoka mentioned that every year the bug life from an entomology perspective was different
and the predators were different and the bugs that flourish were different.
And so if you just wiped one of them out, it may cause something else to come in and
wipe you out.
And so it's interesting that I feel like we're going to have tools like the fungus
stuff.
We'll have stuff that kills it, but it should be more selective in organics.
And I feel like we're always going to have to use multiple tools to avoid that problem
of eradicating everything and causing your own problem.
Does that make sense?
I kind of beat around the bush a lot, but it's just...
I think that's a good response.
So something I wanted to delve more into was the SAR response.
That's another kind of little hot topic at the moment.
Something I'm not sure if it's been specifically said, and I think people are kind of interested
is, do you think by activating the SAR response in a plant, you do increase terpene and resin
or like there's a chance it would?
Because that's what I'm interested in knowing.
Is it like a direct response or like there's a chance it'll increase terpenes as a result
of that?
I think that there is going to at some point be for sure a direct response.
And I think we're already there where we can say that when we look at the salicylic
acid, jasminic acid pathway, which a lot of times what we're keying into when we talk
about the systemic acquired resistance, it plugs into this network the plant uses to
communicate to other plants and to more accurately prepare for adverse conditions.
So a plant can't just get up and run away from a storm.
And so it has to weather through it.
It can't just get up and run away from pests.
It has to defend itself and stay right there.
So this SAR response, the idea is that in nature we can witness where one plant is infested
and it sends out a hormone that activates the other plant's SAR response.
And now they start preparing their defenses.
And what's interesting is typically those defenses are medicinal.
The alkaloids, the properties that they create are the secondary metabolites that are not
primary to normal growth function like a leaf or a stem.
And so these secondary properties are then increased to be a pesticide or whatever that
SAR response triggered.
So in our plant, we're thinking that triggering the SAR defense response without actually
hurting the plant will give us a benefit of turning on more THC, increasing terpene and
terpenoid that might be the actual plant defense system.
And there's evidence that leads directly to that.
It makes a lot of sense from a plant constituent standpoint.
That's what the plant's going to do.
And so then there's correlating studies, which you can Google after this and find that
there's been studies on tobacco and I think on tomato, both that have trichomes.
And if you were to scope it, they look like trichomes on a cannabis plant.
They were dramatically increased when the big, like the wild sage plant that's all across
the United States, when that plant was attacked by pests near the growing tobacco or tomato.
And so they then did tests where they would release the methyl jasminate from the sage
plant and it would activate the SAR and activate the actual jasminic response system in the
plants.
And it seems like the jasminic side of it is towards finishing or senescence.
And so that's where you'll see products like Terpenator and other ones.
A lot of people think that they're playing with jasminic acid to induce these responses
above and beyond just the sulfur.
Then they lend itself to the process.
And so if you start looking at jasminic acid, I think you'll be excited about it.
We've been wanting to just top dress with some sage.
I actually bought some jasmine oil as a way to maybe spray on the top dress, but I haven't
had time to do a real side by side and haven't found a way to maybe send it to a lab and
differentiate accurately what the results are.
But I do want to do that and we'll see if it works.
And so I guess that's my thoughts on some of these products that might stimulate the
SAR.
I think it's for sure going to get us more terpenes, more THC, but it's just a matter
of how much, which product, how does it actually work?
I don't think we're really there yet, at least on a scalable level.
An interesting point you brought up was the Terpenator.
I've heard a lot of people talk about this one and the most common thing I hear is it
increases terpene productions, but it causes everything to kind of smell a bit the same.
And I'm thinking, yeah, if that is jasminic acid, do you think that's like oversaturation
of the receptor and then that's what causes everything to be a bit the same?
Or do you think like, I don't know, I almost tend to think that maybe it's not because
if everything comes out the same, maybe there's just something in there which is then being
uptaken and you know what I mean?
Yeah, I don't know.
This is so confusing to me.
These are the type of conversations that I like to have as far as the unknown territory,
when you really get into it and being in the industry and talking about this stuff every
day, a lot of it is just the same conversation over and over again.
But when you start talking about this stuff, it's exciting because to me, it's like, well,
the Terpenator, across the board, we've heard people, the consensus is, like you said, that
it creates this blandom.
And I don't know if it's just the people that tend to use those products that are attracted
to them and the genetics they're using.
Maybe it's not fair.
Maybe that's just a judgment that's come in across and the style of cultivation.
But I feel like some of the girls I've heard that from, I trust and respect what they're
saying.
And so without having used it personally, I'm just going to say that, let's say for
argument's sake, it does make everything taste the same.
And now we're looking at just the same thing.
And so increasing that, artificially stimulating that SAR through the jasminic acid profile,
potentially it only stimulates certain ones that the plant can maybe focus on with less
energy or whatever that symptom is.
But I don't know.
Maybe it lends itself to the fact that that product, Terpenator, is not necessarily just
using jasminic acid.
Maybe we're completely off base, totally wrong, and it's something completely new.
But I don't know.
Maybe it's just the people that are using it.
And so I'd love to do a product where we actually compare the jasminic acid, see if there's
a difference.
If there is a difference, then now run that against Terpenator and see if we can correlate
those differences to be similar or not.
Because I'd like to think there's a way to increase production without actually making
everything bland or making everything similar, if that makes sense.
Because that's the way I see it.
I think it's a way to increase production without actually making everything bland or
making everything similar, if that makes sense.
Because that's what we want to do in organics.
We want to take the biggest yield without ever crossing the line of ruining those terpene
profiles and lowering the quality of the result.
And so if we can find a way to increase those expressions, that means that maybe we can
follow that with yield as well as quality.
And so it's definitely worth talking about.
Have you played with any salicylic acid or anything like that, or any jasminic acid?
No, I haven't.
I've tried crazy levels of salicylic just through lots of aloe, but I've never noticed
any detrimental effects through that, thankfully.
Yep, me either.
The consensus out there based on the research is that we should avoid using the salicylic
acid as we go into flower.
Based on the fact the plant kind of sees it like a light switch.
It's either on the salicylic acid side or the jasminic acid side.
And using the salicylic acid may potentially delay senescence, create a longer flowering
period, which can be beneficial in some cases, but not others.
And so I'm intrigued by that.
And I started using aloe all the way through the cycle.
I started using lots of it.
I didn't notice this delayed senescence or this negative effect.
So that led me to the next postulation.
Is it that there is not enough salicylic acid in the aloe to ever be in concern?
And that using just like aspirin or maybe a salicylic acid extract would actually cause
these negative effects?
Or maybe it's just too much of a direct interpretation of the latest research on these components.
Maybe it's more complicated than that.
So I think in time we'll find out.
But I need to do a lot more testing.
And I think the community does too.
So do you think maybe ultimately the only safe products to use to increase terpene content
is stuff with known sulfur in it?
Sulfur certainly works.
It's definitely a huge part of the process.
But I think it's a little bit more complicated than that.
So I think it's a little bit more complicated than that.
Sulfur certainly works.
It's definitely a huge part of the process.
And I think the biggest difference is going to be if you're low on sulfur.
And one of the things that I noticed right away when we were making our potting soils
is that luxury amounts of sulfur didn't cause a problem on the plant growth.
And I think one of the reasons why this happened is when I first made a Kootz mix in the beginning,
I actually made it twice because,
and I could probably find a conversation,
but Kootz told me to just get rock dust.
And because, like you said, it's more of a methodology than an exact list,
at least over time, how it's evolved.
I called him and said,
well, I found this gypsum. Will that work?
He goes, sure, that's rock dust. That'll work.
And so I used four cups per cubic foot of just gypsum in this soil recipe.
And I've come to find out it's very different than rock dust.
And I think that I finished that conversation with him and had a laugh about it.
But I had really good results with that growth.
I mean, really good results.
And so whether it was the calcium or whether it was the sulfur,
I knew that having luxury levels of those wasn't going to be a problem.
And since then on soil testing,
I'll notice all of our potting soils that we like usually have a lot more sulfur than,
for instance, Solomon or some of the others might recommend on a soil test.
So I think that's important.
But beyond that, I feel like peak plant health,
the lighting, the environment are very,
play key roles.
And then the soil,
the soil is a very,
it's a very,
it's a very important part of the soil.
And so I think that's important.
But the lighting are very,
play key roles.
And then, you know,
obviously secondary from that,
once you get that harvest where there's maximum amount of production of terpenes and flavors,
it's that slow to leak dry.
It's making sure everything's taken care of for these volatile terps to not disappear on you.
And for the chlorophyll to go away and all those other processes that happened during the finish.
But really,
none of that matters if you don't have the right genetics.
And I feel like we can look at every terpene enhancer you want.
If you get the right cut,
it'll change your life as far as terpenes and flavors.
And I think that's important.
It'll change your life as far as terpenes and as far as odor goes.
From there,
getting a little bit more odor out of the same cut
sometimes almost seems ridiculous
when you find something that is that strong.
And in organics,
it just seems to be at the peak production
of that.
On that Denisiquois,
it just seems to be fully there in organics.
So to push it one way or another,
it doesn't surprise me to find that we're finding more bland taste
when we push it one direction
or more uniform flavors.
I'm just holding out hope that we can maybe squeeze more out of it.
And to me, that circles back around
to looking at wine.
They haven't been able to squeeze more out of it.
In fact, to get more flavor, they actually have less yield
and more drought seasons and more harsh
conditions kind of activating that
SAR.
I guess I don't know the answer,
but I'm excited about the topic.
So to jump to something which I think people have a bit more
faith in, its actual ability
to increase resident terpene content.
We've seen the rise of
ceramic metal halides
and the LEC lights
which have kind of, how shall we say,
overtaken just general metal halides
in people's usage nowadays.
Do you believe that these ones
do likewise increase the resin
content? It's really commonly quoted
and I think I probably believe it a little bit myself.
If not, it just gives
a more favorable flavor profile
in my opinion. How do you feel about them?
And if so, do you feel like
it's kind of a game of trying to stack
all these things together which
maybe do, you know, cumulatively
cumulatively
sorry, add, you know,
little bits of extra production
here and there to result in
a better end product?
Yeah, I feel that the ceramic metal halide
you know, we carry a product
called Indomax made in Colorado
and I
really like it. It started off with
LEDs, we noticed a difference over the
typical
high pressure sodium or typical
metal halide. And previous to that
I often used two 600s
over a 4x4 area, one
metal halide, one HPS and I got really good
results mixing the spectrums. I've
also played with flowering with both bulbs
and I've noticed that I can get similar results under
metal halide as I could high pressure sodium
maybe just different, maybe a little more frost,
maybe a little less yield, but ballpark, same numbers.
And so
when ceramic metal halide came out I kind of wrote it off
and I wanted to use it in veg
and still playing around in flower
but I feel like the results were just
staggering in veg. The health
of the growth was just phenomenal
and the power behind the lower wattage
was really intriguing
to me. So we're still playing with them, we're still
learning how to use it properly I think.
I played around
with using one 315 in a 4x4
and while it works I really think that
using two of them is going to be key
and a lot of people will say the same thing
but even then efficiency wise they work
better and so I'll circle back around
we talked about the terpene
content and the frost
I definitely noticed a better outcome when
using a more full spectrum light
whether that's LED or CMH I don't think
it matters. All that matters is that you're comparing
not the technology but
you're actually comparing the spectrum of output
and there's been so much further research
indicating that green light is
such a powerful driver in this conversation
that's been cut out of most
grow lights. The way I've been heard
it put is it's like
the grow lights we used before worked really well
but it's almost like junk food
for the plants. Where the lights
we're using now is like a full spectrum
health food diet of
more finished
more complete spectrum
if the plants are able to show you their genetic
potential and fully complete their
process better. And so it makes sense
and I think we're going to continue to get better but we're still
mimicking the sun. I feel like the sun
does the best job. It's really amazing to see how
powerful these plants grow out
outdoors in the sun or in a greenhouse
and
I think there's more behind it
you know than just
the
type of light like I mentioned
it's all about that spectrum but
I will say for sure more terpenes
more frost and stuff out of a more
quality full spectrum light
whatever the type of light it is
I definitely agree with you on that one
So here's an interesting idea I've had
I've seen plants before
grown with just water in a well built
soil and they look great
and then I've seen other plants
looking similar and
in a well built soil just been giving water
only and then maybe they're given a tea
so they're given a bit more nutrients
than the other one got for example
and they weren't showing any signs of deficiency
they look very healthy in fact
but then they have this bloom
of growth and so it makes you realize
well maybe there are times
when the plants could be
so to speak eating more than what's
at the table but it still looks
reasonably happy. Do you kind of
agree with that analysis and if so
would that not lend to the idea of like
even with a well built soil maybe giving
an additional you know amino
acid fertilizer here or there is
not a bad idea
Yeah I agree with you a hundred
percent and I've wrestled with this as
far as the romancing the idea
of water only and
water only was something you heard for so long
in the no-till community and I feel
like it was because
if we were really to
show the hydro community how kind of
crazy we were and how much stuff we wanted to do
to try and do this organically
they'd just write us off as like they already did
and so now coming around full circle
if we could just build a soil water only
and actually do better than that
who's laughing now and it's proven
to work but here's the difference
I think that you have to use a larger volume of soil
you want to have a very quality soil
and not everybody can start off with that exact
high quality very balanced
soil so taking from that
perfect effect
everybody's soil might be you know
however many steps removed from that perfect soil
I found that even when you have
the perfect soil as you mentioned
giving the plant
an easier way to go and not
not necessarily bypassing
the soil food web but
making the work the soil food web
has to do easier
and somehow more efficient
seems to give the plant
a faster speed of growth
that suits us well for our
time frame and now
one of the things that I'll consider though is that when I
started no-till I was
perpetually growing and for my own
needs I would have a tent where I had
several plants in there and the plant in the left corner
might be about to finish
the plant next to it might be one week behind
and the plant next to that one week behind
that and I gotta tell you
in living soil that made my life easy I'd water
them all just water and they all did great
and I could harvest them all at different times and keep it perpetual
but I'll tell you that
the reason why it worked for me is because I was
perpetual the speed of the vegetative
growth was completely
irrelevant to me as long as I had
healthy plants of the appropriate size
on deck to go into flower when
I needed them to
and then from there I didn't necessarily need to get the biggest yield
as long as the best quality so adding extra
things would only take away from my budget
and not necessarily add a dramatic
increase on my life for the effort
and so I think everybody
needs to filter it through their process
that way you know if you're busy and you just need
some herb and you want it to be very good
build the soil, water it, have a great time
do not overthink this
I do not want someone to get into gardening and go
I can't do that I'm going to tease
my wife it's going to smell
I don't want to have any of these amendments
stop it at Build A Soil we have a basic
amendment chart you can use purchased products
and go through a kind of a no-till grow
with some additives that will make it easier for you
especially in a smaller container
but from there
instead of just doing the water only like we talked about
there are so many
things you can do to speed up the process
so it can fit your time frame a little bit
I think you can increase the yield, I think you can play around
with the phenotypic expressions
based on the inputs we're playing with
and so
what enthusiast wouldn't want to have a little bit
of say in what's going on
and so I found that overwhelmingly most of us
no-till growers were wanting to do more than just
water, whether it's a sprouted seed tea
an amino acid here
the consensus across the board is
while you may not need to
depending on what you do there's a
definite increased return on investment
from doing a little bit of extra effort
and I think
you probably found the same thing you alluded to
has that been your experience?
Yeah, so
what I've found is I've got this
awesome
liquid aloe ferment
from my homie and basically
it's amazing but the
overall thing I wanted to quickly mention
is what I've found through my own experience
is that
the quality is always
superior the less you give it
so I've consistently had
the highest quality in my opinion
when it's just water only
and in my opinion I've almost found
the more you add a tea, the more you add
these other things
it almost changes it a little bit
the terroir has always been
the best when it was just pure water
only and so it was interesting to me to
see that and I think I'm going to give that
a go in the future
Yes, if you can
resist the temptation to
add other stuff which
let's face it, the nature of Build A Soil
working with a lot of people that if they're
contacting me and asking me questions
sometimes it's to have
conversations like this but more often than not
it's because they're trying to learn the basics
and a lot of times they're in a 5 gallon container
they haven't followed the rules right
they don't have a mulch layer and so
using a lot of these secondary products
will produce really good results for them
but like you I've noticed that when the plant is
maybe forced
to work as hard as possible to get all of its
nutrients
you may not get that biggest yield
but the quality is absolutely
undeniable and one of
the things that I will add to that is that
when I notice dispensaries that come online
get a whole bunch like a truckload of our soil
they fill up the room, they got a grower
that knows how to do the no-till
they usually just
crush their first round, they love it
they do a great job
it's after that that it becomes interesting
when they're in containers to see if they
keep the habits that will keep yield up
or whether they're gonna have to
grab some of these products like aminos and all the
other stuff or whether you continue
to just do water only
and so the home grower
I think you've got kind of a luxury of having a small garden
and you can do just water only
and the results really are pretty
astounding in fact I like to do
it side by side as far as like back to back
rounds once we start running the same cut over and over
again and we'll do the full system
against water only
and we'll compare terpene profile, yield and all that stuff
That'll be very
interesting to see the results
So with that same kind of topic in mind
do you think it's possible to overdo
it with teas or are you just
wasting tea at a certain point
like do you get negative effects from tea
at some point or is it just wasting it
I think that depends
on your definition of tea I feel like for the most
part if you're doing something very diluted or
just microbial in nature
pretty much just wasting effort at a certain
point there's just going to be a diminishing
point of return where you don't see really increased
plant growth and for the most part
you could have probably just used
water I mean plants like water you know
you don't always have to give them something
and then the other consideration
is if you're making a nutrient tea
you're doing it all the time you can certainly overdo it
there's a point where you're putting just so many soluble
nutrients in there of one
type or another that it's starting to skew the
balance that we work so hard to get
in a living soil and what's great about living soil
is it can exchange nutrients
positively or negatively it can change
the pH around the rhizosphere and I think
a lot of that is predicated upon the fact that
there's not some consistent outside
source constantly changing
what that soil actually
is to the plant and so you
can overdo it when you do a lot of nutrients
conversely
if you do top dressing
it's a little harder to overdo it I mean you're going to be
limited by the space you have on top
and it's not necessarily directly
interacting with the rhizosphere
so directly and a lot of
times it's not so micronized where it's carried right
into that root zone so
top dressing is a little more forgiving
and I feel like that's why a lot of no-till people
that are doing water only will still do some top dressing
because we're removing biomass
each cycle and unless we're adding
something back to the soil we're eventually
going to have deficiencies
Exactly, so one idea
I wanted to run by you though is a few people
expressed this idea to me and I wanted
to see if you think there's any
major flaw in it. I kind of
was asking people like what they thought
a tea was actually doing
for the micro life and the nutrients
in their pot and the general answer
I got was it's kind of a way
of like artificially injecting nutrients
and microbes into the pot
and over a few days it's going to kind of decline
re-establish
the new levels
and then maybe that's when you'd apply another
tea. Do you think that's kind of
the way it works or that's like
too simplistic of a view?
No, I think that's the way it works
I mean we're all creating
this picture in our mind of what happens
when we pour a tea on there. We can look
at a microscope and see all the biology
that's in the tea
We can take a bit of our soil
and do a paste, like do a liquid
extract of that, throw that
under the scope and see the biology that's in there
As close as we can tell a lot
of it looks pretty similar but
Koot, he doesn't do any compost teas
When he teaches me he goes how the hell am I supposed
to know if all that bacteria were growing in a
bucket of water, anything like the bacteria
that should be growing in your soil in totally different conditions
and so I think
that's where we get the people saying
there has to be a certain dissolved oxygen level
and that's how you know it's going to be anaerobic and more like
the soil conditions. And Koot goes
great but why don't I just throw a handful of castings
on there and I know it's just like the soil
or put worms in there and we know it's
exactly how it's supposed to be. So I feel like
you can kind of over
think any of these things
and as far as I understand it just like
everybody else you brew up a tea and let's
say it's a bacterial tea
or fungal whatever it's not a nutrient
tea and it's
either completely your molasses or
fish and it's basically just
biology at this point. You pour it in your
soil. The idea is
is that they will go in there and
the bacteria is going to
need food and they're going to start to
eat some of the organic material
and start to release some of
the inorganic nutrients
that our plants can't absorb
until they're released through the
cation exchange and they have to be done
through biology. So you dump all this biology
on it just goes through and releases nutrients.
The plant can then get a release
and they get to grow
and I feel like it's this cycle where they
get to work on their own
almost like an athlete and they
get a protein shake or they don't have to work so hard.
What I mean by that is normally we have to
like digest our food. We have to chew it
first. We have to break it down in our stomach. But when
you have a protein shake it's just a quick boost
of energy. While you can live off
protein shakes I don't think that it's going to be a good idea
to do it for every single meal all the time.
Maybe a couple of them a day. Maybe one a day.
And so much
like that I feel like if you were trying to grow
hydroponically with no soil
medium and just use compost teas
you would quickly see
it's limitation. But if you have a good
foundation I think that just biology is going to be
hard to overdo and
when it goes in there and creates these
booms one of the thought processes
is if we're not adding more nutrients
at some point are we just speeding
up the release of our nutrients and our soil
only to cause problems in the future where
we now are dependent on adding all these teas
all the time. And so which came first?
Right? Did we create our own problem?
I think the answer to that is just having
a good mulch layer and using a lot of the
above and then when you, like you mentioned
use a tea here or there
you notice a dramatic effect. When you use them every time
it just
seems to lose its
dramatic effect.
And so just to jump back
to Coot for one moment. I found
a post from a while ago
saying that he doesn't use any
liming source anymore. How do you
feel about that? Do you still recommend a liming
source?
Um, you know when you talk to him
he does and part of that is because he uses
worm castings where he works that into
his castings and the castings are then
having a lot of calcium carbonate
in them which does affect the pH.
Um, and his castings
are probably fairly neutral. The other
thing is when we talked to him about our official Coot mix
he very much said that
keeping the oyster shell flower in there was acceptable.
And part of that is
we don't use as much castings in there
um, in our new recipe we're adding
some. And then the other thing is
he does use the calcium carbonate in the form
of the crustacean meal.
And so that's another form where you get
the calcium carbonate.
And then the gypsum that we use is the calcium sulfate.
And so I think most people consider the
liming agent to be the calcium carbonate
because that's what lime is considered to be.
Um, so he still does.
I think that
it can be interpreted
many ways. Coot has a thousand conversations
about this stuff. I'm sure
he said many times, sure you don't need it, use the crustacean
meal, sure you don't need it, use this.
He's very much not the type of person that would say
you have to have anything.
And so Mountain Organics I think would probably
be the one that laid out the actual recipe
through the like alternating water
tea, water, top dress kind of
basic methodology
in the no-till thread revisited form
that he talked about.
That recipe just included some basalt and no oyster.
And that would be the lime
that people were talking about. But when I talked to Coot
still recommends using oyster shell.
Um, I just think that
depending on your
situation it may not be needed. I feel
there's so much power in calcium
regardless of what Coot says. I really
like to have a lot of calcium.
Um, and then the conversation now is getting
a little more advanced when we're working with
agronomists that are actually looking at our soils
for our hemp farms. We're starting
to get more insight in working with real
professionals with degrees and finding out that
the water testing and the carbon level there
can actually affect the desired input
that we might use in our soil.
And so I just think that consistently
when we get back to it, depending on potting soil
or agronomy, there's no one size
fits all answer. The Coot's mix
is a great one size fits all recipe
but it's predicated on quality
compost and at the end of the day
there's no one size fits all for any of this stuff
depending on where you live.
You mentioned Mountain
Organics and he's someone who's
in my eyes very much popularized
the use of these
tinctures, especially the ones he makes
not that there's anything disingenuous
about that.
Have you used them? Do you think that
they're going to increase in popularity
the use of tinctures in general
or what do you reckon on the issue?
Um, it's
kind of a tough situation in the
sense that Coot has since told
me he thinks they're complete bullshit and a waste of time.
And I take what
he says with a grain of salt because
he has human relationships just
like all of them that might play into that a little bit.
And he did speak highly of them
for a short period of time like a couple of other
products that he no longer does.
And so I know that he goes through these learning
curves too where he gets excited about something
we talk about it and it turns out it's just not what we
thought it was. And he's come since
and said that these Glistra and tinctures are just
a total waste of time and that there's better
ways to do it. And so
I'm trying to stay out of the middle of that. I really
um, have
not really had a relationship with these people for a long
time but knowing them through the internet for a long time
we've made some connections there. And Mountain
Organics has done so much for the community as
far as helping them keep this really simple
process to no-till gardening.
I mean he basically invented no-till.
I don't, I wouldn't say he invented it but
it's like we were all in the forums talking
about recycling soil
and working towards no-till but it was
like man he's the guy on the 15th cycle
who's just doing it. He was sticking
to that basic philosophy.
And all of a sudden there's a million different
tinctures that you gotta use now at all these different
levels and we're not seeing any
dramatic results out there. The one that I feel
like people are really using right now is the Reitha
Nut tincture. But Reitha Nut is
by far way more affordable
to get and use on your own. Emulsifies
oil and is so easy to use. We're gonna release
a couple different products. Uh, one of them
is just the powder. We're gonna get it from
Usha, Neem Resource. I really like working
with her. Heck you can go buy it from her right now.
When I get back in the office next
week we'll have it. And we have the whole seed
and it's really quality.
You can grind it up. You just mix it in a little bit
of water. We'll have the exact ratios. Instead of
like going crazy with it and screening it out
you just let the dust settle.
Take about 15 milliliters of this
saponin water
and put it in your Neem oil and it'll emulsify
it per gallon of water. And so
there's some really easy processes that
when I'm looking at recommending a product to
you know
a facility that has a thousand plants
and a greenhouse. I wanna make sure that not only
is it effective but it's cost effective.
And so that's the reason why I haven't necessarily
started recommending his products across the board.
That and you know he was the original
get off the bottle guy. And so we were always
talking about this and getting out of the bottle
and I feel like I'm back peddling a little bit
by doing amino acids, these microbial products.
I've since
come to learn that there's a place for all
of these tools. So I will not write off
the glycerin tinctures but
um, you know I can use
aloe. I can use barley. I can use
soap nut without putting it through glycerin
and I don't see any real benefit to doing that.
And I have used his products.
I've ordered them from him.
I've also ordered the book on No-Till
that he offers at his website and I think
that I've had a good experience as far as customer service.
I got the products.
I just
I haven't used them and
you know behind the scenes I've had this conversation
a couple times but politically
I try not to just you know go out there
and talk
talk about other products
just because I don't use them.
And so um, when someone asks
me point blank though I just don't think that's
the future of cannabis gardening
at all. I don't think it's going to last.
Okay.
And so just to hit on saponins a bit harder
they definitely seem to be a bit of a trending topic
and you know just the general
use of emulsifying
properties. Do you think it's really
something that'll stick around
or it's maybe
you know I think last time we called it
the trending non-purple
sulfur bacteria. What do you think
on it? Is it good enough to hang around?
Yeah because it's hung around forever.
It's nothing new and it's just people get excited
about learning about these things as if it's new.
And
you know there's an IPM report that I would really
encourage listeners
to go download.
The quickest way I can tell you to do it
is through a Build A Soil link but you don't have
to get it through us. You can get it through the tweet
of the people. The guy that made
the product like 40 years ago. He owns
the patent on enzyme action on
pests and he's an
entomologist or an integrated
pest management specialist. I mean he has some
background in this. And he wrote an
IPM report through Build A Soil. If you
go to the product's tweet then there's a
link in there for like useful info
and if you download it it's
organic IPM
routine and it goes through so
many different processes
talking about all this stuff and it's
all free. And
one of the things you'll find in there is the
mixing in Q-Hela
extract. I can't say that word.
Soap nut
and yucca. And we're just
talking about yucca and soap nut now.
And this was an old report and
there's all the books you'll find. We'll talk
about the benefits of this. Now
his story with the tweet is that he knew a lot of
people that were farmers and they were all dying from cancer.
He found out they were all applying a lot of pesticides
as the family way. They all had to
support the business and he noticed
that he could just take the pesticide out and just
alternate different surfactants and different levels
of saponin and get really good results.
Similarly to using these expensive pesticides.
So it was almost
as if they were being sold bullshit
and he could just use these saponins and use
these surfactants and use
different modes of action like that. And so
full circle we come around and we're talking about
saponin as if it's magic but
it really is. We look into it and there
are so many different types of saponin.
They have different effects. You can even
Google this string of words
saponin as a plant growth stimulant
and see that there are results
indicating that saponin actually helps.
We're thinking that
it almost like creates a
like a
surfactant like a modality
of travel for the microbes in the soil
by creating this level of viscosity
in there and the fact that it
has these fungal properties and these
it's not going to be like a mean gate
putting soap in your soil is not going to kill all the fungus
but it could have some effects
related to the biology and we're seeing
positive effects watering
soap nut and saponin in the soil
let alone using it as part of foliar sprays.
So now I think that's why we're going to see
it being talked about more is
I think the benefits are
undervalued at this point.
And so we're going to start talking about using
yucca and soap nut and stuff a lot more because
we see tremendous benefit especially in
heat based soils to keeping everything
sponge like, keeping the moisture
even and then on top of that
the saponin itself when you look
into its structure
there are some indications that it has some
plant growth benefits which is really interesting.
If we jump over to aloe vera
which is you know kind of like the
step back from saponins in some regards
how do you
think the difference
in quality affects
the difference in you know like what you're
going to get from the plant because I've noticed
at the lower end of the spectrum you can get
like aloe vera powder which is
just doesn't have any label of the concentration
and then you've got the 100X
the 200X. Is it
the case that you know like the higher
the number in concentration the better
and what does that number even refer to? Is it like
content of saponins
or salicylic acid and
is it worth the money because they definitely get more
expensive as you move up the line?
Yeah so I'll tell you
exactly what that X's mean
that's the concentration
so 200X is the most affordable
because it takes the smallest amount
of that powder to create the
most amount of actual aloe vera
liquid and so 200X
what that means specifically is that
199 grams of water
and 1 gram of this powder would create
200 grams of actual
concentrate just like you get from the
aloe vera plant and so
that 1 gram to 199
or that 200X concentrate
is half as strong
if you get the 100X it's gonna take
2 grams or it's gonna only
take 1 gram against 99 grams
of water instead of 1 gram
against 199 and so that's a big
difference that's twice as effective
when you get 200X and I guarantee you
it's not twice as much money
and then you get to the non-measured levels
and you start to get all sorts of adulterants
and we really care about the aloe
and it's a pain in the butt
because sometimes we run into supply issues
based on weather or seasonal
or the demand
we spend 20-30 thousand dollars at a time
on aloe and it's scary
but it's a popular product for us
because of how effective it is
you can grow your own aloe I think it's the best
way it just becomes a problem on scale
so we sell a lot of it but
in this shopping period where we had supply
issues one of the things we love about
our suppliers they actually were willing to
test the products we were going to get
when they couldn't provide
for us and in testing
we found that these other companies
were guaranteeing inner aloe filet
but they were hitting
markers for non-inner
aloe filet and that means that
there's a lot of lying in the industry
and they were just squeezing it instead of cutting it
or whatever their shortcut was
and it created a very adulterated product especially
on the chemical constituent level
and so much like everything else there's a lot of bullshit
out there and when you go to a company that's providing
all of the data behind it
and can back it up
it means a lot and so it's worth paying
for a product that's actually what it is
especially when you're having to go around
growing your stuff which would obviously
be the best way and most cost effective
but then from there if you're going to ship it in
an ounce of 200x
will go significantly further than an ounce of
unlabeled or 100x concentrate
so a lot of people
are talking about
the use of plant ferments
to increase terpene production
the one I see getting flung around the most is
like banana and mango
ferments and there seems to be
a growing group of people who really do think
it increases the plant's terpenes
if that's true
does it not imply that there's some
kind of hormone or chemical
specifically in mangoes or bananas
that are key in triggering
increase in terpenes or do you think it's all just too
anecdotal to give any credence to?
I don't know
it seems like stuff with sugars
in it has always come back to
people thinking it increases flavor
I'm sure there's carbohydrate
there's some sort of correlative
data there but
I think from a ferment level you're also
you're getting that organic
addition and so if somebody's using ferments
and they weren't before
I think that at some level these ferments
do increase the terpene level there
there's something about it that does help
it's just adding organics to maybe a system
that otherwise wouldn't have that
but the mango
specifically and the fruit ones we've always talked
about the benefits so if you
were to go buy enzymes for digestion
a lot of times they're based on these tropical fruits
because they have extract like enzymes like
papayin
from papaya and other ones that are
very very strong
enzymes so I feel like
maybe that's what's going on is we're getting some of
these beneficial enzymes that are really
increasing the ability and that is being
by secondary nature
increasing the terpenes
maybe not the fact that it's just a mango
then you complicate it by the fact that mangoes
have already been told to increase
the you know there's murkein or something
or murcine sorry I always
say all these words wrong when you read them
and the same to yourself
but eventually
you get these stories a lot of times
they're relative like mangoes are going to increase your high
mango fermented is going to increase the THC
you can't help but to think maybe
there's a little bit of folklore there
but it seems like just like you
people that I respect and people that I know are saying
these fruit ferments
are increasing their quality somehow
and so I'll probably
do some playing around with that I have in the past
and it didn't really
make a noticeable enough difference
but I'd be willing to admit that
maybe I was doing it wrong
so second last question
how do you feel
social media affects the
landscapes of
kind of growers and their view on organics
and what I mean by this is I've noticed
that time and time again people on both
sides of the fence will point to very
specifically maybe one
or two people who uses their style
of growing to give like huge
credibility to their arguments
and what it's made me think is do you think it's gotten to
the point where it like muddies
people's views on which
grow style is maybe the best
for them or just the best in general
because it seems like you can always find
someone to validate your argument on Instagram
yeah and it's tough too because what you see on Instagram
is not always what's real and when you start to meet a whole bunch of growers
I mean even me, people probably think
Build A Soil is some crazy
amazing grower and the harvest I had
last time was fine but I didn't even know the genetics
we grew weren't that great and I wish I would have grown something else
and so
it's not always this
perfect grow
and
when you start to look at
these synthetic growers that have crazy yields
and tons of photos and always the newest genetic
and they have a huge social media following
or you have this organic grower that's always
updating and people say that they've got the best
plants, I think the one thing is the same
across the board, you have good
dedicated gardeners
regardless of what their methodology is
and at the end of the day that's what it takes
it's going to take a lot of work and it's going to take dedication
and discipline and gardening
has forever been the teacher of man
to get a lot of these things
put together in their life
from having patience and plan and organization
that's constantly teaching me
I'm trying to get better in so many different areas of my life
it can feel like
there's so much to work on in the garden
and in other places
but when you want social media
and you start seeing everybody and all they show you
is just like their Facebook, them on vacation
the biggest bugs they've ever seen
it starts to become this kind of false reality
and so I like to highlight
the thrips that we had in our tent
and us trying to get rid of them
I like to highlight the bad stuff that happens too
so that people can kind of see that reality
and I think the reality is no matter what style of grow you do
you're going to go through learning curves, problems
ups, downs
for me, it just made
no sense to grow any other way than organic
especially
when I wanted to eat that way
I knew how the pesticides
and everything were affecting
not just our grow but actually
the soil and the earth
and everything else
so it's like a no brainer
but for a lot of other people it's not
they're on the fence, they don't care
they don't have any education
and they're just looking at what grows the best weed
they want to grow organic, they want to grow hydro
with no other consequences to the planet earth
and so then they start pointing out all these different arguments on social media
and 9 times out of 10 they're not comparing the same genetics
the same grow style, the same setup
the same lights
and so much is missed
that it's so important that you have somebody trusted
that you can maybe level with
and tell you the truth
or maybe a resource like the podcast that can interview people
that have more experience, breeders, growers
and for the most part
there's no product that's going to double your yield
and there's no system that's going to
guarantee you any sort of result
it's all going to come down to your ethics
your principles
lucky last question for this one
if you could only pick one additive
and I use the word additive because you know
it could be like a dry additive, it could be a liquid
it could be in a bottle
it could be whatever
to use on top of
what you would consider to be a pretty well balanced soil
what would it be?
would it be your aminos
or even like a big handful of neem
ah that one's tough
um
I don't know
it really is tough
I think if you have a really well balanced soil
I kind of want to say on a brand new soil
with most growers that start with their products
I feel like if they have
at the very minimal
a microbial product
and an amino acid product
they're going to make it through the grow
they're going to do really good
and they'll have the best chance of doing that
so I feel like those two are kind of what I would have
if I had to just pick one of those
I feel like if my soil was already really good
my biology should be awesome already
and the ability
to
bypass that limiting
factor with the amino acids
and help them build with all the other stuff that's in the soil
um that'd probably be
the one go to additive
and if I had to switch the question a little bit
and be what do it yourself item
could you just you know be the one thing
I feel like compost tea
just beats them all because it's so easy
to make it's cost effective
you don't have to do it for a couple days
like labs and all that stuff
but um probably the amino acid powder
that thriving stuff just really works
yeah awesome
did you have any comments or shout outs
you want to make
um
no not right now
we've got so many things coming down the pipe
we've got um I guess I'll do a couple
basic updates we've got the
uh complete no till
support kit that if you're
considering trying this if you go to buildasoil.com
and look at the no till bundle
it's every product from start to finish that
you would need and it's got free shipping
and there's soil there and there's
the support system the mulch
the cover crop I mean the entire thing
is there and so instead of you having to go pick and choose
and ask us you know what should I get
I'm not sure go to the no till bundle
I think it's like 281 bucks
to your door it has like 13 14
products and you'll have an answer to everything
it's got basic IPM
it's got additives like we talked about like the microbes
and the amino acids
completely covers the whole profile
um from there an announcement that maybe nobody
knows about and I'd love for you to check out
is forums.buildasoil.com
we created a forum
it's going to be for us to
um
it's going to be for us to keep a place to answer
questions and actually keep it up
instead of doing it where we have to
answer the same question over and over
I also want to do a lot of these side by side tests
document it all and so if you check out
forums.buildasoil.com it's just
getting up and running we need your help to build
the community and to get it more exciting and have better
conversations check that out
and then I'd like to give a shout out to all of our customers
and just say thanks if you listened all the way
through that means you're a total dedicated
you know no till grower
that this stuff interests you as much
as it does us and we couldn't do without
you we really appreciate it we love when you call
in ask us questions when you email us
or facebook us makes us feel like
we have a purpose and our employees
we've got you know sometimes up to 15
employees that all get to work just because of you guys
so um I guess that'd be
the shout out
awesome well a big thank you to Jeremy
from BuildASoil for coming on the show I guess
you're now our first veteran
um and I'll be sure to
check out the forum
alright cool appreciate it um we're not
that active yet but over the next couple weeks we're going to put a lot
of effort over there so it'd be cool to see you there
and I appreciate you taking the time to interview me
and there you have it my friends
a big thank you again to Jeremy
for taking the time to sit down and chat with us for the second time
make sure everyone to check out the forums
check out BuildASoil all the new
products they're offering
a huge thank you to our two show sponsors
420 Australia and OGS
who sponsor the store immensely
and we're incredibly grateful for that
as well as our Patreon fans
who have been the driving force behind a lot of the extra content
recently so everyone a big thank you to them
and
see you
