Alrighty, everyone, we are back for another Breeder Awards.
We're quite late and I can't really blame it on COVID to be honest.
I think we've just been doing our respective things.
But nevertheless, as usual, I'm joined by the man with his feet on the ground in the
scene.
I'm stealing that one from Adam Dunn.
Thank you very much, James Bean, for joining us.
Thank you.
I appreciate you having me again.
I feel humble.
Always you ask me to be on these and do these.
This time I was like, May, didn't we do this one already?
But you know, I get stoned.
So I appreciate you.
I love the show, of course.
That's very sweet of you.
We love having you on.
So as usual, we're going to do our usual awards for the year, including Strain of the Year,
Breeder of the Year, Hottest New Breeder on the Block, we've got some Hall of Fames,
some shout outs, and maybe some final thoughts at the end.
Hopefully that sounds pretty good to everyone.
So the first award we'll do this year, we might do Strain of the Year or Clone of the
Year.
We sort of combine them together, you know, it's, if you want to call it a Strain of the
Year and it comes from seeds, no problem.
But we'll also count clones in this category.
So gosh, I'm trying to remind myself now, what won it last year?
The year before that it was Mac.
We definitely did like Runts.
We're ahead of the curve on Runts and then Runts won.
And then, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Last year, Ice Cream Cake.
And what a fucking good pick that was, man.
Yeah.
Nailed it.
Vic, have you seen that show on that TV show?
All right, cool.
So, I mean, let's think, I've got to be honest, I saw a lot of Oreos this past year, this
past, what was it, 15 months or so.
And I was considering that for a bit, but I also saw a large sort of group of disparaging
comments saying that, you know, all look no substance.
I haven't had it myself, so I can't comment on that.
But that was definitely one I had in the mix.
Was there anything you sort of had in the mix before we revealed the winner?
Oh, I don't know what your winner is yet.
I wasn't leaked the list.
But, well, I just, I know what I think is going to flood the West Coast market.
What's that?
Jealousy.
I'm not sure if that's your pick.
That's a pretty good pick.
Like I said, I saw, I must have seen, if I saw one, I saw a thousand and one cuts flying
out of the animal cup this year.
Like, no question that will be grown.
And that's the situation with the clone, is that you have the same thing that everybody
else has, unfortunately.
With a seed, you're guaranteed something unique.
Of course, I'm pushing seeds, but, you know, that's going to be in every greenhouse by
the thousand.
And I guarantee in six months, we're going to look back and we're going to say, man,
I can get jealousy for 10 bucks a gram, you know, cheap as hell out there.
So I would say that one, or I don't know if they're as strong as this one, but the Gary
Payton.
That's a pretty good guess as well.
I definitely had those two in my top selections.
Didn't actually get the winner though, so that's cool.
Because we sort of collectively covered them all.
I guess for this last one, this last year, I should say that the thing that I considered
was both what I saw in flower, but also what I saw a lot of breeders incorporating into
their repertoire.
So really popular among some of the more heady breeders in my book.
So the 2021 to 2022 strain of the year, clone of the year goes to none other than Lumpy's
Apple Fritter.
Yeah.
It's post-production class.
I must be stoned.
I'm kind of a no brainer on that one.
Definitely with jealousy, it's going to be everywhere.
Apple Fritter is a more tightly held cotton that, you know, certain group of breeders
definitely got their hands on.
Great strain has been used.
Definitely.
Everybody's kind of used it.
I've seen a lot of different crosses with it.
No, it's a, yeah, that's like skills, ugly plant, but breeds true.
You know, Apple Fritter is a great plant.
So definitely have seen it used a bunch.
Yeah.
Great pick for sure.
Yeah.
It's one of those ones that's sort of been gaining momentum for a few years now, but
I've definitely seen a lot of really killer crosses coming out with it in it.
And I also think it's good, you know, like shout out to Lump Status, a guy who's contributed
a lot of really cool clones to the scene.
A part of that original crew with like, you know, ABF Frost Boss, NorCal IcMag, those
guys from the Bay Area just putting in work over the past 15 years or so.
So yeah, congrats Apple Fritter.
It's everywhere.
Notably, I've seen some sick hybrids, Skunk VA Post some, they look cool.
I've also been eyeing off Blooms done an Apple Fritter hybrid.
That's cool as well.
Yeah.
A lot of cool ones in the woodworks.
And so the next category we're going to take a look at will actually be, let's do the Hall
of Fame.
Let's get that one out of the way.
The Hall of Fame for us is actually always a strain, not a person.
So we're thinking about what strains have contributed significantly over the years,
recent or years gone by that have really sort of guided the way, paved the landscape for
future strains to roll on through.
So we're always sort of looking back in this category.
And I think there's a lot of really good contenders.
So after considering all the things I just mentioned, I'm thinking that this year we're
going to actually go with Blueberry from DJ Short.
It's really a body of work that's hard to ignore, both in terms of its own merit, standing
individually as a strain, the F1 hybrids that come off it in DJ's arsenal or that have lineage
in commonality with it, such as, you know, things like the F13 and the Trueberry, all
of these strains tried and tested.
I think one of the other testaments to the Blueberry family is that there is a huge,
arguably bigger body of work that exists from what others have done with it, outside of
what DJ has done.
So, you know, the list of clones is literally endless.
I could name a few, you know, even obvious one, you know, Blue Dream, haha.
But like, even if we get even more into it, like I've had strains like Blue Diamond.
I've had a whole range of really cool Blueberry crosses from AK Beanbrains, because he's done
some cool work with it.
Likewise, my favourite strain in seed form, the Blue Magoo, comes from the Blueberry.
It's really, you can't overstate how much of an impact this work has had.
And I think there's a famous quote that's been said that something like 40% of all the
plants tested at Phylos or something had commonalities with Blueberry.
I think there has been some healthy and robust discussion around that.
But if nothing else, it really does point to the fact that this strain has had such
an immense influence on the genetics that have come thereafter.
And it's so tried and tested.
It's really one of the only strains you can say that is on that level, that A, we still
have active seed stock for, and B, is not a clone only.
DJ is still around.
He's doing his thing.
Yeah, no, I think his son uses the F4 male quite a bit.
And this strain has had such a huge impact in history.
There's, you mentioned Blue Dream, Blue Dot.
I mean, we can blue ourselves in the face here.
All the blues for sure.
And yeah, it was a short flower indica.
It's a great plant.
Yeah, really special plant.
And the more you dig into it, the more it sort of actually becomes really interesting
because it's like it doesn't have the Afghani in it that's in a lot of other Afghani genetics.
It's almost like, you know, it doesn't have Afghani 1 in it.
It doesn't have the same Afghani many other people have worked with.
It's got the Oregon Purple Tie in it, which is just such a mythical strain in its own
right.
All of the individual pieces are so interesting.
And again, it's so tried and true.
It's really a strain that has continued to involve over time as DJ and his son have both
continued to work it.
But again, I think one of the biggest values of it is that we still have access to males
and females.
You know, notably DJ's selections of females are out there in circulation.
Maybe not necessarily easy to get, but they are out there.
And likewise, his breeding parents are still around, which is really a unique consideration
for a strain that has this body of legacy associated with it.
Yeah.
And as he puts it, the finished product has a very fruity aroma and taste of blueberries,
producing a notable and pleasantly euphoric high of the highest quality.
It's very long lasting and resistible tolerance buildup.
Always enjoyable.
The berry has a long shelf life, stores well over extended periods, a long cure enhancing
the flavors in effect, winner of course of the 2000 High Times Cannabis Cup.
We sell the shit out of it.
And it's one of the most ripped off strains as well.
Like there's other people that will sell other things that sell blueberry and they don't
claim it to be Schwarz blueberry or they explain it as a piney, earthy strain, which is exactly
the opposite of it.
And then like you mentioned, so not only is it the most ripped off strain of all times,
but it's also probably the most used.
Other people have used it in their process over everything.
I mean, you go through my catalog and just, you know, if we're looking at, like you said,
if you lower the catalog and throw it in a dollar tree real quick, yeah, a lot of that
stuff is going to come back.
Because it's been around since the seventies.
So it's been there and it's, you know, when cannabis was a lot different than it is today.
Yeah, a hundred percent.
And there's so many little various facets of it that we're just going to fail to even
do justice in discussion wise.
I've got a mate in the UK who always reminds me that, because I frequently say on the show,
you know, they love cheese in the UK.
He goes, bro, we don't grow cheese here anymore.
We grow blue cheese.
It's like cheese in seed form, but better.
And so you'll see, as you referenced, blue cheese, one of the most knocked off, recreated
cheese, all just fem seeds out there in general, you know, every sort of Spain, feminized country,
is going to offer a blue cheese because it's just synonymous with skunk.
So, yeah, it's like the more you look into it, the more you start to get to surprise
by where you see it popping up.
And you think you've nailed them all, right?
You're like, okay, now the big ones, then you name another one.
You're like, oh shit, I forgot about that one too.
I mean, it's just, it really has been used.
I mean, once again, it's been a home run since the seventies.
I mean, Kim 91, 91.
TK, we're putting that around the nineties as well.
So this has been one of those older strains that, you know, and also you got to give credit
to the breeder and whatnot, but people back then weren't, they didn't have these giant
facilities like exotic or like, you know, JVC, they don't have, they can't grow a thousand
or 5,000 plants out and then pick that one.
You know, some of these guys were using tents, you know, if they, if they grew more than
20, they were drawing some heat for sure.
And for them to grow it for seed production, they could be growing it for weed production
and getting paid.
That was, you know, even something even crazier.
We need to go to plant for seeds.
That's nuts.
But if you wanted to reserve it, if you wanted seeds next year, well then you made them this
year.
And so that's what, you know, a lot of guys did that on one or two of them.
So yeah, great strain, great addition.
And definitely, you know, definitely has a place in that, in the old time for sure.
Fantastic.
Well, congrats DJ Short.
Killer strain.
Love it.
Love it.
Blueberry turps.
Definitely up there for me.
Some of the best.
Oh, yeah.
It's just a really great strain.
And it's in literally everything.
It's literally in everything.
Alrighty.
So moving on to our next category, we have the most anticipated seed drop of the year.
So in terms of the most anticipated seed drop, number of candidates this year.
And I think one that definitely sort of caught my eye was, it's sort of like a joint one.
It's the NL5 reproductions.
So there's notably Inspector and Matt Rye.
It's NL5 reproduction that's being done by CSI or Inspector.
And then there was also the Todd McCormick NL reproduction, both using seed stock that
came from Greg.
So I know there's been a bit of anticipation around those ones.
So that was definitely a contender in my mind.
And for people who don't know who Greg is, Greg McAllister.
So Greg is Greg McAllister, the guy I know of to be credited with the NL and the NL5
and the entire line of NLs.
And when he first came to me, we spoke and he told me he was responsible for the NLs
and the NL5.
And I said, wait a minute here.
I said, so you're telling me that you did this?
I mean, I said, most people are telling me that they're using a cut of this.
And I have to vet them that they're using a cut.
You're telling me that you're responsible for these?
Sure you are.
Sure you are.
Because then I'm like, how do I vet this guy?
Who's going to, so I asked, do you know Adam Dunn?
Because everybody knows Adam Dunn.
He has no clue who Adam Dunn is.
But if we think about it, he was doing shit in the 70s.
He wouldn't know who Adam Dunn is.
Adam Dunn didn't come around until the 90s.
This guy was doing shit like in 72 when he came back from the war.
And so who do you vet him through?
Who do you got this crazy old dude telling you he made the shit?
But the guy who made the shit is probably going to be this crazy old dude.
And so I'm thinking, I'm thinking, I'm thinking Operation Green Merchant,
Wolf Segal, fucking farmer in the sky, guy who used to write a sense of millions.
And so I called Wolf.
I said, Wolf, this guy tells me, this guy made the analysis.
He's like, oh, Greg.
I said, that's his name.
He's like, yeah, yeah, that's who did it.
And I was writing with him and he did that in 72 when I was on the island there.
I was like, really?
I said, well, he's contacted me.
He's like, oh yeah, I told him to.
I was like, oh shit.
Well, he has.
And so, yeah, so that's Greg.
So sorry.
So I guess Greg, I wasn't aware of it until after it happened.
I guess that Greg gave Riot and those guys some seeds.
Is that what you're telling me?
Yeah, I believe so.
Yeah, I wasn't familiar.
I wasn't aware that he had given them seeds.
I'd heard that he possibly had.
So how does it become an Inspector and Riot thing?
I think, I mean, I think that he, so he definitely gave some to Todd because, you know, they're
mates and they chat.
And I believe that likewise, he's friends with Matt and he gave Matt some of the seeds.
And I think Matt passed them on to Caleb, CSI, because, you know, Inspector's so well
known for his ability to reproduce old strains that, yeah, they just ended up becoming the
two of them doing it.
Awesome.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Because yeah, Caleb is, I mean, that guy holds his own for sure.
When his thought comes in, it flies out.
He's a great dude.
So, yeah, so definitely Anticipate because who doesn't love the NLs?
And I guess the story behind them, now, because that's the first thing Dan wanted me to ask
him was why, why the numbers?
And he said, he named them one through 11 based on size.
You know, one was the shortest one, the 11 was the tallest one, the five would be in
the middle.
But you think about it, if you're breeding and you're using that stuff, the one in the
middle is probably going to be the one that gets used the most.
Yeah, interesting stuff.
Well, you know, a hot contender for the winner.
I think that, to be honest, the winner for me and for a lot of people who I've been talking
to is, it's a bit of a washout, a blowout, to be honest, because I haven't seen the amount
of momentum this drop got for a very long time.
And so I'm very happy to say that the winner of the most anticipated seed drop award for
the 2021-22 period goes to none other than Crickets and Cicada with their puck backcross
one lineup, absolutely destroying it, including the BX2, as well as a variety of other crosses
to things like Sensi Star, Hashplant 13, which was actually, I'm going to do a mad plug here,
Mr. Bob and Hannibal, just so incredibly generous, donated 30 packs of their seeds to our Patreon
just to give to our Patreon supporters, because they're like, we love the show, we want to
support the listeners. So we gave out 30 packs to our listeners of their unreleased Hashplant
13 cross to the backcross one mail they did. Hashplant 13 being an incredibly rare clone,
Top Dog and both Mr. Bob talk very highly of it, but, you know, this drop in general
had some bangers in it, including the rare red Lebanese Hashplant cross to the puck,
Sensi Star killer. And if you've been following Mr. Bob's Instagram, he's been posting up
some absolute bangers with this Northern Lights female he's been using. So I believe there
might be a part two to this drop coming, featuring some additional strains, or at least I'm secretly
wishing there'll be, but they've just crushed it all round.
I completely slept on this one. When my guy Rob was doing the ordering, it was,
you know, the puck back crosses, what's puck? Pucks a Skelly Hashplant crossed with NL1.
And those strains are out there, right? Like it's not that trendy, it's not up in hype shit. It's
Skelly Hashplant and NL1. But man, I smoked some, I met with him, he gave me some. That shit is
good. It is heavy. It looks amazing. It's the kind that makes that don't sound like you're
cutting in turkey trays. It's just, and I think he had four or five different of the crosses there
when we met and smoked with him. And there were, it wasn't one that outshined the other. They were
all just massively great. And it wasn't like just some nugs were great. They were all awesome stuff,
all good stuff. And nobody that smoked it. I smoked a fair amount of weed. It definitely
knocked my dick in the dirt. It's old. I mean, it's two old strains, right? But it's two old
strains done damn well. And from the guy who would have the quality of those old strains from the
librarian. So, and then like I said, I was blessed enough to have to smoke some and I will definitely
say it got me high. It got me high. Yes, it is undoubtedly some killer, killer stuff. So,
shout out to Crickets and Cicada, Mr. Bob Hemphill and Hannibal crushing it as always.
On to our next award being hottest breeder on the block. This is a prize that historically,
just to clear up any misconceptions, historically, it doesn't go to someone who's like in their first
year of breeding. It's often people who have been around for a while, but have really sort of
started to get a bit of momentum, maybe even caused a bit of a splash with a seed drop or two.
So, this is for people who are really, you know, starting to get to the levels of where maybe we
think they should be because they're often really good breeders, maybe a little under-recognized,
but often some exciting names in the mix. I know that last year, I believe the winner was Soulfire
and heck, we killed it with that pick. He's gone on to do that Bahama Marmor Cross, which just looks
insane. Yeah, no, if you want shit that washes, his stuff is insane. It's frost as hell,
great stuff. It flies out. The Bahama Marmor Crosses are awesome. It's a nice plant. It puts
in a lot of work, a lot of hard work and he's definitely well-deserved and he definitely is
one of my top 12 for sure. Great guy. Yeah, definitely. And years prior to that, we've even
had none other than our friend on the final frontier, aka Beanbrain, sweep this award. So,
definitely some big hitters in the prior winners of this award. And there was a few names that
sort of came to mind when I was thinking about the newcomers of the year. I definitely want to give a
shout out, Max Yields, the guy who created Oreos and collab with ThugPug to make Pure Michigan.
You can't deny, we've all seen those strains popping up here and there. They're doing pretty
well. So, kudos to you, Max Yields. You've been doing some good stuff. However, for me, there's
another name I've got in mind, but I'd love to hear. Do you have any honorable mentions, Mr. Bean?
You put me on the spot here. Of course, all my guys, everybody that picked up in last year,
I think is an up and up a newcomer. I'll try to check them out. I can't, if I mention one,
I'm going to have to mention 10 of them. So, I can't do one in particular. There's like your
favorite child, right? I will say the one that you picked for that has done very well. We've
always done well on our picks. I think you've got a good one that you're about to name. But yeah,
I would just kind of think the one that we both have in common is the one I've got. Yeah. Other
than that, I can't pick more than one favorite child. I'll be in trouble. Yeah, you'll end up
stealing the thunder from me. That's okay. That's all right. Well, let's get onto it. I think that
the hottest new breeder on the block award goes to none other than Bloom Seeds, Mr. Harry Palms,
who has just done a momentous job crushing it over the past few years, in fact. But it's good to see
that he's starting to get some recognition from the masses. His work as well has really surprised
me in how frosty it is, the consistently high quality. I've seen some mates grow it out and
they're all blown away. I even know one guy, he's like disciple of the Church of Bloom. He won't
touch anything except Bloom. So, you got to be doing something right if you can get people to
have that level of passion for your brand. And you know, he's got some notable history behind himself
having formerly been a part of Oni, having been a part of the Tropicana Cookies creation.
This is a guy who's been around for a while and has really put in his due diligence. And it's
great to see that Bloom Seeds is really starting to take off with the masses and seeing some cool
strains come out of their stable, such as the Grape Cream Cake. I've also seen that his Garlic
Sour Cookies are sick. I've also seen him do some other cool stuff with, what is it, Purple Full
Stack. That looks dope as well. His Purple Ice Water shines. That thing is great. Sticky Grapes,
the MacNab Bar, the Big Bag, the Cushman's Cross, of course, with the Grape Cream Cake.
So, yeah. And he's done a lot of shit in the past. And like you said, it's kind of
really a lot of prostitutes in his stable, a lot of prostitutes.
Yeah, I think Bloom has got a reputation for being like super terpy, super resny. That's what I think
when I think of Bloom. So, yeah. Concentrate, guys. This is the one for you, for sure. But again,
you know, great to see someone like Harry, who's been around for a while, really starting to get
momentum.
Two years in a row now, we're going towards a Concentrate, guys.
Yeah, look, that might be the trend. And that plays into the general sort of
macro politics and movement of the scene. You know, we're seeing bigger facilities
and bigger facilities can have the capacity to do big volumes of Concentrates. And as a result,
strains that are Concentrate orientated, more likely to get run. There's also just a growing
group of enthusiasts who are really into the Concentrates, you know. Like,
I think people are still growing, you know. We definitely haven't reached our peak
Concentrate enthusiast curve yet before we start swinging back to flour. I think we're still on
the up and up.
Well, I think because there's a science behind it, right? There's different ways to do it.
We can all go in our backyards and blow some bombs, you know, some butane and try to
explode our house and get our little Concentrate. But to take that process and refine it and make
it such an intricate specialty deal that it is today. And then by using different, because,
you know, what you put in is what you're going to get out. You know, I've always said some of
these Concentrate guys that make the strains were great because, you know, Frenchy started
with a Fishinado's gear, right? Cuban was using Exotics gear. Cuban's great, but he added Exotics
gear. And so, you know, what you start with is what you can put out. So, you know, a lot,
I see bloom in a lot of Concentrates. So, that, and now that we have, like you were saying,
the ability to run 5,000s, because if we rewind the clock, which I worked for a lot of older
breeders, these guys were growing in their tents and they had 10, 12, 15 to work with.
And for them to have chose what they chose and for us to get where we are, it was as excellent
for that. But now we're talking facilities of 5,000 and you can really sort out that one that's
different. I mean, all these are plants and they're all marijuana plants and they're all this
plant and that, but there's that one that's just different than all the others. And that's how I've
heard it told when you go into a room is that you'll just, it's just different. And you're like,
well, what does that mean? You just see it when you see it. And so, and to have that ability to
run those numbers and then just get rid of the others, either through putting in the flower on
your shelf or whatever it may be. You know, that's why these guys that we've nominated to be best
growers in the year, the year in the past, because you're working with giant phenods.
Because that's what it comes down to. If you want something that everybody else has,
then you grab a clone. If you want something that's yours, you grab it back.
That's it. That's it. Plant more seeds. But shout out to Bloom, you know, doing some good work
as always. For sure. For sure. So, onto our next category, we're going to give a quick little
detour. Being that it's been, you know, I think probably 16 months now since our last episode.
Unfortunately, we have had a few veterans of the scene bid us farewell. And so, we bid farewell to
a true pioneer of the concentrate and notably the hashish scene, Frenchie Canoli, who unfortunately
passed away early last year. And Frenchie was a pivotal man in the scene in really reigniting the
fire under the artisanal hash and concentrate scene. Him and his wife held numerous workshops,
were affiliated with various crews such as Aficionado, as well as many others who really
tried to push the limits and to raise greater awareness in the consumer's mind around not just
the quality of artisanally produced products, but also to pay homage and respect the traditional
practices that have produced them over the years and the way in which the application of these sort
of indigenous knowledges can be tailored to each product to really bring its merits and qualities
to the forefront. So, it is with a heavy heart that we say valet Frenchie Canoli. Yeah. Frenchie,
I was lucky enough to work with him, to have dinner with him, to have known him, to have met him, to
have come to parties with him. He was the one gentleman when he started talking, everybody
shut up. Because for one, he talked really quietly. And for two, of course, his name implies
he was French. And so, you would talk very quietly, you know, and you do this and you do this and you
do this. And everybody would just shut up. I mean, he would, like entire restaurants would be quiet
whenever he talked. You want to hear what he said, you want to get that information out of him.
And so, I mean, I've seen him quiet many of the crowds just by talking. And so, that's,
just kind of a gentleman that can manage the space around him and humbly so, like was not
of that, I'm the coolest person, was just, you know, happy to be where I was. And so, I remember
he lost a one gram temple ball in a party I had before a high-tech event. We had a free party and
the rumor is he left a one gram temple ball somewhere in the house and they left it.
We never found it. So, that's a fun story. But, you know, I knew him through his work with
Aficionado, with having booths with Leo and the awards they won and the cups they won,
dinners we'd have after cups and stuff. So, yeah, I was very, lost a good one. And they all go to
her early, you know, we all wish we had more time. The Frenchie definitely one of the ones
that tour. His Aficion, you know, he's lost our Aficion workshops for a lot of people attended
them. I think that maybe that's where your legacy lives is in teaching people knowledge.
And people remember like Bob, like people that we've had in the past, you know,
Sub with his videos. Sub will always go down because how many people, I can't tell you,
I can't tell you how many people tell me that they watched Sub's Weed Nerd videos.
Like, and whether Subnerd or not, by him doing those videos, he created a cult that people were
able to watch when YouTube was cool. And so, you know, passing knowledge down the way. And I think
the three guys we've had in the Hall of Fame or the four guys we've had have all been,
or sorry, yes, the three guys that we've lost recently, Bob, Sub and Frenchie,
one thing they all had in common is they were all great teachers. They took their knowledge
and they shared it with people. So, you know, I'm sure we've lost others, but maybe that's what
we take from this is that it's cool to know everything, but to take that knowledge and
share with other people, that's what gets you remembered. Yeah, definitely a very altruistic
and selfless sort of act to be a teacher. And as you said, one that will certainly
leave you in high regards and in warm favor with people. So moving on to our final award
of the year, the breeder of the year, the big one, the big bopper. This year, there's a number
of people who are in contention. And I think that it's important to note that this award goes to
people for a variety of factors. It goes for, you know, like how popular they are, how good the work
is, not just like, you know, otherwise bloody candy rain would have won that year, right? It's
not just about like how interested people are. It's also about how good the work is and does it
germinate. It's also about a variety of like logistical and technical things, you know, is this
unique stock? So it's a very multifaceted sort of award. And so I think that some of the people who
will get the sort of honorable shout outs or the top mentions in my books will go to Chris of
Compound Genetics. I wanted to give an honorable mention to him. He's done some cool work with the
apples and bananas as well as some of his other crosses he's done. I think that we've seen a lot
of derivative work from other people and that's not to say I'm not interested in it, but it certainly
has amassed a wide following and has even had other people sort of doing similar crosses, utilizing
those cuts when they've got access to them. Likewise, I think that given that Chris of
Compound has worked with cookies, you know, you can't argue that's going to help with the old reputation.
Yeah, definitely Compound's, the apples and bananas has been, it's definitely,
for being released so late, it was in a lot of gear, surprisingly. And so I used a lot in a lot
of breeding projects yet it was released that, you know, Chris of course had a great booth
at the Emerald Cup. I was part of his NFT. He was one of the first breeders I knew that was
actually pushing NFTs. I got an NFT to his pre-party. We sold his specs. Good stuff.
And he's been doing, you know, good stuff in the past as well. And, you know, definitely
a bit almost first, a bit almost first. Yeah, he's very much up there. He's been doing some huge waves
and I think this year is the year that he really did come to the forefront in terms of being a
really close front runner. Just to give some other sort of honorable shoutouts, Soulfire, you know,
we dropped it before. He crushed it with the Bahama Mama line this year. Honorable shout out to Exotic
Mike. The Scotty Too Hottie has caused a lot of momentum. I know that James Behan will be happy
that I've mentioned that because he is a big Exotic Mike fan. Also, shout out to...
Strong on his page right now. Strong on the page right now.
Yeah, my God, Mike just crushed it. He just crushed it. Just good stuff.
Likewise, a shout out to MrSkunkVA who's, I think, probably added maybe even six to eight
lines to his repertoire using some interesting females across to the old favorite Kem. And I
think I read a comment on his page earlier. Someone asked, you know, like, what are you sort
of looking to do with your Kem lines? And he left a great answer which said, you know, I want to
impart all the best qualities of the Kem without dominating the mother, still letting the mother
shine through a bit. So, yeah, some really nice crosses coming out from the Lucky Dog Kem.
But I wanted to give a second, really close second, like tied second sort of shout out to
Mean Gene who's had an absolutely killer year. He's brought out some cool new lines in
collaboration with other people. He's brought out some outdoor specific lines which is really cool
to see breeders really honing in on their craft. He's got some cool stickers that sort of indicate
like, hey, you know, do what you want with these seeds but I think they're best suited outdoors.
And he's also released some interesting genetics that are not related to some of the other work
he's done. So, really injecting some fresh blood into his stable and notably I'm excited for some
of the pink champagne S1 hybrids he's done. He found a nice seed in some pink champagne,
a strain that's near and dear to my heart. I love it. Also goes by the name The Phantom
and yeah, beautiful stuff. Check out Mean Gene. He's done some cool work. Shout out.
I know Mean Gene from his days working with Aficionado and just, you know, I used to explain
it as I think that guy pops a five-gallon bucket of seeds every year. Like I really, really do.
Because once again, we're going back to phenohunting. We're going back to finding that
different thing. And Gene's a great guy. I've worked with him a lot of fundraising things.
He has a home run with root beer. I mean, the marketing behind it, it's just a great strain,
but it's so great and he's done such good things with it that he can't sell it now, right? Because
he's done such good things that he's done and he's donated so much. And so, you know, that's
a guy who's unselfishly taken a home run and donated it back to the community, if you will.
He's always on different panels. I don't know. And that's a, he's definitely a breeder's breeder.
Like if the guy that works here and he's going to find something different and, you know,
that's going to be Mean Gene. I'm definitely a big fan of his for sure.
Hell yeah. So without further delay, the Breeder of the Year for the 2021-2022 period goes to
none other than Crickets and Cicada, Mr. Bob Hemphill and Hannah Bolt. Absolutely hitting it
out of the park. You know, they, they started off the year strong releasing some unique hybrids,
like the Light of Venus, which was a cool Pueblo cool, uh, cross with a bit of Kabul Kush in the
mix. Some really cool elements going on there, sticking to their tried and tested recipe of using
some cool old school, old worldly genetics mixed with some old staples. And more recently they've
done the Puck back cross one drop, which sold like hot fires across absolutely every seed bank.
It was sold out within, you know, 15 minutes across the board, often even less time than that.
And some beautiful looking flower coming up on their Instagram that are the results of them
growing it out. I cannot tell you how many people messaged me and said, I caught up with Mr. Bob at
one of the organic seminars. He tried, he gave me some of their bud and it was the most memorable
weed I've tried in a very long time. Yeah. I, I really enjoy their work. He's, he was, and people
who don't know, can go back and listen to a couple of your other podcasts and have you using that with
him. Where he goes into his history with, with coastal seeds. I was lucky enough to have met with
him earlier this year in March. He gave me selections of, of the, of the current Puck
prospect as a back crossing. You know, he's, he's a librarian for sure. And you mentioned Hanabot,
which is his wife. And she does a lot of the work, you know, I asked, I asked Duke, I was like,
what should I get him? He was like, Sharpies. I was like, Sharpies, what do you mean? Well, a guy
that does cuts in those clones and has a library might need Sharpies because he writes and writes
on solo cups. Right. So he liked Sharpies. And of course, and you know, he's known as librarian.
She's got, you know, a hundred different females or whatnot, plants he's just keeping. And because
he doesn't want to lose them to the, to the, to the period of time, you know, and then we,
and he has them, he's, he has things he doesn't even like, he's keeping just because he doesn't
want them lost and to keep a library like that. And he's not a giant facility. And so to keep a
library like that, you know, not wasted in a room, but not earning it to keep in a room is,
is a benefit for anybody that needs to use it. And one of the coolest things that,
that I really noticed when I met with him this last time is that he stressed to me,
he wanted people to use his product. Like he'd wanted people to breathe his gear. And I was
like, wait a minute. A lot of people don't want that. They don't want to use like, no, no, no. I'm,
I'm preservationists. Like, like, like the Peshawar Pakistani you spoke of that was an open pollination
that he did because he wants to preserve that line. He wants to make it that available. So
you don't lose it. It doesn't get tainted. And so, and he wants you and his, his, his starting stock
for new breeders or new guys coming into the scene that wants starting stock to breed with.
I think you, you couldn't go wrong with, with, with anything from his lines. I mean, it's just,
it's older stock and older crosses, but they're done right from the guy who should have them.
I mean, no question. So much so that I know that earlier we discussed,
save this one for later. Earlier we discussed the NL series, right? I didn't know that
Greg had sent packs to McCormick and Riot. I also know Greg, obviously, I also got a pack of seeds
about that same time, which Greg got mad at me because I didn't thank him. Because Greg, I told
you, I didn't know they were coming. You packed them like an old schooler. So I didn't know that
they were, I wasn't there. I didn't get them, but thank you. Now I know what they are. I found them.
Since I found them, of course, I want to grow them because if they weren't there, say they are,
then well, I wouldn't want them. But the person that needs to have them would be to me, this guy
would be Mr. Bob Hemphill. So I gave him the packs that were given to me by Greg McAllister.
So he has now the same packs that Riot and McCormick got. So we'll see what he does with
that little nifty ones. But I figured, you know, who should have these than a librarian? I will,
I will. He knows so much about plants. You should talk to him. He can tell you the difference,
what this shows and what that shows, what the Lebanese shows and what that shows. And he's
just, he's really, he's not the most excited, amplified guy, but he doesn't really get excited
over much things. But, but man, his weed just fucking gets me high. I tell you what, good stuff.
Yeah. And there is teamwork on that one for two. Like I said, you're keeping around a hundred
mothers, right? Or not talking about a hundred plants, a hundred mothers. That's, you're not
paying anything to keep those around. So shout out to him and excellent choice. Excellent choice.
Yeah, definitely a huge shout out. And that's really exciting to hear that you've been able
to get the seeds into the librarian's hands. Hopefully we'll see some really special work
come out of that. And yeah, just to echo the sentiment, you know, so awesome to have Mr.
Bob Hemphill and Hannibal take it. They've really been staples in the scenes for years,
dating back to their work with coastal and before that even, and now really getting that recognition
for all the hard work they've been putting in over the years, preserving and creating some
fantastic strains. Alrighty friends, we're back at it here with the winner of the 2021-2022 Breeder
of the Year Awards, Mr. Bob Hemphill and Hannibal of Crickets and Cicada. Congratulations. And thank
you so much for joining us. Thank you. It's an honor. It's very much appreciated.
Look, I feel like I would not be the first to say that this has like been a long time coming.
I think there's a lot of heads in the scene who know that you guys have been putting in a lot of
work over the years and like myself, are really, really grateful to see the wider community really
embracing it. It's killer to see. Did you ever expect that you would get this sort of reception
to the puck crossers? I had no idea that there would be this many people interested in the
project. And honestly, I had no expectations of it turning out as well as it did. It's just an
amazing thing. Yeah. Look, it really caught me by surprise because of the fact that
the Skelly hash plant, it's been around for a while and I think there have been a small number
of crosses done with it, but I'm not sure if the demand for those crosses really reflected what you
got here. I guess you're the best person to ask. Do you think, I mean, I know that Puck Year was
quite popular, but do you think that other puck crosses really sort of gave you any idea of how
this was going to go? You know, I think people really got excited about the fact that it's
really inbred, good breeding stock and to get something that is inbred and bred to be potent
and just appeal to people. Yeah, hugely. I also have been thinking that, I think,
it's sort of a bit unfortunate, but I think since Neville's past, people have sort of re-examined
a lot of the older work with like a microscope and are like, hey, this is actually like really
good stuff. And there's like a more general sort of awareness. Would you say that you've seen any
of that at all? I guess I'll also just quickly add in, like in relation to Puck, sure. But I've
also seen people quite keen on the NLs and the NL5s and stuff. Do you think people are more keen
on the older work at the moment? You know, that always happens with an artist when they pass,
people appreciate their work. But to be honest, he's been an inspiration to me since the 90s and
I always looked at him as the greatest cannabis breeder of all time. And, you know, since the 90s,
I've been trying to collect as many clones from him as possible. And, you know, there's not many
of them left, but any of them that stayed around this long are truly as good as any new hype strain
there is. So, you know, the Puck project is just continuing his work. I didn't add anything else
in there that he didn't add. And, you know, it just kept getting better with the inbreeding. So,
you know, taking out his style of breeding really paid off.
Hell yeah. I can only imagine we're going to see some people sort of recreate the breeding steps
you've taken to do this, but maybe with some other clones. I'd be interested to hear,
are there any other old school lines that you're sort of keen to work with now that you've seen
with, you know, the Skelly that this is like a viable sort of commercial pathway,
people are keen on this sort of work, anything new on the horizon?
Well, you know, the goal is to get a bunch of old clones in the seed form. I'm working on the
Master Kush project right now. Pollen is flying right now to make the Bat Cross one
off the clone I've been holding for 20 years. And then Purple Hindu Kush, working that one.
And there's a whole bunch more, but those are some of the ones that that and Sensi Star,
the Sensi Star clone I have. I also have that at BX1 right now.
Oh, wow. What male did you use for the initial cross on the Sensi?
The Brute X.
Oh, God, what a good pairing.
Yeah. I also made some F2s off a few select Brute X females. And I'm really excited about,
you know, digging into the F2s and, you know, the Bat Cross. I'm going to take that and
make a BX2. And that's where I'll hopefully make it available if it passes testing.
And I'll take the BX1 and cross it to the Sensi Star cut Wick gave me and a
bunch of other good clones to a bunch of old school stock.
Yeah, that sounds killer. And I mean, you just mentioned Wick. I have to be honest,
he's been posting some cool stuff. Any chance we might ever see you guys collaborating together?
Or do you sort of feel like it's already happening because you guys share a lot of cuts?
You know, it definitely is already happening. And he has, you know, a mother collection he's
been holding as long as I've been holding mine, and he's been putting in work. And
he really, you know, loves the plant. He's one of the people that does it for the right reason.
So, you know, if you're really into crazy Sativas, that's a really good place to look
right there. He's making some really cool things right now.
Hell yeah. But you know what? This interview is about you. And I think you've been making some
really cool things right now. So let's talk about it. I seen you posted the Tom Hill Hayes
cross and pollination. Tell me a little bit more about that.
Well, the Tom Hill Hayes, I made an open pollination years ago with the original,
three original packs from him. And then when I did that open pollination, I stuck in some
old timers Hayes female. So I made Tom Hills F2s and then F1s of the old timers and the Tom Hill
Hayes. I just got into refreshing my seed stock and I made F3s of the Tom Hill Hayes. That's
positronics F4. Really excited. I'm going to let a few of those out just so the line stays alive.
There's not many people that have kept that line alive. And also right now I'm working on
making F2s of the old timers by the Tom Hills Hayes. And I also have some Tom Hills Hayes
cross to original Hayes in there too. Also some pure original Hayes to hopefully add what
genetic diversity is left into the pure Hayes population. And honestly, I'm just going to
treat this Hayes like open pollination land race work. And I'm going to put it out there and I'm
going to hope that some breeders are going to take it and work it forward. Because it really
needs to be looked through at large populations at that point and selecting the best for making
F2s and out crosses. I think it'll be some amazing breeding stock.
Yeah, certainly. I know that there's been some other Hayes releases and some people have enjoyed
them. Some people have sort of said, oh, not quite what they wanted. So maybe this will be more of a
successful route for them. Just as a quick follow up, did you notice much discrepancies between
the positronics Hayes and the old timers Hayes or were they fairly similar?
No. I've done as much research as I can about the old timers and it's really, who knows what it is.
It's very similar to Hayes. It might be a Hayes out cross or some of the same Columbians that
made Hayes. It was slightly different than the Tom Hill's positronics Hayes when I grew them out
together. There's more sativa. I would say that old timer one Hayes is more sativa. Tom Hill's
Hayes is very sativa in itself. I think Tom Hill's is the best out of what I've seen from samples of
original Hayes and what I saw of old timer one Hayes. I think Tom Hill's is the best.
Wow. That's really exciting. I guess one of the first thoughts that jumped to mind to people who
follow you on Instagram, are we ever going to see you recreate an NL5 Hayes?
I put the NL2 cut from Jim Ortega in with the Tom Hill's Hayes open pollination. I also put in
an NL1 cut from AKB and Brains. I do have seeds of those. We're going to get some of those tested
and we'll see how nice they turn out. Fingers are crossed.
Yeah. Out of curiosity, I don't have a ton of experience with the NL2 for example, but
would you just, if you had to use your imagination, expect that those seeds would come out
similar to the NL5 Hayes, but maybe a bit less stretchy or what do you imagine they'll come out?
If they come out anything as good as what Neville did with that NL5 Hayes, I'll be
extremely happy. I think that's one of the best breedings in history, NL5 Hayes. You look at how
many clones of NL5 Hayes are still around in their pure form and they're just extremely potent.
And then you look what JJ did from Top Dog. He took that NL Hayes and made the Nigerian Hayes.
So, it's amazing breeding stock and the cuts have stood the time as good as anything ever
created in history. Yeah, definitely some mammoth stock for sure. So, a lot of people had messaged
me and asked, it looks like there might be a part two of the Puck drop happening because you've been
posting some sort of newer crosses that weren't in the first part. Is that what the fans can expect
or is that more just some personal R&D? No, 100% I'm going to bring more of the Puck, the Puck VX3.
I'm going to bring that to the public after testing, fingers crossed. And then I'm hitting
a bunch of clones and the same ones that really clicked well and then a bunch of other ones that
I think will click well, like Pre98 Bubba, the Sensi Star from Wick, Shoreline. Some really
I think stuff that I have high hopes for. Old Skunk 1 clone that also came from Wick.
Yeah, wow. I remember I grew out of Shoreline S1 like 10 years ago when I first started growing.
I think it came from Devil's Harvest crew and I think they're legit even though
maybe a checkered past. But I remember that was a very unique plant. Even in my very newbiness at
growing, I could tell it smelled totally unlike anything else. Is that what the Shoreline's like
as the original clone or did I just get lucky with that S1? Man, it reminds me of that old
school 90s smell, you know, like that really good stuff and most everything in the 90s was
from Neville, you know. So I just assume it's some NL Skunk type. I've heard rumors of it being
Skunk and then NL Skunk. So it's looking like it's got some NL in there. So, you know, NL Skunk by
the puck should, I got my fingers crossed, that should be really good. Hell yeah, hell yeah. I'm
keen for that one. Another question I'd had a lot of people interested in was, I think we might have
touched on it briefly in the past, but just to cover it again because people seem to be very
interested. Do you have much of a backstory on the Nepalese hash plant you use in the puck crosses?
I think people see the photos of that and they're really blown away and they're like, wow, what is
this Nepalese hash plant? Man, that thing is really, really unique. Kevin Jordy sourced it out of
Grass Valley and he, you know, brought it over to Humboldt, you know, with Wonderland Nursery and
shared it out to a bunch of people. And it's just amazing old school stock, you know, and
when you cross it to something like the puck, you get, you know, throwbacks that are old school
shit that you're not really going to see anywhere. That breeding just clicked. Most of the puck
crosses produced really huge buds, but the way those Nepalese were just covered in calyxes and
just like next level. So that one's definitely going to meet the BX too.
Yeah. Wow. And just to clarify, I think I already know the answer, but again, a lot of fans are
interested. It's not the Nepalese variety that Bodhi used in GoGeoG, is it?
No, there was a rumor recently going around that, you know, people, not Bodhi, but people,
other people just assuming it was. And I showed Bodhi samples of it like five years ago now,
when I first got the cut and he was like, wow, that's an amazing bud, but that's not the
Nepalese that he used. Yeah. I think like when I spoke to him at his house one day, I think he said
that he suspected what he used was like misnamed, that it was actually like an OG or something,
but it just got called that, but there you go. Now we know. Well, yeah, it's not the same cut,
who knows what he used. Interesting stuff nonetheless. So just to our final question
or two, before I let you get back to it, a lot of fans, very keen to hear, probably Mr. James Bean
also very keen to hear, any chance we'll ever see any feminized work coming out of Cricuts and
Cicada? Only if one of my really close old school friends wants to do the work. You know, there has
been talk amongst a few of them that they would do the work. You know, obviously people would love
to see the red Lebanese and cuts like that feminized and released in their pure form. And
if I had somebody really, you know, old school, trustworthy friend that, you know, needed
something to do that might happen, but it's never going to be what I'm going to be doing.
I'm going to be focused on getting them in a pure seed form. Regulars, you know, I think,
you know, if the people want it or not, that's just where my heart is. And, you know, that's where
I feel good about what I'm doing. And especially since I'm trying to get these old clones in the
seed form as close as possible, choosing the males to the original clone, try to preserve the qualities
as much as possible. I feel like that's where I should be going. And, you know, with the people's
interest in the puck that only reinforces that. So that's, you know, where I'm going to be going.
Yeah. A hundred percent. That's awesome to hear. I wish I lived closer so that I could do that
FEM project for you. But even if it doesn't happen, we're incredibly blessed to have access
to your work in general. I think that's just about everything I wanted to ask for our little segment
here. Were there any comments or shout outs you wanted to make? You know, Hannibal is, I could
never be doing this without her. She's, you know, a rock and I just want to thank her. She doesn't
like getting on and doing these interviews, but it's much appreciated from her too.
Made her really happy. So thank you guys. Yeah. A hundred percent. As someone who's seen the
inner workings of crickets and cicada, I can definitely vouch that Hannibal does a lot of work,
has the eye, helps out. So I always try to make sure we give props to her as well. She's fundamental
in it all. And I also just wanted to give you guys another shout out props for the award, you know,
a killer year so far, not just the puck backcross, even the brood X, which it's crazy because I guess
it's sort of maybe for some people feels like it got a little overshadowed by the puck releases,
but that in its own right was like contender for really out there with strains of the year
sort of thing. So I think that's why collectively it was obvious that you guys were the choice for
breeder of the year. And I also just had a lot of Patreon members who we like, you know, the hardcore
listeners message me and just say, you know, like they feel really good that you guys want it. You
got the right vibe. And a lot of people really relate to how you've got this organic approach
and just people in general, just expressing that they're just really stoked to hear that you guys
got it and that they felt you've deserved it a long time coming. Well, you know, I couldn't
be more shocked and more happy and it's greatly appreciated. And thank you very much.
Alrighty, I think that just about brings us to the end of it for the past 15, 16 months,
any comments, any notable shout outs you want to give for people who maybe didn't make the list,
but near and dear to your heart. And let me save you the effort. I know everyone you stock is
phenomenal. They're all your children. You're a loving papa. You've got a shout out for all of
them. That's the thing. So if I do want, I see them go through the list and be like, I represent
all these guys. Because if I don't, I'll feel bad. So it really is because it also comes down to if
they're all individual, they're all unique. That's the fun thing about seeds. If they were all doing
the same thing, I wouldn't need 60 of them. I wouldn't want 60 of them. I'd steal a couple of
them. Because it's like sometimes when we deal with them, I have to tell people, we deal with
stoners on the phone. I deal with super stoners when I talk with breeders. Those are guys who
are trying to get higher. And so sometimes you get the bumps in the road that come with dealing
with super stoners. But they all do different things. And so when I pick up a breeder, I pick
them up for a reason and for what he's doing, what he's working with. And so for me to pick
one over the others, it depends on what you're looking for. Each breeder is going to do something
different for you. If you're growing high frosty THC stuff, I might tell you to get a pack of
Snowhine. Go with some Landrage. Go with some crazy off the wall stuff that you haven't grown
before. You might see different things. You'll see some original characteristics of what they
used to be before they were so heavily worked. If you're big into exotic genetics, I might tell you,
go try a pack of 420 Fast Buds. Try some monoflowers. Why? Why not? You got two pots
in the plant? Try them and say, everybody's talking shit about them. Well, other plants
have evolved. Check out how monoflowers have evolved. Give them a shot. It doesn't cost you
anything. One plant keeps you excited to go out to grow. I know when I was growing, my whole room was
the same thing. I kind of get bored because I saw the same thing that I had grown for the fifth time.
And so if I kept like one or two plants at the front there, I might see different things that
keep me motivated to go out to the garage. You definitely want to keep your 90% of your canopy
paying the bills. But the other 5% to 10% you can play, you know, scout and look at it and
grow on something that's exciting. So, like I say, I got lots of stuff, over 60 breeders on
the website. Check them all out. They're all great. Shout out to all of them. Definitely
big shout out to, you know, Second Place Compound. Big, big care of those guys and
definitely a big shout out to Crickets and Scutes. Once again, you know, not a new guy,
not a flash in the pan, not someone who's been here the last five years. This guy's been putting
in the work, has the genetics to show it. And if I had to pick out one of his strains, I wouldn't
want you to put me on one. They're all just phenomenal. It depends what you're looking for.
So, really good stuff. Thanks for having me on again. I appreciate it. Of course, I am James
Bean, see it's your now.com and see it's your now. SHN Auctions, which if you don't know them,
an auction site, give myself a little plug. We auction off stuff from my vault. Over the past
12 years, I've been working with breeders and I always keep two of every pack. We keep, say I get
10 packs in, I keep two of them as my own stock. I buy those two, put those in the vault. That way,
if there's any situation down the road and I have to replace a pack, I've got that pack and I can
fix it for you and make it right. Well, over the years, those packs that never had any situations
with them ended up staying in the vault. So, they're kind of tried and true packs. And those
packs, I'm not growing. Because I run a seed bank, I can't grow, I shouldn't grow in my garage.
I used to. So, we auction those packs off. And there's all kinds of good stuff in there. It's
everything I've had over the past 12 years that's coming up. So, it's kind of cool just to look at
it as a library of the packs that used to be. And they're my packs. And so, they've been in a bank
storage vault, like in an actual bank, that has an actual security guard. All kinds of fun stuff.
And a portion of all those auctions go to the Breeder Relief Fund, which we've had in the past,
help through community, help raise money in the past. Now, we're at the Breeder Relief Fund. So,
if something happens, we've got some money to help somebody sometimes. So, a little shameless plug,
of course, the website, ctnr.com, Breeders Satisfaction Guarantee. If you ever have a
situation with my product, let me know. I'll make it right for you. Send me seeds to tell me to stop.
Yeah, that's all I got. Thanks once again. I appreciate it. Appreciate the podcast.
A lot of history, every time we lose a Facebook page or an Instagram page,
we lose that page. But we also lose that history. We also lose those photographs,
that proof that those things happened. And as we lose and we get censored by YouTubes,
and they take down our videos for violating censorship here and there, we lose those
stories that happened. And so, we need shows like this that keep that shit straight. So,
when we go back and look at what happened and who did what, we have those available to us.
You know, yes, now you can go down to the corner store and buy that pack of joints,
but it wasn't always like that. And this is how we got here. So, I appreciate you doing the podcast
and keeping it up for everybody. And I'm sure it's a labor of love. It's got to be a thing to do
every, you know, I got to go do another one. But we do appreciate it and keeping the history spread.
Likewise, we appreciate having you as a sponsor and you know, it's a labor of love. But there
you go, friends. So, to do a quick rundown again of the winners for this year, congratulations to
everyone. We have the Breeder of the Year, Crickets and Cicada, Mr. Bob Hemphill and Hannah
Bolt. We have the Strain of the Year, shout out to Lump Status with his apple fritter. Newcomer of
the Year, the one and only Harry Palms of Bloom Seeds. The most anticipated seed drop goes to,
again, Crickets and Cicada with their puck, Backcross One. We've got our Hall of Fame being
Blueberry, the one and only from DJ Short. Likewise, we've got Farewells to our friends,
Frenchie Cannoli, Pioneer of the Hash and Concentrate Scene. Thank you so much for
everything you've done. I think that's just about it for the Breeder Awards for this past 15,
16 months. Hopefully, we do the next one a little more quicker. That's the Breeder
Awards for the year. We'll catch you for the next one. Cue the birds.
