All right, all right, all right.
Hello and welcome to the podcast,
your cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
As always, you're joined by your boy,
Heavy Day is here from the Upside Down Library
and we are thankful for our amazing sponsors.
Seeds here now, the best seeds in the game,
guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
You wanna get that new exotic mic, red pop drop,
or that new archive drop, it's coming soon, hit them up.
They got you sorted.
Likewise, a huge shout out to Coffett Biologicals.
They've got the best beneficial bugs in the game,
in my opinion, everything to keep those mites at bay,
those fungus gnats dead,
and everything to keep your garden happy,
healthy, and poppin'.
Hit them up, they got everything you need.
And last but not least, big shout out to the Patreon gang.
You guys are the lifeblood of the show.
As always, we appreciate you helping
to keep the show happening.
If anyone wants to check out additional content,
unreleased episodes,
and early access to future episodes,
Google the podcast Patreon.
It'll bring it up, trust me.
On this episode, we're extremely, extremely grateful
to have Steve from Potent Ponics
and the Growing With The Fishes podcast.
Here to share all his knowledge about aquaponics,
growing in Africa, IPM, organics, and so, so, so much more.
I feel like I'm doing a disjustice at this point.
So, without further ado, let's get into it.
Alrighty, so a big thank you and welcome
to our friend with the fishes, Steve of Potent Ponics
and the Growing With The Fishes podcast.
Thank you so much for joining us today.
Thanks a lot for having me, man.
It's quite awesome to have you.
We had you on a long time ago
and you're one of the more favorite episodes
that we have on our audio version.
So it's really awesome to come and hang out with you
and talk with you on your show
and learn more about things down under.
Oh, you're too kind, man.
I love being able to come on your show
and I certainly learned a lot.
The first thing I'd love to ask you though,
what have you been smoking on recently?
Oh man, lately I've been smoking on a lot of concentrates.
I've been doing mostly live resin and live rosin,
some Gorilla Glue 4 lately,
just because it's quite available here in Southern Oklahoma
and then also a little Tenth Planet
and then what else?
We had a Strawberry Banana Sunset or something like that,
I think was the other one that we've been smoking on lately,
but I'm more of a concentrate person.
I have some digestive track stuff
that concentrates really help a lot with
and as someone who's using it daily for medical reasons
as well as enjoyment, I tend to get a lot better bang
for my buck spending money for concentrates
than I do for flour.
Wow, what a range of awesome different directions
we can go in with that one
and I wanna hear about all of them.
I guess the first thing that comes to mind is Oklahoma.
You don't hear a lot about the scene out there.
What's your take?
Oklahoma is very interesting.
You have a lot of very opposite ends of the skill spectrum,
I guess.
You have people that have just found out about cannabis
that maybe have a lot of acreage
and a lot of money that they've been saved away
that are just learning how to grow cannabis
for the first time,
maybe don't even know what a photo period is.
And then you have all the way to people coming in from Cali
that have everything kind of on a nice system
that they just plug and play and away they go.
So it's kind of interesting.
The price is stabilized at around $2,200 a pound
for quite a long time, plus minus.
I mean, you do have some super cheap stuff
coming in now and then,
but the better quality stuff
really is kind of holding its price point
more than some of the other newer markets.
Having gone through this in Colorado, California,
and a couple of other states
and a couple of other countries now as well,
it really is kind of holding its price point
a little higher than some of the other places, I guess,
maybe just because of the demand going up
because of current global events.
But it really is kind of interesting.
It's also one of the lowest regulated scenes.
So if you're interested in developing products,
if you're interested in developing methods,
if you're interested in developing stuff
that you're going to further refine,
it's a great place to do that
because $2,500 up until recently
was all you needed to get going.
And you could have a full vertical,
a cultivation, an extraction,
and a retail space for less than 10 grand.
So to have all those licenses in a straight row
is for that cheap compared to the,
and anyone that's tried for a license in California
or some of the other states,
they're probably sitting here screaming at whatever,
they're listening to this on,
I spent a year and a half
trying to get a license in California
and working with the city council
and working with everyone that we needed to
to properly go about that, and we're still denied one.
And then to be able to come out place like out here
and just waltz in and immediately work with someone
that's established out here and get going is quite nice
and kind of takes away a lot of the regulatory hurdles.
It's kind of interesting to see
kind of a conservative mindset to the cannabis industry.
And there hasn't really been a lot of other states
that have taken that.
Now, one thing I said, I mean,
one downside would be that it did take them
a little bit longer than some other states
to get universal testing in,
which I would have liked to have seen done earlier.
But aside from that,
they are kind of slowly catching up incrementally
with some of the other states in a more sane way,
I think, than a lot of other places.
Yeah, wow.
It sounds like there's a lot of opportunities going on there
and a really nice detailed analysis of the situation.
Would you think that the environment itself
is conducive to growing cannabis?
And in the long term, do you think it'll kind of rise
as a premier sort of state to be producing it in?
Or do you think that it's just the friendly legalities
at the moment are what is allowing it to kind of flourish?
I think it's a little bit of both.
I think that there's definitely a small,
I would say maybe 15 to 20% of the cultivars
that are traditionally going on, say, the West Coast,
that'll actually really excel here.
And most of them having done two summers now
of growing stuff out here, the Durban poison,
the Malawi and Swazi crosses and Southern African crosses,
and then some of the other equatorial strains
seem to be the ones that really,
they're used to the heat,
they're used to the higher humidity,
they don't really care so much about the heat,
and they seem to really pack on a few extra pounds,
not a few extra pounds, but a few extra grams.
And when you're talking fields or rooms,
a few extra pounds when you're doing greenhouses
or outdoors specifically.
You have really high temperatures,
it can get to be 107, 110, so what is that in Celsius?
Is that like 37, 38, 40?
I think you're back on.
Yeah, so, sorry, I just came back from Zimbabwe,
so I'm still pretty fresh with my conversions.
But, so you have to have strains that'll tolerate that.
Your pure indicas really do not like that heat,
or traditional indicas,
we all know that the classifications have changed now,
but your traditional stuff that,
your purple heavy stuff really doesn't do super well
out here on the outdoor stuff.
Again, that's more adapted to cold climate.
Again, I'm being very generally broad,
obviously there's lots of exceptions to that,
but you don't see a lot of that stuff.
And you see a lot more fungal issues
that people aren't used to.
I've seen, last year there was a huge outbreak of Septoria,
not only in Oklahoma, but in Tennessee,
and a lot of other states that were doing hemp,
and I really think a lot of it came from
the lack of biodiversity in the soil.
You had a huge outbreak of Septoria, Fusarium, Botrytis,
and it was all in these fields that were corn,
or soybean, or wheat last year,
that were just completely dead fields.
There was no microbiological diversity in the soil,
so how is this plant gonna have any type of microbe,
for lack of better, for simplification,
a microbial vaccination or exposure to fungals
to know how to make any type of resistance against them?
If you have a totally dead field,
it's not gonna know what something is
if it comes against it.
It's like taking someone that was living in a bubble
and dropping them into Times Square.
Their immune system's not gonna know what to do.
It's the same kind of way.
So I think that we were able to quickly,
at least in the three farms that I worked with last year
with the Septoria,
we were able to quickly use a heavy microbial inoculation
of both a Bactillus complex, Bactillus pumillus,
Bactillus subtilis, and a Lactobacillus, making labs.
I prefer kefir-based labs than the traditional KNF labs,
but we can get into that later.
And then doing an IMO treatment after a week of that,
of rotating those other treatments,
and just as a water and a foliar,
and we were able to treat almost all those fields,
and we only threw out maybe 15 plants
across those three farms.
So, and again, we caught it early.
If one Septoria gets beyond a certain point,
those plants are boned, right?
So it's systemic.
But if you can catch it early, you can treat it.
And we had very good luck by doing that.
But again, it was with microbial inoculants,
not with a spray, not with a fungal, not with sulfur,
with proper probiotics.
It's the only way to treat some of this stuff.
Wow, I'm already looking forward to this chat already.
But before we get into it,
I definitely wanna chat about Zimbabwe,
cause that's just itching to be discussed.
I did wanna quickly clarify, or not clarify,
I just wanted to quickly ask,
you mentioned that in Oklahoma,
the prices have stabilized at about 2,200 a pound.
Overall, what do you predict will be
the kind of long game pricing for a pound?
Do you think that is the ballpark of what you want it to be?
Do you think that it's maybe still a little high,
and with more production, we could get it down?
Where do you think a good price point is long-term?
I think, well, I guess the first answer I would have is,
I don't think anybody knows the honest answer
to that question.
But I will tell you what I think is that,
I think that you're gonna have craft growers
that are gonna have,
and that are gonna stamp out a brand for themselves
for high quality,
and they're gonna hold their higher price.
You see people like Dragonfly Earth Medicine,
and the wonderful group of people
on the Dempura Network that they've built up,
and all those wonderful farmers that work so hard
to grow clean medicine,
and they're able to hold their brand
and hold their prices up.
I think following similar type things,
you have other similar type groups out there
that have these different standards for their product,
and I think that's gonna be a way for people
to really separate themselves from the pack,
and allow craft growers to really excel
when you have a lot of these bigger producers,
and especially later on when you have other countries,
when you have nations like Colombia, and Zimbabwe,
and places that can grow for much cheaper prices
than the United States could ever grow for,
I think you're still gonna have,
absolutely be able to compete right there
at a really great price point,
and probably around that $1,500, $2,000,
or maybe even higher price point per pound
for that really craft cannabis, because it's worth it,
and the inputs are there,
and you're not gonna get a cheap pound
that's hand-trimmed, right?
Like there's just certain things
that just has a cost to it for the quality,
and the same way with fine wine or any fine food,
you pay for that higher quality,
and I really think that that's gonna be,
you're gonna have your craft growers
that really separate themselves pretty quickly,
and then you're gonna have the kind of just
general production for everything else.
Yeah, certainly, and I would love to get
a little more into the nitty-gritty of that,
because I've had a lot of people message me
over the past year or so,
and they kind of reference this idea you talk about,
and they're like, I would love to do that,
I'm wondering what are some ways to do it,
and the thing I would always reply with is,
I always think that if you're trying to set yourself apart,
one easy way to do it is to get like a strain
and find your own unique keeper of it,
ideally something that's not already in circulation,
maybe you even breed it yourself,
a bit of a different discussion,
but what are some of the ways
you think people can build a brand?
Because I thought like unique strain,
maybe even unique cultivation style, aquaponics,
what do you think, how can people help
to establish themselves as a unique producer?
Well, I would say definitely look at unique products,
if you have the ability, or if you have a recipe
for something that grandma made that was super awesome,
make an infused version if it's something
that's allowed in your state,
and these types of things
where you already have something unique,
you just didn't think of using it in the cannabis realm,
or some other stuff, but in particular,
one way that I work with a lot of companies
is with aquaponics, and in fact,
there's a group right now I'm working with
on a license application in Chicago,
where we're gonna be donating 100% of our fish
to the local community, so our cannabis facility
is providing free food for the local community
on top of all the medicine we're providing
for the patients within the community,
so we're able to feed people,
we also will set up, with a lot of these aquaponics systems,
we'll set up wicking beds on the outside
because we do have to, we can discharge a little bit
from our filtration system if we're brewing
and we make extra and we need some place to put it
without having to pay for disposal
in places like California, we can set up wicking beds
and just have a public garden out front
and grow vegetables for our community,
again, being more than just a cannabis company,
but being a pillar of the community
that's giving back to the community
and using the whole converting greed into good
and really bringing the whole message
and the energy of cannabis, I mean,
think about everyone listening to this show,
how many times has funds that started with cannabis
ended up creating and helping someone that you knew
in a hard spot or with car parts or with rent
or with whatever, all of us did at some point,
anyone that's in the cannabis industry
started slinging eights or slinging grams
and that's why we're in this,
there's very few people that didn't get into it that way
or if they did, they got into it late,
but if you got into it pre-legalization,
that's what you did, all of us got started that way,
and then we got into growing
and then we got into more and more and more,
so this is really a way where we can give back
to our community and do it as a byproduct,
those fish are providing fertilizer for us
and we're able to just give them back to the community
as a way to feed people and again,
that helps us with our story, helps us with our brand,
helps us with our whole eco, not only eco responsible,
but community responsible with our company.
Yeah, what a powerful message,
because I even had a question about that,
so we might even jump to it,
but whenever I discussed aquaponics with,
I've got a friend, let me clarify,
you know the guy I'm trying to think of,
the real big aquaponics guy in Queensland in Australia.
Mr. Murray Hollum.
Murray, so I got a good friend who has trained under him,
so he's quite knowledgeable
and first hand knowledge from Murray
and he said he's interested in cannabis
and he said that he always kind of struggled
to see a big cultivation facility doing aquaponics
purely for the sense that he was like,
it just seems weird to have a store
that sells fish and cannabis,
because he's like, that would be the end goal,
like you got fish and cannabis, you need to sell them both.
I guess you've just provided a really nice
alternative pathway to use those fish,
do you think that idea though that they raised
is a legitimate sort of concern about like,
you've just got that you're ending up
with these two different products
or do you think we just need to look deeper
like what you mentioned
as to how we can utilize the resources?
So there's kind of two pieces to that.
So first off, one of the other things
that I've talked about with California producers
is doing a cannabis infused smoked fish.
So taking the fish, doing fillets
and then doing a cannabis glaze, a flavored glaze
and then smoking it and then doing it,
selling that as a product.
So you could actually have a very good,
a value added item with the cannabis
and have the cannabis be the value added
so depending on how you wanna go with your business model,
you could also raise tropical fish
and flip those as well for profit
and that often can be much more profitable
than raising food fit and actually in almost all cases
is more profitable than raising food fish.
So if you're strictly focused on profits
as a cannabis company, avoiding food fish altogether.
Now the other component and this is only an issue
in the United States is you cannot get
a meat processing license, which you need to have
to kill the fish and clean the fish
and a cannabis license because cannabis
is still federally regulated as a Schedule I drug
and the meat processing facilities
are all inspected by federal inspectors from the USDA.
They can't step foot into a facility
that has Schedule I drugs on the property
and then they're just conflicting, right?
So you have this issue where I have to license
a third party processor that's already licensed
where they come pick up the fish
or I deliver the fish either live or frozen,
whole frozen on ice and then have them clean them,
third party and to legally resell them.
So that is a regulatory issue that is currently an issue
in the United States because of the current federal law
that people, it's kind of a weird thing
that I'm sure no politician thought about as a weird buy,
it's an off weird thing, but it is a legal hurdle
for aquaponic cannabis facilities
currently in the United States.
Now in Kentucky, I actually helped the guys
over at one of the universities,
I don't know if they got the thing,
but I helped write a grant for,
I believe it was Langston University
if memory recalls last year, but anyways,
helped them write a grant for a truck, a processing truck
so that they'd be able to go around
to the different aquaponic cannabis companies in Oklahoma
because Oklahoma currently has the most number
of aquaponic cannabis licenses of any state
in the United States right now,
so in terms of number of businesses.
So there's quite a few different companies
that have adapted both existing facilities
and then new built from scratch facilities
in the Tulsa and Oklahoma area as well as Oklahoma City area
as well as further south where I am
that are all doing cannabis now.
And yeah, kind of lost my train of thought there.
No, that's just a trail of knowledge.
We need to leave some cookie crumbs.
So I guess the question it raises for me
is you just paint such a beautiful picture with this.
Do you anticipate that as the years go by,
we're gonna see an increase in aquaponic cultivation
or do you think that it's just one of those things
where you're always gonna have the people
who wanna do the rock wool
and you're just never gonna change their mind?
Well, no, I think you're always gonna have people
that have their set system that works for them
and hey, if someone has a system that works for them
and they're crushing it, why change it?
Like I'm not gonna, if you just kill it with soil
or you kill it with hydro or you kill it with cocoa,
like rock it, man.
But I do think that and having done lots of side-by-sides now
and then consulted for lots of companies
that paid me to do side-by-sides,
we can crush the, I'm sorry about the pupper.
I have a younger pupper that-
Old puppers are welcome.
A little bit younger, we can edit that out.
So with aquaponics,
we've managed to get significantly higher terpenes
in all of our hydro or soil controls across the board.
We've had not a single test out of over 120
ever come back lower on the terpenes
compared to dual root zone aquaponic control.
Even non-dual root zone aquaponic controls
will about 75% of the time will be almost all
but the best living soils.
And that's just through terpene
and cannabinoid testing that we've done.
Now, what we attribute it to is one of two things.
Either there's an endophyte,
certain endophytes that are colonizing the plant
from the aquatic microbiome
or the stimulation of having both the terrestrial
and aquatic microbiomes or a combination thereof
of both what I just said and this
of having those two microbiomes,
the terrestrial microbiome in the soil area
in the upper half of the root zone
and the aquatic layer in the lower half of the root zone
with dual root zone pots allows you to have
such an increase in biodiversity that,
you get that increase in stimulation
to the plant's immune system.
And what does a plant do when it needs to defend itself
and gets a plant's immune system stimulated,
increases terpenes and depending on what the stimuli it is.
So by increasing the number of non-pathogenic microbes
to the root system,
you can basically give it more vaccinations
for a simplified way of thinking about it
and increase the total terpene production
by giving an exposure to more microbes
in a way that's not gonna screw with it
in a negative way.
So that really allows us to give us a huge advantage.
The other big advantages that we have
is we use around 18% with my methodology of water
compared to many other soil grown methods,
a drain to waste or most of your soil outdoor.
And that's just gallons per day per plant
under a four month growth,
three and a half to four month growth cycle.
So assuming you have a minor veg and then a quick flip.
So, we've had really, really great luck with that.
And then also increased acceleration of growth.
So in veg, we have no problem hitting
the two to four inch a day mark
all day long with aquaponics.
It's not even, we don't even have to try.
It's just incredible how fast
and anyone can go onto my YouTube
and see for themselves time stamped videos
of different farms.
If multiple farms on there that you can see,
incredible acceleration of growth.
But the farm I was just working with here
in Southern Oklahoma,
we were averaging two to four inches of growth per day
on all of our mother plants in the greenhouse.
It was, it's kind of goofy.
It's fun to, it's not even,
it's annoying to go back to soil
because you're like, this is like watching paint dry.
You know, it's just so slow.
And then we were able to shave on flower
anywhere from five to 14 days off the flowering cycle
by increasing the speed of that as well.
Just in terms of speed of growth.
Again, we attribute that to increased gas exchange
in the root system.
It really does make a big difference.
Wow, yeah.
So many things we've got to talk about there.
I just want to quickly jump back
because I'm a really big fan of when you were talking
about the plant's immune system
and the increased terpenes to assist with that.
What's your thoughts around the use of chitin-based products
as a mean to do that?
And are you still able to utilize those in aquaponics?
Oh yeah.
In fact, you asked a really awesome question.
So I actually just did a trial
of three different chitinase-based treatments
for insect control when I was over in Zimbabwe.
So we did a liquid.
So are you familiar with IMO
or indigenous microorganisms from Korean natural farming?
Okay, so if you're familiar with that,
what we do is we did one method where we took that
and did a 30% insect frass and then 60% or 70% rice
and then mix that together, cooked it,
and then did that as an IMO treatment
for collecting the microbes.
And then we were able to collect chitinase feeding,
microbes that would feed on the exoskeletons of the plants,
or I'm sorry, the insects, not the plants,
to defend the plants from.
Mainly the biggest issue we were dealing with
is these large African grasshoppers.
Maybe they were locusts, but they were huge.
And they were the biggest problem we had
because they chew the bark off the plants.
And that was the biggest issue
is they'd chew the Cambrian layer off the plants.
So that was the biggest problem we had.
So the large grasshoppers would chew the Cambrian layer
off the plants, and then the plants would,
basically anything above that would start to die off.
So we started spraying with that,
and that was by far the best treatment that we had
for any of the things that we had.
And we were able to kill the grasshoppers.
It took a couple of days to work,
but once we were sprayed the plants and sprayed the ground,
and we were doing that once a week,
it worked incredibly well.
And we just made a liquid IMO from that,
the same way that you would make liquid IMO from an IMO-1,
and you can get IMO-2.
And then we also tried where we did
the normal IMO collection and then introduced insect frass
at the point of IMO-3 rather than at the point of IMO-1.
And we found that while it did work,
it did not work anywhere near as well.
The efficacy wasn't anywhere near as well.
And then the other one we did is we did it with IMO-4.
And again, that was very similar to IMO-3.
While it did work, it didn't work as well
as doing it at the IMO-1 stage.
So with that, and then again,
now you have a bunch of free chitinase
that's available for the plants to absorb
and via the roots or any other way that it wants to,
because you're just melting insects in your field.
And that was one of the best general insect sprays.
We were able to use that as one of our mainstays
for our insect control over in Zimbabwe.
Yeah, wow.
I mean, you know what?
I think it's probably about time we jump into it.
So for anyone who hasn't quite picked up on it,
you did a stint in Africa just fairly recently.
Would you be able to give us a rundown on, I guess,
how the opportunity just at least initially
presented itself?
Sure, so I've been working with a couple of different groups
out of Canada for off and on for a couple of years.
And one of the groups I'd worked with previously
had someone that was working with a different group
over in Europe and Africa and started talking to them
and they kind of needed someone that knew the ropes
on the cannabis side of things to go over there
and kind of train people up.
So ended up getting together with them.
Took a little bit longer to get the funding together,
mostly because of the FDA rules that came in place
back in October, it was October 27th when the sky fell.
So, or whatever it was.
So that happened and then anyways,
ended up over in Africa in December.
So I was over in Zimbabwe, or ended up over in Zimbabwe
and then we're getting everything going.
We had 750 acres that we were prepping.
We had about 15 acres that we had planted and ready to go.
And then the virus hit and everything stopped.
And then I had about 72 hours to get out of the country
if I was gonna get out.
Wow.
So yeah, so that was my stint.
So hopefully when this all settles down next year,
probably I'll think, we'll figure it out.
But right now they harvested off what was there
and everything's on pause because it's psychotic
to try and move any products around the world right now
and trying to move cannabis is even harder.
So it's just kind of a process it all
and sit on it for now because financially
it's the only thing that makes sense
on the scale that we're doing it.
Yeah, I totally get that.
And I mean, we're gonna probably dig around this topic
for a little while, but just to go back for a minute,
you mentioned that things are on pause at the moment.
I actually know a guy who's involved
in general hydroponic stuff.
And many years ago he was contracted to go to Zimbabwe,
I think just to grow some lettuces and things like that.
And he set the operation up.
It sounds like kind of a similar situation to you.
He felt confident he'd trained them up well enough
and then he left and it was all going well
for probably six, 12 months.
And then after a while it just started going really bad
and he was getting emails about it.
And he's just like, oh, I don't know what's going on
but apparently it's starting to go really bad.
And what had ended up happening was that the locals
were just so kind of unfamiliar with,
he was using salt-based nutrients
in a pure hydroponic setup.
But basically what had happened was they were using
like a part A and B nutrient
and one of the A or the B had run out
and they just didn't understand how it worked.
And so they were like, oh, we just use the A
in replacement if we don't have any B.
And it just kind of highlighted that like
it was such a foreign style of growing
they didn't fully understand it.
Do you feel like that might be the case now
that if you like, that might be why things are on pause
because there is still a bit of a learning gap
for them to fully get autonomous with it?
No, no, the reason why everything is on pause
is because the value of their dollar is collapsed
because of the virus.
But so that's honestly, but the other reason,
but as far as agricultural stuff,
they are incredibly learned with agricultural practices
especially organic agricultural practices.
They are very good about doing a lot of stuff
that we would consider similar to maybe natural farming.
But they also have a huge presence of Syngenta.
If you go into or Monsanto
as you guys may also know them as for the,
that's their other name.
But if you go into Harare or any of the bigger areas,
Kadoma or Vic Falls or anywhere,
you're gonna see Syngenta, Syngenta, Syngenta.
And they sell all, they probably sell 85 to 90%
of the seed in the whole country, which sucks.
But that's probably the biggest issue
is that it's hard to find.
It's hard for farmers to find a seed.
Now, the moment you get away from any of the big cities,
it's all organic as can be.
They've never seen a pesticide.
They don't know what a pesticide is.
Like it's fine, right?
So it's just a matter, or they do, but it's organic.
They're making ferments and stuff, right?
It's not like, or are teas or they're burning something,
you know, a smelly herb to have the smoke
waft through to get them up.
Or, you know, they have some other method.
It's not, one thing I would say,
and it's funny because I had this conversation
with somebody else, Zimbabwe actually this week,
just because of the current events in the United States
is that I said, you know, if something were to happen
with the government in Zimbabwe,
everyone can just kind of farm.
Everyone knows how to farm.
Everyone knows how to self-sustain themselves
from a survival standpoint.
Whereas in the United States, people don't.
You know, a large percent of the United States
doesn't even know how to plant a seed
and grow a bean or a tomato.
You know, it's just not something
that people are familiar with or have been exposed to.
So, whereas, you know, a lot of these other parts
of the world, yeah, maybe they don't have
all the things that we have, but you know what?
Everyone there can feed themselves if they have to.
Or, you know, they all have a garden.
Every single person has a garden on their property
where they're growing food, you know?
And it's culturally, you know, a lot different
where they are more sustaining in terms of food production.
And, you know, if I was gonna get stranded
and something like that, you're gonna have more food
in a place like that, even though it sounds kind of crazy.
So, I think that probably a question
a lot of our listeners are wondering is,
whereabouts in Zimbabwe were you based geographically
and what type of strains did you found
work really well there?
Sure, so we were growing a couple of different
CBD cultivars in Kodoma.
I actually don't have the strain list in front of me.
I have it, I posted it up on my Instagram.
I have the exact strains that we were growing there.
We were actually the first company
to legally import them into Zimbabwe.
Actually, funny story on that, which I'm sure
the guys at the airport don't want me to tell you,
but I'll tell you anyway, because it's funny.
So, we get these seeds in, right?
And it's like a big, giant pack of seeds.
You can smell it, right?
Because they're fresh seeds, right?
So, they smell like terpenes.
It smells like a fat old bag of wheat.
And they open it up and the cops are like, whoa!
And then they're like, can you do this?
And then they want to see paperwork.
And then they held it for a couple of extra days
and checked with the Ministry of Health
and all this other crap.
So, we finally get it cleared and then they come out.
And then, so they have the narc cops,
or the drug cops there.
And they're laughing about it and they're like,
cool, well, let's test the dogs, right?
So, they go and they grab the dogs
and they put three packages out
and the ours is one of them
and the dogs completely ignore it.
And they get real mad and we're just sitting there laughing.
And then we realize like, they're getting more mad.
So, we just kind of like, can we get the paperwork?
Can we get the paperwork and get out of here now?
We just have to go.
It's not push the limits.
But yeah.
Lovely, so, I mean, in terms of Zimbabwe,
were you more up north, more down south?
Or do you feel like the whole area is just pristine?
It doesn't matter where you are?
Sure, so I did go out and visit in Yongo,
which is in the far east over by Mozambique.
But then I also, the farms where I was working in was,
one is in Morandera and the other one was in
north of Kodoma.
I'm not gonna give the exact location
just for security reasons, but north of Kodoma.
So, it was probably the biggest large city nearby.
Do you feel like Zimbabwe in particular
has a really nice sort of environment
that's conducive to growing?
Or do you think that the end game is that like,
most African countries will just be set to go hard?
No, I think Zimbabwe particularly has a wonderful climate
temperature wise and humidity wise and everything else.
And the soil is very conducive for it, so.
Fantastic, and I mean, when you were there,
did you try to grow anything in the soil
or was it all aquaponic?
So, one of the two farms I worked with was aquaponics
and the other one was soil, so.
Okay, cool, and what would be your recommendations
for someone looking to work with some soil they've got
that's never been like tended to, so to speak,
and they're gonna have to maybe put some inputs in?
What are your go-to inputs that you might put into the soil
to help give it some nutrients?
So, oh man, it's really gonna depend on what that soil is.
So, if there's a lot of, not a lot of organics in it,
I would say making sure you can add a compost
or some leaf mulch or something like that,
or it's really just gonna depend on it.
My first thing would be get a soil test
and find out what's going on in there
and get some under a microscope slide
so that you can see what the heck is going on.
Sure, I guess maybe one of the more commonly heard claims
I hear is that basically, what is it?
Biochar and cover crop.
I always hear those two things
because it's like it makes sense in theory, right?
Do you feel like that actually works in practicality?
So, I've done a lot of testing with biochar.
I'm gonna be an outlier and tell you,
I think it's in 75 to 90% of people's farms
complete snake oil.
I don't think it'll do anything.
If you're doing good composting,
good microbial inoculation, your KNF inputs,
you are going to notice absolutely zero difference in yield,
terpene content or cannabinoid content.
And I say this because there's a farm in Gilchrest, Colorado
that I've worked with that we put together in 2013 or 2013.
And I can't remember if it was 13 or 14.
And so they have six acres of hemp there, okay?
Now, there's half acre of zero control,
half acre of 1% biochar, half acre of control,
half acre of 3% biochar, half acre of control,
half acre of 5% biochar and a full acre control
that we were doing some other testing on.
In all those years, we've had no difference in yield.
The only difference we've noticed
is the size of the cover crop is larger
where the higher amount of biochar is.
So you could say that there's more microbial biodiversity
in the surface of the soil.
Strictly speaking for CBD hemp,
it has made no visible financial yield
growing at a half acre scale over all those years.
And I can say that based on numerics and financials.
So based on that, then yes, I think it's not.
Now, if you have a super compact clay
or you have just really terrible soil or no organics at all,
yeah, it's gonna do wonders for your soil.
But if you're dosing with all your normal probiotics
and your KNF inputs and everything else,
it's not, you're already adding all the microbials
and a lot of the other stuff that you have,
you don't need an extra space for it to survive.
So you're not really adding something
that's not already being colonized happily.
You're inoculating on top of,
you're just adding a space for the inoculant,
but if you're already adding the inoculant,
that's kind of a redundant.
Sure.
And just as a sort of a random curiosity for myself,
do you feel like the microbial diversity there
is plentiful enough that you don't need to supplement
with any sort of microbial product
that would might be like more external
or even something like say a mycorrhiza?
It really depends on what you're doing.
I prefer to still do some external inoculants.
I've found in aquaponics, just in terms of products,
mammoth pea is probably been one of the biggest
in terms of amount of testable in PPMs
available of a nutrient from any microbial
I've ever tested with aquaponics.
It is the one that has increased any nutrient
by the largest amount
by not adding any additional salt.
So by not adding any physical phosphorus,
just by adding the microbe,
it is increased phosphorus on average
around 30 to 35% in aquaponics systems.
So if you can get that established
and get those microbes in your system,
it's a great inoculant.
I often recommend that and recharge from real growers
over at the guys that do do grows.
We often recommend both of those for people
inoculating their new aquaponics systems
to get those bacteria species as nitrifying bacteria,
those initial mycorrhizal protectants,
something that's gonna get in there
and out compete Pythium and root rot
and a lot of the other issues you have
with aquatic based systems,
be it aquaponics or hydroponics.
Yeah, wow, what a powerful testament to the product.
So if we get into the nit gritty of the aquaponics itself,
what sort of things are you feeding the fish
and supplementing the system with?
And do you still have to use any,
I think I remember I spoke with you maybe a while ago
and you mentioned that iron can sometimes be hard to find,
you might need to supplement with it.
Have you found workarounds for those things
or it's still like,
there's certain principles that still apply?
So regardless of what you're doing with aquaponics,
fish waste is not microbially,
or not microbially, chemically designed to grow plants.
Like that was never part of the plan with that.
So fish waste does not provide everything.
It will provide the vast majority.
So we can get anywhere depending on cultivar,
80 to 90% of the nutrients that we need for feeding,
for almost any cannabis cultivar
is gonna fall into that range from the base nutrient.
Now we will need to supplement potassium, calcium,
iron and some micronutrients depending on the cultivar.
Now certain cultivars will really plow through molybdenum
and zinc and a couple of your micronutrients,
other ones don't.
Zinc seems to be more predominantly on the ones
that are more colorful,
your purples and your oranges.
And they seem to, especially molybdenum,
they plow through it because they need it
for the anthocyanin production.
So, and anyone that doesn't know,
if you're having problems with your purples
not being purple, add some molybdenum,
a sodium molybdenate at like a 0.1 part per million dosage.
It'll immediately turn your plants purple
if they have the genetics for it.
Again, it has to do it and you gotta trigger the gene,
but plants will also create extra anthocyanin
to bind up a mild molybdenum toxicity.
So you can actually force the plants,
if it has it to produce extra anthocyanin
via a forced mild quote,
again, mild molybdenum toxicity.
You go too hard,
you're gonna cause other problems with your nitrogen,
but that's a whole separate discussion.
But for purples, definitely.
So, and silica.
So I've done a ton of side-by-side testing with silica
and we did silica testing.
And what actually, we'll start off at the beginning
of why we started looking at silica with aquaponics
was specifically was there was a gentleman,
I can't remember his name, out of Boulder.
When I used to work at the aquaponic source,
I used to work and help.
We had a whole plant team and a product team and everything.
And we had different things that we worked on and developed.
Well, the plant team was trying to figure out
why our aquaponic tomatoes always tasted slightly different
than the hydroponic or soil tomatoes.
So we went and had them tissue sampled
and sure enough, it was silica and chloride
were the two things that were missing,
which was very strange.
And this was before we learned about flavonoid testing
and all that.
We were looking at this more from a nutrient
kind of perspective before, you know, anyways.
I was a little bit greener on the,
trying to fine tune this on the plant side of things.
I wasn't thinking cannabis mindset with the vegetables,
you know what I mean?
So anyways, so,
one second, anyways.
So the issue, so what we did was we tested that
and noticed the silica and the chloride.
So what we did was we upped the silica,
we upped the chloride and we had a huge increase
in not only yield above about 15 to 20%,
but we also had a reduction in powdery mildew and molds.
And we also had a reduction in,
we also had a reduction in issues with crispness.
So if we harvested lettuce and put it in the fridge,
we were able to get anywhere from five
to eight additional days in the fridge where it's,
you know, before it started to wilt and look like crap.
So we were also, you know,
and other things like powdery mildew and cucumbers
and the total failure rate of flowers on cucumbers
were also increased by increasing silica as well.
And it seems to be a threshold around 60 parts per million
in aquaponics really seems to be that minimum threshold,
at least for most crops.
And then cannabis seems to be a little bit higher than that.
But in general, that's some of the different rabbit holes
that I've had the pleasure of jumping down
with some of the different groups that I've worked with.
Yeah, wow.
Very, very detailed analysis of what's necessary there.
A question I've always been wondering is,
do you think that even with the use of aquaponics,
if you're in somewhere like Zimbabwe,
you could still get some sort of terroir
or do you think it just,
it probably has to be in the ground to sort of do that?
Well, so I do think,
and I, so I have two minds in this.
So one, you're not, I wouldn't qualify it.
I wouldn't go in with an aquaponics system into Humboldt
and say, it's a Humboldt terroir, right?
Like that's, it's not gonna have the microbes
and the flavors from the ground.
What I would say is that you could make a good argument
that aquaponics is its own terroir
because it is its own root biome that is completely unique.
Now you will have unique to different climates
and you could say maybe certain things
and you could absolutely develop something similar
because again, you're microbial biodiversity.
And it's funny you mentioned that NASA did a study
a couple of years ago and I was working with a vegetable farm
that participated in this and they did DNA studies
on trying to see, okay, well,
what are all the mineralizing microbes?
If we went to Mars or someplace like that,
what's the pack of microbes we need to bring
to aquatically mineralize either human waste
or animal waste or whatever we're gonna do for fertilizer.
So, so whatever, you know, biological waste
that we're gonna process into plant food,
what packet of microbes do we need?
So they tested all manner of soil microbes
and aquatic microbes and they had some cool results.
So one of the things they found was,
is that the most or the least biodiverse aquaponics system
was 168% more biodiverse
than the most biodiverse soil system they test
in terms of microbial species count.
So they, the aquatic biome just slaughtered it.
But if you think about it,
the aquatic microbiome has had an extra billion years
to evolve.
So of course that makes sense, right?
That's a no brainer.
So that was really interesting.
And then also they found that, you know,
none of the aquatic tests had the same microbes.
You had radically different chains of microbes
that were mineralizing the same minerals
in completely different chains.
Some of them were two, some of them were up to eight
and everything in between.
And each one of them was different.
There was no universal.
And that was, I think, one of the even trippier things
is that you have all these different ways
that this has co-evolved around the planet
to mineralize XYZ minerals a thousand different times.
So who knows?
You know, it's such a big rabbit hole
and no one's looking at it for aquatic mineralization.
It's, there's billions of dollars in ag tech
sitting there on the table and no one's even looking at it.
You know, it's really a huge,
if someone out there is listening to this
and wants a gold mine, there you go.
You know, pick literally any microbial chain
and 78% of them will live in a terrestrial microbiome.
So you, 78% of those microbes that you can hunt for
will live in both soil and aquatic.
So it's an area that needs a ton of research.
It needs lots of university students doing lots of papers.
It needs all of those things.
Wow, yeah.
That's almost like a gold mine of papers
you could put out on that subject.
I guess I then start to think,
what would be in your mind the most optimal end goal
for these producers in Africa?
Do you think that it's going to get probably turned to oil
or do you think that the flower
could become of good enough quality
that it gets imported into more kind of expensive
Western sort of countries as a generalization?
Or what do you think is the ideal end goal
for these African countries such as Zimbabwe?
I think really their bulk goal
is to do bulk isolate production,
doing oils that are separated out.
They're not, again, they're not going to compete for quality.
They can compete for scale.
The cost of labor there is very cheap.
Your average person there makes eight to $12,000 a year.
Most of them are closer to eight or less.
Just to give you an idea of people in Zimbabwe
in terms of US money per year, and that's middle class.
So do the math on how cheap some of these people
are living per year or per day.
Something that neither you or I are capable of doing,
that's for sure.
And, but definitely something where I think
that you're going to have, you know,
these low labor costs are going to end up being a player
in the market long-term where what are you going to do
when someone can bring over shipping containers
of stuff that's being produced for $18 a pound
or $12 a pound?
You know, if you're competing, you know,
what they will do is drive out the Aurora,
drive out the Canopy, drive out the Budweiser,
drive out the Marlboro and the Philip Morris.
They'll drive all those guys out, you know what I mean?
And I'm okay with that.
You know, all the craft growers,
most of the craft growers listen to the show,
they're not competing with them anyway.
They're not even on the same league.
So yeah, so I've actually heard of some other people
who've done some stuff down in Africa,
like most notably Genefinder has done some stuff.
And I'd even heard some rumors.
I think it might've even been put out by,
of all people, Chimera,
that like the Philip Morrisons are interested
in looking into Africa.
Did you see any other people or other operations
down there looking to do anything like that?
Oh yeah, and actually, I guess what I would say
is the most concerning is you have,
there's a Chinese group that's kind of moving into Africa
that wants to kind of push into the cannabis market.
And they're trying really hard to find genetics.
They don't have genetics.
They were desperately trying to talk to anyone
Western or for genetics.
They wanted to desperately buy anything that I had.
That seemed to be the thing that they didn't have.
But they are setting up some big operations over there.
And who knows what they're gonna do
to the price points in the industry.
I mean, they already have completely collapsed
the fiber market and the oil market,
price point wise to make it really hard to compete.
So let's hope that they don't try to move in
on the other stuff.
But again, they're still never gonna compete
with the craft growers.
You're not gonna, the people that are gonna go,
that are buying high quality stuff right now
are not gonna ever look at that anyway.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, of course.
And so I guess my next question,
although for you it would be specific to Zimbabwe,
but I think you could broadly apply it
to anyone who's going to a kind of an area
where like there is cheaper labor
and they're looking to set up a bigger operation.
Do you think in that sort of general situation,
you would look to bring in some genetics
like what you just mentioned?
Or do you think that it might be more wise
to work with any preexisting cultivars that might be there?
No, so I actually, well, I have access
and have some wonderful Zimbabwean cultivars
I picked up in Nyunga, but they are not heavy yielders.
They're not commercially viable stuff.
If you're growing on a commercial scale,
and if I'm growing and setting up for someone
as a consulting client, I'm setting it up as a resin factory
and it needs to pump resin out.
I don't care about anything other than that.
We're trying to pump flour and pump resin.
That's what we're doing.
It needs to turn over quickly.
It needs to be resistant to most things.
It needs to not be a pain in my ass to grow.
It's not to have some whack ass feeding schedule
that's going to make me pull my hair out
or some other baby thing that that particular strain
is going to annoy the crap out of me about
that everyone has a strain they love,
but it does this X, Y, Z weird thing
if you don't do it right.
So try to avoid all that stuff
and just get to something that's easy, consistent,
that people that aren't on the same skill level as me
can pump out and run.
And it doesn't matter what I can do.
It matters what the guys I train
that leave behind can do.
And that's the thing I think that a lot of people
set themselves up for is that anybody
that's high skill level can come into anywhere
and crush it and get the place back online.
It's can you train the guys and then leave them
with a coloring book simple methodology
that they can follow after that,
that they can succeed with.
And that's really, I think, an area where,
it's hard to because there isn't a lot
of agricultural education in Africa in local languages.
In fact, there's almost nothing in agriculture stuff
in Shona, which is the native language in Zimbabwe.
It's really hard to find even plant names
and stuff like that.
When I was trying to research plant names
and pathogens and pests, it was hard for me
to look up that in Shona or English, right?
Like there's just nothing.
They just, it's all verbal.
Like a lot of African stuff is just verbal, right?
They just don't, there's not a lot of documentation
or there isn't, like the language isn't there
for that type of long-term documentation
for lack of a better word with the languages, right?
For our specific craft, it just hasn't been developed yet.
There's no word for terpene or cannabinoid.
It just, you see what I'm saying?
It's almost like with the people that I know
was it Oregon PDX, why am I blanking out
on her name right now?
Jared and Angela Pranks, they're working
on the sign language for the cannabis.
It's almost like that.
They don't have the language for our industry
in the African languages.
So some conversations are hard to have.
Just trying to explain things on a basic level
when they don't even understand,
even if they understand English,
it just went over their head.
You know what I mean?
And then also just trying to make sure
that when you're trying to find seeds
or if you are trying to acquire anything,
it can be quite the hectic thing to do
and quite the long journey to get to the farm.
Or you might have to, I don't know,
jump on one leg and rub your belly
to get them to believe that you're not a cop
and all kinds of other goofy stuff.
But generally when you have waist-length dreads,
it gets you by most of that.
I like that.
And you bring up a very valid point.
We both need to have the same lexicon,
otherwise we can't really talk, can we?
But just to jump back to one of the previous points,
if you're willing to,
what sort of genetics did you take with you
that you thought would do well there?
And long-term, do you think that down the track
people will breed stuff specifically for that area?
Sure, so the stuff that I specifically brought was Durban.
And then I brought some reunion island seeds,
which- Oh, the old Zamo.
Small. Yeah, I love it.
So, because they're damn near,
it's very close latitude-wise to where we were.
It was not far off a lot.
So I figured, hey, if it's going to work
and get me that weird gene expression
with the continuous flower,
I need to grow it at that same latitude,
as close to that latitude as I can.
And hey, if I'm going to be in Zimbabwe,
hey, let's go for it, right?
I'm going to be there.
And then what was the other one?
G13 hash plant from Dragonfly Earth Medicine
was the other one that found its way over there, allegedly.
So that's the other one that was the THC cultivars
that we brought over.
We had some other stuff that, again,
I have it written down on the post.
I don't remember what the other stuff was,
but those are the ones that I brought over
personally from my own smoke.
Sure. And I mean, to me, the first two you mentioned,
the Durban and the Zamo,
sounds like pretty clear winners.
You can understand why it's going to work well.
I am curious to know,
did the G13 hash plant just freak out
or it handled it pretty reasonably well?
It loved it.
All of them did great.
And I knew it's a pretty sativa-leaning plant.
It's my favorite thing to smoke all day long.
If I'm going to smoke one plant all the rest of my days,
ever since last April,
when I was first introduced to that cultivar,
it's got its claws into me.
Thanks, Josh and Kelly.
Yeah, it's a beautiful plant.
I think I've been lucky enough to try some of that same cut
and yeah, very special stuff.
So, the next question I guess I was interested in
is that we're hearing a lot of talk these days
about how there's kind of this detrimental,
I don't know if detrimental is the right word,
but people comment about how we see a lot of hemp
sprayed with distillate and it's getting passed off.
Do you think that is a bit of a risk
with the massive influx of cheap distillate
coming into the market long-term
or do you think that's more of just like a short-term thing
and people will catch out how,
like they'll learn to pick up on it and just stop buying it?
No, I mean, I think it's definitely a problem.
I think it'll definitely become a problem,
especially international stuff
where it's a lot easier to hide it on bigger batches.
But I mean, I can remember a lot years and years ago
seeing people spraying garbage weed with terpenes in California.
As soon as River, what was it, Blue River,
what was it, Blue River terpenes?
Yeah, yeah, it came out with Blue Dream, yeah.
Yeah, and as soon as they came out with those terpene vials, man,
it was all over.
That's one, as soon as people started doing the isolated terps and spraying it.
I can remember seeing, I know I was where,
I went and had a guy I was consulting for in San Diego
and he comes up to me with this bag of white moldy,
like very clearly PM covered weed.
He thought it was awesome because he thought it was frosty
and he had never seen PM before.
And it was sprayed with terps to hide the high school locker room smell.
And dude, I about fell out of my chair laughing
because this dude had paid like three grand or some shit
for some moldy ass weed.
Yeah, I guess it's a real risk factor, isn't it?
But I mean, it brings us on to the more valid question,
which is what do you think will be kind of the next step with distillates?
What sort of products do you think will be utilizing
this more cheaper distillate?
Do you think pens is going to be just, you know,
it's just full steam ahead or where do you see things going?
Well, the pen market is rapidly changing because you have all the,
one, we don't know, well, the pen market is interesting
because you have terpenes that are highly regulated in Europe
in an isolated form that are not regulated in a blended cannabis form,
which at some point is going to have to have some type of legal reckoning
and at least in the EU market
and probably on the wider international market.
And then you have, you know, pens are popular,
but again, you have the coils that depending on quality
can be a health hazard.
You have, you know, depending on the blend with the terpenes
can again be a health hazard.
So, but people love them.
The pens are one of the most popular things out here.
Edibles are also super popular and cooking oil is super popular
here in Oklahoma.
Those three are about 65% of the market
because it's a lot of older people.
They want to be able to dose themselves
and they want something that's not a little more discreet
and not, you know, chiefing out the neighborhood.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, certainly.
And I mean, it raises a really personal point to me
because I've actually, I've cut down my usage quite a bit
over the past year and I'm perfectly happy with that.
And it's made me realize when I go have a hit of some of the strains
I used to be puffing on all day, it sends me flying.
And so, I can totally empathize with older guys who are like,
I just want something that tastes good and doesn't destroy me.
Do you think that this will become a growing kind of demand in the market?
And eventually, we'll almost see like a divergence of strains
where there's like the everyday stoner strains
and then the more casual guy ones
because being in that more casual sort of like,
let me just put it this way.
If someone gives me some weed and it's strong and I hit it,
man, I'm just, my day's gone.
Yeah, no, and it's funny.
You mentioned that I was in the Colorado market
when that first legalized in rec.
And you know what one of the highest sellers was the first two years
was the rookie cookie, which was a five milligram cookie.
Five milligrams, right?
So, think about that.
So, there's a huge market.
I would probably say it's an enormous percentage of the market
of people that are their weekend warriors,
the people that haven't smoked in 20 years or whatever.
And they don't want to get obliterated
and they don't know how to dose themselves
with a joint or a bong or certainly not with dabs, right?
So, they need a way that they can dose themselves.
So, I've worked with a bunch of different technologies
that we'll be bringing to market later this year that help with that,
that we're not ready to release publicly yet.
But I have a new facility that we're pretty close to getting ready here in Oklahoma.
In the next couple of weeks that will, in August,
we'll have some announcements about.
But we have a couple of different versions of stuff
that allow us to adjust the potency and maintain the terpenes.
And a couple of other cool things that'll allow us to give some more rookie versions,
of those types of products.
But I do think you are going to see a huge demand for those,
more lower potency products.
Because again, that really is the vast majority,
the people that dab all day and the people that smoke lots of blunts and joints.
And a lot of the people that grow use it pretty heavily, right?
But we're not the majority of users.
We're 5-10% of the market.
We're a very small minority of the overall cannabis market.
So, we need to all remember that.
And I think a lot of us forget that
because we get so used to the dab culture and everything that...
We forget that most people just smoke joints on weekends, right?
Or after work.
Yeah, totally, totally.
And I mean, it's interesting you raised the point about the rookie cookie
because my next question to you is going to be,
do you think there are any major leaps to be made in the edibles field?
Or do you think it's simply just about making it taste better and less like weed?
Or do you think there's like some next generation leap
that might happen that makes it even better?
Oh, yeah.
There's a ton of advancements in bioavailability
that are not being exploited right now in the market.
Without getting into specifics and getting myself into trouble,
there's a bunch of different ways that you can rapidly increase the potency of cannabis
and sometimes 5x in efficacy or even more by changing some variables
and changing the way that your body looks and uptakes the molecules,
be it CB1 or CB2 receptor or some of the others.
You can get down some pretty cool rabbit holes,
again, without getting myself into trouble with NDAs that I've signed.
Yeah, we won't go too far in that direction.
But there's definitely some cookies for people to go follow up on them
if they're so interested.
So, on the topic of edibles, I was interested in picking your brain.
Do you feel like there's any difference in the quality of edibles
produced in terms of the strains used?
And I don't just mean in terms of the yield you might get back,
but do you think a certain strain makes a better edible
or it's so processed to the point that you lose that originality
of the strain it came from originally?
I think it's a two-part question.
So, first part I would say is that, one, terpenes absolutely are going to have
an enormous impact on the efficacy of your medicinal value of your edibles.
They do for smokables.
Let's just take example seizure medications.
So, if you have CBD and I treat someone with CBD and they don't respond,
there's certain cannabinoids, I'm sorry, certain terpenes that you can combine with CBD.
I don't remember the exact ones, but I know that...
What's his name?
House of Harlequin, Wade Laughter, he talked about it extensively when he was on my show.
I believe it was episode 140 of the Growing With Fishes podcast, if you want to know exactly.
He talks about the specific terpene groups in that episode,
but there's certain terpenes that actually will help dramatically suppress seizures
when taken with CBD, but there's other ones that will antagonize them.
So, if you take pinene and terpenoline and beta-caropheline,
those are hyper-stimulative terpenes.
You do not want those as a seizure patient.
You want to avoid those explicitly because they can induce seizures.
So, you might have someone as a CBD cultivar that's high in those,
that's not getting relief from their seizures or even having them induced by them.
Whereas you take that same patient and give them a CBD cultivar with those different sets of terpenes
and absolutely have efficacy with that product.
So, that's absolutely the thing.
Now, one thing that I found that, and this goes back to when I was first doing this back old school
in the free people's market, was doing decarboxylation in sealed vessels.
So, we would do it in mason jars or in a pressure cooker or some kind of other sealed thing.
And initially, we did it was to see, basically, to not let the whole neighborhood or apartment complex
know that we're cooking, right?
It's kind of a problem if I'm making a big batch.
You know, everyone knows in the neighborhood, you know, my house smells great.
Well, when you're in a less than legal area, that can be a very big problem
depending on who your neighbors are.
So, we originally did that.
But what we realized was we were trapping the terpenes in.
So, the method that I prefer to decarboxylate if you're decarboxylating flour for those at home
that are making their own edibles is take your flour, dry it out,
and then fill your mason jars up about 50% of the way, and then put them in the oven
and cook them at about 240 degrees for, you know, one hour.
And that'll decarboxylate your stuff really, really, really well.
And then also trap those terpenes in and also won't stink your house up.
It'll smell maybe like you're smoking a joint.
Like, you'll know that there's weed there, but it's not going to bomb the house out, right?
So, then you take those and put them in the fridge.
And what that's going to do is cool and condense any of the compounds that were turned into a gas,
mainly your terpenes, allow them to recondense back onto the plant material
and come back out of the gaseous form.
Well, that means that when I take that and now use that for making my edibles,
that that's now rebound back up on the plant material.
Or what I prefer to do is I'll take that half of decarboxylated jar
and I'll fill it two thirds of the way with my oil or butter or whatever I want to infuse,
and I'll throw that in a pressure cooker and we'll pressure infuse that and decarboxylate that.
We'll decarboxylate it first and then we'll pressure infuse it for, you know,
30 to 40 minutes in a pressure cooker at, you know, 5 to 10 psi, real low psi, real, real low.
And, you know, just enough to get that pressure on the jar and then take those out and then take
that, strain it, and now I have my infused oil.
And that's one of the easiest ways for people at home to make high quality, high potency
decarboxylated oil.
And you don't have to use a pressure cooker, but it does help.
One thing I did want to add to that, don't do the butter or oil and then put them in the jar
if you don't have a pressure cooker, they will explode in the oven.
If you're going to do that method with a jar infusion, you do have to put it in a pressure
cooker. You have to have even pressure on the outside and inside, otherwise they will explode,
just as a safety thing.
Yeah, very valid point.
So, if we just jump back to the Africa stuff for a minute, I just wanted to touch on a topic you
mentioned way back, but I put a little dot because I wanted to come back to it is, you were talking
about how with your aquaponic system you could get away with, I think you said about 18% of the
water usage is some other sort of methods.
And it immediately made me think for somewhere like Africa or anywhere where there's like a water
scarcity, that's got to be one of the determining factors in terms of the system you use.
Is that correct?
Absolutely. Places like island nations in the Caribbean, Australia, Africa, particularly
island nations, because they don't have a big water supply.
I know there's a gentleman who does, I can't remember the name of his farm, but he's in
Barbados that is now also doing cannabis, but he was doing vegetables for a long time.
And he was doing it because their entire total gallonage of fresh water on the whole island is
very limited. They only get so much rain and that's all the fresh water they have unless they
bring it in or desalinate.
So, having an area that especially when they're hyper limited on that and cutting that down can
be a great way to reduce the water per crop yield.
And you can even further reduce it if you're in extreme measures.
Now, I don't recommend this for commercial cannabis production because the liability of if
you're indexing valve fails, you can lose five rows of cannabis in a couple of hours.
But if you're doing it for vegetable production and you're willing to gamble that or have
someone that's just actively inspecting them every few hours, which you can do when labor costs
are cheap, obviously, then you can do that with indexing valves where I can run just enough
water to do one trough and the sump to take that back in.
And I can run four or six troughs of plants, you know, whoever length off of one body of water.
And you can get extremely low in terms of total water volume for a large amount of plants per run
in extreme cases.
And we've done vegetable production that way in Jamaica and then some cannabis with that
methodology. Again, I try to avoid it with cannabis because it's too much of a liability.
If I have an equipment failure, I just lost a greenhouse.
And, you know, if you do not ever want to explain that to someone you're working for because
it's not going to go well.
Yeah, I can certainly imagine that conversation.
In terms of when they've finished growing the product and they're going to harvest it, they're
going to dry it and they're going to process it.
What sort of things happen there?
Do we see the sort of drying techniques you might see on, say, Mr.
Nice's Instagram feed where there's like these crazy warehouses just with tons of biomass
just all drying out?
Is it like that or is it a bit more like out in the sun?
How do they dry and process and manage all of the biomass once it's grown?
Are you talking in Africa?
Yeah, apologies. Yeah, in Africa.
Sure. So in Africa, remember, Zimbabwe was the tobacco capital of the planet.
So tobacco has this enormous tobacco infrastructure.
So they have these huge brick tobacco barns that are, you know, an acre, two, three, sometimes
four acres in size that are basically just corrugated steel and brick and some local
wood to timber them up.
And there's huge bays and they have these furnaces on the end where they heat them up
and they run warm air through them to heat the tobacco.
So they're basically taking those and cleaning them up, running ozone through them so
they can kill all the bad microbes or anything that might be living in there to
sterilize them and then converting those into cannabis drying barns.
And these on a large scale, I've seen three separate farms in Zimbabwe.
I had a chance to visit some of our competitors, not competitors, but other producers, I
guess is probably the better way to put it, in Zimbabwe.
And they were all, all of us included, all of us were using, you know, old tobacco
properties because they have the well infrastructure, they have the irrigation
infrastructure, they have the water reservoirs and they have the tobacco drying
barns, you know, the drying barns.
They have the tractor buildings that we can use for, you know, extraction and everything
else. So it has kind of the prebuilt infrastructure or at least the framework for
a prebuilt infrastructure that, you know, maybe it needs to be brought up to code.
Maybe I need to, you know, update things in terms of modernization, but, you know, 80
percent of what I need is already there.
Yeah, wow. And in terms of the processing, does it take place in Africa or does it go
somewhere else? How do they do that part?
So it's interesting.
There's a couple of ways that happens from African countries.
So one way that it happens is they'll take it, dry it and ship it out as dry biomass.
Another way they'll do it is take it and separate the oil and then sell that and
basically 55 gallon drums of oil or 30 gallon drums of oil or whatever.
The other way that they'll do it is they'll take it, they'll dry it, say, down to
35, 40 or 35 percent.
Then they'll ship it to Australia and dry it five more percent.
And now it's processed in Australia and now it can qualify for Australian GMP and
thusly EU GMP and backdoor into the EU.
So you have a lot of companies that are producing in other parts of the world, be it
South America or Africa, that are backdooring it into the EU market via Australia.
And I don't know how long that door is going to last, but at least currently that's a
way that some of the larger companies are doing it.
And, you know, again, I haven't moved anything since.
February, January, February, so that could have changed, you know, don't quote me
on that and say that I was wrong if that's changed since then.
But that was how it operated up until, you know, things started getting crazy over
there in Africa. And I came back in April.
So, yeah, I mean, of course, all comments taken in good faith.
You mentioned earlier and I wanted to specifically ask about this, the price of the
oil, it's astronomically low.
I think I heard before we even chatted a few months back, someone quoted something like
$200 a gallon or just something which just blew your mind open.
What do you think that's going to do to the global kind of pricing?
And is it like what is the price?
Like what's the going price over there?
So I don't know what the current price in Africa is.
We were all looking at refining it into mostly European markets
without getting into specifics that may or may not get me in trouble.
But that was all going into European markets.
So I could tell you what that price was, but I don't know what, you know, what the
lowball stuff that you're seeing out of.
There's a big company, El Asilto and a couple of other places.
I also know that we originally wanted to get launched in South Africa and then South
Africa started randomly arresting producers that were legally licensed that were not
violating anything.
So we got real sketched out about throwing a bunch of money down there.
And I certainly don't want to spend any time in a South African jail.
So definitely I hear it's not a very good place to be.
So we decided to move up to Zimbabwe where it was a little more stable.
And then now that's happened.
Things have gotten a little bit a little bit more interesting in Zimbabwe than they
were when I was there. And so we'll kind of see how it all works out.
We kind of have some different assets in different African countries.
So that was kind of the plan, too.
We kind of know that if you're going to get involved in Africa,
Africa doesn't always have the best stability when it comes to government and
regulations. So you kind of have to diversify across a couple of countries and have
kind of one export company that can kind of conglomerate the output of those
different countries into set contracts for different people
internationally. So that's kind of the easier way to operate over there.
And doesn't matter what type of agricultural crop if we're doing maize or corn or
whatever, you know, or cannabis.
All of them pretty much operate that way by diversifying across nations, because
again, it just changes too often over there.
Yeah.
Sure. Sure.
And so just to go back to yet another point you mentioned much earlier, you said
that you did come across some of the more indigenous cultivars, the land races, but
they just weren't suitable for what you needed.
The ones you did come across, did you feel like they were likely affected
genetically by some modern form or they were likely untouched?
Well, I look forward to bulking them out and giving out a bunch of seeds for people
to tell me.
That's actually one of the plans I'm working with Mr. Green Jeans Garden in
California to bulk out a bunch of those so that we have those available for people to
give out. But I found that they are incredibly high in pinene.
It's like smoking a pine tree.
I think that was the thing I instantly noticed.
And then the cerebral high that I don't remember having since I was maybe a
teenager, just a mind blowing cerebral sativa high that
it was intoxicating.
And I haven't had in just such a long time.
And it just was I missed it and I forgot that I missed it.
Hell yeah. I mean, as a lover of sativas myself, that sounds beautiful.
In terms of the local population, the local culture, what's cannabis consumption like
over there? Do people generally grow and smoke it or it's just not really used?
So cannabis is a very hush hush thing.
It can get you well, the locals can get seven to nine years in jail, so they
generally don't share it very often.
But you will find that like in private.
Well, OK, let me make sure I don't get myself or anybody else in trouble in private
areas and private clubs and things like that.
It is fairly well tolerated.
I've smoked in public quite a few times, but again, it was gated public.
Right. Like it was not not like you had to pay to get in, but like it was on like a
balcony or it was like in a courtyard, an area where you kind of had to get, you
know, go into the bar and back out the back.
You know, it was kind of a off on the side kind of thing, kind of off maybe kind of
the way it used to be in Canada before 2004.
Maybe anyone that remembers those days where it was accepted, but kind of like keep
it on the DL. You know what I mean?
Maybe not so much B.C., but certainly more towards the Quebec side of things.
Kind of kind of in that vein.
So but out in the country, like, you know, shit, we smoked all the time like it was no
big deal. But and then out with the Rasta.
So there's a lot of Rasta far and they smoke in chief up.
And that's, you know, obviously anywhere near them, you're going to have a cloud.
Right. So but but but in general, culturally speaking, it's not very popular except for
like at the bars. You go to a bar and it has a courtyard outside.
You'll smell it. Right.
But it'll often be like stuff that like Mexican brickweed people wouldn't buy.
Right. It's going to be something that looks like pine needles and it's like probably
80 percent leaves.
And maybe there might be like a little bit of maybe point one to point two grams out
of a gram is an actual bud.
And then maybe like point three grams of that seeds.
And then like the rest is like leaves or like some other part of the plant that's in
there. So and then that's on the low end and then all the way up to stuff that would
compare with like Cali stuff like really good high quality.
Like some of the people over there are taking notes and watching YouTube and listen to
podcasts. And there I mean, it's show you instantly you can tell who's paying
attention to to education, who who knows what a sense of Amelia is and all that.
And who doesn't? Because, you know, one is bushweed and one is
something that looks like it came from a store here, you know.
Yeah, totally. I mean, that's so promising to hear that there are people pushing the
craft and the art down there.
Something I've wondered is, you know, days gone by and probably less so Zimbabwe.
But, you know, historically there's been certain African countries which have been
notable for the kind of unique hash they put out.
And often historically it would go to Amsterdam and that's how it kind of got the
reputation. Do you feel like as more modern production comes in, there'll
be probably we'll see an end to that.
And like maybe not Zimbabwe, but other countries that are known for their hash, it'll
fall off a bit or do you think it'll always be there?
No, so there is no Shona word for hash.
Zimbabwe, no one in Zimbabwe knew what hash was, knew what a dab was like that.
A large part of Africa doesn't know what a concentrate is.
Like the concept of their of like smoking also is more of a taboo.
Like just smoking anything is more taboo there.
Like just culturally than here, like in terms of general acceptance, like, yeah,
people smoke cigarettes and you can buy them or whatever, but like not it's it's
it's more like living in some of the more really progressive areas where there
really isn't that many people smoking.
You know, it's just not they export all that.
Like that was like the dirty white people thing.
Right. Like that was not trying to be racist, but like that was that was kind of
thing that they kind of were like, yeah, that's for them.
Right. Like it's not for us.
Yeah, sure.
Sure. And I'm not trying to be derogatory by saying that, but culturally, that's
really how it is there.
No, heck, in terms of if we're talking about tobacco, I can I can get behind that.
That's that's not something I need.
But you've made me realize this is probably the longest we've ever gotten to an
interview where we're finally going to say, all right, time for the usual first
question. Take me back.
What was your first experience with cannabis?
Oh, man, first experience with cannabis.
So my first experience I remember having, I don't remember my first experience, I
can remember the first time getting really high.
I remember that.
That I could tell you clear as day.
I was going and I was working at a cyber cafe at the time.
And I know one of those me knows exactly the cyber cafe in the town where I grew up.
And there used to be a train station near there with a guy named Dan.
And we went there with a friend of mine and Dan and Pat, and we went over there with
a ceramic bowl that he had made an art class that looked like a dragon.
And we had packed a bowl of some good shit that one of them we got from a relative.
And man, and it was a good spot because of the train station, you could watch the
police station and we were kind of up in elevation.
So if they pulled out, we could peace out before they had a chance to come up to
where we were and be out or at least have a chance to hide your weed.
So it was a good place to sit and smoke if you're a teenager because it's hard to
get snuck up on. So we used to go up there and man, I just I remember that first time
going, holy crap, like this is.
Woof. And then the day after that was the first time I ever got so high I couldn't get
off the floor. I remember that too.
Brilliant. And so how did that progress?
Did you quite quickly start smoking more regularly or it took a bit of a while?
No, I kind of was off and on and then I didn't really start smoking heavily until
maybe four years later and I was starting to get sick.
And that's when I was so I have a digestive tract issue and I have issues digesting
things and I was I'm hypersensitive to gluten and it causes me all kinds of getting
into gross details, unpleasantries.
So with my digestive system, so I started smoking more and more and more flour because
it was a thing that was allowing me to eat.
I was gaining weight again.
I wasn't in pain and it was like solving a long list of my health problems.
And then finally I was dating this girl and she goes, have you tried a raw food diet and
just eliminating the possibility that it's your diet?
And I said, no, I haven't.
But you know what? Screw it.
Like I've tried everything else.
Let's just try it. And so we did that and found out that that was the issue.
So then after that, I smoked a little less cannabis.
And then I got when I moved out to Colorado in 2010 or 2011 or whatever it was, I
got into concentrates and then really got a lot.
Suddenly that was like, oh my God, I can be a normal person again.
Like medically, like I can feel like a normal the way I used to before I started feeling
sick. And that was really a huge change for me.
But what really made me commit my life to cannabis was working at the aquaponics
source. And we had this guy come in and his son, the first time he came in, he was a
cannabis refugee and his son was strapped to a stroller.
He couldn't move.
He was completely unaware of the world around him.
And he was disconnected from reality.
And they had just moved there.
He wanted to buy a system for himself.
He wanted to grow his son's medicine.
He wanted to get his son better.
The next time I saw them was three months later.
That kid opened the door on his own, ran in and started smashing eight ounce
measuring glasses and shot glasses.
I cried for like an hour straight because that kid was functionally a vegetable three
months earlier. And he's in here smashing stuff now, acting like a little boy.
That is the best gift you can give any human being.
And if I can do even half of that for somebody else, that's what I'm gonna do every
day till I'm dead.
And after that, that's what got me to commit to this.
And that's why I've got on this long, crazy train of riding the cannabis industries up
and down throughout all these different industries and countries and all the different
craziness that it's brought me and the different projects I've worked on.
And, you know, makes it easier to get through when something like the virus suddenly
pauses your project. You're like, yeah, I'm still doing this for a reason.
And I'm a thousand percent behind and I'm not even going to trip on that.
Yeah, 100 percent.
What a powerful and personal story there.
So what was it that made you really kick the gear
into shift in terms of kind of seeing that the cannabis community wasn't
really utilizing aquaponics in the way that it could be?
What was it that got the fire under your ass about getting the message out there about
aquaponics and cannabis?
Sure. So I've always been a big, adequate proponent of the pet trade, and I was
being involved with aquaponics, I'm sorry, aquarium societies.
I was heavily involved with the Bucks County Aquarium Society when I was younger and
working in the pet trade, the pet trade and the drug trade of a heavy amount of
overlap in case anyone's ever not worked in the industry.
So there's a lot of things that get shipped in boxes from point A to point B and
get labeled as plants or fish or other things.
And they're not always what you think is in the box.
And we'll leave it at that.
So I got exposed to a whole lot of things that
maybe not everyone else my age was exposed to, and I learned
how to grow. And one of the things that we did at one of the places allegedly that I worked at,
that we would do is take the filtration from the freshwater systems
that would separate out all the fish waste.
And we'd use that on the cannabis plants as organic fertilizer because we were trying to cut
down on the amount of fertilizer that we were buying because you're trying to reduce the amount of
red flags that might get you busted.
So allegedly.
So I had kind of worked with that a little bit.
And then I had gotten into soil growing later on,
not long after that. And I kind of went down that rabbit hole, but I still always used kind of like tea
from what I would do my water changes and I'd suck all the fish waste out of the gravel.
And the plants always just kicked butt when we did that.
Right. So I was always kind of fiddling with it kind of half halfway.
Then I got into river tanks, which is basically aquaponics.
If you're familiar with it, it was a product inserts for aquariums that allowed the aquarium
water to kind of flow through little channels where it had plant pots and you put soil and it would kind of
automatically water the plants and filter the water at the same time and really allow for a healthy
ecosystem for reptiles mainly.
So it was really cool. So I had been doing aquaponics, but I didn't call it aquaponics.
We called it river tanks, but we just didn't have the terminology.
I'd never been exposed to that word.
So when I came out west, I worked helping grow some cannabis
with some friends of mine. And when the floods happened in 2012 in Colorado,
when we had the heavy floods and it took out the.
We had a big mud wall at one of the places where I was working at, that obliterated half the
building. So I was suddenly out of a job.
So I applied for I typed in the word aqua on Craigslist and got hired at the aquaponics
source because they were just moving to a new place and they needed someone that could help with both
the lab and product development at the time when Sylvia Bernstein was there and she was kind
enough to give me a chance over there and hired me
because I had an immense amount of experience both with cannabis and in vegetables
and everything else. I worked briefly for a company called Blood Good Landscape, which is the
oldest landscaping company in the entire United States based in Horsham, Pennsylvania.
They've been around since the 1700s and they have an incredible place
there. But I got a chance to learn large scale IPM and fertigation and stuff like that, working
with trees and bushes and shrubs and annuals
for people's landscapes and stuff.
And I worked selling plumbing kits and designing stuff for ponds there on the side,
helping him out. So I got a chance to kind of get into that kind of scale before jumping into
cannabis, but having that kind of cannabis experience kind of on the side at the same time.
So coming into Colorado and having those kind of dual skill sets really,
really worked out well coming into the cannabis industry and working on the bigger
scale of things and made it an easy transition working with the aquaponics
source. And then we did a whole bunch of research.
Two weeks after I was there, she goes, so we're thinking about doing cannabis.
I thought it was a trick question.
Like they're trying to see if I smoke weed or not.
And they're going to see if I admit it. They're going to fire me.
So I just totally played dumb.
And she adjourned the meeting and I was like, oh, you were serious.
Let me tell you some stuff.
So we sat down and then we ended up doing the whole project.
And I started working with the gentleman in Robbie, who was actually just on my podcast last
episode. And him and I did a ton of R and D with,
with cannabis and a whole bunch of different setups and aquaponics,
everything from wicking beds to dual root zones, to media beds, to DWC,
to dual root zones, to 55 gallon drums,
to like any kind of combination or setup you could do.
So we're trying to figure out what's the best commercial viable way.
Cause we're trying to figure out how can we sell more aquaponic systems and how
can we turn this into a heavily commercial production?
How can we further produce fruit, fruit and crops, you know, not just cannabis,
but anything we learn from cannabis is going to help increase production for
peppers and tomatoes and cucumbers.
And all of those things are easily transitionable over in terms of production.
So we worked hard on, on not only medicinal herbs and essential oil crops,
but also cannabis production and R and D greenhouse that we had a 50 by 30 by 18.
And we did a bunch of additional experimentation with climate control models and
stuff like that with geothermal and solar water heaters and some other stuff
that we can get into if you want to.
But we did a whole bunch of cool R and D on that and really get a chance to wrap
our heads around stuff and figure out what works, what doesn't you know,
what could work if we did some changes and really kind of
splay that out and figure out how to make it work. And,
and after that we kind of just took that and ran with it.
And then we started working with a method called dual root zones where we have a
soil zone and that really allowed us an extra layer of control where we can
supplement, not only supplement nutrients,
but have additional microbial zones. You know,
mycorrhizal fungi are incredibly important for anything that's heavy in lignin
and having done a wide range of crops and aquaponics,
the more wood and lignin a crop contains, the more of a soil area you need.
So if you're doing fruit trees,
you might do a dual root zone pot that's maybe two thirds soil to one third
flood and drain. Whereas on a cannabis, you're going to be more 50, 50.
And then on a, on a lettuce, you might be able to just do straight DWC.
You might not even need soil at all because it doesn't need any,
there's no lignin at all in that plant hardly. Right. So, so that,
that lignin content is heavily dependent on some of the metabolites from the
fungal inputs that come from the fungal part of the root zone.
If you don't have them,
you either will not get very good growth or you'll get strange or retarded
growth, or you'll get a lack of fruiting production. One of,
one of the three, depending on what fruit tree species we're talking about,
or genus at least that I've worked with.
Yeah. Wow. I mean, so many questions. The first one,
which comes to mind for me is for you in your mind right now,
what's the ideal composition of your root zone?
Do you want all living organic soil? Do you want like what you just mentioned,
maybe a 50, 50, where would you be shooting for?
Sure. So my ideal setup for a cannabis plant would be 50,
50 living soil with a layer of burlap or cloth or other root permeable
membrane that, that would be separate the,
the soil from the flood and drain and then the lava rock below that to get,
you know, some trace minerals and anything else inside of a contained pot.
And I prefer plastic. And I know people don't like that,
but plastic or ceramic over cloth pots,
because the cloth pots don't give you a seal.
If I have a nice seal on the side of it with plastic or ceramic,
when the water floods and drains in the bottom half of the pot,
like it does with the dual root zone pot,
it creates a diaphragm action that causes a forced gas exchange through the
soil zone. So not only is the lower half breathing and getting better gas,
the soil is getting better gas exchange,
meaning all of the soil microbes are even happier.
So it gives you this added benefit of almost a lung effect going on in the root
zone.
Yeah. What a, what a brilliant way to kind of help people conceptualize the sort
of gas exchange that's going on with the diaphragm. I really like that.
So a question I like to ask most of our guests is, you know,
specific to you in this case is,
do you remember your first aquaponic harvest and will it always be like, you know,
this golden thing in your mind?
Cause we always talk to organic growers and they're like, man,
that first organic crop, I will always remember it.
Oh yeah. The first crop I did, I harvested it entirely too early.
And I gave it way too much sugar.
So it was like starting to droop leaves cause I had suffocated the roots.
But, but, but it tasted great, you know,
but I definitely remember just the sweetness and how it almost tasted like
caramel. It was like smoking caramel. And it was an Island sweet skunk.
And in fact, that's the plant.
If you go back and look at my very first article I did with high times and
aquaponics, it's the plant that's in that picture. Oh,
that was the first one we did that was full term with, with cannabis.
We did pictures with that one. And that we did an aquaponics that was.
Of any kind of size. I'd done some small stuff before that was pure. I'm sorry.
I did some other stuff that wasn't pure aquaponics,
but that was the first one that was pure aquaponics start to finish,
including flowering and everything in between, you know, from seed.
And that Island sweet skunk is that cut to this day was still
exists in Denver area. I gave some to,
to the dude from dude grows and a couple of other people. I know he,
he's raved about it for a while on his show as well.
Lovely. I mean, I know you're also a friend, so, you know,
shout out to our mutual buddy, Brita Steve for creating such a nice strain.
Hell yeah. Actually. Well, one thing about Brita Steve,
he's the original person to write about aquaponics and any kind of written form
back on overgrow. He's the very first person.
And you can go back and search. I've searched the internet top and bottom.
He's the very first person to ever write about anything that you could call
aquaponics in, with cannabis in documented form.
It was back in 1996 or 97 on overgrow.net.
Wow. There you go. That's a cool little tidbit from the archives. I like that.
So the aquaponics is going well, it's all starting to come together.
At what point did you have the idea for starting the potent ponics podcast?
Sure. So a podcast podcast started actually as a debate between
Marty and I,
Marty and I were debating on whether or not you absolutely had like what the
differences was in yield between dual root zones and non dual root zones.
And Marty and I kind of got into a heated discussion.
Then we realized we were the only people that were really on a, on a,
had enough experience to have that level of a, of an argument.
And then we quickly became friends.
And then we got both got sick and tired of hearing you can't grow weed in
aquaponics. Like we,
we heard that a thousand times and we're just sick and tired of it because we
got plant and we I've pulled six and a half pounds off of a single plant and
aquaponics that we planted in a greenhouse the last week of July and pulled down
the, you know, in October. Right.
So don't tell me you can't grow a lot of weed on an aquaponic plant.
You can grow psychotic amounts of weed on an aquaponic plant if you,
if you do it right. So and I can prove it.
I got evidence video and everything else. So
so we basically started the podcast as a F you to everyone that told us
that we, we couldn't grow alcoholically. So we're like, screw it.
We're going to put the education out and teach everybody how to do it. You know,
and maybe not every single trick that we know, but you know, 98% of them.
So if we put out education on how to do it,
then everyone can know how to do it and understand how it works and actually,
you know,
they can wrap their heads around it and maybe those that even convert it or
adapted as part of their facility. And, and,
and one of the things is that we see a lot of soil growers adapting it for their
nursery facilities, because again,
the accelerated growth rate you get with the mothers,
if you're just producing clones for other people or you're, you know,
or you're producing a large amount of a plant volume for high turnover
facilities, you need to kind of have, you know,
accelerated growth rate on your, your veg production and, and either, you know,
growing them out in size or for straight clone production. So a grow, you know,
even using it in a large soil production facility,
it makes a lot of sense to have it for your nursery operations, being aquaponics,
even, even, you know, on, on, on just a minor scale.
Yeah. What a powerful testament to the, to the technology, I guess.
And I guess for me,
the question I want to most know is what's it been like now to have been running
for, you know, over 200 successful episodes.
It's such a tremendous milestone in the podcast industry, you know,
seeing as we're still yet to crack 50 over here,
what have you learned in that time and what's your key to success?
How do I do it?
I would say, uh, uh,
one just experience of working with a wide range of different people. Um, uh,
and then two, uh, you know,
making sure you spend a little bit of time to research your,
your people before you interview them and, and, you know,
try to learn a little bit about something that maybe they haven't talked about
and other podcasts, or maybe, you know, get them to go down a rabbit hole.
You know, we, both of us have had a lot of really incredible, um, uh,
conversations and really wonderful explanations of some pretty complex, uh,
ideas and, and, and, um, methodologies and, um, you know,
biological mechanisms and all types of things that, that, you know,
kind of came of maybe even an offhanded comment from someone in chat or,
or a weird question or an afterthought that maybe wasn't even on your original
list. I know some of the coolest answers I've gotten,
or someone that just randomly at an offhanded question about something,
or maybe something that one of the panelists had, you know,
it wasn't something that I had written down for original question list.
So it can be really cool. And, and, and not only that,
just the diversity of the industry. I mean,
you have so many different ways to crack the nut that, um, uh,
of growing cannabis and doing pest management and doing nutrients. I mean,
you got a hydroponics aeroponics, soil growing, living soil, uh,
aquaponics and everything in between. So it's, you know,
it's really interesting to see how they different compare and how different one
accelerates. One thing that it's always interesting to me is seeing, you know,
different cannabinoid and terpene peaks with the different production methods
and how, uh,
certain stressors because of those different grow methodologies can really peak
certain things as one of the things that I always found really interesting,
especially when you're doing side-by-sides and you know that maybe a certain
weird thing happened, maybe your AC failed or a pump failed or, you know,
something else went wrong, but it causes a weird side reaction or a weird peak.
We had a, uh, Oh,
how can I say this without getting myself into trouble?
We had an anomaly happen that caused an immense increase in
THC V, uh, uh, uh,
production, uh,
in one of our grows that allowed us to kind of chase the rabbit hole on what
actually is the secondary, uh, increaser for that. So, um, we,
we've managed to hit some pretty high levels on,
on THC V with some of our, one of the clients that we're working with in
Colorado. So, um, uh, you know, there really is a lot of different than,
I think that's really an area where there, there isn't a lot of research,
especially with cannabis, there might be a way to really, you know,
pluck the strings the right way to piss off the plant,
to really produce a large amount of XYZ compound, uh, that might be, uh,
a value commercially that is easily replicatable. I mean,
look at something like corn smut. Um, uh,
let's use that as an example with, with corn, you have corn smut that the,
they spray on the corn, which increases, it makes this wonderful,
flavorful mushroom. Well, um, what they've found, uh,
and Mike West has talked about this on my show. Uh, if you,
if you're familiar with him from embark health in Canada,
he was one of the people that was involved with, uh,
you got a chance to see some of the data for,
I believe it was from Emerald cup and they noticed there was a dramatic
increase in CBT levels,
which is a miter cannabinoid from powdery mildew, uh, infected plants.
So plants that failed for PM also seem to have elevated levels of CBT.
So what if CBT ends up being, and this is just for the sake of argument,
that CBT ends up being like the next big breakthrough in cancer drug.
You might have people intentionally infecting flower rooms two weeks before
harvest with powdery mildew to spike the CBT.
Like this is something that mechanically might make sense or, or some,
it might be a non pathogen inject microbe that we spray on the plants to boost
something in a way, or it might be a GMO microbe.
I mean, you know, people might get mad at me for saying that,
but you might have something that that's human made or, or, or human isolated,
maybe not even human made, but maybe that grown, uh,
and that's isolated from a natural source that,
that increases an XYZ metabolite to spike a cannabinoid or terpene that,
that we use, that we, that, that five years from now,
we can't even think of not using, you know what I mean?
You could have something that's that much of a breakthrough that suddenly
increases THC by 10% or, or some other thing that, that we just didn't know,
you know, and these are all things that, because of the, the,
some of the results that I've seen with different issues that we've run into or,
or variables that we've experimented with,
but because of the,
the amount of control that we have with the dual root zone aquaponics,
we've managed to really have more knobs and buttons that we can turn and,
and push and levers to pull, uh, to change things and have more,
more variables that can be changed in different parts of the system and,
and allow us to unlock some of the stuff. And I think that, again,
is an area that really could use a lot more flushing out and a lot more
research.
A hundred percent. That makes me so excited to hear you talk about that,
because I mean, you know, to call on him again,
thinking back to when I spoke to Breeder Steve, myself,
we kind of spoke about this, not in the level you just did,
but talking about how, you know, when Botrytis infects grapes,
it led to the, like a creation of a new type of wine and it on face value,
you'd be like, no, I don't want Botrytis. Um, so what you just said,
it just speaks to that philosophy so greatly, which is amazing.
And I guess what I'd want to ask is kind of relating back to Dragonfly.
They mentioned to me that, um,
they feel like when your soil is really alive and popping,
you can get different expressions.
And you kind of alluded to that yourself.
Have you noticed a consistent sort of thing that comes out when you grow things
aquaponically, like a consistent way, the profile is affected, or maybe the turf.
Have you noticed anything like that? Or you think it's variable?
You can't quite make broad rules of thumb like that.
Sure. I would say across the board, beta-carophaline is above,
is elevated across the board. Um,
other than beta-carophaline, it's the only, off the top of my head,
it's the only one that I can say is pretty universal.
There's definitely spikes in other ones in certain cultivars,
but that's the one I would say that, you know,
any of them express in any kind of a way are going to have a night and day
difference with the aquaponics. Um, not,
not really ringing a bell on any other ones.
Yeah, no, but that's great info in itself, because I mean,
I was always surprised when I looked at like, um,
the terpene analysis of cookies and you'd see it had a good amount of beta-
carophaline in it. And so it's like, if that's what you grow in,
maybe you can get an even better turf profile profile out of aquaponics.
So we, one of the biggest increases we've had strains go from 4% to 9% CBD
with aquaponics versus soil control. That's been a huge increase.
And I know that, uh, green, the,
there's a university that was working with Green Relief Incorporated,
which is one of the bigger companies in Canada doing aquaponics.
They noticed a 14% increase in THC production against DWC controls with dual
root zones. So, um, you know,
and then also against soil as well, I forget it was like 18% or,
it was even more against the soil. So, um, and they have actual,
there's a published white paper on, on their breakdown.
I don't remember the name of the paper or anything, but you can look it up. Um,
the, if you look up the, the, uh,
aquaponics association meeting for last year, um,
I believe it's referenced in the, the, um, the conference meet there, uh,
if you're trying to hunt that down.
Yeah. Some great leads there for the listeners to follow up on,
just to jump back to our last question about, you know,
having accumulated all of this experience and knowledge from having done your
podcast for 200 fantastic episodes. Now,
what's one thing that's changed in your mind since the start?
And what's a cool discovery you've learned along the way?
I think, uh,
the biggest thing I've taken away from is,
is thinking about microbes as a machine I can use to
make things for me in a plant way, like a plant useful way.
So for a great example, it'd be like thinking of KNF as a machine that
I can put plant inputs through to isolate minerals or plant
hormones or other plant beneficial, um,
compounds to accelerate growth rates.
So a great example of this would be something like, um, uh,
lactobacilli lactobacilli are great because that not only do they outcompete
most pathogens, E. coli, salmonella, listeria, um,
they love to feed on all of those things,
which has been documented in both the meat processing industry,
but also the agricultural processing industry and in aquaponic production,
um, specifically through the university of Kentucky state,
who did a research on, um, both plant and fish production,
where they able to get increase in fish production of 10 to 15% in terms of
growth rate and plant production on average, 18 to 20% in most crops.
Uh, and that's all aquaponics to the university of Kentucky state. Um,
you can check that out. Uh, um, Joe Pate, um, um,
is the guy that, um, uh, George Pate, I believe is his actual name, uh,
is the guy who did the paper on that, uh, white paper on that. Um, but, um,
I was involved with the lactobacilli part of that.
So what I prefer to do with labs,
and I'm sure you've had other people on talked about labs on the, on the show,
but I prefer to do it a little different.
So I prefer to do kefir based labs. So I'll get kefir,
kefir depending on your culture, uh, and how you say it. Um,
and it's a lactobacilli culture that seems to have significantly higher
levels of a different vitamin B complexes also works faster.
If I'm doing this on a commercial scale,
I don't have time to wait days and days and days for this to work.
It needs to work tomorrow.
So if I do large gallons and large volumes with kefir, it will go,
you know, 24 to 48 hours and it's ready. I don't have time.
It's this commercial production. This is again, a resin factory.
We're not going after, you know, trying to baby everything.
I don't have time for that. Um, so, uh, we do a kefir based. Uh,
so we do kefir and milk instead of the traditional air collected, um,
stuff.
And we find we get dramatic increases in growth rate compared to side by inside
by sides doing everything. Everything else is identically the same,
just faster growth rate. You'll get better vitamin B complexes.
What you can do with that is, is that add spirulina.
So if I'm doing four gallons, I lose in five gallon batches.
So if I'm doing four gallons of milk, I will add, um,
four cups of spirulina,
two cups of kelp extract and a top off, um, uh,
whatever's left over with water and put a lid on it and ferment that, uh,
for, uh, anywhere from three to five days the first time.
And then once you get the good culture of microbes,
it'll go anywhere from 24 to 72 hours, depending on the temperature you're,
you're doing at it. And what it'll do is it will separate
your, uh, FICO cyanide from your, um, uh,
the spirulina and it also separate a lot of the oxen's from the kelp,
which, and along combining with the vitamin B gives you kind of three major
groups of plant, uh, stimulant, um, uh,
compounds that will dramatically increase both growth rate,
but help with recovery.
So if I have a plant that's been mauled by insects,
that's been run over by a lawnmower, that's been, I don't know,
whatever you did, didn't water it. You over watered it. You,
whatever you did, it's just, it's hurting bad. It's a great fix. It spray.
If you, I've put it on plants that had pepper plants that had been watered in
two and a half weeks, the leaves were so dry. They were crispy like paper,
uh, and crumbled a dust. And we,
we put it on it and we had new growth on every single leaf node within
three days on dead stems. Wow.
So it does unreal stuff to plants.
We just recently last week had it on a cherry tree that was completely
defoliated by Japanese beetles.
And we had new growth on all the branches within five days of foliar
application. So it really just, it wakes the plants up and says, Hey,
time to reboot, you know, let's get going again and let's,
let's just go fast and let's just crank it out.
So I wouldn't use it late into flower, never use labs fully early in flower.
It can mess with the trichomes. Um, and, and you know,
great for veg, you can use it on the roots in flower.
Do not ever use it on the trichome heads in flower.
What an absolute goldmine of knowledge right there.
I just got to quickly clarify,
because this is the question I probably get asked more than anything related to
kind of what you just said. We often hear the saying, you know,
you don't want to generally speaking,
apply really any foliars during flower because it can mess with the trichomes as
you said, but then you'll often hear some people and I'll acknowledge,
sometimes I say it too. It's like, well, you know,
if you don't have a lot of pistol production before week two, I mean,
you could use it in the first week, maybe the second.
Do you feel like that's detrimental or would you say, look, you know,
at a certain point there's buds and that's when you're damaging it?
No, the issue is not the pistols. The issue is the trichomes.
Lactobacillic acid is a negative impact on the trichomes themselves and it will
directly impact resin production. That's,
it's a much bigger problem than just turning the pistols a different color,
like with the, with the pH changes.
Sure. So just to clarify that point,
if someone was early enough in flower that there was no trichome formation,
but they felt the plant really needed the fix and spray.
But you still, you still have that pre, that pre trichome production.
You remember a lot of those trichome heads, they're not developed yet,
but that head's still there.
The initial cells are already present on the leaf tissue, right?
So it just has to grow. So, so you're still damaging that site.
Yeah. Right. So.
Fantastic. Fantastic. So the next question I wanted to ask,
I mean, it's on the same topic when we're talking about K&F,
it's a whole world we can explore in its own right. A story,
a story which has always stuck with me, which I believe,
I think I'm pulling this out of the libraries of my own memory here.
So forgive me if I'm wrong universe,
but I think I saw it on the Australian weed growing subreddit.
And this person was saying they were doing an aquaponic cannabis system and
they were using, I can't remember the number, maybe five,
maybe six different types of kelp.
And they were like, if you use these different types of kelp,
you kind of cover most of the bases.
Have you ever heard of anything like that?
And what sort of K&F stuff do you like to implement into your aquaponics?
Sure. So,
so I think that part of that is coming from a lot of the aquaponic people will
tell you that sea salt or, or
just kelp in general is kind of the, the mineral fix it for aquaponics.
Like I don't know what mineral deficiency I have,
but if I put this random mix of trace minerals,
it'll probably fix it and it never does. But that's the general, you know,
with lettuce, when you're dealing with the low levels of nutrients they need,
yeah, it'll fix it. Most of the time, the problem you have with cannabis is,
and this is the problem I see quite often with people that follow the direction
with cannabis specifically is that what does kelp have?
A lot of has a lot of boron.
Now what happens if I do a lot of boron in a closed system,
I'm going to get a buildup of boron. Now what is boron sort of displaced?
It starts to going to screw up my calcium uptake because the boron to calcium
ratio is very finicky. If I go too high on the boron,
I need to really up my calcium or my uptake is going to be all screwed up.
So you end up with these really big imbalances between the
boron and the calcium that,
that chemically starts screwing stuff up and in their own right with the people
that just kind of go balls to the wall with the, with the kelp extracted or the,
the, the, the sea salt, the dilutions,
which they usually end up with sodium problems,
but that's a whole other issue. But again, there's a lot of,
and I'm working on it currently on a book called Aquaponacea,
which will be aquaponic cannabis book. That'll kind of have all,
all this stuff broken down, all the different normal reference stuff that,
as far as minerals that people are going to want to use and all, you know,
what you can and can't use,
why you specifically shouldn't use certain things just because of all the
different stuff that I've kind of figured out over the years.
Because there isn't really a good source of knowledge.
And that's one of the biggest problems is there is no really reservoir other
than the podcast that we've put out that I put out.
There isn't really anything specific to aquaponic cannabis that really has any
kind of weight behind it.
Certainly nothing that's been been done on a commercial scale. So it's,
it's hard. You know, I, I, I fully understand why someone coming into it,
just doesn't have a lot of reference to it because unless you've listened to the
podcast or taken one of my classes,
you're really not going to know what PPMs or stuff should be at what, you know,
what is going to kill your fish.
Another great example would be yucca extract yucca extract or saponin is often
used as a wetting agent for both pest management products and for,
for root drenches and stuff like that.
The problem is it's incredibly fish lethal.
It is so fish lethal that the Indians, the Yurok Indians,
among others in the Northern California
would collect a yucca roots and they'd squeeze the juice out of the
roots and collect that juice as a concentrate and put it in vessels and they'd
evaporate it off and make a even further concentrate out of it.
Then they get a couple of guys with a couple of those vessels that go upstream
about a mile, wait for the salmon run,
pour it into the river and it would kill all the fish within about a quarter
mile of the river. But they'd have about half a mile or a mile down.
They have the whole village waiting in the river.
So they collect all the fish as they float by and then they cook them off and it
gets rid of the saponin and then they can eat them.
But that was literally used as a method for, for, you know,
entire tribes to feed themselves for years. So this is something that is well,
not only documented in Western culture,
but this is documented going back 10,000 years that you shouldn't use saponin
around fish. So,
yeah, I mean, it's, it's funny you mentioned that.
Cause I remember when I was on your show, I brought that up.
And you were very quick on the ball to be like, Oh,
but if you're an aquaponics guys don't use it. But yeah, very valid point.
And just, you know, further, I just wanted to say, you know,
we're all really grateful for the archive of knowledge you've put out around
aquaponics. Cause you certainly hit it on the head. There's,
there's no other resource quite like your show.
What you just said raises a really interesting point in terms of what do you feel
it's important to supplement your aquaponics system with versus what's important
to not supplement it with, which you might, for example,
bring over as a bad habit because, you know, you could use me as an example.
I'm happy to do that. You know, I come from soil. I might, you know,
without your knowledge, I might be like, man, saponins are amazing. So yeah.
What's some good things to bring with you and what's some things you should
probably leave behind?
I would say a number of things to avoid would be one saponin and two
brassicas as a companion plant.
I for some reason still see people suggest that and I do not understand why
anything in the mustard family kills mycorrhizal fungi.
It releases something called lillipathy,
which is a loose term for chemicals that kill nearby.
Anything else that's living is used both for coral or for the roots of plants or
for it's used for a wide range of different things. But basically the plants,
a brassicas do not have associative mycorrhizal fungi about 85% of the world's
plants do. They do not.
They actively kill associative mycorrhizal fungi because it inhibits their own
growth. So they will not help you. And there's something again,
that I still see people suggesting. I don't understand it.
Another one that I've learned this year in particular in Oklahoma,
Southern Oklahoma is do not grow cilantro anywhere remotely near anything outdoor.
Cilantro attracts aphids of every type. It's just a magnet,
root aphids, regular tree aphid,
cotton aphids. I've seen entirely too.
We just all of it got trashed and just nowhere near the grow.
And then I went to another vegetable grow and found an incredibly bad root aphid
infection, which I posted a couple of pictures,
not too long ago on Instagram of probably the worst root aphid infestation.
But that again, thankfully wasn't not at a cannabis farm,
it was at a vegetable farm. But again, if that wasn't a cannabis farm,
we'd probably have to burn the whole place. Like if it looked like that,
like I don't honestly know what I would tell the owner.
If it was that bad. Vegetables,
people are a little more okay with trashing everything, you know?
Yeah. Look, I was going to say,
anyone who's ever had to fight aphids in the cannabis context,
when they see that photo you put up, there's a visceral reaction to it.
It's just like, you got punched in the stomach. You're like, Oh no.
Well, I got it. I got a picture.
If you scroll down a little farther on my Instagram,
I got pictures of bong aphids from a grow I was called to,
and they should have called me probably two,
two months before they actually called me over there.
And every single plant probably had a minimum of 15,000 aphids on it.
An entire hundred by 30 greenhouse, every single plant.
Like there was as much weight of aphids as there was biomass of plant in that
greenhouse.
Man, they grow on biomass or insect frass.
You know,
you could ferment all of that and sell it as an IPM like we were talking about.
And, and, you know, you could maybe recoup your costs.
Yeah. Gosh, please guys just grow good weed.
So for me, I think the logical next question is,
would you be able to give us a basic rundown on how someone might be able to go
up setting about us relatively simple setup at their home,
if they're interested in getting into aquaponics,
or would you advise that unless you're really ready to jump in,
there might not be a sort of get your toes wet option per se.
Sure. I would just say, you know,
set up your system like you're going to do for a flood and drain cocoa setup.
And then instead of doing cocoa, do do root zone pots, a flood and drain,
and you know,
cut your standpipe to four or five inches and just flood and drain the bottom
half instead. And then top feed with your,
your upper half with either automated like we do on a large scale or, you know,
hand, if you're just doing a couple of plants at home and,
and you'll have a hell of a lot more control.
You'll have a lot better flavor on your plants. And again,
you're not going to have to do a lot of adapting. You're going to, you know,
you could absolutely do this. If you don't even want to do with the,
with the fish,
you can do hydro dual root zone and you'll still get an incredible increase in
impact. And I think you,
anyone that even does this with a hydro dual root zone will notice immediate
difference in flavor against any side by side.
Yeah. Amazing.
And for someone who might exist like myself in a little bit of a more warmer
country, most of the year,
do you think that that is quite problematic?
Cause I think I've heard someone say that, you know,
like in Australia during peak summer,
you're going to really struggle to keep the fish alive because it gets really
hot. Is that just something I've misheard?
Or do you feel like it's not particularly any more challenging?
No, I mean,
I don't think that you're going to have any more challenge than we do here in
Oklahoma. I mean, frankly, we're getting, you know,
you guys have very similar summer peak summertime temperatures. If anything,
we might even top out a few degrees higher than you guys Fahrenheit wise. So,
you know, if we can do it here,
I don't understand why you guys couldn't do that.
I would say that in Australia in particular,
I'd be much more concerned about doing geothermal cooling,
both for your water and for your air. I, you know, the,
the impact of pulling that cold air out of the ground is going to make a,
you know, much,
much cheaper in terms of cost effectiveness for climate control. And again,
with the thermal mass you have with the water,
you can run coils in the ground like we do here in Oklahoma,
where we run coils in the water and then run them underground just to wick the
heat off and the water sucks the heat in.
And we can actually pull air temperature degrees off of it by sucking it into
the water and using the thermal mass of the water as a battery,
basically to suck temperatures off and then bleed that off underground.
And we can, again, turning that off increases the temperature in the greenhouse.
I was just at about a, you know, two and a half degrees. So yeah, that's fair.
Yeah. That's, that's not trivial. That's a good amount of heat reduction for sure.
Especially if we're talking about BTUs on an AC unit.
Yeah. When you're chomping through power, I feel ya.
So the next question that came up for me is in Australia,
tilapia is actually illegal.
So what sort of fish would you recommend that might go well in one of these
systems across the board?
And then maybe a specific one for Australia seeing as unfortunately tilapia is out.
Sure. So across the board, I would say anyone getting started, you know,
depending on your tank size,
but assuming you aren't going into the incredibly small go with Koi or goldfish,
because they're really bulletproof.
They'll tolerate all kinds of stupid things that you might accidentally do.
And you know, they have a good resale value.
You can almost always unload decent sized ones for people, for their ponds.
You know what I mean? Regardless of what country you're in,
especially butterfly Koi, butterfly Koi are easily, you know,
you're going to increase them exponentially per, you know,
every inch that you add them, you're adding, you know,
anywhere from five to $40 US per inch.
So depending on how big they already are.
So you're talking quite a bit of money.
So if we're talking about cannabis production,
we don't generally care about feeding people. I mean,
we do in terms of community outreach,
but most cannabis companies just want to turn as much profit as humanly possible,
right. In terms of business models.
So if that's your goal with your business model,
going with butterfly Koi or something that really is going to be your longterm
best bet, or with tropical fish that you can again, turn around a resale,
arowana's, arapaima,
other large fish that people have a hard time raising in large tanks that you
happen to have a whole bunch of that's easy for you to do at the scale that
you're operating at can be a really, really great option financially.
For Australia specifically, Murray Cod or Jade Perch,
both will work very well. You know,
Murray Cod,
I believe will also go into brackish water as a Jade Perch. I know,
correct me.
Unfortunately I'm not the authority.
Yeah. So, so those guys, I would say,
be careful of anything in generally that goes from saltwater to freshwater.
They tend to absorb potassium at a higher rate. Salmonids in particular,
unless you're doing decoupled systems, which I don't recommend
because it adds a whole other layer of complexity to your chemistry.
And just it adds money. It adds costs to your run as well, which is pointless.
You know, we're trying to cut the cost down, not Adam.
But unless you're doing that, salmonids are just not an option. Again,
for the same reason,
because of that mechanism that ingests salinity also affects potassium uptake.
And chemically with the fish and the potassium levels that we're
running with cannabis will kill the fish. Basically they'll have heart issues.
Yeah. Yeah. Wow. That's pretty serious.
So I guess to, for me to wrap up this little segment quickly,
I just want to know,
do you always grow aquaponically or is every now and again, you're like, ah,
you know, I don't have a pump on hand. Just do some soil.
So I always prefer to do aquaponics, but I still do living soil.
I love we've spoken about them earlier,
but I love dragonfly earth medicine and the whole living soil and sustainability
and ferments and moving into, you know,
trying to develop as many possible nutrient sources as possible without outside
sources. And that's some of the stuff I'm working on in the book as well as,
as what nutrients and ferments from KNF can I take and what inputs can I take
and ferment and add to my aquaponics system to replace those minerals,
kind of like you're talking about with iron and other things.
Iron is a particularly difficult one because of oxidation,
but a lot of the other ones can absolutely be heavily supplemented.
One that's often just to circle back to silica again, silica is often,
people say ferment
horsetail, which is a very common plant worldwide. I believe,
I believe you guys even have that in Australia, if memory serves me correctly.
The downside with that is it has a compound and it actually affects vitamin B
uptake, which is going to slow my growth rate.
Now you know what has even more silica, actually four times as much silica?
Stinging nettle and everyone loves to ferment stinging nettle already for the
garden. So if you're actually looking for silica, forget the horsetail.
Horsetail can also heavily accumulate trace metals, including heavy metals,
which can cause you to fail for your testing. So if you're in California,
you could actually ferment horsetail and cause yourself to fail your heavy metal
testing by accident. Whereas if you go with the stinging nettle,
you're going to avoid those issues because it doesn't tend to accumulate the
heavy metals in the same high rate. And it'll also add, you know,
even more silica than the horsetail will. So again,
it's just one of those things where once you start looking at some of the
numbers on some of these ferments and the breakdowns,
when you actually test them,
you realize some of this stuff is actually not what we thought it was.
And there's actually much better options that we're already using as part of a
regimens that actually supply these other minerals at a much better rate that
we just didn't realize.
Yeah. Wow. Still so much to be learned, I guess.
A question I wanted to ask is just a really quick one.
Can you use the water from aquaponics?
Can you use it as like a rooting stimulating agent or do you still use
something else to kind of clone?
Oh, absolutely. In fact, I've had immense research,
both mainly with aeroponic growing, but also with just plug growing,
with aquaponics and media beds as well, with accelerated growth rate,
with the roots as well, particularly with moringa trees.
We were able to root moringa trees within, you know, 14 to 20 days.
And then we're talking trees. But with cannabis, there's quite a few,
not only my own research, but there's a,
what's the name of the company? Fish shit.
And then the other ones called Poof or Pum.
There's a new company I just found out about the last,
last week or so that has another fish waste based cloning product.
And both of them are based on fish waste or fermented fish waste or dried fish
waste or shelf stabilized fish waste for cloning and all of their research as
well for their,
both of their independent companies also backs up my own data on the accelerated
growth rate from the fish waste as well. So that, again,
that increase in microbiological activity from those mineral sources really seems
to make a market increase in and rooting rate and reduction in rooting time.
Yeah. I kind of suspected as much. So that's,
that's lovely to hear that that is the case.
But we found that results with everything from cannabis,
all the way to Moringa trees, Moringas in Jamaica,
we were doing a ton of Moringa cloning because Moringa is a bitch to Germany.
If you plant 10 seeds, two of them will germinate, right?
But you can clone the living crap out of it.
It clones pretty well if you just cut it and stick it in a media bed and let it
flood and drain for two or three weeks and pull it out.
And you got a tree you can plant in the ground and away you go.
And you can plant the whole forest, you know, pretty quickly that way.
So these are all methods that you can do and you know,
very rapidly scale up.
And that was one of the things that we worked with,
with the Rastafarian group in Kingston and Nyabinghi was helping them get some
of that stuff going. I don't know what they're doing with it now,
but that was one of the things that they're doing as a main export was grinding
up Moringa leaves and trying to figure out how to increase that production.
Yeah. Great info. Great info.
So one of the last topics I wanted to spend some time chatting about with you,
because I know that, I mean,
it's obvious by just listening to the podcast thus far is you've got such an
extensive knowledge on IPM.
I was hoping to pick your mind a little bit about that.
And I guess my first kind of question would be,
are there any common IPM treatments that you think people have kind of got it
wrong and they should maybe stay away from? And like, I mean,
something we've already spoken about, saponins, you know,
I've seen people use them as an IPM foliar spray before.
Would you be willing to do that if it was say living soil or what would you
use as your first port of call as a general sort of spray to fight off some bugs?
Well, as far as general sprays for bugs,
my first go-to just as a regular general spray,
if we're not talking about off the shelf stuff would be the IPM IMO that we
talked about that we were doing in Africa for off the shelf stuff.
If I had to pick a single product that worked on the widest range of stuff,
it'd probably be a product called Kapow,
which is lemongrass oil and castor oil.
I've had it work on everything from white flies to spider mites to powdery mildew
and everything in between. So as far as a shotgun blast,
that's going to just hit everything and it's going to not really negatively
impact your plant or its flavor that you can also use well into flower when
diluted.
It is the best as far as doing all of those things simultaneously.
If we're talking about single sprays for mold,
it would be probably a product called Sonata, which is a Bactelis Pamelis,
which I found is the hands down best product for mold of any type and any type
of indoor grow that I've had the chance to work on.
It seems to knock back damn near anything I throw it at. And it's, you know,
it's Bactelis Pamelis. It's nothing crazy. It's nothing toxic.
I don't have to worry about, I mean, yes,
you have to wear your PPE just for compliance reasons,
but realistically it's not going to hurt you in any way. You know,
it's not like a chemical spray or something like that where I have to worry
about my nervous system or some other issue that's going to be affected, right?
It's just a bacteria, right? It's no big deal. And then as far as insects,
beneficial insects, I would have to go with lacewings and aureus,
hands down. Those guys are, and nematodes, you know,
they're kind of the pillars of any IPM that I'm going to do off the bat.
And then we'll kind of go into depending on climate really,
it's going to change around that more than anything else. You know, what,
what are the temperature ranges that we're going to deal with an average day in
that, in that growth cycle? And like right now in Oklahoma,
our current regimen that we're doing for pretty much everything outdoor and
anything in greenhouse is radically different than anything I would ever do
indoor because it's all stuff that can tolerate 95 degrees or higher.
You know what I mean? And that's not a whole lot of insects.
That's your assassin bugs, your californicus,
your aureus and your rove beetles. And that's about it.
There's not a whole lot else that's going to live past that. You know,
once you get above a hundred Fahrenheit,
there's not a lot of insects are going to thrive in that environment.
Yeah. What, what great information. And I guess it does highlight, you know,
it's hard to give these generalized answers.
Sometimes you've got to be a bit specific.
I know that you do a lot of consulting work for a variety of people,
especially for specifically IPM.
What types of things do you find you're normally getting called in for and what
are often the challenges you face?
I would say number one,
people that don't realize the mineral deficiencies they currently have going on
at their farm.
I've gone to grows where their head grow or didn't know that they needed to
balance the pH, the nutrient solution.
And they had been there for quite a few months and had balked their way into the
job somehow.
I've been into a grow where I watched a head grow or transfer stuff into a
room that had an ungodly amount of money worth of plants into it.
And then not prune off the damaged leaves.
And then immediately didn't even know that he had an infection because he
sprayed all this stuff and thought it was just done and thought it didn't even
realize it because they didn't know he was supposed to prune off that.
Like just all kinds of just a lot of just like rudimentary stuff.
People that had pulled someone that had done like a tent grow and then put them
in charge of an acreage or multi thousand square foot facilities.
It's like, look, don't do that. Grab someone that did cut flowers,
grab someone that did pansies, grab someone that did geraniums, who cares?
Just any amount of scaled agricultural experience at all
really makes a big deal. If someone just, even growing beans,
you know, that's fine. Like I'll take that.
Or, you know,
the other thing that I noticed is people from the military are really easy to
work with veterans. Great, man. Cause they're used to procedures, SOPs,
all that stuff. They're, they're used to regiment that, you know, the,
the it has to be done this way and it can't be done a different way.
And they don't think for themselves. They do what the directions say, or,
you know,
they do to the point where it's helpful and not to the point where it's a
hindrance. You know, I've been some of the easiest people. We, you know,
we often love to hire veterans for that reason. Also,
a lot of the veterans are legally able to have firearms in States that, you know,
you are also allowed to have them, you know, under premises with a license.
So they're also a great way to hire veterans for easy jobs as far as you know,
a high paying job that they don't have to do a whole lot and support people that
maybe need a little extra help in society. You know,
a lot of countries have a hard time finding jobs for some of their veterans and
it's a great way for our community to support. Again,
we've talked about multiple ways that we can support our community.
It's just one more way that we can do that.
Yeah, definitely. Like I said,
a really lovely sentiment there to try to help out people who maybe need a little
extra help and have certainly helped out others throughout their life in one way
or another. So something I would,
not only that, you know, if you think about what's the number one enemy of our
industry, education or lack thereof. And so, so by,
by just providing good things in the community,
it opens people up to the idea of educating themselves about our industry.
I don't have to go out of my way to convert them. They will convert themselves.
Yeah. That's, that's awesome, isn't it? So, you know,
kind of related to this topic,
we've seen that there's been a rise in educational sort of events,
platforms. We saw last year,
there was a whole range of regenerative cannabis symposiums.
And you even mentioned yourself, you're now doing aquaponic classes,
which is fantastic.
And people should certainly jump on top of that if they want to get the inside
scoop on how to do it all.
Do you predict these will be more common going forward and what's your hopes for
the sort of educational classes that you're involved in?
Sure. So I've been teaching educational classes since 2013,
both on vegetable side of things and on the cannabis side of things,
depending on who I was teaching for, as well as medicinal herbs.
I'm a passionate herbalist as well as a mushroom picker.
I love to pick all different types of wild mushrooms.
I used to teach foraging classes in Colorado.
Anyone that had the pleasure of going up with me,
almost every way to come up with at least a grocery bag full of food.
And sustainably, you know,
we weren't out there taking everything out there either, you know,
we were taking no more than 30 or 40% of what was out there.
So still leaving some behind to be there for the next generation.
So something that I'm very passionate about.
But Marty and I, as the gentleman I do my podcast with,
we have a long format commercial aquaponic cannabis class that we'll be
releasing later this year. We've been teaching a version,
I've been teaching a version of that class since 2013.
We've since turned it from a two day class into a four day commercial class.
And then now into a week long intensive course that we have filmed at a whole
bunch of different locations and the whole bunch of different chopped up cool
stuff and just all different types of interesting things that we've had,
or, you know,
maybe we can show you an example of somebody that screwed up real bad.
And maybe I just don't tell you where it is. Right. So you know,
we can show you a bunch of stuff that maybe I just couldn't show you in a live
class, right. Or an example of something that I just,
I had to be taken right then and there. And we just shot us some footage,
some footage of it. So it's, it's all together in this nice,
nice cool educational format. We're also putting on,
and you can find more information on that at potent products.com.
We'll have that out hopefully in the next 45 to 90 days,
we're almost finished completing a filming.
And then we just have to edit it all, edit it all up and add the extra stuff to it.
But we're also working on the virtual aquaponics cannabis conference on
October 30th, third and fourth, which has a wide range of different speakers.
We have Murray Holland, which we spoke about earlier this year.
He's pretty much the leader in aquaponics is based out of Australia.
Also at breeder Steve, who we also talked about on the episode.
We'll have Chris Trump talking about aquaponics.
Can F we'll have Matthew Gates or Zenthanol,
who's one of the leading experts on cannabis and pathogens,
especially in terms of evolutionary history and,
you know, treatments and just he's just such a wealth of knowledge.
I love talking to him. Dr. Wilson Leonard,
Wilson Leonard another aquaponics great.
He has the wonderful commercial aquaponics cannabis book,
which I highly recommend to people if they're listening to this show and they
want to learn more about just general aquaponics and they want something that's
really an incredible reference guide.
It's one of the most in-depth and detailed books out there on the topic.
And one of the only ones that really does a lot of things, right.
Don't always agree with anybody a hundred percent of the time, but he he has a,
probably the single best book out there in terms of system design.
That's currently on the market. We have Roger Terry from true aquaponics.
He's a wonderful gentleman that I were also work with on nutrients subscriptions.
If you have an aquaponics system or you're interested in getting a system up and
running he's a great place to get nutrients from,
or we can get you set up with a subscription service.
We do provide a subscription service that we test your nutrients for you and
provide you custom,
custom nutrient solutions for your aquaponics or hydroponic system based on your
current nutrient values, not based on some, you know, part eight,
part B solution. So we can dial that nutrient within, you know,
a very small range to specifically boost, you know,
heavy feeding cultivars or anything else that you're doing and make sure that
you're getting the production that you expect. We also have Angela Tenenbrock.
She is one of the leading experts in bio safety and food safety.
And one of the leading researchers in food safety and aquaponics for vegetable
production.
She's going to be talking about bio safety and cannabis facilities and how to
protect yourselves from biological pathogens,
how to stop the introduction of insects and pathogens into your grow in the
first place. She's a wealth of knowledge.
If you're ever trying to get compliant with a government certification or any
type of audit she's a wonderful person to check out. Marty Wiedel,
the co-host of my show myself,
Brennan Strathman from Spectrum King as well as Grow More Microbial,
which is the first beneficial archaea on the market.
Leanne Keys of Chief Cultivator on Instagram or from Habitat Life.
He's one of the, if not the,
the best head grower up there for aquaponic cannabis production up in Canada,
up at Habitat Life. He's killing it up there.
I mean he has some of the best cannabis in BC.
They sold out in seven minutes the other day from their harvest.
So to give you an idea of how good their weed is.
And they have Josh Rutherford and Dutch Blooms,
the gentleman who puts on the Regenerative Cannabis Conference.
He's an awesome guy.
He's going to be talking about large scale integration between aquaponics and
soil production and how to utilize aquaponics or mineralization from
aquaponics to further benefit large scale soil production.
And we have even more speakers that we haven't announced yet that we're going to
trickle out to release a little bit more hype as we get a little bit closer to
the event.
I don't know how you could get any more hype because that's got to be one of the
most well-rounded list of speakers I've ever heard.
And I'd like to give a little shout out to our buddy, Josh. He's a,
he's a great guy and he's, he's like yourself.
He's doing a lot to try to help promote education in the scene.
And I think we all value that greatly.
It goes without saying guys, you got to get a ticket to this event.
I just got sold listening to that. I don't know what you need at this point.
Oh, the best part is it's free.
We're just going to host it on YouTube and we'll have free product giveaways.
You know, with the virtual stuff, it doesn't, you know,
normally with a conference, it costs money to put the conference on.
You have to rent the event. I have to rent chairs. You have to rent, you know,
all the different things you have to get hotel rooms. You have to, you know,
it gets quite a few.
People don't realize how expensive it can be to put on a conference.
It can be incredibly expensive. And if you don't have the funds to do that,
it can be really hard to do. So by having a virtual conference,
we don't really have a whole lot of overhead to do that.
So what we're going to do is we have a bunch of company sponsors,
people like recharge, a true aquaponics, grow more,
a couple of other guys that are out there. What's the name?
There's another company that does a fermented comfrey and some other stuff that,
that are all going to be donating products that we'll have out there during the
event and that are all aquaponics safe or, or, or, or fish based.
We're talking to a couple of other people right now that we'll have out there
and donate those as well.
And just kind of promote the whole education around aquaponics cannabis and just
sustainable can, not even just aquaponics,
but we'll be talking about how you can utilize some of this methodology in your
soil growing. We understand that 70, 80,
90% of the people that are watching this probably aren't doing aquaponics and
we're going to make sure that you're, you know,
you're still gaining a knowledge and things that you can take away and apply to
your soil grow that, that maybe you hadn't learned before.
And there you have it guys. You are now obliged to watch it's free.
What more do you need?
And I think that comfrey company you mentioned might be casual fields.
Shout out to him. He's a really, really nice guy.
I appreciate it.
By the way, it's also aquaponics safe and a wonderful product.
Yeah. Yeah. He's another lovely guy.
One of the final things I wanted to quickly ask you about before we get into the
quickfire questions,
you put up a post which just blew my mind and struck my curiosity like nothing
else.
When you did an episode recently on your show with Kevin McKernan about how
COVID-19 was found in cannabis tissue. I mean, this is just wild,
you know, I guess the question is what implications do you think this has?
Like the thing that jumped to mind for me is it's like,
do you need to be worried about getting COVID-19 from your plant?
So, so he, so, okay.
So to clarify something on that,
and this is something that I misunderstood when I read that paper and I read it
twice before I even interviewed him on that.
He developed an allele to test for the presence of, of, of COVID-19.
So if you had an employee that sneezed on the plant or coughed on the plant,
or if I'm a cannabis dispensary and we allow them patients to smell the
cannabis before they purchase it,
is there a way to test for that using a QPCR?
And then what type of tests do you have to have?
What type of standard do you have to have? So he developed all that,
but what he did on that was also develop it for the inputs.
And what he found that was scary.
And what was really interesting if you listen to that episode was how insane the
bat guano was and how many different Corona viruses there were in the bat
guano and how like it just scared the living crap out of them.
And how like we really need to all immediately stop using bat guano
completely in the cannabis industry, in terms of bio safety for all,
not only as a liability for ourselves as a company,
for whoever you're working for,
but as an industry because we could be at least accidentally in
theory, the source of, you know, the next COVID and nobody wants that.
Yeah. Thank you for that clarification.
It's still such an extremely valid point.
I've been thinking something not too different myself.
I remember I had a friend who got an atypical pneumonia from handling guano last
year. And I was like, this isn't just something you read about.
It actually happens. Yeah. It's pretty scary.
I had a pretty gnarly experience when I was younger with a pretty rare type of
pneumonia as well. And we, they never figured out where it came from.
And it makes me wonder, cause I was often heavily in a gardening.
And now after listening to that, it made me wonder, is that where it came from?
Yeah. I think that it, there could be a whole range of things like that, but that's,
that's interesting. And yeah, thanks for clarifying that.
So onto our quick fire questions,
I'm really interested to hear your answers for this one.
So the first one I like to start out with what's the most memorable cannabis
you've ever smoked in your life?
Memorable cannabis, probably two things.
One, the last joint I smoked with Dennis Perrone at New Year's Eve,
about two months before he passed away,
would be one of the ones that I can think of where I'll never forget that one
ever. I, it's the last time I saw him. The other one was,
and that was at, at the castle on New Year's Eve, a Castro castle,
anyone that knows the industry or knows Dennis. And then,
the other one would probably be,
there was one that I smoked with on the Dragonfly Earth Medicine tent two years
ago at Emerald cup. And I'm trying to remember who gave it to me.
I don't remember. I believe it was a Wade laughter strain, but I don't remember.
I, he handed me the ball and I think he's the one who grew up,
but I don't quote me on that.
But it was like a 16% something or other and it just kicked me in the teeth.
Like it was just the most, most I've had my bell rung in 10 years.
And that was, that just stuck with me. I still,
I don't even know, remember what the name of it was, but I just,
that one just hitting that, that pipe, you know,
just a regular glass bowl two or three times just kick my,
kick me in like I just did like three gram dab or something like that.
Like it just, the terpene profile was just exactly what my body needed.
Wow. Yeah. That's awesome. When you get that special hitter like that.
So on the other end of the spectrum,
has there ever been a strain where everyone else was really into it,
hyping it up and you're like, Oh cool. Getting excited. And then you try it.
And you're like, it's not for me. I don't get it.
Cookies.
Man. I love this answer. Cause I'm such a diehard cookies fan.
Like I fucking love it, but I get how much people hate it.
As a grower. If I never saw cookies again,
it would be too soon.
Cookies grows these little tiny larfy buds that are just absolutely annoying as
all hell for any of your trimmers to actually,
it doesn't produce nice fat stuff. It's easy to trim.
It's all these tiny little, you know, super ball size, bouncy ball size nugs.
That are, you know, quarter size that are just a pain in the ass trim.
Yeah. A hundred percent. I can certainly agree on that point.
I won't argue there.
But for resin production for concentrates, I get why people grow it.
It makes sense.
I agree for me smoking it. I love it for me growing it a little less.
So the next question,
if you were stuck on a desert Island and you could only take three strains with
you, which three would you want to take?
So it'd be Hashplant G13,
my blue hash that I've been working on for quite a few years
and Island Sweet Skunk by,
or Sweet Skunk, not Island Sweet Skunk, Sweet Skunk by Breeder Steve.
Great picks. And just for the viewers, what, what went into your blue hash?
It sounds interesting.
Sure. It's Blue Dream and Afghan One.
And Hashplant. So it was Hashplant. Oh, the plant,
it was Afghan One and Hashplant.
And we crossed that and we got a really fire male out of that.
And we crossed that with a Blue Dream cut that we had that was really thick
stocked, like freakishly thick stocked and just kicked ass in the wind,
out in the plains in Colorado. That was just,
it would grow like into like tree trunks. Right.
And it would just hold itself up with fat nugs, even in high winds,
it would just take whatever you threw at it. Didn't,
didn't really get broken at all. And we crossed those.
And the progeny from that,
we've developed kind of two lineages that have since been just,
we've gotten so many different good crosses out of it that we've kind of,
you can get, if anyone's listening and wants some,
you can get some through Mr. Green Jeans Garden.
If you hit him up on Instagram, he does have them available.
And he's the only source of the actual original genetics that I have out there
currently.
Damn, I'm going to have to hit him up. So on the other end of the spectrum,
and this is one of my favourite questions.
If you had to drop off someone you're not particularly a fan
of, maybe you might even use the hate word though. It's a little strong.
Someone you're not a fan of,
you could have dropped them off on an Island and leave them with three strains.
What are you going to leave them with?
Okay.
I'd have to think on this for a second.
Blackberry cookies,
blackberry cookies,
mac cookies.
And what else has completely no resistance to anything?
Citrus sap. The citrus, there's like a citrus glue,
citrus sap, fucking citrus Gorilla Glue cut. That's going around Oklahoma.
That just seems to get every pathogen known to man as well.
The magnets. Yeah. Okay.
So final question, and I'm interested to hear your answer.
If you could go back to any point in history and go anywhere around the globe,
presumably to collect some cannabis seeds or a plant, where would you go?
And when?
Probably to Southern Africa,
like South Africa, Swaziland,
currently East Swatini, and they just changed the name about a year ago.
And Zimbabwe, that area has some really,
really bizarre genetics or reunion. No, take it back. Take it back.
Reunion Island, hands down.
Brilliant answer.
One I've often thought about myself with the ever elusive psychedelic nature of
the Zamal. I think that just about brings us to the end of it.
I mean, you know,
thank you so much for all the incredible education knowledge on aquaponics,
KNF, IPM, organics, just beyond. It's just, it's incredible.
If people wanted to check out your podcast,
what would be the best place for them to go find it?
Sure. They can check me out at Potem Ponix on YouTube, SoundCloud, iTunes,
iHeartRadio, Spotify. We're on over 200 different platforms,
so they can find us on whatever, whatever fits your post. If you know,
some of our episodes definitely are more video heavy. You know,
we have a tour of a glass blowing facility and stuff like that.
You probably want to check out on YouTube,
but I would say 95% of them or 98% of them are perfectly fine to listen to them
the audio version, but we get over 20 times the listeners on the audio version.
I'm sure you're similar as well, where you get, you know,
significantly more listenership on your audio version than the video.
Yeah, that's it guys. Just Google Potem Ponix. You'll find it very easily.
With that being said,
did you have any comments or shout outs you wanted to make before we wrap up?
Just if you guys are looking for more information, check me out at, you know,
Growing With Fishes podcast or Potem Ponix.
And if you need a aquaponics safe nutrients, check them out at True Aquaponics.
It's really it.
Awesome. So again, Steve, thanks so much for your time today.
I know the viewers will absolutely mop all of this up and thank you for your
broader contributions as well.
I appreciate you having me. And, uh, you know,
if we can ever have you back on the show again, we'd love to have you.
Damn guys. Anyone else on their way to go buy an aquaponics set up right now?
I think I am. Huge. Thank you again to Steve.
Such an amazing, amazing episode.
Please go check out all of his content at Growing With Fishes podcast,
Potem Ponix. You'll find it. Google, YouTube, everything. It's all there.
Likewise, a huge, huge thank you to our sponsors.
Seeds here now. Number one seed bank in the game, all the hottest drops,
best customer service, everything you need. Why would you go anywhere else?
I love them. They're the best. Seriously.
Likewise, huge shout out to Compet Biologicals.
They got everything you need to keep your garden happy and healthy.
Be it soil, soilless, bugs, no bugs. They got something for you. Trust me.
Go suss it out. They're going to make your next harvest even better.
They're going to keep your garden happy and healthy.
They're number one in the biz. I love them. You'll love them. Give them a shot.
And finally, the Patreon gang. We love you guys. Thank you so,
so, so much for your support. You really keep the show happening.
We appreciate you guys incredibly. If anyone wants to check out the show,
if anyone wants to check out the Patreon and get early access to additional
episodes, unreleased content, and so much more, please check it out.
So that's it for this episode gang.
I'll see you back here for the next one from the Upside Down Library.
This is your boy Heavy Days signing out.
