Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for
budding enthusiasts. This episode as always was brought to you by our
amazing sponsors. Seeds here now, best seed bank in the game, guarantee on
germination and satisfaction. Don't fuck with anywhere else. 420 Australia, number
one store for lifestyle and apparel. Get onto it, don't be a scrub. And finally
organic gardening solutions. If you truly want to grow the best flower, you're
gonna hit them up, there's no choice. Also just want to give a quick little
shout out to our patreon gang, everyone on there, you guys are the lifeblood of
the show. This is really what helps the show to happen. It's been helping me out
a lot guys in terms of keeping the wheels running and we've got some new
shows in the works. Make sure to check it out yeah. On this episode we have
Dungeon Vault Genetics. Big fan of this guy, I've been trying to get him for a long
time, really excited for it. Let's jump into it guys, here we go.
Alrighty, so a big thank you and welcome to the man behind all the insane grandpa
breath crosses you've undoubtedly seen. Thank you to Eric of Dungeon Vault
Genetics for joining us. Thanks man for having me. No worries. So the first
question I gotta ask you, I feel like it's almost like obligatory at this
point. How do you feel about Granddaddy Purple? The strain? Yeah. I love it.
It's a good strain, I feel like classic. I'm from California
originally so from the time that I first discovered some really good perps
till now even, you all have that, we have the same opinion. We call it, you just
call it the perps. We have that, it's got that that purple smell whatever but the
cut of Ken's GDP that I bred with and the one that I'm so familiar with, a lot
of people say came from the Urkel family and if that's the case then it seems
like I might need to dig more into the Purple Urkel lines because it's got that,
it's very, it's just a great plant in general. I think the for medicinal values
and breeding wise everything it's just, it's perfect. And how do you feel
about the sometimes comparison made that it's kind of like a cash cropper version
of Urkel? Do you see that per se and do you find that to be a negative thing?
I wouldn't say negative. I think at this point, honestly in the circles that I see
and the people that are running stuff, it almost seems like the purples, like just
straight purple, whether it be Urkel, Granddaddy, some of those are not, I don't
see them getting pumped out as much. It seems like it's kind of moved on to the
hype circles, you know, like a lot more of these, you know, newer stuff that's come
out but there are certain breeders who I see working with that stuff and they're
absolutely killing it and everyone's loving their gear. So knowing that,
there's obviously some good things going on. I imagine that the Urkel, I don't know,
like I said, I haven't had as much experience with that one so I've only
seen it when I lived down in California. It's been a while since I've been up in
Washington that I've seen that but. Yeah, for sure. And I guess this is maybe just
a more personal question I was wondering. Do you find that Mendo perps and GDP get
confused a lot? I think many strains get confused a lot but yeah,
definitely the perps, just like I said earlier, anything that's got perp or has
that smell, someone immediately goes, oh it's that Mendo perp, so that's this or
that but there's so many varieties that all have very similar smells and or
could be, you know, cross breeds with each other so who's to really know. Some
guys out there, you open a bag, you know exactly what you're smelling, you've
been familiar with it, you've smoked it, you've seen it. To me, Mendo perps, I
think is completely different than say GDP and some of these other ones. I used
to get Mendo perps, so it was a lot more of a darker, I almost want to say sweet.
It's been a little while but I will say they're different in my opinion. Yeah,
definitely. So fast forward to now, what are you currently smoking on? Well, I just
got done smoking some Platinum Girl Scout. Yeah, I'm still smoking cookies.
Hey, it's good, right? Yeah, I love it. It's one of those things like just like a good
OG or really anything. I'm a connoisseur so I'm staring at my jars right now. I've
got gelato, I've got some Dr. Gonzo, I've got Brandywine, Citrus Farmer, I got the
cookies. Kind of a mixed array of things but I do like smoking my
strains. Every time I go to a cup, I'm always running into people who have
grown my strains and they come by and shoot me a jar or something and that's
always really cool because then I get to go home and smoke it and sample it and
sometimes it's not a great sample, sometimes they're extremely well grown
so it's kind of a toss-up and it's really cool. So I'm loving anything right
now that's got a good smell and a good flavor. Yeah, okay and in general, are you
more an indica or sativa guy? Definitely indica or indica hybrid. I don't mind a
good sativa. I'm trying to bring more of that into my work actually but to me on
a daily, what I'm looking for, I want to know I'm stoned. I want to feel that slap
across the face or the couch lock kind of a high so I prefer the indica but
man, it's kind of hard to rival a really nice smell and sativa. You know, you get
the right one and it definitely puts a smile on your face. So there's
kind of days right I would like to smoke a sativa I think but my jars are
always filled with dense buds. That's a good description. So let's go back to the
start. What was your first experience with cannabis? Man, I had a neighbor two
doors down from me who he worked for Disney or he works for Disney now
excuse me but he turned me on to weed. I had shown up to his house and
was talking about wanting to get high and I knew he smoked and he had, I had only
seen pictures of stuff at that point but he had some I guess what you know green
bud. A lot of you are smoking the Mexi weed back when I first started. You know
compressed, shagged, straight brown bud with seeds and stems. This guy was the
first person to show me some actual killer bud that looked like what I saw
in magazines in the high times and things back in the day. So he was the
first person to get me stoned and that was pretty awesome. I mean to this day
I've still sent him messages here and there and said man if you can only see where I'm at
now bro like it's your fault. He definitely led the, he got, he sparked the
interest so to speak. So that was really cool but I've got, yeah there's
a lot of memories but I think that that was probably, he was probably the
number one influence in my life for weed. And so when did you make the transition
from enthusiast to grower? Well there's a big difference between a guy who grows
or someone who is popping seeds for instance or anything that matter and then
someone who's actually successfully growing. Like I've been popping seeds since I was a
little kid. I'd throw them over to place in my parents yard. I'd set a little spot in
the field and think it was good. Show all my friends they'd get taken within a month.
I lost tons of plants along the way before I realized that okay you're
supposed to keep your mouth shut about this. It's supposed to be a secret. You
don't tell nobody. So I think when I really got into growing and had my first
successful grow wasn't until probably close to honestly like 2000, shoot that
had been like 2003. Because I had grown, no excuse me I'm wrong. Maybe a little
bit before that but either way I'd been growing a while but nothing to a point
where I had it down. I was successfully cropping. I was able to you know look at
my work and say damn look what I've done or you know gain something from it. There
was too many times where I was getting all the way to the end and then someone
would come and rip my plants and it's because I had a big mouth. So that's
why I say successful. So it's probably a good 15 plus years now that I've
been actually at it.
And what was it that stimulated you to start creating your own seeds? Was it
self-sufficiency or you got interested in being able to offer something?
No because when I started you could still get a good number for your weed. I mean
people were still selling you know I mean $300 ounces. So it was very good. If
you could get into the industry or in the business and have a medical
card or not. If you were just growing and selling weed you were doing okay for
yourself. But to me I think I've always just been very very interested in. I
don't know why but I just every time I smell pot it was just like a total like
my head would spin and speak. You know I don't know if you're there's this old
TV show back in the day when I was a kid and the guy would smell cheese and his
head would spin and go crazy every time he smelled cheese. And I kind of that's
that's pretty much how I was with weed. So I knew something was up with it. There
was more than I just like I just enjoy smoke and I was so enthralled with it
that I knew there was something more to it. I was really interested in all the
different strains and categorizing things and and I'd look in the excuse me
I'd look in the beginning of those. I don't remember the name of the magazine
but they'd have a huge seed catalog and I would just sit there and highlight all
the strains I wanted to get and what I was wanting to you know see. But yeah it
kind of just took over and I feel like I feel like the seed thing more or less
became a part of me because I wanted to have my own lines I wanted to say hey I
made that. There were certain things I'd look I wanted to smell and I wasn't
smelling and I thought it would be cool if I could create something that had
certain you know flavors that we were after. I've always been a skunk fan when
I was a kid so anything that really stunk that's what I was really into and
really wanted. So I thought that at some point I'd really like to get into
making something that really you know you crack the jar and makes the whole
whole house smell and I'll have people asking where the weed is at. So that's
that's been a goal for a long time I guess. Yeah.
Yeah that's a fond memory of so many guests on the show. Something I wanted to
mention a lot of people probably know you by your online forum handle for so
long. I was trying to dig it up but to be honest I ran out of time. I remember it
was PNW something. What was it?
It was originally it was man what was that Pacific Northwest grown was my
original handle since 2004 maybe even earlier because I was I was on overgrow.
I was originally on overgrow. I think it was stoned stupid or something way back
in the day and then I we all overgo got hit and shut down and everybody jumped
to I see Meg. So I had made sort of made friends with some of these heads that
were actually pretty popular people at their time. And so when we made the
switch over to I see Meg I switched my name to Pacific Northwest grown and that
in a way kind of started my whole career in a sense as well because that's when I
really started getting into genetics and I had met a man by the name of Captain
Krip. He has done work with DNA genetics and and he has his own seed line. I don't
he's kind of behind the shadows. I'm not exactly sure what he's up to nowadays but
he he's I think he's kind of taking a step back. I'm not sure but he he had some
amazing stuff and he and I had been exchanging stuff for a minute there and we
had talked for you for quite a while and he had really I think he actually was
another now I mentioned it was another huge influence in me wanting to make my own
seeds as well. So yeah people like that there was a ton of guys on there that were
just real popular heads that that yeah we switched over to I see Meg and I see
Meg was really that was the spot if you want to talk about anything you want to
know the latest and greatest on genetics that was your place to go. And then if
you had a somewhat decent reputation you'd be well known on there enough to
where people you know they'd mess with you they'd talk to you and you could
make some some decent friends on and offline. So it was kind of cool.
Yeah it sounds like the glory days in a lot of ways. Were there any people on there
who you kind of looked up to in regards to breeders or just even people in general
or was it more of like a inward community type of thing.
No you know what there was buddies we would be up all night waiting for the auctions
you know there was those rare res dog auction or auctions and some of these other
guys that Dutch grown. She's a female breeder I think she got busted because a
res dog actually. Sad to say but there was other people as well that those were
those were the those are the people that are making big moves back then they had
they had huge following and before this whole Instagram thing that was I mean you
look at the forums and you basically look at the person's little like karma
points how many how many posts do they have how many how much you know credit do
they have on this site. And so you see some of these people senior members or a
breeder and whatever and that's another thing you couldn't talk to these people like
you do now it's crazy nowadays you can just hit up anybody and everybody and it's
just there are a direct message away it's wild. So but yeah there was you know res
dog that's grown. I mentioned Captain Crip. There was there was quite a few other
people as well I mean even I mean DNA, genetics all these guys that are big now
that are they were still big back then so I mean we everyone wanted those seeds
we were all you know writing down lists of everything we want and all that stuff
it was it was crazy times. So I mean it really wasn't long ago that I was you
know spending all my money on seeds not not really making them so now it's it's
a little bit different but I still spend all my money on seeds I don't know what's
wrong with me. You got the the disease we all got seed hoards. Yeah seeditis. So just for the kind of the next part of the whole keeping
linearity within the storyline how did you then transition to working with Ken?
So I was a I was hired on I did a huge review on Craigslist of all the
Washington State dispensaries I had visited. I had got my medical card I want
to say in like 2008 or something like that here in Washington State. I started
going around to every shop I could find and just basically checking out their
jars seeing what they had and what I found was more than I mean I don't want
to exaggerate but I want to say more than 50 more than 50% but I'll just I'll
just leave it there to be fair to the state but half the shops you go into
had mislabeled jars absolute fake you know just garbage there was nothing that
was super heady nothing that was like oh my god look at this I mean few and far
between you'd find some some real stuff but it was it was kind of a sad scene up
here so basically I started reviewing stuff on on Craigslist and ended up
having someone hit me up and says hey well we've we are trying to start a
whole new you know thing up here in Washington State we'd love to have you
on board you want to be our bud tender so being a bud tender I ended up getting
in touch with a guy who walks in and says hey man you seem to know your stuff
you know I see you're into seeds and you know your strains you should meet my
friend Ken and Ken turned out to be Ken Estes and at the time there was a pretty
big following for granddaddy perp there was still a huge you know he had a
really good reputation and then going back to the forum days there used to be
a there used to be a clone list like a top ten or a top you know genetics to
get and Ken's GDP was always on there that's what everybody wanted I mean it
was not it wasn't Jim's it wasn't Jake's it wasn't John's it wasn't pure it was
Ken's GDP was the name so that name stuck with me since I was younger and so
when I hear about this oh this guy Ken with GDP I was like oh you're not talking
about Ken Estes and he was so next few days or whatever I ended up meeting Ken
and then we sort of hit it off just based on again the knowledge I was
dropping and some other stuff he just was impressed with what I knew and so he
said you should come on board with me we're trying to sell seeds up here and
we need someone who can you know go around and rep the company so that's
what started me off with Ken I was a seed rep I went around all over the
state all over the country with him doing the different shows and we'd we'd
you know I was a salesman pretty much you know so that's what started it and
then from there it kind of blossomed into other things I was involved with
you know everything that they were doing with the company but then there was a
huge kind of a falling out of him and his employees and that's that's what
ended up giving me the position to turn breeder for him and so I took on that
and here we are today. So basically I think a lot of people would be aware
that you know Ken has some physical disabilities but maybe they weren't
fully aware that if they had bought some seeds from Ken during that time period
the reality was you made those seeds correct? Absolutely so that's that and
you're right that is something that come up in the past you know many people said
hey you you did this you did that as far as you know stealing or ripping
something off but it's it's it's not the case when when I was the one who was the
breeder behind the stuff I mean everything that was like I said after
they had their split and I was given the position there are certain certain
things I'm supposed to be doing for the company and one was breeding and so I'm
making my seeds for them I'm doing everything under the Sun as far as
repping the company making the sales happen talking to people online doing
all that paying to go to these shows and selling them packaging everything that
was all me so yeah there's there is a little bit of confusion that lies within
there and that was also the hugest part about after even leaving the company was
was having the issues with everyone trying to say well did you make those or
was that Ken stuff and you know and it was very very confusing so not not
necessarily the best thing but yeah anybody that bought during the time that
it was there was I think 11 strains made during that period around around
2011 or 2012 to 2014 somewhere in there.
So with that thought in mind when you decided to start Dungeon Vaults and kind
of do your own thing did you intentionally think to yourself I'm
gonna use a new male kind of fresh start thing or did it just work out that way.
That's exactly what I was thinking it was it was I still had and this goes back to
your previous question as well I still had stock left over from the granddaddy
days and so kind of to get my jumpstart and kind of get just to get my brand out
there because I didn't have my other male selected yet it wasn't it or maybe I did
at the time but it wasn't ready one way or another I wasn't ready to release
seeds a new line yet under Dungeons Vault but I did still have some of my
originals from granddaddy so I still had the funk I had the grand OG purple
champagne and there was I think another one the Candyland but some of these
strains they were they were getting close to selling out so at that point I
knew that I it was time to you know get a fresh start and all that so I had
already been talking to I told Ken my idea the whole time you know I said hey
I've got this idea for grandpa's breath you know everything was you know related
to GDP or grandpa or anything like that all kind of fit in with the company so I
had already thought of grandpa's breath and kind of stuck so that's where that's
where this whole new line came from and it's unfortunate we aren't working
together because had we been this could have been taken to who knows what kind
of levels with the with the you know warehouses and the capabilities we had
down in California so but yeah grandpa's breath was created in Washington State I
was behind that I did it all so it was kind of cool to be able to say that once
I broke away and was able to start over that I had as much success with with
what I did even though it did take a little while for people to pick up on me
and really give me the shot a lot of people were still a little bit salty
toward the situation didn't really know where to or what to think about
everything so it was a little bit hard to you know get my start but once people
started growing everything and they saw what I had to offer I think people were
a little bit more accepting. Yeah it's certainly good to see that people have
you know given you that chance and the proofs in the pudding to say the least
something I did want to mention because I think you fall into a small category of
breeders who whether it was intentional or not I'm not sure I don't think you're
a fortune teller per se but I think you Gage and Archive you know you probably
know where this questions going you all fell into that boat where you kind of
managed to incorporate the OGKB into your work right as it was taking off
was this something you were aware of or did it just work out that way and you're
like man I'm happy to ride that wave or like how do you feel about it all?
It's funny there was I like I said I've always been a connoisseur I've been very
well you know in tune with all the strains going around when I first got
into the cookie scene and I and I first got my clone the first cut of cookies I
got was fake as shit like I knew right away I was like this is not the same
thing that I'm smoking or that all the people are talking about so I got the
one grew it wasn't it I knew right away then this whole you know there was like
a release all of a sudden like somebody got it and then they were they were
angry at the fact that they had to pay so much or the fact that that so many
people were hoarding the cut and it all of a sudden started to spread like
wildfire I was one of the first people I mean honestly I hadn't seen cookies
anywhere no one had even heard of it and I brought I finally got it and brought
it up to to Washington and started showing people and that's when this
this whole thing just blew up like every it was already huge in California and
then I'm up here with it and I knew that you know just having any cookies was
good but there was the one the OGKB cut that was the one that was kind of you
know so really held back it wasn't being passed around very much if you knew the
right people you got it if not good luck and I guess I just I mean it's a
blessing that's all I can say is the people that the guy that gave it to me
he knows who he is I'm not gonna mention names but he knows what he did for me
and I owe him a lot for it you know eventually I think we will square up at
something but it was never a hey you owe me this you owe me that or I want
this much he gave it to me on just good principle he knew me well enough he
trusted me he likes me I guess and he wanted to see me shine and that's got to
what happened so I think at the time I yeah like you said Gage Green, Archive,
me very few people had it and I was right there in line with them and did we
did our releases pretty much one after another and I think from there on out it
kind of got even more spread out but you know I mean I still see so many
people growing OGKB that's not OGKB it's it's they they got sold a cut if
anything has even remotely Puffy Leaves or kind of that that little mutant look
someone referred to it as an OGKB or an OGKB Fino when in all reality that's
not what it is really I mean it's just that's there's been so many you know
cuts that that come out like that anything with cookie lineage has a chance
of having that mutated you know kind of a funky look and they're really not I
mean that's not necessarily sought-after but OGKB just happened to be the one
that that one when you get it dialed in and you can grow it correctly it yields
good it tastes better than anything and it literally has the craziest smell of
all the cookies it's just it's just one of the better ones in my opinion but
like I said real I was lucky that's that's all it is I was really lucky and
I feel like me having that early start really kind of helped but many people
thought that grandpa's breath had Mindo breath they thought I took Gage Green's
Mindo breath or one of their things and crossed into it when all reality is no I
had the original cut crossed it to the Tahoe GDP mail and BAM so yeah so I mean
first thing I want to say is what the hell's up with like the seeds you know
there's like a curse on them like no one can really get them to germinate easy do
you think it just makes the mum kind of unviable as like a commercial release
plan this the seeds of OGKB yeah I think that there that's why I didn't
release the f1s of grandpa's breath it was there was so tough to crack those
suckers it was like there's I'm not gonna I'll never hear the end of it if I
was releasing you know and if you get if you get such poor germination that you
replace in every pack you've sold you just screwed yourself so I knew right
away hey let's not do that so the f2s I released I seem to have pretty good luck
with popping seeds I think a lot of people really make it harder on
themselves and they need to and it's still a question I get asked every day
how do you pop your seeds how do you do this how do you do that and now you got
a guy that's I wish I knew his name so I could shout him out but he's he's made
this little seed cracker tool and I'm sure that's been around before but this
little seed cracker seems like it could help a lot of people out you know you
get through that tough shell gives it the spot or gives it the chance to pop
its little tail out and you know maybe help someone who's who is having some
germination issues with some older seed stock but I'd say yeah man there's
definitely something to that with the OGKB I don't know what it is but maybe
it maybe it maybe it provides an extra thick shell or something that just makes
a little bit harder but I don't know what everyone else's experience is with
all the with all the other companies that are selling these crosses but I
know I know with mine there's there's been some issues here and there but you
mean I've gotten so much good feedback that the little bit of hey I had issues
here and there it's kind of outweighed by the good so I always try and make
everyone happy and take care of whoever I can but for the most part it's kind of
a mute point with me almost. Yeah no definitely I believe that the F1s of
the other companies similarly had some issues with germination. Kind of just to
also touch on that point you hammered that point home so perfectly in regards
to people mistaking that cookie look for OGKB in general because I find any
cookie cross can potentially yield that result and our buddy CSI Humboldt he
even made the reference that just from Urkel S1s you can get that exact
phenotype so you know interesting note to take but also you know hint something
maybe deeper about the connection between Urkel and cookies. Yeah there
could be I mean it's it's they the whole claim is this this cookies came from an
F1 Durban and I don't mean F1 like F1 generation it's supposedly F1 is a
strain altogether crossed a Durban hit with with whatever else and you get and
you get the cookies or whatever and it's like I don't see how there's any Durban
in there whatsoever maybe I'm wrong but I think I think there's a lot more to it
with maybe just a solid purple getting crossed with something else but I would
I would almost want to know if there's if possibly what happened was that
cherry pie that got big before cookies which we all know herms out maybe touched
the OG which everyone in California was already growing rooms of and then that
would kind of make sense why you get that really tight cookie structure it's
like an OG almost and then it's kind of smaller buds you get a little bit of the
perp it could have easily been a cherry pie times an OG but I have no idea man I
really don't I think there's there's so many different possibilities and those
that that were there when it happened would be the only ones that know they'll
take that to their grave because I've heard way too many stories I don't really
know which one I believe but I think when it all comes down to it some good
pot and if if fables are going to go along with cannabis then that's fine it
just creates more of something to talk about when we're all high right.
Yeah definitely so what traits do you like to look for when selecting a male and if
we kind of give it a kind of some more detail to the question I guess when you were
selecting you know your grandpa's breath male were you looking for a balance of
things or we just looking for all one side had you go about that process.
When I popped when I popped all those those grandpa's breath seeds so I could
actually know it's a step back because I was looking for the Tahoe GDP male to make
the grandpa's breath so that man you know and that's a long time ago but I believe
if I can remember that male correctly it was it was kind of a short and stacked male
nowadays I do things a little bit differently but that was when I was back back then
that was that was it was kind of a trial and error what happened was I found a set
of males and I knew which ones I wanted to breed with so I set those ones to the side
and then out of a certain amount I picked the best looking one because that's what
was available to me at the time.
So that was a little bit you know that's not how I would do it nowadays but back then
I just picked the best looking one of the set of say there was like I think about five
or six of the Tahoe GDP males and I picked the best looking guy and he turned out to
be pretty damn good obviously but overall the the way I'm doing it now and what I
would what I would say the best way to would be you're looking at obviously structure
and then if you can get a good smell off of it that's obviously you know same thing
as picking a female you know if you can get a good stem rub and you got to you have just
a nice kind of a plant that kind of permeates a good smell in the air you know you got
something to look forward to and then you know then when you got a flower that you got
to flower it out you know and really see how it how it looks when it's you know fills
out all of its you know stems everything how it looks you know you're going to really
want to pay attention to that.
So I found that with with once I found the grandpa's breath male I found the one that
was it was tall it had some some internodal spacing going on so it wasn't as tight as
my first selection that made the grandpa's breath and then the the thing once I put in
the flower this guy had he just had stacks of flower clusters that it literally looked
like corn on the cob.
I know I've mentioned that online before I've told people but that that's like the closest
reference I could find.
I can't literally look like little husks of corn just solid yellow that were just these
big you know foot long you know thick colas of flowers.
It was pretty cool that and the fact that I saw some resin glands on the leaves.
I know some people can say that too much resin or if you see plants that have a lot of resin
on it could potentially be a male hermaphrodite or show intersex traits if it flowered and
you actually look up close you might end up seeing some white hairs coming out of it and
at that point that's the same as finding a hermaphrodite in your in your other in your
female garden you don't really want it.
So but this this guy in particular I saw I saw frost on it and it never showed any any
intersex traits and it was all good all the way to the end.
I thought it was just going to be an absolute stud and I was right.
So everything that that grandpa's breath male touched has turned out you know nothing short
of amazing.
So I've been pretty stoked on everything.
Killer.
So moving forward do you kind of like the idea of using resinous males or do you think just
maybe that one situation it worked out pretty well.
I think I think that would be a trait I'd like to see on them just so I know.
Well you know I mean I'll be honest with you I don't know I would say if I'm going to call
myself a breeder I'll say I'm a beginner you know I'm not going to sit there and claim to
know everything I didn't go to school for this.
I'm going off what I feel has worked for me in the past I'm going off of what I what I think
will do great.
I've been right so far so I'm not a know it all by any means but the stuff that I did learn
along the way and what I've picked up on has seemed to work out quite well.
So I'm just going to keep going in that direction.
I wish I had more scientific terms so I could use and you know a little bit more knowledge on
on the plant itself and how life works in between.
But overall I think when you're growing these guys out you just you get so used to seeing
different plants and how everything looks that you just you just have a feeling and you just
know when you're going in the right direction.
Some things can end up being a complete flop but so far I haven't really ran into that issue.
I mean some people might not be too happy with my gear like it and that's fine everyone's
entitled their opinion but everything I've done so far I feel like I can stand behind that
and say hey that's a that's a decent strain.
You may not find the plant you're looking for but there's definitely one out of every line I've
released that someone could say that's one of their favorites or that's one of the ones they
would run again.
So that's good enough numbers for me.
But I would think that from here on out I'm definitely going to you know you just you just
got to flower out the mail that you want to use and if it's going to if it shows you what you're
looking for then great and if not then start over.
Solid answer.
It raises the idea that I constantly think of myself as is breeding an art or a science and I
think the way to summarize this question is to put it in this kind of abstract question where
it's if we got all the things that you or maybe generally speaking people consider to be
advantageous about a mail programmed into a computer and then got it to select one.
Do you think it would do a good job or do you think as you're doing it you're going to be
select one.
Do you think it would do a good job or do you think as you said there's like this certain feel
to it which would inevitably maybe make the robot in this example not really do as good of a job
as say a human.
Man I don't know it's tough because with all the scientific input and when someone has a
computer program that can literally take not just me but like so many other people that have a
lot more expanded knowledge than I do.
You could potentially have such a crazy stack of information and all the I mean the program
could run could run in a way that they knew exactly what they're doing.
But again we could all set everything to auto tune on all of our gardens on everything.
But I think when it all comes down to it we all like to be there physically.
We want to be involved with it and I'd much rather say that hey I created this or I did that by
my own hands by my selection by me going and picking it smelling it knowing everything.
That sounds better to me than a robot did or it was picked by some auto generated number and then
we just went and selected out of the warehouse.
But you might be onto something there.
I mean I think there could be some sort of you know like a challenge where someone could say
well hey we found just as good of a male by this and just by having the general knowledge in the
situation and knowing what we were looking for and clicked a number on a computer and bam here
this will popped out.
But like I said hands on that's that's number one for me.
Yeah for sure.
A bit of a crazy theoretical you just made me think about the idea of like a new breeder emerges
and their whole advertising campaign is like yeah we use this machine to pick our male.
Hey at this day and age I don't I wouldn't put it past anybody.
You mean.
Yeah.
There you go.
So a question I love to ask breeders when you're kind of you've created a new strain and you're
going to maybe do some testing yourself.
How many seeds do you like to pop to get a feel of what's inside of it.
Usually I mean if it were up to me as many as you freaking can.
But I mean let's be real here.
There's there's certain things that can restrict a grower whether it is legality or room or you
know there's a lot that goes into play.
I mean trust issues you start getting into a huge thing where you have way too much to take care
of you have to bring in people and as soon as you bring in those people you better make sure those
people are like family.
And a weight family isn't necessarily always trustworthy either.
So you just pretty much open yourself up to getting genetics stolen having people snitch on you
having people get greedy having the cops come bust you.
There's a lot that goes into the whole having too many plants.
To me I want to stay in a position where I feel like I mean I'm I'm giving the customers what they
need.
I'm testing the plants or having them tested by friends.
One way or another anything that comes out of my camp is being grown out completely from start to
finish.
And if there's any issues at all we're addressing them.
If there's too many issues we're not releasing it.
If there's any doubt in my mind it I'd rather not release the planks like I said if I if it's not
it's not good for me.
It's not a good look for me if I put something out that I have to get a bunch of returns on.
So for me I'm trying to I personally will pop at least a few packs of each one that hasn't always
happened.
But now from here on out I think that's kind of where I need to be.
We need to pop at least you know two three packs of every single strain.
That's you know essentially just like anyone else.
If you go out and buy a pack of seeds most people are only buying you know one maybe two and they do
their little phenol hunt.
If I do the same thing pop it and I don't find any issues then that's I mean that's between me and say a
few three four or five other guys are doing the same thing.
We've just ran you know a decent amount of the packs and we all have an idea of what we can look for.
I used to when things are a little bit different up here in Washington I had I'd have you know 100 100
seeds of one strain going just to find the mail and pick out my winners.
That's what happened with the grandpa's breath.
That's not the case anymore.
I wish it was but I just can't.
I can't do it.
I'd be in trouble if I did.
Yeah it's surprising.
I think you may be aware that a lot of breeders out there unfortunately are forced to you know bend or
break the rules in order to you know kind of do what they feel is you know like kind of the right number I
guess.
Yeah.
And again I mean I don't know what the right number is.
I think if I had if I had a nice big warehouse I'd say at least at least 100 200 of every single one.
But if you're doing things the right way and you don't have a crazy you know a crazy amount of
phenols going on then I mean you with an F1 cross or even others there shouldn't be that many that you
need to select from hundreds of plants.
But I mean I guess it gives you the upper hand when you have that many one could be grown a bit better
and give you an idea.
But to me I say you're going to see what you need to see and in 30 40 plants you know.
But the more the merrier obviously.
But it's just I know that at this at this point I've seen what I need to see and I know what I'm putting out
is is going to be good.
And if not then I'll hear about it from all my testers and all the guys before it even gets released.
So it's not an issue.
Yeah I totally agree.
I think 40 is that magic number as well.
Just a quick little reason behind that because some people are going to wonder why I say that.
I think far and a lot of people back this idea up is 5 percent is about the lowest common percentage you'll get
for a phenotype to appear.
Obviously you can get crazy lower outliers but generally you're not going to find something that occurs less
than 5 percent.
So if you run 40 seeds you're guaranteed to find at least one thing of that 5 percent.
And if you don't find it well then you know that that phenotype doesn't exist at that low percentage.
Anyway talking about the phenotypes and the percentages Candyland and False Teeth are two of your
strains that I'm really interested in because they got like the different versions associated with it.
And I guess the kind of the deeper idea I'm interested in is this idea of using multiple females and offering
the different versions hasn't really been adopted too much but I have a feeling it might be on the rise.
Do you think that's the case and why do you choose to do it.
I yes I think it is on the rise.
I think I for sure did not start this this whole let's do a bunch of different versions 1 2 3 4 whatever.
I've seen it before even going back to Rez.
He had different versions of V2 or whatever it was and that's another breeders did as well.
And I don't remember if it was because he remade the strain and so it was a version two or if he put out two
separate phenotypes of the same cross.
But in my situation that's exactly what happened.
And it's kind of a two reasons for that one being when I did the original false teeth what I had done was I had
crossed you know I had popped all the different candy lands that I had you know from seed from when I worked with
Ken. So I popped a bunch of candy lands and as I did I started seeing some that were you know there was some that
were just shit.
They really just didn't come out that great.
There was some mutation stuff going on that just didn't yield didn't it wasn't anything too fancy.
Those that did come out you know and looked really good.
I was it was so hard and it could be the hoarder in me.
I don't know. But I looked at these plants like I can't get rid of this one and I don't know why.
I don't know what I'm going to do as far as having you know four different ones that are all full of seeds.
So what I decided was let's say if I release the one people are going to find something good.
But let's just say that they they're like yeah it's OK you know but I wish I had something else to choose from or
you know a different selection.
So I thought if I released all three four versions I guess the fourth one just was released but originally three different
versions of V1 V2 V3 and it was all that it was all done same time same breed.
It was just a different plant number in the same exact room got hit with the same pollen.
And what happened was I just decided to release them all that way.
You could have a little bit something different in the next guy.
A problem I found going back to the old dispensary days was you'd walk into a shop and say hey I've got cookies.
It's a cool we have cookies and they could be a totally different look than yours and they weren't budging.
They don't want it because it's the same thing.
Well I figure if you walk in said well I've got something that you know I've got I've got some false teeth or I've got
some candy and it looks a little bit different.
It's the V3 or V4 whatever you know it's a different version and it was something you know completely different than the
next guy.
Maybe they would put it on the shelf because it was so much different even though it had you know but same kind of
quality pot.
No.
So that's what I was originally thinking would be nice but it did create a lot of confusion.
But I mean everyone ate them up.
People bought every single one of those things so they they I think having having something that will make you
different to the next guy is is what's what people are into and they want to see that.
So it's it's kind of a benefit I feel like giving people more options is never bad.
Yeah I wholeheartedly agree with that.
So a little interesting theoretical question for you if you were going to go back and remake a strain you'd made
before but let's just say you didn't have the mail you initially used so maybe you're going to remake the mail or
reselect it from stock.
Would you like that idea like do you like the idea of would you voluntarily do it I guess is what I'm asking or would
you just opt to use the original.
Well it would be cool to use the original but the original grandpa's breath mail is is is gone.
So yeah I killed I killed that guy off a while back.
He's been done and I just I feel like after I had after I had released him enough stuff of it you know I just feel like
you know it's time to move on even though I know it's probably probably one of the better males I figured I would
find you know out of the progeny once I start cracking into the F2s the grandpa's breath and I get ready to make the F3s
I'll have a new male that's selected in for its own reasons.
So I figured you know he'll make a return at some point or it won't be him it'll be a different one like you just
mentioned. So I've got no problem with that.
I feel like there's there's it's always nice to move on and start something new.
I also feel like having something having the same thing in every cross isn't always a good thing.
Like I mean I've I've ran into that problem in the rec scene up here in Washington trying to sell seeds to someone
saying OK well here's this and I go we've already got a grandpa's breath cross.
Mike yeah but you don't have this one this one's different this one it grows completely different it looks and smells
completely different.
It's not the same thing you know so it's it's it's a sometimes it's a hard sell letting people know that even though it's got
the same male you're going to get you get completely you're going to have different results you know it's not always going to
be the same things.
Yeah interesting tapping into a really interesting point about kind of lack of education within the consumer scene
something which jumps to mind when you mentioned that is I was in Colorado and I went to a dispensary and I was like show me the
best weed you got guys and they pulled out some cookies and I was like oh cool what cut is it and they were like oh it's the
Durban cross OG cut and I was just yeah you know and I was just like really like you're meant to be the knowledgeable one here like.
Yeah no it's not going to work.
Yeah OK so just to quickly rule out a little question I'd found I'm not even sure if it's true but I think I read on a forum somewhere
that like at some point in the earlier days before you did the call you just mentioned of the grandpa's breath male you did a
reselection was that true or no.
Yes actually so what.
OK so yeah no you're right.
We did the original.
OK so my first male I selected of grandpa's breath that was the humble pie grandpa's breath F to foul mouth false teeth all
those guys that was all done under that grandpa's breath male.
Then that one was gone and I had to select another one which was done to make the sugar daddy Italian ice pine and perp and that
line the second grandpa's breath line was all done with the new male and I feel like all those ones have turned out just as good if
not better offspring.
So that's I'm totally space.
I'm glad he brought that up.
I sometimes I need to remind myself though I did do that because I forget at times because it was the grandpa's breath.
But yeah it was a different male for that breed.
Yeah no that's all good.
So if we kind of look at some of the ones you mentioned there none of them were the ones you chose for the new male.
I think you actually end up choosing purple vapor was the first male.
What was it about the purple vapor which made you pick that one as your new male at least of the initial selection going
forward.
That there was a there was a purple vapor and a brandy wine that were selected at the same time with help from a friend.
I was able to I gave him the last of my purple vapor and I gave him a bunch of the brandy wine.
And in return I said I'd like you to bring me back all the males.
So when he did that he brought a truck full.
I mean I had so many selections I was like oh my God.
So I had I sat there in my yard one summer and I was like I've got literally I think I had 20 20 or 25 of each.
So looking at all those and then flowering them all out I allowed them all to just get big and I actually collected the
pollen this time I didn't even take cuts of them I was like this is gonna be a once and done type of thing.
So I got all the pollen that I wanted off the ones I was going to keep or that I knew I wanted to breed with the rest of
them were discarded.
And then so in particularly the purple vapor that guy it was just a bad ass male like that one in the brandy wine both just
showed extreme close close nodal space and there was like a nice they had I didn't have as much of a what I don't want to
call it a cola but essentially a male flower cluster cola whatever you know is probably a more of a scientific term for
that but I don't know it off the top of my head so I'm not going to make one up.
But yeah they they just had a really good look to them and those ones were the ones that ended up being selected for the
new the the wine line which isn't even I mean I've released a few of those but not all of those have been released and in
the purple vapor line I think there was the first one I released from that so far I think was the or one of the newer ones
was the biker perps and that's that hell's angel times purple vapor so all those the new ones I feel like are going to be
killer man I really feel like those ones are going to be awesome.
Yeah definitely I mean the brandy wine is one I'm extremely interested in mostly because it contains pink champagne we'll
jump to that in a second what is it about the brandy one which drawed you to it I mean I know it's won a cup on its own so
that's probably a good starting point right.
Oh yeah no it's it's the brandy wine itself like we I knew once we started growing that one out it showed so much it very I
don't have a percentage but it had a lot of the of the the offspring had some good signs of pink champagne and that cut in
itself I've been smoking for 20 plus years and I am yet to see one other strain that has that same profile nothing I've not
come across anything else in all my cannabis days that have that smells exactly like the pink champagne and I mean it has to
be the cut from the Bay Area.
I still don't know the full lineage of it I've been told story after story and it's almost it's more of a secret than
anything else people people make stuff up but there's supposedly or supposedly there's a some Romulan Urkel and C-99 in
there somewhere I can see the C-99 or maybe the Urkel because of the color but there's something in it that is it makes it super
unique and like I said I've just it's it's unmatched so finding anything like that in the brandy one was super cool and just
knowing that that's the potential I knew that there was something that I was on to something having the brandy wine in the
lineage I feel like it has a certain kind of a sweetness and it adds frost so that male was a stud and I feel like it's just another
one of the something from grandpa's breath line that once it touches the female it just adds so much good stuff to it that it's
it's kind of a no brainer.
Yeah without a doubt it's funny I was thinking about this for a while I was like oh we're gonna geek out over the champagne or
sorry the pink champagne because I didn't realize there was another strain called champagne but apparently there is but then I yeah as
we're in it right now I realize it's pretty much both of us just going yeah I don't know what's in it like.
But that's what's kind of cool man I mean that's what I kind of was saying earlier there's a lot of I'm not gonna I mean not a
fable fables more of a story like like a kind of a made up story but I really feel like there's there's some hidden there's something going on
where some people just don't want someone to recreate or they just decide to keep it a secret or maybe they're just they maybe no one
really knows but I find it extremely odd that this day and age they're not I've had a lot of bullshitter step forward and try to tell me that
they know what it is and this and that it's like we don't even I mean I don't know who you are I've never heard of you and you'd all of a
sudden I don't know where you pop up on Instagram and you're the fucking creator behind pink champagne I don't think so.
So whoever has it or made it out there congratulations you made something that I hold very dear to my heart it's awesome plant so that's cool
but yeah I really wish I knew what it was it would it would it would help a lot of things out but sometimes it's better that not to just have a
mystery it creates it creates a good something to talk about again you know.
Yeah for sure for sure I guess kind of the next thing which I found on your Instagram when I was doing a little stumble through it all was
that you have done some feminized seeds in the past not exactly a staple in the menu but can we expect to see more going forward.
Yes and no so here's here's here's if people don't know this those that was a it was a collaboration release I didn't breed those a friend who goes by at
Mary Jane wines he was the creator behind the gorilla glue for s1 and the the gorilla grapes which a lot of people liked and we we still grow and we love it
it's very glue dominant but you get just enough of a kind of a sweet berry thing going on that kind of just adds a little bit more of you know
something interesting to the glue but both of those released were they were fantastic got a lot of good feedback except for the glue out of respect for
Josie Wales I wouldn't ever release another glue as one he really wasn't happy with that and I can understand but at the same time I didn't do it so I just
released it as a you know to help a friend out but I think at some point yes you can expect to see more I've been it's been requested of me so much and I
get asked at every show are your seeds feminized why not can I get some you know there's and it's always a mixed answer I've told people I prefer
regular seeds but I'm not going to tell you how to grow if someone else wants to grow feminized seeds and they're hell bent on I want feminized I don't
want to pick out the males and I want to I want the risk I want to risk the potential of having herms you know late in flower and have them to figure out
where they're coming from that's fine you can run those from an I seed so I at some point I think I'll probably you know release some to people but it's
definitely not on my agenda or my to do list anytime soon I've got I've got so much other stuff going on and I find what I'm doing now is a lot more fun and
it's it's it's just what I'm into I don't I haven't I personally have never reversed a plant to make the pollen it so it's it's one of those things like I I I know I can do it but it's just a matter of setting up the space and getting a little feminized room going so but again it's just really I've got with everything else I've got going on I'd much rather focus on my regular line.
Yeah okay so an interesting point you kind of loosely touched on was Josie Wales and kind of Gorilla Glue moving forward an interesting point is there seems to be talks I don't know if it's actually happened but you know of like
trying to take more of like a strong legal stance on people using their strains and what not do you think how do you think about that idea moving forward and if there became a precedent for that would you ever consider using it if people were like you know S1 in your strands and stuff or do you think like it's not necessarily the best road we go down as a community.
There man there's I'm kind of it I feel strongly about a couple different things so one do I think that we should all be able to brand our work yes but do I am I against someone else using my stuff no I think I think there's a fine line between someone who has a good idea and wants to use your work to.
You know to make something special and then some guy that wants to be lazy and just say hey
I'm gonna take I'm gonna take someone else's stuff and just make a
Feminized line out of his work or I'm gonna take his his pack of seeds and cross it to all my stuff and release that
It's like that's kind of I mean, that's too easy, bro
I mean you should you should do at least one breed find a male from that and then cross it to something
But I think at this point if we can all get to where we've got our own
You know
strains that we've made and we are known for it and people can we can if
There's no argument that that we all know that CSI made this strain in there and and DBG made a string archive made a string
And those are theirs then those strains should be ours and it should be no argument
But since we all know that's not the case and many people will abuse that
Maybe we do need to have a little bit more of a legal standpoint
I feel like everything is going that way anyway in the canvas industry. So
Unfortunately, I wish it wasn't but it is what it is
So you kind of got to follow suit and just run with it
So at this point I think trying to get involved with you know
I don't know if patenting my strains is necessarily the right word, but but getting them into phylos
And there's another there's another thing
some woman presented to me where you can basically send in clippings of your strains and they you basically get some sort of
They do it with flowers and other plants but
Kind of branding your work and then you get ownership of it
There's there's certain things that are kind of turning in that direction and I'm all about it
I will follow I'll do whatever I can to get my strains all listed under so it's known that I made them
But whether that makes them legally mine like I can take you to court and sue you that seems kind of douchey
I mean unless it's a huge company that's gonna be making millions of dollars off me then at that point
Yeah, I want my piece of the pie
But I think if some other guy wants to use your strain or something
It's and it's with good intentions
Then is it really a reason to go cause stink and then pay a bunch of lawyers and get involved and all that
I don't I don't think so, but
There's definitely
There's definitely a lot of stuff going on
Right now and a lot of shady stuff going on and a lot of people burning bridges
so I don't know it so it almost seems like it's it's kind of like
You know, you should be doing anything you can to protect your business and your branding
Yeah, definitely seems like there are some kind of underhanded moves being made by some people but not to drown on that
Maybe even highlight the opposite if someone did want to breed with some of your work and do it the right way kind of
You know underlying part of this question
Do you kind of in general like when people reach out and say hey, you know, I'm gonna do this
What do you think or you just don't care, you know, like, you know, like I said like yeah do it
But you don't need to talk to me or anything or how do you feel about all that?
Well
Seeing as I'm guilty of it myself
I think that I think that everybody if you're gonna use someone else's stuff
You should probably mention it to them like hey, man, just thought you'd know I found something killer out of your work
I'm gonna use it as one of my females in my project and then hit it to my mail and you know, voila
I wanted to give you some of the seeds back if you're interested or hey just wanted to pay homage
I'll make sure I shout you out. Whatever
There's a lot of stuff that goes into it and I have not always done that. But well, I used a seed junkies
his wedding cake the cut didn't come from him it came through someone else and I
In a roundabout way hit him up and said hey, man
I know I talked about wanting this cut and I ended up getting it through someone else just want to let you know
He's like hey, man, that's cool right on have fun with it. Enjoy and there's just a mutual respect. I think
so
That's different than someone else just using for instance
If someone just all of a sudden crossed, you know
My grandpa's breath or something to their entire line
Which actually just recently happened and then they didn't even mention it to me
and then I find out that not only did you not even mention that you're gonna breathe with my stuff, but you
You then released it all untested to the community
That's a slap in the face man
because then all of a sudden I'm gonna look like
Like I'm a part of that in a way like if you didn't test your gear and you get a bunch of bad stuff coming
Out of it then all of a sudden my my name is attached to someone else early shitty stuff
I don't like that and I also don't like people, you know
Just releasing stuff to the community just to make a quick buck really quick. You know, that's not really cool either
So there's there's definitely it just comes down to respect man
I really feel like if someone if they want to use your stuff, it's kind of an honor in a way
you know, there's no reason to be mad, but again, I feel like there's certain intentions people have that
You should just you should just look out for and I think that some people just don't really give a shit
They're gonna do whatever they're gonna do
But I've seen it countless times where some well-known breeders or people that are making seeds
Take someone else's line and drop it without mentioning anything to him. It's like wow
That's kind of why would they do that? And it's just like, you know, there's kind of mixed feelings about it
So if someone gets offended about that, then I think they already know the answer
Yeah, okay, so just looping back to a point you made in the previous question you mentioned phyllis
How do you feel about the idea of genetic mapping and kind of?
Maybe kind of in answering the question you pose where you said, oh look, you know
I'm down with the idea of getting ownership, but not necessarily so I can go and sue people
One of the kind of things about phyllis is they say that if you submit your stuff to them
It will get you know mapped and you'll have ownership of it
But it'll go into the public domain so that like everyone can use it. But obviously it's known that it's yours
Would you do it if that was the case?
Absolutely, like I really I've been meaning to meet up with those
They've been talking to me for a while and I want to say at least a couple years
About getting together and doing some stuff and I really I need to do that and I want to do it
And yeah, I guess I don't understand how it works
I thought anyone and everyone could turn in a strain and in the fight it kind of just goes into that map where they kind
of just has the stars are all on there with with you know with everything kind of showing where that where it all lands on
the on the on the field, but
If there's a way for me personally to say no, this is mine and have my name attached it didn't tell you
I mean
I think that
Anything like that that can kind of put you into the history books as you're the guy behind it then great because that's kind of
Where we've had issues in the past where people are butting heads over. Well, that's my strain. Well, no, it's not
I made that one. Well, no you didn't I made that no three you came out no way
There's a lot of stuff that that can really
You know, we can end an argument really quick if it was known
Facts and it was stuff that's been documented already
Yeah for sure
So just to loop back on the brandy wine for one moment
I noticed on your Instagram and actually kind of snuck by me the first time the absinthe cross
Chemdog big part of this show, you know holds special place in our hearts
How do you rate the chem D and do you so do you see yourself working with the chem in?
You know, whether it be the chem D the chem 91 whatever moving forward or was it just more of like a one-off trial thing? I
think that having Kim in my lines is
Definitely something that's needed to happen when I first was working with Ken
I had a chem for I still have chem for but the chem for was one that I first was had access to and
I really liked it. It yielded great. It's a good plant. I
want more of that stank and the chem D and the chem 91 which I
Which I do have it just hasn't been bred with yet
Both of those have a little bit more of the smell I'm looking for
What I did find or excuse me what my tester found
With the absinthe cross that he just recently finished up was there wasn't as much chem dog
Smells coming out of his what he selected as the keepers, which is fine
I wasn't necessarily trying to create something that I would say is better than the original mom by any means what I'm
Trying to do is just literally release something that's gonna have
Some new smells all together and I know that when you combine such a good parent with something that I'm offering
I think there's there's there's it mixes well and it creates let's just say I can new drink at the bar
You know
I mean like we all can go get the originals we all love and like but then we can go in there may hey try
This one all of a sudden it gives you some new taste on or a new view on on the strain you already liked and great
I did my job and that's kind of where I'm going. So yes, I'm gonna have more Kim on the line
yes, there'll be more Kim popping up but for now the crosses that you see the
Kim for cross to brandy wine is called Kim fusion
That one's gonna be coming out at some point and the same with the absent Kim D
Times the brandy wine both of those are gonna be great. I I know it but
Definitely got to go through the testing. I'd like to run on myself, you know before releasing them and
So there's a little bit of a wait, but I'd rather I'd rather always
You know put something out that I'm proud of than rather just have someone else's word and just release it on on without any knowledge
Of what I'm doing. I'd like to have
Some some really good lines that include those Kim's but I think what I'll find once I get those
Those ones going with some bat crossing or if I need to just do some in car
Whatever I'm gonna do
I have a feeling I will I will be looking for more of the Kim she knows to be popping up to use more of
We were very exciting. Yeah, I definitely am interested in that absent
So just to pop to another strain that kind of snuck by me that I'm really interested in hangover. Hayes this one. I'm
Yeah, I'm super interested in it because ghost train Hayes was big for a minute and then it kind of popped off
But I still think it's a killer strain, you know
What is it about it that draw you to it?
And do you have any of these other kind of strong sativas that you're thinking about breeding with?
Yes, and yes, so so
The the ghost train Hayes. It's it's a cutout account out of Colorado
I don't know if it for sure came from the rare dankness camp or not, but one way or another
It's got it's got killer smell. It's
It's hard for me to describe smells as much some people have different way of doing it. But to me it was more of that that
Kind of like a pine saw cleaner
City, you know like the metallic Hayes kind of thing going on but with that cleaner smell in the pie
I don't know ghost train. Hayes has a very distinct smell in my opinion and it was awesome
Crossed it to the brandy wine and each time I saw it finish up. It was very
There was you get some of that lemon and some of the stuff from the mom
But again, you get you get kind of a mixed, you know, smell thing going on there. That's it definitely leads for
some interesting stuff
the
That one
Was one of the more sativa dominant ones I did. I do have some some
There's one called redheaded stranger. That's a new one in my line
That's gonna be here shortly, but that's a Tom Hills Hayes with Williams wonder I believe
Wow, that is two powerhouses
Yeah, that one right there. I think will be interesting. There's a couple others to
Tell the Dutch tree original Dutch treat I got that ones that ones in flower right now
I think that when you eventually get hit with some stuff small
We'll have some some new ones to play with but I like I said earlier
I like sativa people ask for it all the time
Just like that and CBD and I don't ever I don't hardly have anything to offer them, especially CBD
I have nothing but sativa wise the hangover Hayes was the first one I could say that in my sipper
Oh, it's the snow cap cross. They
Those would be two I'd be leaning toward the sativa side of things
yeah, okay cool and
so
Do you ever plan to work with any crazy landrace stuff for it's just not really on the radar. I
I've got I was I just pulled him out yesterday
I had taken a picture of my seed my seed collection and I have I had mentioned having land races in there
I pulled him out. I've got I've got Nepalese
Stuff I've got stuff from
India
There's there's an issue right now
A lot of people are saying that a lot of stuff that that's coming out of India has been you know stuff
That was just you know, basically hemp, you know or stuff
That's very low potency just nothing great and a lot of people have been just breeding bullshit and and not really paying attention to what?
They're doing out there now. I do know for a fact that the guy that I got them from
Was a little bit
More reputable as far as you know, he's not just going to the base of the mountain collecting seeds
He he knew people up in the hills. His wife was from India. He had a little bit more of a reputation
he was friends with Ringo who passed away a little ways back and
I believe
I
Believe DJ short got seeds from him as well at the same time
I did and grew some out and he found some good stuff now
It's those plants really should be grown outside or in the greenhouse or something and right now
I only have indoor room to dedicate so I won't be popping any of them soon
but before they go bad, I mean I really need to get get them in the ground because there's the
What could be found in the seeds? I do have would be would be incredible and I I'm telling you right now
I've never seen seeds like these. So whatever they are. I have a feeling just based on what I'm looking at in the bag
I have something special like they literally look like
Espresso beans just these tiny little black things that are just dark and shiny like I've never seen anything like it
So there's definitely some interesting stuff in there. But when when I get to pop them and will they be
Crossed into anything I have who knows but I'd I would sure love the idea of that
Yeah, okay
And so what is some genetics you wish you had right now to work with that?
You don't have whether it be just a clone you don't have access to or some genetics that are from you gone by. I
Recently just got a clone from somebody that's supposed to be or it's not supposed to be it's it's from Duke diamond and it's a
It's one of his I believe it's Dominion seed company. He has he has some new skunks
he's been working with and he I would say if anybody out there right now has
You know good feedback on releasing some some of the old-school skunk that really that roadkill kind of smell
There's something from from from Matt, right? I hear about all the time this skunk spray Afghan, but there's also the
This stuff from from Duke where he's got this local skunk and these different ones that are all supposed to be just just really
Bring back the memories of that old lineage that we all thought was extinct. So I'm kind of looking into that
I'd really wish I had some of his stuff because that takes me back to my childhood
Anytime I smelt a dead skunk I correlated that to you know, smelling some good green bud. So
He he's something I'd like to get into his stuff. But I mean with all the seeds I have to pop up my own gear
It's like when am I gonna have time?
So anything skunk like a real strong skunk that's something I'm after I'd like to see in my line
but then also I
Don't know who I don't know who the breeders but there's something called tits. This is the shit is what it stands for
There's something like that or sour. This is the shit. There's a few out there that I'm a big sour diesel fan
so anything that's got
Anything that's close to that or has a very sour smell or just a real just strong funk. I'm into that
There's there's another one Royal Kush every time I've seen Royal Kush
I'm absolutely in love with it
But I know some guys are you know, there's plenty of people out there breeding with it
Some people are known for that. That's like their baby. So that kind of goes back to what I said originally like I don't want to necessarily
Take what someone else is already, you know, that's you know, something of theirs and then use it in mine
maybe if it was gifted to me or they asked me to breed with it, that'd be another story, but
I think I'm gonna more or less try sticking to
Stuff I'm finding in my own lines and then obviously I'll have to go back and you know
some of these ones some of the hyped cuts and
Some of these ones that people really want to see me work with I'll end up
Using along the line at some time
Yeah for sure a lot of points to jump into there
I'll see if I can quickly bang him out tits was made by Ben from IC collective
And also, you know by extension skunk VA shout out those two guys. I love them
And Royal Kush, is that the the Long Valley Royal?
Either long value and see that's what I'm not sure of is it Long Valley Royal Kush or am I talking about just the Royal Kush?
Number seven that's I don't know if that's a fish in auto or if it's I think it's Mandel bought Mandelbrot Mandelbrot
Yes, I think the Long Valley is the selection aficionado did of Mandelbrot's Royal
Yeah, and I mean that stuff
I mean
I was at an I was at Emerald Cup and I I see these kids pull out paper bags that they've got all their urban and
they're showing
aficionado and he he's his eyes are rolling in his head as he sniffed him I was like
I got to see what these kids have they got they obviously have some fire and
So I get I get a hold of these guys
I'm like, let me see what you got and they had Royal Kush and I remember just doing the same thing as soon as you
Squeeze that bud and it was outdoor as soon as you squeeze that bud and give it a little twist
You just it was mind-blowing like I I love it. Like it had such a good smell
And even a year after getting that bud I was smoking what I was calling Christmas weed because that's around the time I got it
A year later and it was still just as good as when I first did it was just gooey sticky
Great, just really nicely grown weed out of Humboldt
Yeah, well the dream, right?
So I'm gonna push you on one last thing before we jump back into your own stuff you put a photo out recently
Kind of touching on that point you made earlier about being both a seed collector as well as a seed creator in that photo
We can see if your little seed your seed storage container. We can see a few breeders in there
I'm pretty sure I can see a pack of Bodhi at the front nice and center
But I can also I also think I can see it's either like a pack of Oni or a pack from goo
I can't quite make it out doesn't matter
But what I want to know is if you had to pack a few pops from your little collection
What would it be and who are some of the breeders who you currently jive with?
Man, there's there's so much stuff in here, dude. I mean is but yeah, you're right
You're seeing some Bodhi right there on the top of it. I've got some Bodhi gear
He's someone he's one of the breeders who you don't see a lot of these shows
He's always been kind of behind the scenes
I met him one time and he was the most humble down-to-earth the coolest guy
I I had talked to in a long time and I was an honor to meet him
And he literally after meeting a guy like that you pretty much want to buy his whole line
But you'd go broke doing it because he's got so many strains
But he he is such a cool dude. And then there's like
Shoot who else you I think what you saw what you thought was an Oni or an On one was seed
Was it you're staring at a Canerado pack? Ah, yes that white one and
Canerado he's a good dude. He's a guy I've met quite a few times anytime
I see him, you know a little handshake and you know fist bump whatever. He's a cool guy
So we see each other a lot at the shows
If I was gonna pop anything out of here man, that's a hard one. I've got so much stuff in here
It's not even funny
But I think honestly I've got some stuff right here at the top from a guy called
Elite cannabis out of Colorado and him and his boys. He's friends with green dot
Green dot Dave. I believe green dot labs Dave at a Colorado and a few these other guys and they've got these Kim D
La Kim crosses and I believe it's a Kim D
95 cross something like that and
just I
Mean all this stuff. They've got triangle cush Kim dogs
everything's crossed this Kim D La Kim and I think that sparked my interest because
Even going back to the old icy mag days. All I wanted was the stinkiest stuff I could find like that's what sold
That's what I wanted. I want the gas. I want to just the nasty baby poop stuff
Just anything that just makes you go. Yeah, that's what I'm into. So so
He I have a feeling popping any of that stuff there I'm gonna find everything I need to fall into the nasty category and then
You mean after that probably those Indian land race I mentioned earlier
I mean, I know there's there's so much value and pop in some original
Land race and being able to use that and you're breeding to get some pure stuff
But if it is or not, that's another thing
I'm have to get some guys that are that are very well versed and you know instead of traveled or have seen these things up
Close and can tell me. Hey, that's what this is or you know, you're growing frickin him
Yeah, sure on a little side note
Spoke to professor P and he said he grew out some of those chem dealer cam crosses and he's blown away
So you're in for something special if you do pop those ones
No good. No. Yeah, so
Kind of same topic but a little bit left of it
Would you ever consider doing a breeding collaborative project?
How would you want to do it like because I think a lot of people these days like, you know
Each person brings one kind of parent to the table. Is that how you'd want to do it or you know?
Some other weird idea maybe
You know, it kind of depends. So that's I did the I did that release for my buddy
Mary Jane Wines or like I said, you know, that was something we talked about, you know, I I had mentioned
wanting to
You know have some feminine stuff and why people asking for it so much. He says well, I've got you know
I'm making grill glue s ones. I'm making this thing called grill grapes, you know, what do you think?
And I thought it was a good idea. I think I think I'd like to have a little bit more
Involvement rather than just having someone say hey, this is what I made here you go and selling them under my brand
I don't I there was no issues with that, but I still don't want to do that ever again just because
I think it's better for a breeder to have a little bit more of a
Say and what's being used and what's going on that way you can back the project a little bit better. I think
This day and age like I said earlier
There's a lot of greed and there's a lot of shadeness that goes on
So if you're gonna get involved with anybody like that, you probably want to have
You know someone that you've known or that you can work well with and that you're vibing good with
I've got a guy out of California by the name of green gold collective
He was the guy that bred the the lemon grove that I'm currently growing which is the lemon tree times citrus farmer
He told me what he was doing the entire time and I was like man
That's that's literally a crossed I wanted to do and that's awesome good for you
And he's you know, that's when we started talking about working together on it. So he did the original f1 cross
I'm growing out them right now
He's had a few buddies grow some of them out in California in the outdoors and in the greenhouse and everything's come out perfect
We will take
Selections I've already pulled bales off the table and everything they're already put to the side, but I'm growing out females right now
We'll see how that goes
And then I imagine that he'll probably in the path to come up here or vice versa
And we'll have to check things out on a little bit closer
With inspecting everything, but I think we will end up
Unlikely releasing that's that product together and it'll be something that we both have seen and grown
Both in California and Washington, so it'll be kind of cool
I think for any future project that's exactly how I'd want to be like
It's something like either either you bring the male or I bring the female but one way or another we meet in the middle
and we are gonna be there through the entire process of seeing and knowing what's going on and
Then even even to a point of harvesting the seeds
Just getting you know
You get the seed counter and you guys just either split it up right then and there or it's just a trust thing where they
There's X amount of packs and we're gonna put them all up for this price and
Expect a payday. I don't know
Yeah, yeah, that's obviously some of the more interesting final logistics
One of the things which you just mentioned that which caught my ear was the citrus farm
I wanted to touch on this because there's so many interesting things about it
I guess first and foremost the skunk tangerine tell us a bit about it
You know, it's it's kind of like got a bit of a cult following and it's hard to find info on it
That one is it's it's it came from organ kid. He's not the creator. I think he was just holding it for a while
He I believe some guy out of SoCal maybe even San Diego. I don't remember
Fletcher from archive has a lot more knowledge on this strain
He told me that when I told him that I had that cut he was like he was he was shocked
He said that's that's an old one
It's one you don't see circulated very much
I guess there's a few people that have it now and I think they're trying to sell it more and trying to get it out
There but I saw a guy was even knowing that I worked with it
He was trying to get me to pay him $5,000 for a cut
So it's definitely something that's being presented to breeders and to other people as you know potential moneymaker and I don't know
it's because
You know, I already breaded this I don't it's not worth $5,000 to me anymore as a cut
But for those people that haven't ever had it I will tell you it's better than your average
Orange strain. It's definitely got some old-school
Feel to it to where it's just it's not sure. It's not your watered-down tangy
Yeah, I mean the only thing I'd really been able to read about it was that it was like an 11 week flowering
tangerine type of thing
Yes, very much. So and I didn't I'm not mean I didn't I just sound like I was disrespecting tangy
I didn't mean to say watered-down tangible tangy is watered down. What I'm saying is it's not it
This is an original orange strain whoever made it
I think what I've heard was there's some Salmon Creek big bud with something else crossed to it
I'm not exactly sure what but the Salmon Creek big bud I had that back when I lived in, California
I'd have access to that bud and I absolutely loved it
So whatever this plant is that makes it the tangerine it gives it that citrus spell
Hands down has has has a better smell than most other oranges that I've come across
There's so many of them nowadays and that citrus the citrus scene is really hit some people are over it
Some people can't get enough of it. I'm one of those people that it doesn't matter. It's like my daily cup of coffee
I'll I'll smoke orange concentrates. I'll smoke anything tangy anything like that
It leaves that flavor on on the palate and sometimes there's not much power
That gets an act it's associated with the orange strain sometimes
Oh, it's not really that stony. But one thing I can tell you
I don't know if it's the grandpa's breath of the skunk tangerine on its own
But one way or another though those to create a powerhouse. We've had tests of upwards of
High 20s all the way up to 30% now
I know that some tests can get a little bit juggled but for the most part anything that's testing in the 20s
You know, it's gonna work out. Well. Oh
Yeah, I think you touched on a really relevant point. I mean you said, you know not
To hate on tangy so to speak and I'm not hating on tangy
But it's pretty widely accepted that it doesn't it's not really bringing too much in the potency department
So with that, yeah, I mean I've heard that yeah, I think what you're saying is you've felt that
Yes. Yes
But uh, what I'm interested in is do you think do you find that the tangerine haze on its own?
Obviously you answered it before where you said in combination with the grandpa's breath not an issue
But on its own do you feel it overcomes that or do you feel like a lot of the pure tangerine strains?
Inherently have this issue of lacking potency. I
Think
What I've come across so far hasn't
You know, I I've seen I've seen so many different oranges
you know as far as the you know from original orange bud or than the Calio and then
You know more recently the tangy stuff and then one that I've really come across I'm in love with is this tropicana cookies
so I'm not sure I think there might be something to it as far as the orange is all about flavor and
That that just blow your mind smell like when you open a bag
I mean if you if you're not a very
You know big smoker and you haven't seen that before most people think that something's done
He's that smell they relate that to pot you you put a bag of orange bud underneath someone's nose
Especially a female that hasn't smoked or doesn't smoke and they're blown away
Like they can't believe that it's coming from a weed plant, you know, so so I think that
What's going on here is this just like I said the tropicana cookies. Well, there you go
It's got some sort of some sort of orange or something crossed to a cookie plant
well, maybe the cookies is just bringing that extra potency and making it a more of a
well worthwhile strength
Yeah, that's so funny I was um, I was at Bob Hemphill's house and I saw a giant
Tropicana cookies and I pulled it out and I smelled it. I was like, oh my god. This smells like tangy cookies
It's like what's it made of? He has a tangy cross cookies. I was like
That's pretty cool, you know
Yes, I mean, but you did too right you you hit it on the head you like orange cross cookies
Yeah, no, it's it's there's there's the one there's this one that circulates called the
Mountain drop cut or something like that. I'm not exactly sure but that one to me
It's got even more of like a fruit punch. I got like a red candy, you know
Like like cherry strawberry red kind of candy crossed with the orange
Tangy smell with something else. I mean, it just creates a whole new kind of a flavor profile
Man I don't know what it is. But like I said these these orange strains whatever they are
they they all they all seem like they have a place and
What we want to have, you know in the end what we want to smoke on
Yeah, definitely and just another point you quickly mentioned and I want to kind of delve into this a little deeper is you said when?
You for example, you show a girl who doesn't smoke much this this orange smelling weed and they get amazed
Certainly experienced that myself where people are just blown away by and I thought a little more about it and kind of what I was
Thinking is I think that it happens with more than just the tangy because there's been a few strains where you know
Maybe it smells like bang on
Blueberry or bang on a mango, you know really accurate like not around but like perfectly smells like that
I think that um
I think that there's something that goes on in the mind where it's kind of like
You get wowed by the fact that you're looking at something but it smells like something else and there's like this
Miscomputing kind of factor there because you know that like it shouldn't smell the way it does
With that in mind. Do you think that it's kind of like a worthwhile endeavor to breed for that specific thing?
Or do you think it's just like nah, it's not really worth pursuing in that regard.
I think that back in the day there was a lot more premise with the whole you know
Names were given names because of why they smell like for instance
Blueberry is called blueberry and we named it was named that because of how closely it resembles either the real blue like a blueberry muffin
Or artificial blueberry candy, whatever, you know
I mean and that that I'm not sure that we're steering away from that because they like for instance citrus farmer
It's the name implies, you know, you're growing something with citrus
But sometimes people I don't think we're necessarily sitting around and waiting till the very end and you know
I mean, we're testing where we throw all this weed out on the table. We start rolling stuff up and like oh, man
This one smells like mangoes. Okay, then we're gonna call it mango this now
like I feel like
Nowadays we're doing things a little bit different and just trying to be the first
To come up with this creative name before someone else can steal it because with all the breeders and everyone making stuff now
It's almost hard to be original
Like it took me three times recently to come up with a strain because every time I named it and thought I came up with something
Awesome. Here we are with someone else. You'd already named it that so
You kind of have to be really creative and just kind of come up with something that makes sense
But doesn't necessarily resemble what you're gonna get in the end product
Tropicana cookies that one obviously you like you said man
This one like trop was it's like a tropical cookie or is the citrus with the good it's spot-on
so that's that would go under the
Perfectly named category. Whereas some of the stuff I've released, you know
I have Palpatine like so it smells like an old man and a cloak on a on a ship
No
It's just named that because it was it was just a play on words with with the with the lineage
so, I mean there's there's definitely names that that that reflect end results or in and
smells and I think that's something that I I I feel
Should be paid a little bit more attention to
Some woman told me the brandy wine that I presented to her. She says I'm a chef. I don't smoke pot
This smells to me exactly like fresh
It was either mango or some sort of fruit and I I had never thought of it that way
I was stuck on that. Well, it's got kind of a
Fresh floral dank smell and she's like no, it smells like mangoes. I'm like, oh, okay
So, you know, I mean, it's everyone's got their own opinion. I think that some
Sometimes I almost feel like having a blind taste test panel and someone like where where people that don't smoke you put all your weed
In front of them and let them decide. Hey, what does this smell like? Cuz you get a completely different
feedback and a completely different
Result than what you were looking for
I mean
I I've done it already with people that don't smoke and it's hilarious what they say compared to someone who's who's
Who just gives you the average answer? Oh, it smells dank, bro
That smells like we either you know, it's this smells like this a skunky or whatever
No
I you start hearing things that you never would have thought of so I feel like when when it comes to breeding that might be
Something that we all might want to get back into is trying to get closer to what does it actually really smell or taste like?
But that'll that we there's only so many things we can name it like then we'd already be already past like all the existing fruits
and and and
vegetables and
Everything so I don't even know how it'd be original with that, but we'll figure it out one way or another
Will you raise a really valid point about being original with names and it's getting to the point where it's it's crazy
As you said, you know, you have to go back to the drawing board three times and we even see some people
Admittedly not common or from the biggest breeders
But you see some some breeders will put up a list of names before they've even made the crosses
They're like, all right reserving these ones now, you know what I mean?
I've been I've done it myself. Yeah, like I mean, it's kind of like cutthroat like you got to get in there quick
What do you think will be the end solution? Cuz eventually, you know, like we're gonna be doing
Rolling over dog next to puddle, you know, just like ridiculous stuff that hasn't been taken
Yeah, dude, I don't know man it's to me it's it's kind of a
It goes back to the respect thing. For instance, I put I put up something recently. It said Arctic grape
I thought I was original. I looked it up. I couldn't find it anywhere
What turns out red-eye genetics has already had this strain. Not only do they have it
It's already flowered out and they're done. Whereas I'm just starting to test and just getting done with my first test of it
So for me, I'm like, well, they've got it. They're ready to release who am I to step in front of them and say no
I'm keeping that name. It's kind of like well you guys got it. You're ready to go have fun with it. So
That's kind of how it is. And I think that having strains that have the same name as someone else
That's that's a shot in the foot. That's not gonna help you
It's not gonna help me
Some someone walks into a club or starts buying seeds or telling you what their favorite strain is and they're like, oh
I really like this like well
Which one from do you like that one from these guys?
Would you like it from those guys better and it's like is it is it really hurting anybody?
I'm not sure
But I think I just make a lot more sense and be a lot easier on all of us if we just had
One one person who's known for their strain like I'm not gonna like you're not gonna come another person's not gonna come out with dose
Edo tomorrow, not only would you create so much of a headache to yourself by trying to do that?
But it's just like why would you name it something that's already become famous with someone else?
You know, I mean just it just it's kind of like it's just pointless
So I think yeah, we really should focus on trying to you know, be original but also just when it comes down to just
It's whoever's quick the quickest or the most creative person wins whoever was first to put it out there and and yeah
I don't know. I guess naming strains before it's even done. Is that is that good or not?
I don't know because if you wait till the end before it's you know
When it's done and then you name it then that name could be taken and you're stuck trying to figure out a name when you
Got something that's ready to release and it becomes pain in the ass for marketing and and trying to get stuff into production
yeah, totally so I
People may not be aware that we've been we've been talking about doing this one for a while
I've got to ask this question because I started writing these questions a long time ago
And this one's been on the list. It was like the very first one I wrote and it's it's a little out there
But we're gonna do it. Um a little birdie told me that back when you were working at GDP, you know
So this is nothing about you. Obviously that Bay 11 won an award
Someone told me that what got entered in the cut wasn't actually Bay 11
It was actually Appalachia, which is one of the parents of Bay 11. Is that true?
Yeah, get ready for get ready for the spilt milk
there there was
multiple
Things that happened while working under Grande and I'm not trying to throw anyone under the bus or talk any shit
But let's let's keep it real here facts are facts and I'm a very factual person. I don't like liars
I don't like taking claims for things that are not true and I sure as hell like
Misrepresenting strains when it comes to awards
I feel like all that stuff goes into karma and and if you're if you think that by
Lying about your your plants and lying about what you're entering just to win a cup is gonna help you in the long run
Well, where's granddaddy now?
So there's your answer. But what happened was Bay 11. Apparently Bay 11 plant was
Aka Appalachia. It was stolen from Bodhi from
An ex-garden worker or some guy that had access to Bodhi's plants at his at his facility
he supposedly took this plant and brought it to Ken and then they
Changed the name to Bay 11 Bay was their head growers name and he you know
He got credit for that one and called it Bay 11. I'm not sure why I mean it sounds cool
I guess but I don't know much more than that other than the fact that yeah, it was uh
It was straight up Appalachia entered as Bay 11 and then
Just like back in the day what the way you do it
You market these strains you enter the cup and then guess what happens right after the cup you release the seeds
Well, it's kind of hard to release
You know what you just entered in the cup when you got the what into the cup was a clone only so they crossed everything
With their male GDP or whatever they had and then Bay 11 seeds were born
So really in all reality anyone who bought Bay 11 was more than likely buying
Appalachia times
GDP or
GDP bag seed at that excuse me because it's not even pure GDP pure GDP is a clone only as well
So it kind of it's kind of a mess and then to go to get further more into that
Let's let's let's go into the let's go into the very next cup after that. The very next cup was
Was one while was there we've won third place for Ken's phantom
Ken's phantom is
our
beloved pink champagne
so pink champagne was gifted to a granddaddy perp collective in
2011 or 2012 whatever it was and it was then
Grown out and that was entered into NorCal Cup, San Francisco or wherever it was
I believe was 2012 and it was entered as Ken's phantom
It was straight up pink champagne again another strain gifted to their collective and then turned in as something else
They won with at that time and then sure enough right after that seeds are then released and it's
It's it's the lineage on the pack said
Cherry pie times GDP and still to this day I get messages or someone's like hey
so I know that the phantom or Ken's phantom kush or whatever no not phantom kush the phantom cookies or
Whatever it was. I'm I get confused now because there's so much nonsense
It's associated with the but one way or another it was it was not pure
Pink champagne. It was not the same thing entered as the cup which then leads me to my next
bit of
spilt milk was the
their candy land entry
they won first place for
Candyland that again was either animal cookies or
Forum cut or platinum cookies whatever cut that came through their collective was turned in as candy land
When in all reality it was just pure cookies
Man my candy lands bogus
No, it's not don't think that way. It's still good. I promise you that seeds that were made were were cookies crossed to GDP
I mean there was some really good finds out of there, but but
No, I like that. That's some good good spilt milk
Yeah, very interesting
Yeah
See high and lonesome was another guy off the forums and he kind of got into me when I cuz I was I was
Granddaddy perp rep I was that was the guy behind the behind the company online so everyone was like yo, that's some bullshit
I'm like I agree with you, but what can I do about it? I'm just a spokesperson. I'm not the breeder
I'm not the guy that made it. I'm not the one turning stuff in I'm not the one making these horrible decisions
So it was it was kind of a pain in the ass because I'm sitting there being being the poster child for granddaddy
And I had to take all the heat all the time
That's what got old too because there's nothing worse than getting yelled at for something you didn't do
Yeah, totally man I feel for you, oh well good to be out of those days yes very much so
So something the fans always came to hear about
We are you know pretty big on organic growers on the show probably partly because that's what I am
But I don't think that's what you are. But you know to rule the question out. Are you organic or synthetics?
What's your preferred style of growing?
Currently and what I have been doing for the past shoot
I mean for years now has been I'm a cocoa grower. I prefer pure cocoa core. No no additives
Nothing just straight pure cocoa core. Usually it's house and garden
Cocoa, sometimes it's just whatever is available
But you got to watch the salts the salt build up in that cocoa sometimes is really really bad and you end up going into
It just looks like straight lockout for weeks until you get it flushed out
And I don't I don't really like that so I tend to go with a little bit higher end cocoa
And then from there I use Mills nutrients. I have a couple additives
I've been playing with but for the most part elite elite 91
For roots and stuff like that and then my Mills and Mills does have some organic stuff in it
But for the most part it's it's a synthetic nutrient
Cool, and like how do you feel about this one?
Because I've always had this interesting perspective where I've never had anyone give me like really really really good synthetic stuff
Obviously, I'm in Australia. So, you know a bit of a different game so to speak. Do you feel the same?
Like how do you feel about that? Do you just think it's not not really much of a difference to you
To really it it comes down to I love weed
So if someone presents me something hydro dirt pro mix
I mean
I don't care what you grow and if you know how to grow and you do a good job and you bring me something that I
Don't I don't have to completely destroy the bud to get the smell out of it
I can obviously look at it and tell that it was grown with love you trimmed it up nicely
You didn't bring me wet weed. I mean, there's there's there's so much that goes into it
But I mean organic I had some of my some of the best tasting pot has been organically grown
I mentioned Captain Crip earlier
I tried some of his blueberry and some of his he had a strain called super fruit back in the day and I it's extinct
Now as far as I don't think anyone's got super fruit anymore
But that was one of the tastiest like I cannot describe how good that plant was and it's I don't know where it's at
If it's gone or whatever, but again, I believe I believe everything he grew was organic
There was there was a few other gentlemen that brought me examples. And again
Organic was was absolutely killer
But just because you grow organic doesn't mean you're gonna have good taste in weed
Like if you don't know what you're doing
You don't know how to play or build that soil and get that stuff out of there and and make sure it doesn't show up
in the end then
You know, I mean you're gonna have you're gonna have some harsh tasting, you know stuff. That's not that great
Anyway, so I think depending on who who's grown it and if they have their if they've got their system dialed in then I truly
I I don't really have a preference. Honestly, I just I love smoking weed
So if it's got good flavor and it's got some good smell then
Sometimes even when plants don't have the best flavor and I can tell it well either wasn't flushed
Necessarily correctly or not, but it's got an extremely good smell
I end up smoking anyway, because I just I can't get over that that smell
Yeah, no, I totally agree with you on that one
So one thing I just want to quickly ask is you brought it to my mind when you mentioned captain Cripps name
Another name that phantom or pink champagne. Sorry. I should stop saying Phantom pink champagne
That it goes by is kryptonite. Have you heard that and you know where it maybe comes from? I did. Yes
I don't I don't know who gave it that name or what but like
That and this is it goes along early like so we all have the same strain
But for some reason some guy was like, you know what I'm growing pink champagne, but you know what?
I think I like the name kryptonite better or I think I like the name
Raspberry kush or there's or there's another one
It's called Wow, and I can see Wow being a better name for because every time I've ever grown it I say wow, so
It's it's like you smell the bag and I can just see a bud to they're going. Wow
What is that neck and that that would make more sense?
But some of these other strains just just just to throw another name on top of it makes no sense
Like I feel like there's there's there's been a lot of that. It doesn't really help anything
So I'm not sure who decided to dub it kryptonite or maybe they didn't but I know that the guys that afford
Uh have been calling things kryptonite or crippling or crypto for a long time
so not to confuse it out of Florida or confuse it with an OG kush or the triangle or anything any other story like
that but
It was I went into a Seattle club once and they had it as kryptonite and I said man, that's that's pink champagne
I breathe with that strain. I know that there's there's like I said earlier
There's only one strain I've come across that smells like this and it's always pink champagne
So what's up, and they told me that? Oh, yeah, it is. It's from the Bay Area
Not sure where they got that name though. So
Yeah, interesting. Just one of those ones that got attached maybe
Okay, so point you made earlier on in the nice side practice, but you know, I'm taking us back it's all good
You kind of liked and you said you like the idea of sticking within your own lines. This is a concept
I like to explore because not only is it kind of good for picking males
But I don't think enough people really delve into their own females when they're making selections
Is this a conscious decision for you or it just worked out that way
now
If I understand you asking like how am I how I'm feeling now about using within my lines?
Yeah, and like do you consciously like to say like let me put it this way a lot of breeders
They'll use like a list of clone only is that they breed with and it's like a new male to the that list and they never
Incorporate females that they've just created whereas you will you know this round? I've got to keep a brandy
Wine female and I've got to keep a hot rod and so I'm gonna cross the purple vapors to them you get what I mean
Yes, absolutely. So so
basically, I think that
Rather than always creating new f1s, which people do want people want to see the new stuff
They want to see the new hype strains cross to something you've made. That's all good
There's definitely a place for that
But I think what needs to happen also is for you to show enough confidence in what you've created to know that look this one
Was awesome this this plant is the shit and it was crossed to this one
Which is another one of my creations and look what happened it now created something even better
Someone who's really doing this a lot lately. I can I can see it's working out quite well for him is
Exotic exotic genetics has he has put his strains out there to a point where enough people know them cookies and cream
That's a household name with everybody and not just because the ice cream
There's there's people growing his
Tons of his strains and now you see crosses of those strains with this one and that one and they and they're absolutely killer
There's there's if you look up the lineage though, you can clearly see. Okay. That's one's got sherbet. This one's got thin mint, but
In all in all reality what you're staring at is still his creations he has then created there's two strains
He may put together and it creates something even better. That's awesome. But again some people who aren't you know the most
Educated or people that don't maybe they don't know Mike. They might not know what this one is crossing that one
They're looking for all I want the Girl Scout cookie cross to that one little they know Girl Scouts in both plants
But they just don't see that name so they don't want to buy it
So there to me
I think there needs to be a little bit of a balance of having
Having the wedding cakes and and the and the the royal cush the the the clone only is that everyone's wanting
crossed with stuff that's new and exciting to make a new strain and then also showing people that hey, I
I'm working my own strains and not just always throwing out new stuff. I'm back crossing
I'm furthering the filial generation by taking the f2 f3 f4. That's where I want to head
I want to get some of my most
You know my best my favorites the ones that people have bought out and that are sold out and have been sold out and that
keep getting requests for those ones will be first to be created again into f2 f3 and further or
Rebred to you know, even just bring them out again
So people have access to the beans
But definitely want to have a little bit of both and then again like we said earlier something with maybe some feminized down the line
I want to have a complete menu
But one thing I'll say about my stuff is I haven't released 100 strains. I don't release huge lines at one time
I've released a total of you know, I want to say like under 20 strains in the four years. I've been going
I don't I mean and not to say that I'm better than anyone by any means that could also just mean I'm way too
slow for people but in my opinion
it's given me enough time to represent what I've got and given people enough time where they can have a
Chance to grow every one of my strains before I've dropped another 50 on them, you know
So that's kind of where that's kind of where I'm heading
I want to make it to where there's enough strains that that people are interested in but also
There's stuff there that makes me relevant and and we can still get stuff. That's uh, you know exciting and new to people
Yeah an approach I'd certainly can see the value in
You banged it
You actually banged it on the head when you when you were said
Oh, you know one person who's having success with this and I'm like exotic genetics. So
So I'm gonna give you a bit of a test now I
Think that there's a little bit of an issue in the scene and it's I'm not the one bringing this up
So I'm certainly not taking credit nor am I the first to talk about it?
but I think there's a bit of an issue within the scene of some of the breeders certainly not yourself who use like
Just the same females, you know the same clone onlys and so everyone's got a cross of this. Everyone's got a cross of that
How do you feel about that do you see that problem yourself and in my mind, here's the test, you know in my mind
I'm thinking of one specific clone only that everyone's just breeding with at the moment. I
Won't know I won't know if you can guess it
so if we're talking about purple punch then
Is that we Tom
No, you know what that wasn't but it perfectly fits the category. I'll give you one more guess. It's not a little fun
Oh, man, so if it's not punched in God, what?
What is it, well, I don't know I'm gonna I don't I'd have to think I'm sure I know but it's just it's not coming
To my mind or at the second
I've got to give you consolation prize because purple punch fits the description so bloody brilliantly, but and and again, you know
I'm not having to go GMO. Oh
Yeah, okay. There we go. Yes, so and and that's you know, what is so funny about GMO
No hardly anybody gives any credit to to the creator the breeder is
Mameko seeds or mameko or how we pronounce it and
I've heard a couple things here and there and I'm not gonna get into that story
But what I do know is if you are the man who made those seeds and those seeds then
Were you know someone found something GMO as it's dubbed from those seeds that
Breeder should still be getting as much credit as the guy that found that clone only now skunk mask
er, I'm sure he has and he's given out, you know, plenty of
Praise to my Miko and these other people that could have been involved, but I think he is killing it
He's got some good things going on. That guy's taking stuff to another level with his breeding
So good for him, and I think that he really did put a put the the name to GMO. So just like
Girl Scout cookies and some of these other ones that have been highly bred with
Everyone's jumping on jumping on the
The GMO bandwagon, but there's so many people that love it. I mean, it's it's a great strain. It's got it's got some power
It's got some stank that just is unmatched and it really is
It's it's it's a decent plant. So I get why a lot of people are breeding with it
But at the same time what's kind of cool is even though there could be 20 20 different breeders out there
They have a gorilla glue a purple punch a GMO cross a girl scout
We all may have it but what we don't have and what sets us all apart
Is that male selection so that's what's gonna give you the different effects because even though we've all got a GMO
you might end up with some GMO dominance and each one of those crosses, but
What you're also gonna get is the mix of flavors that you might not have expected and what really could end up
Bringing some cool things to the table. So everyone's got their own their own cross and we all get credit for it. But
Yeah, GMO is that one's definitely making its waves now
Yeah for sure
So this is gonna be a bit of a weird question, but I'm kind of interested in discontinued strains
Some breeders out there do it because maybe they've just lost interested in selling the strain. Maybe it didn't sell that
Well, you know, there's a whole variety of reasons most of the time
I always find it's not the obvious reason which is like there was maybe some issues with the strain or something like that
Anyway, what type of things do you think about if you were to consider discontinuing a strain?
Like do you just think like oh if it just didn't really impress me that much and it didn't make much of a splash
I'd probably discontinue it. Like how does that thought process go for you?
That's I mean you pretty much just mentioned just said it like I think
So my original grandpa's breath line there was there was and there's 10 or 11 that I released
Lost soul swamp thing
purple vapor
Jersey Mike the ones that have the popular
Mothers, you know the OG's the GDP the East Coast diesel those ones and then my hot rod the hot rod had the motor breath
In it anything that's got the real popular
You know gassy female it seems like it went the quickest but at the same time some of these other ones like Palpatine
It's got the Death Star in it
And so that leads me to believe is there something with the name that makes it not sell very good
Is it something with?
You know, what? What exactly is it going on? We're cuz I don't see as many people growing it
It's so it sells great people have bought a ton of the seeds
But it's very few and far between that
I'm posting a Palpatine picture compared to a brandy wine or some of these other ones that have really made a big splash
So that's where I got to ask myself
Is this something that I want to continue to bring out and then maybe make another you know?
F2s of it or even further on and then often the people if it hasn't really done that well in first place
I don't know
I think I need to do like a feedback like a like a poll and see what people think because at this point
Like you mentioned I'm gonna be judging, you know, what what to continue based on popularity
That's it
Like if it's sold out and I get in the ones I'm getting messaged about all the time swamp thing loss
So purple vapor those ones were great. I know that and then ones that haven't even sold out yet
Brandywine and actually grandpa's breath finally the original f2 not the different versions
But the original f2 is finally all the way gone
And and I'll be making f3s of that soon and then and then that's gonna create a whole new thing
But that one in general will always be held dear to my heart. It's what started the company, but some of these other ones
I just feel like they'll kind of fall off because they either
Yeah, they either weren't as popular or I just didn't see like every show
I'm at like I mentioned I get people coming by with with samples some sometimes
If I just never get brought in a sample
I'm like that just again tells me that no one's growing this strain or it just it wasn't that great
So that's another reason why I guess I would just ditch something as if it just never showed up and I don't see anyone with
It then obviously it didn't it wasn't that special
Yeah, totally
So just a quick little side note on the topic of special. How's your little special seedling vile going? Oh
The vile shoot man, yeah, I I have to talk to my buddy. I'm not sure that was all a joke, man
I mean it wasn't ever meant to be
Something that was gonna be going or like it was a joke and then there was so much
A lot of stuff got brought into that like I don't know if you're well well aware
But there's been I seem to attract a certain amount of I don't want to say negativity because that's kind of a bad look
But I mean there's sometimes my posts can get a little bit crazy as far as what's said in them and what's going on and
And something as simple as me showing off a vile
With a seed in it and saying look what happened this popped in them in the in the washer
I wasn't in by any means I was not trying to diss anybody or saying look we can pop my seeds in a in a
In a washing machine. You can't get him to pop you you suck. There was no there was no negativity attached
I wasn't trying to bash anybody but for some reason some people decide to take it that way and say, okay
So you just here you are talking shit about us. They can't get your seeds to crack
I'm like, nope, not at all. But for some reason it went that way but that that vile thing
If it's still alive
It was literally it was just a funny fluke
It was an accident and I just thought it was hilarious to show that it was actually growing. I thought how amazing
seed is so
So like wants to grow so bad that it continues to live inside of a basically like a little test tube
Yeah, I agree. I thought it was awesome
I figured if I had that seed I would grow it out just cuz it's like man you earned it like
Exactly. Yeah, I I need a car. I need to call him up and see you know, hey, is that thing still going?
If so, what did what did you do with it? But I I don't know. He's funny
He might still have it. He might not but it was all it was all just supposed to be just a look at this
Isn't this cool and it wasn't supposed to be anything negative attached in some reason it did so I ended up
I don't know. I don't know if I deleted the post just turned off commenting but one way or another it was like
Went south real quick
Yeah, that's full-on. I'm pretty sure I sussed it out and like didn't seem like you
I'm pretty sure what the comment you had said on it was really quite neutral, but people will interpret things the way they will, right?
Yeah, it's exactly but I mean, I'm really not a jerk
I try to be anyone that's ever met me
They know I can joke around a lot or whatever, but I definitely don't insult anyone just just because that's not that's not me
Yeah, fantastic. So just talking on like a bit of a weird topic
But it's one we used to talk about a lot kind of died off seed tampering
Used to be kind of like a hot topic
But as I said, it's fallen off probably due to the fact that a lot of people have adopted more sophisticated methods of packaging and track
Anticity is this something you hear about and something you a hash I say legitimately concerned about anymore
For me it it it was always a hard one because you have a guy who
As seed as the guys releasing the seeds
We're we're giving them to these guys at a cost to where they're gonna make their money off of it
So if you think about it, I'm selling my own brand. This guy is selling up to 10 15
he
I guess you can't put it past anybody because everyone's conscience is a little bit different than the other guy
But for a man that could be making as much money as you could by selling so many brands of seeds. I don't see why
For any reason why you would take out any of those seeds and try and switch them out to have someone grow them out
Because some of these guys breeds for instance
Tropicana cookies like we mentioned earlier or even some of my own creations if you grow that out
There's certain things that are expected and they've been tested and we've seen what they grow
So all of a sudden some guy says yo, I grew out your your this or that and it looks super funny
Or it doesn't have you know what I was expecting you
All you do it. Where'd you get those from the next thing? You know, the guys called out
It wouldn't take very long that scheme would only work for so long before you get called out. But honestly, I think that
With with the seed tampering
I mean
I think that there's definitely some shade in this that goes along with it
I think some guys might have done something like that
But with my gear I haven't had anyone send me pictures of anything or show me something that didn't make me feel like
There was a you know any issue at all
But like I like I mentioned I started using the can verify stickers
So from here on out if you can't give me a QR code or show me that you know
Give me the number off the back of your pack
Then it's it's not really anything I can do but for the most part all my stuff will be will be fully verifiable
Yeah, awesome
So, how do you feel about the idea of outsourcing a crop?
The reason why I bring this up is because in the past few people who have had some issues with some seed crops
Generally, that's one possible reason, you know, they'll say oh, you know, I had someone make the crop for me
I'm not kind of in the way that you mentioned with a friend bit as in like they pay another company to do it
Is this something which you think is acceptable and you know?
Because a lot of people will say that when you get to a certain size
You've got to look at things like that. Or do you think that that's just not the type of thing?
You would be willing to do
You you're actually like talking about stuff. I'm currently seeking. I'm working on this right now
What I what I touched on earlier was not having enough room and not not having enough
Area to do these things and and and with the current legal status of where cannabis is a lot of these states are requiring you
to be a licensed up
Producer processor or somehow have a licensed facility to grow medical is still alive and thriving in some states
But even then you're not you're not allowed to just grow ungodly amounts of plants
I mean you have to be in with with whatever your state's requirements are so
Tim to to move forward with that and the idea is to find
People you can partner up with who yes are in these other states and have facilities ready to go
I've built relationships with MIT with some people in Michigan
In Oregon, California, obviously up here in Washington State. I've got a guy who's in
Nevada
There's these all these places have the potential to
Give me a little bit of room to breed
I know there's other guys out there that are doing this and this is how they've become so successful and how they are able
to produce as much as they are but one thing I can tell you is whereas I
some people are wanting to
Have the bigger space they can produce more and more and more and more
I'm literally looking to just have more area to breed with and bring back stuff and work on the things I've already got
I don't want a hundred new projects, but I do want to release the ones I mentioned earlier getting them back into a
further generations of them and then also making new crosses
That's all good, but I still I really want to focus on on certain things and but that's with these extra spaces
That'll give me the opportunity to do so. So as long as you've got a good relationship with these guys
I think it's a it's a winning combination for them to open up some space for you to
to do it and then also I think they see the value because
For them to have a new strain that they can then have a selection of that is your cut or your what you're standing behind
I say hey, this is one of my keepers from this crop or from this from the seed line
they they are then allowed to have that uh
You know that plant and it sets them apart from someone else because they've got something no one else has
Yeah, most certainly
So this is kind of more on the mechanics of breeding
But do you ever do anything different when you are doing a seed crop?
Versus a sensei crop in regards to say like nutrition or lighting or just anything, you know
Now for the most part I I'm growing exactly how I would with any other thing
I
Can say that when when growing
When growing your sensei obviously you're going you're trying to make the absolute best thing possible. You want to make sure you're hitting every single
Every single feeding right you want to make sure that those things are coming out 10 out of 10
You not to shy away from you know, saying that you shouldn't have a perfect crop by any means
But I think that with a seed crop you could be allowed and it's very forgiving
if you were to feed a little bit less nutrients because you know the plants trying to produce the seed not necessarily the the
The best-looking flowers, but I think it's a good principle
It's probably try and grow the healthiest plant you can whether you're growing for seeds or not
But I think that in in doing so you could probably
maybe schedule back a little bit on the on the
Nutrients and some other stuff that you normally would do because it might not it doesn't necessarily require it as much
But as long as your plants in good health and you see yourself producing everything you're looking to do, then it should be fine. Yeah
Yeah killer. So an idea I love to run by all breeders is where do aesthetics or you know bag appeal as generally referred to?
Where does this right for you?
Is this something you constantly got in the forefront of your mind when you're making a cross or is it really kind of an afterthought?
It's probably one of the first things because to me
Like I mentioned earlier I
Said something about
You know having having strains that set you apart you going into the dispensary and they've already got you know
They've already got something or whatever. Well if you have
If you've got something that just right from the beginning they look at your jar
They see that you open your bag and it's just shining or it has a certain color or it has
Something to the look of it I I see there's a certain type of
There's this some weed
I've seen it has the hairs come out kind of a puffy look and it kind of just it wraps around the bud there the
Hairs are not very loose from the from the actual flower. So it has a real tight look to it
I've seen buds like that and they literally always stand out to me
They're just a certain look that I that I can say that I've always really loved about some some types of pot now
I feel the same way as far as dispensaries go
they want to see something that's gonna stand out to the next person, but
Also, the smell can can really take you away from that because you know this another hyped up strain skittles
The skills cut that's going around it
I've more times than not have seen it where it doesn't necessarily look like the highest quality flower
But that smell and flavor are so incredible that it's I forget about the looks of it real quick
You just want to smoke another joint. So
I think there's a lot of strains out there like that
they may not be the prettiest but damn the the high it produces and the
The smells that are coming off of the plant are are worth growing it in general
So I I do really hold the bag of pill high on my on my scale of what I'm looking for with stuff
but also
You know taste smell and all that stuff comes into play just as much so
It's kind of like the trifecta, you know
It kind of needs to be all of the above, you know
Cuz if it's lacking one or the other then it really just makes it, you know
Either you really nice weed without a kick or really good-looking pot. That's got plenty of high but there's zero flavor
It's like you kind of want all of them
Yeah, well-rounded
So talking on the topic of the skills emerald cut last few years has been dominated by it
Have you got any special surprises or kind of exciting releases in store for the Emerald Cup this year?
Definitely so there there's gonna be I'll have my
My the white wine that that line will be there
So the white Tahoe cookie times brandy wine that shouldn't that one will be ready by then
We're gonna have a the pine fruit, which is a ghost og
Purple vapor that should be ready to go by then. Hopefully my
The tangy wine should be ready to go which is that the citrus farmer brandy wine?
There there will be a few surprises I'm trying to like I said, I don't want to put anything out in a hurry
I'm trying to just release stuff that that's you know me that we know
Will pass the test of time as far as popularity and people enjoying what they're buying, you know, I don't want people to
You know spend hard-earned money and then not not be impressed with what they're what they're growing
Yeah, no, it sounds like a good little ethos to have for yourself
so
Vinny sorry vino og my apologies vino og
Not very well known about extremely limited number of packs
Would you be able to tell us a little bit more about it and why you decided to work with it?
so vino is I mean if if if I take everything that man has told me as
As truth then what he's told me is he he knew some of the guys from from cookie fam
So he knew Jigga or had had been in contact with him at some point. They're all from the bay
I guess there was
The original batch of seeds or whatever that came from those guys who had you know
When they made the Girl Scout cookies, there was certain seeds that were you know handed out to some people some were given out
You know without any, you know colleges here you go. Try these out
Whatever there was some people that grew them out and found them
So for instance og KB came from that line the og KB is from the original
Cookies line. It's just another plant that popped up
So that's something that's not I mean some people don't realize that and then another
apparently according to
Mary Jane wines the vino og cut which he does have that cut alone. Suppose it came from
Girl Scout cookie seeds
Interesting and so do you see that
Similarity yourself or you just kind of taking the the story on face value
A little bit of both so growing it out myself
I only grew it out the one time the pure vino was grown out one time and to me I feel like it was
There could be some cookies in it. It wasn't it wasn't in my opinion
It wasn't pure cookie form by each means but a lot of stuff I found when growing
Stuff from the Girl Scout as you do you do get Girl Scout cookie
obvious
Combination and some some effects but then there's some
There's some that come out that literally just have a completely different thing going on
and I think his one the vino obviously means wine in Italian and I believe that's the what he was going with was it's
more of a
more of a kind of a
Merlot type of thing going on. There's a definitely a sort of a
Musky kind of a wine sort of smell I suppose
Yeah, interesting and so can we expect to see it appearing in some of your crosses going forward
To be honest, probably probably not. I don't even have the cut anymore and and he that's something that's that's his
I mean, I I could get it back at any time and check it out again. But like I said, I've got there's
It's almost to a point. When does it stop at what point do you do you do you quit with having so much stuff?
Yeah, but there's there's there's something that I would imagine there being
Maybe down the line or something from him, but it's like just it's one of those things like I'd like to
Probably use it down the line, but it's just there's just so many freaking projects to do
It's like I don't even know how to get in. I mean, there's just where do I start, you know, so I definitely have
You know a lot of plans in the works, but that that one really is
Yeah, totally understandable
so
Kind of, you know talking about the Emerald Cup. How do you feel about the quantity of cannabis cups?
We have these days. Do you feel like there's a good amount? Do you feel like maybe we're a little over saturated and what's your favorite one?
Hands-down Emerald Cup is my favorite go-to show right behind the high time
I'm a big fan of the high time I'm a big fan of the high time
I'm a big fan of the high time I'm a big fan of the high time
Cup is my favorite go-to show right behind the high times, Michigan
the reason I like the high times Michigan show so much is
other than when Colorado was still going on that
That was that was my favorite place to go to there was it was I had such good feedback
From my strains there so many people were interested in it
They all had heard of me
So I always did really well when I do those shows
Now the same goes for Michigan every time I go there I can go twice a year in the same summer
Two different times and do do really well both times and people are still
very welcoming of me and in and you know really showing me a lot of love Emerald Cup, obviously that is the
it's your number one spot to go to just because of
The scene I mean you have everybody there's is coming to shop for their next season seeds you see
People from every demograph, but but literally a ton of older people older gentlemen walking with their wives
I've even seen women that look like they were sent down there by their by their their husband and her boyfriend
They got their mud boots on they've got a they've got like a basket that they're just filling up with their seeds
They're buying for the next year. It's a I get a kick out of it
I've I've had conversations with with men in front of my booths
They're just sitting there jive into the music for an hour while we all sit there and talk weed. It's crazy, man
It's it's just an awesome show to be at and I do think that there can be I think a lot of people are
Kind of quick to jump on now
Let's have a cannabis cup and we'll just make a ton of money off these people
And the funny part about it is you'll have these people that say they want to put on these shows
They'll they'll supposedly buy this stuff. They're gonna get everything going they buy permits
They do whatever and then come to find out that oh, guess what?
You're not even allowed to have the show in general
So we just paid them money and then they'll want to have us hold a credit or they'll want to pay us back later in
Time it's like you guys took all of our money and didn't even know if you're having a show
So that's been a case I've had that happen before I've I've seen it happen with even some of these big companies
Yeah, that's scary so it's yeah, it's it's it's crazy, but no, I don't know I think that I think it's good to have shows
I don't know if there's a certain amount that that you know, you know, there's too many
They've actually been shutting them down left and right because it just doesn't go with the legalization, you know
You're just not supposed to be public consumption
You're not supposed to be sales of cannabis and so you end up having a lot of people that were using these shows as
basically a
Table to just sell their their products from that's no longer allowed in a lot of these places the last show I was at in
June for high times for the NorCal show
It was an empty
It was totally empty scene like you used to see in so many booths everywhere popping up and less and less people are able to attend
Because they're not licensed up yet. They're not they don't have the proper
Paperwork and they therefore they can't sell
Yeah, okay
So where do you see the overall?
Industry heading over the next five years and do you think that large-scale legalization is going to occur and potentially ruin things?
Man, I think it kind of goes it I think there's good that's coming from it because everything
everything in life is
Changing there's steady change coming with everything. Do we all agree with it? Not necessarily, but is it good?
Yes, because it's also given us an opportunity to not just be a guy who's who claim I have a company
But it's not necessarily a legal company, but I kind of make money off it. No, I'm I'm I'm
I'm involved in something where I'm paying my taxes
I have a full legitimate business out of this and it's something I want to see myself grow more and more with and
I think that the the theme of
Cannabis cups might get smaller as far as just a huge group of people selling pot out of a you know
They're different booths and doing that way, but I think that
Those are fun. And I think it's awesome. It should be a part of it
but I think they'll get smaller and smaller as far as
having more of a kind of an
Underground network of cups where it's more of a private scene because that's what all started
Anyway, it was it was more of a smaller scene if people turn in their buds and those people would judge
The cannabis based on what we are seeing right there at face value
Not some judges behind a closed door and then given the award to the most
You know the the biggest highest paying vendor which seems to be the case
So, I don't know man
It's it's it's good and bad
but I think that the overall
Legalization is gonna draw us to more shows that are more like the canna con and more of like convention style where there's no smoking
There's no vending of any cannabis products
But more or less shaking hands and using it as a tool to network your brand and really you know
Meet and greet and kind of get people turned on to what you have to offer
But all of that stuff is gonna be you know
Getting things out of your local dispensaries or out of the different rec stores that are available in your state
But hopefully Dungeons of all genetics will be something that you can find in every state
That's gonna legalize and ones that already have you're slowly seeing more and more my strains pop up
So I think in the long run here
It will get to a point where you're gonna you will start seeing branches like you do Nestle and and all these other you know
Chocolate companies and big, you know tobacco and all these different people you are familiar with those brands and you'll start seeing them in every
State and you'll start seeing that with these cannabis brands as well
and I think it's good but overall as long as the right people are running it and they're still letting us get a piece of
the pie and
We're able to operate like we've been doing and have a good thing going then there's nothing to complain about I was super against
Legalization at first, you know, but now I mean how convenient I mean
If you don't have any weed and you're not growing it at the time
You can let you go right down the street and go pick from a hundred different strains
I mean that's kind of what we always wanted
But there's still a few things that come into play that kind of make it a negative experience
So it's it's really I mean everyone's got their opinion, but I'm kind of I'm not on the fence. I'm more towards legalization more
For the you know, the the movement that we're heading in but at the same time
I can't forget my past and that was you know
Either black market or being involved in the medical scene where we could pretty much do
Whatever we wanted as long as you had your phone into that gray area, you know
Yeah, totally
So that brings us to the last little section of the show. We've got a quick fire questions. So
Last little few certainly don't take as long to answer hopefully, but usually people stress out about it. I love it
So first one, what is your favorite strain of weed? Oh
my gosh
Man, that's that's tough
Honestly, no, no hands down it's gelato. I don't care. I
Say it I did gelato 33 gelato 41, which is the there's a there's a company here in Washington State called
Canada organics they do all
greenhouse grow
And their gelato is some of the I absolutely love it. There's and that's another thing. That's weird, Washington State
We have very few people that are actually producing the strange gelato in the rec scene
It's very weird. They're one of the only people I've seen to have it and and there's a couple other guys that have gelato
But this one in particular is the number 41 cut and it is it's amazing. I I literally love it
I can't get enough of it smoke whenever I can find it, but I go down to California
I can get access to the 45 I can get the 30 all these anything gelato
It just seems like it has such a good nose to it kind of like the sherbert
I think I think Mike has mentioned exotic
Mike has mentioned the sherb is one of his favorite strains because of the creaminess and it's just got everything he loves in his
Cannabis, I I agree with that day. I think the sherb is another one up there. That's got amazing things going for it
So shout out cookie fam for making some of our favorite strains that we love to screw
Smoke and then crossbreed with but there's there's a lot of great other ones that have been gone for a while that I haven't seen
For instance the blue cheese. I don't know who I don't know which cut I don't know who had it
Which one who made it whatever but there was a blue cheese that was going out for a while and I absolutely love it
I missed that one like crazy, but for right now, I'm smoking on I love the gelato. That's one of my favorites
So on the flip side, what is the worst strain you've ever had or just the one that least jives with you?
man
Blue dream. No, I'm just joking
Honestly, I don't
Man there's I don't even I don't know because just like just like
The experience if it wasn't good
I mean into the end of the not necessarily into the trash bin
But definitely into the trash jar that gets passed to someone who doesn't mind smoking anything
That's handed to them because if I didn't like it, it's it's it's not something I'm gonna hold on to very long
So, I don't know man. It's hard off the top of my head
What did I just smoke recently that I didn't like there was something that was given to me at the Michigan Cup
That I was just like man that was fucking garbage, but I don't I don't remember
I don't remember what strain it was and I'm definitely not gonna mention if I did because that's just kind of it could have
Been a bad example. I mean to sit there and say that the strain sucks just because the example I got
Yeah, it's not really fair, but I've had my fair share of bad weed. No, let's just say that we're staying
I've ever smoked how about that? No what I started this interview off with was some of that brown sticks and stems
weed that swag from
Mexico
Yeah, good answer
so what is a strain that
Kind of asked this one earlier in the interview
But a strain that you no longer have access to but you did in the past that you wish you had back
Hands-down superfood from Captain Crip. I don't I don't I I was very I was a big smoker
Back when I was talking to that guy 2003 2004 I came from California. So I knew what good weed was
I knew what I wanted and and literally I I
I if anybody out there listening has access to superfood or any of the crosses that guy made hit me up
That literally to this day like I don't know what it was just the smell and overall
Like I I feel like I'm I almost remember getting green sick, but I it could have been from something else
It wasn't from just smoking his weed, but I mean it was awesome weed, but it was just I got so baked
Combined with something else. I think I threw up that day. But regardless it was uh, it was just good weed night
Really? I think he had he had something really special there and I I had the clone at one point
I lost it cuz I was young and dumb and if if literally if I could get anything back that one would probably be it
Alongside that 2003 2004 I was getting a strain called
Northern lights skunk haze and I know that's a that's a pretty typical cross from the Dutch
I mean, I mean you can get northern lights skunk hazes everywhere
but the specific combination of that northern lights skunk haze and then the
Specific phenos that this guy had found was it put it before we use the word loud
Like oh this strain is loud. This guy just it was absolute. You could not cruise around with it
It would be in your car and you'd be white knuckle driving with driving
35 and as slow as you can so you don't get pulled over
I mean it was if you get pulled over with that weed. There's it's being found no matter what so
There's just there's just certain ones that are just killer and that definitely was that was one I miss and didn't really wish I could get
back
Fantastic, so if you could go back to any time in history any place to collect some seeds, where would you go and what seeds?
man, probably
Just because I'm a big indica fan
I think if I mean as long as I was accepted I knew I was gonna get kidnapped
I'd probably somewhere in the Hindu Kush mountain range collecting seeds straight off
Plants out of there. I mean something about Hindu Kush
I had it I had it a few times back in California and I mean
I don't I'm not sure if that was pure or real by any means
but if I knew for certain that I was I was in the Kush mountain ranges and I was able to get a
Pure Hindu or something similar to that that I could bring back and smoke and I'd be pretty pretty pumped on that
I
Mean again, I mean all the other ones that people have grown and crossbred made from you know from back in the till now
I don't know. But I mean there's there's a lot of stuff that I've probably come across
I really didn't know the smell of that. I could probably
I'd love to see again, but
That one for sure is something just a pure just a real pure Kush that I knew that it's as pure as it can get
Nice humble little answer
So
What final oh no second last little quick question. What is the next little breeding project you're doing that people should be getting excited for?
Man there's too much man. I don't know. I think I think probably
a
Lot of people have been excited about this lemon grove this this this lemon tree times citrus farmer
I think it's gonna be something that that provides
Like I mentioned earlier just something different than your typical tangy orange citrus strain
I think it's gonna have a nice combo. The lemon tree is one of those ones that
ever since I first smoked it and
Excuse me if I'm wrong, but from what I get from it, I believe it's a lemon sour diesel
Some sort of mix up with that or a
Bag seed from it something like that. I could be wrong
But if I remember what reading it was something had to do with lemon sour diesel and the LSD
From when I used to get it was it was such an incredible flavor and and there was just it was really it was totally
Different it wasn't it was there's citrus, but it was different all the way around and so that's kind of
That's kind of what I'm hoping for that. I get out of this strain is that we find something like that
That's gonna be it's not necessarily the exact same thing
But just something that brings just ultimate flavor and has a real kick-ass
kind of a lemon
Orange kind of combination going on there
Killer so final question where can people grab your gear?
Man, you gotta you gotta find the one you like
There's there's some people I found of they're very loyal to their to their banks that they order from some people
it's because of credit card processing or whatever they the freebies they get but
SOL seeds
Neptune seed bank organ elite seeds calm all these different guys who are carrying my gear all are great people
I've met every single one of them
They all stand behind their stuff. They're good guys. There's some other ones that are a bit smaller banks if you're in Michigan State
Great Lake seed bank seed seller
There's a few like that that you can only just walk in off the street and go have your out options met with almost every
Bank, I mean almost every seed you could find in the other bank, so it's kind of cool
Other than that come catch me at a show
Yeah, that's that'd be the way right direct from the horses mouth
Fantastic so do you have any shout outs or any comments you'd like to make?
Man, yeah, you know what there's
Shout out to all my guys every everyone out there
That's helping me
Test out my seeds those that are growing at the ones that actually come through with what they say they're gonna do
More recently than not
There's a guy named bonfire Nate that guy went above and beyond to to not only grow the seeds out have them tested for
for THC CBD and
terpenes but also then had cards made to display at a shop that had the picture of the
The weed and everything I just listed on it
I mean
It's very very few and times you get a touch that goes above and actually spend his own money to make things look even better
Than he did so that's pretty awesome
Other than that the names I've mentioned that helped me put me in a position. I'm in now
Yeah, thank you to everyone and anyone who supports me. Thank you very much. I appreciate you all
Awesome. So thanks again so much for taking the time to sit down and share all the knowledge with us
No problem. My pleasure
So there we have it huge thank you to Eric from Dungeon fold genetics for taking the time to join us today
And a huge thank you to you guys for taking the time to join us
As always for 20 Australia organic gardening solutions and
Seeds here now you guys know me love them. They're the best. Thank you so much guys best sponsors in the game
Go check them out. They can feel the love
Patreon gang what up gang gang? Love you guys. Let's talk soon in a little private space
See y'all guys later
