Hey there gang, this is your boy Heavy Daze, giving you a big thank you for coming and
checking out this episode.
I just wanted to let you all know that we have a Patreon over at www.patreon.com forward
slash the podcast.
If you enjoy the show and would like to continue to help make it happen, head on over and get
access to a whole range of goodies including early access to episodes, bonus Patreon exclusive
episodes and extra goodies like shirts, stickers, giveaways and a whole lot more.
Thank you so much to everyone who helps support the show, you are truly the lifeblood of it
and you help us to keep the wheels turning so that we can continue to bring you the content
you enjoy.
Now let's get into the episode.
Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode as always was brought to you by 420 Australia, your premier store for all
things lifestyle and apparel as well as Timo Gs, your one-stop shop for all things organic
gardening.
On this episode, we're really excited to have Banana Man all the way from Spain to talk
about all things EU as well as the breeding scene and some history.
Stay tuned for an awesome episode, here we go.
All righty, a big thank you and welcome to Banana Man of Tricome Jungle, our first guest
from across the pond in the EU.
Thanks for joining us.
Nice to be here, thank you for having me.
So first question as always, you probably know what it is, what was your introduction
to cannabis?
Right, probably about 14, smoking with friends would have been some rock and hash mixed with
tobacco.
That's the sort of way that a lot of people in the UK sort of smoked it at that time.
So yeah, that was the first experience.
I didn't really get high from it, probably too much tobacco mixed with it.
But probably two weeks, three weeks after that, same group of friends we got together
and we smoked it in a bomb and I definitely got high anyway.
I couldn't move off that couch for a while.
I don't suppose you remember what strains were going around back then, was it just whatever?
I mean, back in the days of hash, it kind of wasn't really strains, but I don't know,
what was it?
No, we had a lot of import like Thai stick coming in and also like brick weed from Africa
and places like this.
Very seeded, but the first time I ever smoked the African, I got a high that was unlike
anything I'd experienced from hash.
The feeling in my legs, the tingling feelings, almost like psychedelic to some extent.
And from that day, I just always asked the guy, can you get more of this?
This is the stuff that I want to smoke.
I don't want to be smoking the hash anymore.
So that's what I tried to find more of.
But at the time, there wasn't really any skunk or anything like this.
So that's interesting.
There's like a few points in that one.
I guess it goes without saying your favorite land race is African?
Yes, because of the memories it brings back, definitely.
And the high that it has, it has something special about it, the African weeds.
The thing which is really interesting about the Africans is there's actually a fair bit
of diversity within the African land races, but obviously, Durban poison just gets the
main rap.
Do you think it was Durban poison that you smoked as a kid or something else?
Because the thing which people often mention about Durban poison is it's not all that potent.
So based off your story, I would almost tend to think it probably wasn't.
What do you think?
No, I'm going to say it was probably something like a Malawi.
So you think it was something and you think it was like the full-on cob type thing or
just some Malawi?
Well, because of the color of it, it had this like almost golden edge to it.
So from looking into it a little bit more, I'd say it could have been some sort of Malawi
cob type thing.
Okay, interesting.
Have you ever toyed around with doing that yourself with any modern stuff, like you doing
the cob method?
We did.
I had a friend, a friend of mine grew out a Malawi gold.
He vegged it outside in the UK for most of the season and brought it in to flower it
at the end and flowered it for like almost 22 weeks.
And the plant was huge.
It was just one plant growing under 400.
And yeah, again, the high off that was amazing.
And we tried to make some cobs out of that and bury them in the ground.
So yeah, that was a fun experience.
That's full on.
And so have you ever considered trying to find that stuff and breed with it or is it
just considered gone in your mind?
I do have some Malawi seeds that a friend collected while he was out in Malawi.
I'm yet to start them.
They're still in the collection.
Hope to pop them maybe one day soon.
So if we rewind back, what was your first grow like?
What strains were you running and what type of technology were you using?
Okay.
So the first strain would have been, okay, okay, this is how it went.
My friend was growing out the strain.
We'd got a light, we'd set it up in his room and we were growing some Thai seeds.
At this time, we hadn't really figured out the whole 12-12 thing and the plant was just
growing and we sort of scrapped the idea after that.
Later on, I got some Hindu Kush seeds and I found a book in an old little bookstore
and this book said in it about the whole 12-12 light regime and it was just like a light
bulb moment.
So I got my plant, I got the Hindu Kush seeds, planted them and set up the light and away
I went.
I was basically just feeding it basic stuff.
I got some chicken poo, I got some wood ash and that's what I was basically feeding the
plant.
It was very basic.
And so just to fast forward for a quick second, what's your grow style now?
Are you organic, quarreled, synthetic?
I've pretty much grown every single way.
For the last couple of years, I've been doing a lot of cocoa growing and using bottled feeds
and also did a bit of hydro.
But this was more to do with like really testing my plants and seeing what did well in certain
situations.
With the hydro, I could do a lot of tests about removing certain nutrients and seeing
which plants drink more, which plants take up more nutrients, stuff like this.
But now I'm actually going back to my original way of growing, which I'd always grown, which
is organic, but without the bottled feeds and making more of my own ferments and teas
and stuff like this, which I do outdoors.
So I'm bringing my outdoor organic method now indoors.
So you've got some pretty insane photos of your strains, not necessarily all of them
from your garden, but some really full on photos, just towering coals, things like that.
Do you feel like when that level of quantity is being produced from a single plant, it
is at the detriment of other qualities, like quality?
Yes, I've noticed in the past with a lot of strains that are big yielding, they tend to
lack quality.
But obviously through selection and the gene pools that we are using now, you can achieve
both.
But saying that, the plants that I prefer the most are on the more medium side of yield.
But the jungle juice, which I'm smoking today, that has both the quality and the yield.
The yields are outstanding.
And people just keep picking this over everything at the moment.
So yeah, you can get both, definitely.
So if we just go back now for a moment, how was it that you decided to get into breeding?
Was it like a eureka moment on your own?
Was it you thought you could improve on what was already there?
Or was it just a bit of an accident?
The first one was a bit of an accident.
It was a blueberry that I hermed and pollinated some of the stuff in the room that me and
a friend were growing, which at the time was a white widow, a hemp star, bubblegum, we
had skunk number one, a misternice, hash plant, we were growing a lot of hash plant
at the time as well, and a lot of Casey Brains things.
So a few things got pollinated by the blueberry and I started germinating the seeds and that's
when I realised we're not getting any males and they're all feminised seeds.
And that's when I realised that we'd made feminised seeds.
It was probably a few years later from that point that I was growing a lot of Dutch seed
companies out and just found them being quite lacking.
And that's when I thought, right, I think I can actually make something a little bit
better than this.
So I already had a plant that we call knap, which was like a Hindu kush type plant, which
was like super resinous, like knockout sleepy type of high.
But the flavour was maybe lacking, it had this slight aniseed, hashy type taste.
And so I thought I can improve on that and I crossed the Santa Maria haze male onto that.
And this is what later on went to make the mantis, which is one of my first main breeding
project where I had a goal at the end.
Yeah, and so I mean, if we look at the mantis for a quick moment, online the genetics listed
is knap cross to Santa Maria haze.
Was it a Santa Maria haze hybrid or just Santa Maria?
No, Santa Maria haze.
I found it in some haze flower that I was smoking in Holland and I found like five seeds
in it.
So I spoke to the guy in the coffee shop and he told me that he had a Santa Maria male
that probably pollinated it.
So I took those seeds home thinking they might be feminised, we'll see if he's telling the
truth.
And I got two females and three males and did the selection from them.
So mantis went on to do a few different projects.
The one I'm interested in is the Cali Schnapple Cush.
Now, Cali Schnapple, clone from Sonic.
There's also another one in the States from Dynasty, just for everyone who knows, not
talking about that one, talking about the one from Sonic.
What is it about the mantis OG hybrid, you know, you found the one you're after.
What was it about that that you were thinking this is going to pair really well with the
Cali Schnapple?
It was mainly to add, I wanted to add a little bit more of OG sort of flavour into the Cali
Schnapple because the Cali Schnapple has an amazing flavour, but I just wanted to bring
something more to it.
So adding that male was the idea of that.
But the Cali Schnapple on its own is an amazing plant, like super tropical sort of flavours
that come off it are amazing.
And the yield's huge, yeah.
And the biggest plants I've grown.
Full on.
So just looking back at a comment you made before about getting those seeds from Amsterdam,
there's almost some parallels with the Mr. Soul story from Brothers Grimm.
What did the females turn out like from that?
Because you know, you used the mantis, males or females?
Was it the males?
Yeah, I used a male from them onto the female nap, yeah.
So the females that came from those seeds, one of them was like a haze, but with a little
bit more structure to it.
And the other one had this sort of lime tip, which is what you get in the mantis.
And so would you ever consider like F2ing and just further line breeding it?
Or is it just more of like a breeding tool?
I have done the mantis now.
I've taken, I made the F2 line, which I did release.
Cannabis did a nice article on them.
There's a little bit of variation, but so much less variation than I would expect, yeah.
And then I took it to F3.
I've made two batches of F3 and released one of them.
And then this year I'm going to take it to F4.
What do you expect out of the F4s?
I mean, given the F2s didn't show all that much variation as one might expect, you'd
similarly think the F4s would be pretty limited in their variation as well, right?
Yeah, and I'm going to do the F4s from a much larger population as well.
So I'm going to probably use like five females and maybe two or three males, a selection
of maybe 50 or 100.
And then that will be the F4s that I'll finally release again.
And so that's interesting.
I've been talking to a few people about this idea.
Would you then want to release those seeds as labeled like just a mixture from all of
them and that's just, you know, it all just comes from one batch?
Or would you want to isolate individual females and be like, you're buying a packet from this
female?
Because a few breeders have done that before, like Dungeon Vault.
He does that with a few different phenotypes of a few different strains.
But I think it'd be interesting if more people got on board.
Or do you just think for in terms of like not bottlenecking things, you just want to
mix it all together and release it like that?
Yeah, for that reason, so it doesn't bottleneck the genetics.
But I would definitely use the five females I would use would all be five females that
all resemble each other still.
I wouldn't want it to be too varied.
The main thing I go for with the mantis is that the lime, the lime, like opal fruits.
Do you know opal fruits?
No, I'm not familiar with them.
Okay, we had like opal fruits.
I think they're called starburst now.
But you get the green ones and it just reminds me of having them as a kid.
So that's the main thing I go for with the mantis.
And so if we look at some of the other lions you've lion-bredded, I'm going to say this
wrong, is it the pura-sang or the pur-sang?
Okay, the pur-sang, yeah, that was a sonic thing.
He selected that from seeds from Barney's coffee shop.
He got them from dairy.
And I remember seeing it in the Canna Bible, Jason King's Canna Bible, when he mentions
it in there, the pur-sang haze.
But I think Sonic was the only guy who actually kept those seeds going and bred that line.
So he lion-bred it, I just took it to F4 later on.
So it was mainly his work.
But yeah, he uses a pur-sang in a lot of his crosses.
And I've used that breed in male as well.
And yeah, it's a great male and a great plant to use as a super like, I don't want to compare
it to amnesia, but it has that similar terp to amnesia, but much more sativa and much
more fruity, almost like bubblegum fruity, like an old super silver haze or something.
It's interesting.
I was going to ask what do you like about it, but you just kind of banged it out.
So something that's been kind of popped up in a few of the answers is, you know, this
underlying theme of Dutch genetics and, you know, things coming from Holland.
How do you feel Holland influenced the landscape of the UK breeding scene?
Because I think, like for me personally, from the outside point of view, it seemed like
for a while when Holland first started to stagnate in say the early 2000s, kind of felt
like that rippled a bit to the UK.
How do you feel about that?
Yeah.
And I think this is when you've seen an influx of more people actually selecting things and
keeping more clones and actually making their own seeds around this sort of time.
Yeah, definitely.
Like the one main strain that I think played a big role in the UK is the UK cheese, which
also came from Dutch seeds, you know, skunk number one.
Yeah.
I mean, it's almost like synonymous in the UK, like good weed is just called skunk in
many places.
I remember at least when I was there in 2010, like hydro was called skunk, like, you know,
like good indoor quality, high quality weed was skunk and the other stuff was just import.
Do you feel like there were some kind of unsung heroes in terms of strains that did help build
the scene?
Like I've only recently become aware of it through a few friends, shout out to Vic Firth,
but psychosis, you know, that's from like the same, the Exodus crew, the same guys who
did the cheese.
Are there any other ones that you know of that you feel like did really help build the
scene but maybe didn't get that spotlight because cheese was like the poster child?
Yeah.
There's a couple of strains that there was about.
There was one that we kept coming across called I just, it was just called I.
It was almost along the same sort of like fruity skunk lines that like typical Dutch
skunk but on that fruity side.
And yeah, that was one that stood out for me.
Yeah, definitely.
It was later on that like the nap, that clone that I passed around to quite a few people.
And yeah, I suppose psychosis was always a nice standout strain.
It's very similar in terms of with cheese.
Like if you were to put them both in the same jar, I think you'd struggle to pick them out.
It all comes down to who grows it and yeah, I think that plays a big role.
And so, how do you feel about the way things are now in the UK where at least for the masses,
Cali is king and seems like those import packs are like the be all end all.
Do you think this is a healthy culture or it's maybe detracting from what's a really
blooming scene at the moment?
Yeah.
Yeah, the whole, the Cali packs and stuff like this, it's all gone a bit crazy.
The whole, the prices and stuff like that I've heard of that these things go for is
just unbelievable.
I've not tried a lot of these sort of like new Cali elites, yeah.
From what I hear from a lot of my friends, again, it all depends on who's grown it.
And I think a lot of these things that are coming over to the UK are probably stuff that
they can't sell in a lot of places that probably would fail a lot of tests.
It's certainly interesting the idea.
If we jump there to clones, what do you feel about clones?
It seems like, you know, with the advent of clone shippers existing, the number of clones
in different countries, particularly the UK, has just gone through the roof.
I've seen people in the UK with clones that I would almost swear would still be incredibly
hard to get in the USA, you know, like they seem so tightly held.
Do you think that a lot of the stuff that is being flaunted around is real?
I almost get the impression that maybe people are just getting S1s or, you know, because
like for example, if you say I've got sour diesel, you're probably familiar with the
situation.
It's like, is it the real sour diesel?
And so, you know what I mean?
Do you feel like a lot of the stuff that's coming in is the real deal or maybe people
are just a bit optimistic or maybe getting swindled or, you know, somewhere in the middle?
Yeah, I think there's a lot of clones of each thing and people will find a bad seed and
whatever they find in, that's what they'll name it.
So yeah, I imagine that a lot of these clones aren't the original ones.
Yeah, I'd agree to say that, yeah.
So how do you go about sourcing your clones if there's something kind of in the US and
maybe you're not really, sorry, and maybe, you know, without obviously talking about
getting it to Spain, like do you find it's hard to source things or is Spain seeing got
plenty to offer?
Where does that stand for you as a breeder?
Yeah, I tend to work with a lot more seeds to be honest now.
I used to work more with clones and elite clones like the SFE, the Bubba.
I've just got the Bubba back from a friend.
So I'll definitely be working with that more.
But the rest of the US elite things, I'm not too bothered about getting as the original
clone.
Like, I've got crosses where I know the originals have been used.
People like from Canerado and people like that.
So yeah, I prefer to do that.
I think a lot of the problems come from sharing clones, you see.
And with America having a big problem with like Russet Mites, PM, I'd rather not take
in clones from places like that.
Do you feel like you can almost stand behind your work more when you're using both mother
and father that you've found from seed?
Yes, because then it's fully your selection on both sides.
I think we can select our own elites.
I think most people can even select elites from packets of seeds of mine.
So I think a lot of it is hype.
I think I could select a plant and give it to a certain person if they hyped it the way
they'd hyped over strains, it would become just as popular.
So yeah, I think that plays a big role.
I find a lot of these elites that I've spoken to friends, they say that some are not even
that standout compared to other stuff that they've selected or tried from me.
So yeah.
Interesting you bring that up because I've kind of been having thoughts like that myself.
I pop a lot of seeds pretty regularly and I guess I just commonly think to myself like,
I'm finding a lot of keepers.
And then I look at the numbers and it seems pretty proportional.
But yeah, that's always made me think like, is the bar low or what?
So here's the question.
How often is it you come across a plant you've popped from a seed and you're thinking to
yourself, wow, this is really like a notch above what I would normally consider a good
plant.
This is definitely clone only, possibly one of the best plants I've ever grown.
How often does that happen?
Quite regular to be honest.
Especially if you're growing things from, if the person sent you a packet of something.
I recently grew up the Bodhi soulmate.
He sent me a few packets of different things.
And there was a little bit of variation, but there's two females from the soulmate that
could easily both be elite strains.
The smells of them, the growth on them is amazing.
I'm yet to try them both, but I know that's going to come through on the flavor.
So yeah, both stand out plants.
And I see this a lot.
I've just grown out some stuff from Canerada.
Amazing plants again.
So this is what I work towards.
This is what I want everybody else to have.
They grow a packet of my seeds and they find out of a 10 pack, five plants that they're
going to struggle to pick a keeper from.
Yeah.
It's always a good problem to have when you've got to pick your keeper, isn't it?
Too many to choose from.
Yes.
Yeah.
This is what everybody should be getting from their seeds.
Yeah.
We have such a gene pool to pick, to choose from nowadays.
It's not like it was like 10 years ago.
So everything that people are breeding, people should be able to find keepers in every packet,
especially people who are putting the work in as well.
I see a lot of just people releasing a lot of F1s, but I would like to go down that line
myself more just because I can get through more strains in a shorter amount of time.
And I think that's the line I'm going to be going more towards because I like popping
seeds all the time, making new things all the time.
So yeah, definitely go along those lines.
So interestingly, mandarin is one of the ones I knew from you before I'd ever done any serious
kind of research.
You know, I always do some good research before every interview.
So after I kind of looked into it a little more seriously, quickly noticed one half of
its age in orange.
And the thing which kind of jumped to mind at that is, is you probably haven't heard
it, but we recently did an interview with James Bean and he actually posed the proposition
that tangy is possibly just an age in orange offspring or S1 or maybe just a cut of it,
saying that he had done some phylus testing and that was what it indicated.
Surely you've grown tangy, it's big all around the world.
Did you see any similarities between the age in orange you use for mandarin and tangies?
Would you feel like there's maybe any similarities between them?
There are some similarities.
I always said that tangy was a NYC diesel.
That's what I always thought it was because they have a NYC diesel clone that I found
out recently that goes around Spain and they call this the mandarina cat.
And when I found that, I was like, that's like tangy.
So that just reinforced the thoughts that I sort of already had that tangy was a NYC
diesel, but it could easily be an age in orange because I find the same when I've crossed
the mandarina with other things like the sour diesel, I get those same terps coming out
like the NYC diesel tangy type things.
Whereas mandarina is a lot more sweeter, fizzy, sherbet type orange smells.
What's interesting to me is that you made mandarina a few years ago now.
However, as far as I can tell from the timeline, you made it just kind of before right when
the whole hype around the citrus terpene was just taking off.
And obviously tangy was a big proponent of that.
But did you have any idea that was going to come about?
Like did you have a sense that this kind of, you know, orangey mandarin terpene profile
was about to just take the scene by storm or was it a bit of a fluke?
Seems like it came out at a perfect time.
Yeah, like we really enjoyed the agent orange from Sobacool.
That was just a standout plant.
We passed that clone around to so many people.
So working with that was just...
We were going to do it anyway because it was such a nice plant.
I thought the orange thing was fizzling out, to be honest, because so many people were
getting tired of that orange terp.
But I think the new generation and how things come around in circles, like with fashion
and everything else, things make a comeback.
And I think it was perfect timing that they sort of, yeah, that came back as I was working
the mandarina line.
And what was it about the, you know, the male you used in that cross that was right?
It's the UK pineapples, some Shiva in there and even dynamite.
What was it about that which you thought just paired well with it?
Because essentially it seems like it's imparted.
How would you put it?
Kind of mellowed a bit of the sugariness, at least the agent orange I'm familiar with.
It's like a sweet orange.
So like mandarina, you know, it's added like a bit of sourness, taken a bit of sugariness.
What do you think the male brought to the table?
Yeah, the pine and my Shiva male.
And I mainly was putting that onto the cheese and the pineapples to do like almost like a
pineapple back cross and also to cross it with the cheese because of that skunkiness.
And at the time I had a pot of gold.
It was also a nice, like sweet, skunky apple sort of going on with that one.
I thought I'd cross that with that.
So I was going for a skunky type thing.
This is what I was working.
But then I had the agent orange.
I had the crowberry.
I had the Bubba Kush and also the Jack's Cleaner clone from Subcool.
So at the time I thought, OK, well, I'll pollinate them at the same time.
So they were all just real experimental, whereas that's why it sort of took a back
burner for a while.
But then after a few people trying it and saying it was really nice, I thought, OK, I'll
definitely work that line in the future.
And when I came to Spain, that's when I started to finish the line.
So it was quite a few years.
It was a big gap from start to finish.
Yeah, well, are there any other lines like that which you've been working over, you
know, many years?
The Jungle Kush.
That's something that I've done.
So the original cross was SFE, the clone, the Bubba Kush clone and a Hawaiian.
The Hawaiian was added to add like a little bit more vigour to those strains.
And then from those seeds, I work that line, crossing them together and doing a little
bit of selection. And then that's what I release as the actual Jungle Kush then later
on. So the Mantis, the Mandarina and the Jungle Kush are the three lines that I've
worked really.
Everything else is mainly F1 after that.
OK, and was the first release of the Jungle Kush labelled like F2, F3 or did you just
call it Jungle Kush?
Just Jungle Kush.
Yeah, same with the Mandarina.
Even though I worked the line in that, it's because it's never sort of released.
So the original ones just go between maybe a few friends that are testing it and stuff
like that. And then what I actually release will be the worked line.
And that is what I release because that's as close to the mother that most people have
tried as well.
Would you consider kind of adding those generations onto future packets, just in the
fact that these days it seems almost standard that the more generations a line has put
into it, you know, you can almost charge a bit more for each generation because, you
know, you have put work in for each generation.
Or would you still just always want to keep it, you know, just simply Jungle Kush, for
example?
No, I definitely want to put like, I haven't got a catalogue or anything like that at the
moment. So I'd like to put a catalogue together and maybe in there put a little bit
more of the history and the actual breeding work of each strain.
I think that would be a good option just because if nothing else, potentially other
breeders, you know, like they're always looking for, you know, potentially more work
stocks, more stable, more predictable generally.
And also, you know, hopefully you haven't wasted your time working a line that was a
dud. So, you know, kind of a good indication if you've bothered to work, it's probably
pretty good.
Yeah, no, definitely.
And you like the mandarin is so stable for that smell that it has on it.
Anything that you cross it with.
And so many people have even seen some small little breeders around like Instagram and
that they've used a male of it.
I reversed it, made a few lines for Karma and stuff like that.
So and it's a very dominant trait now because of how it's been bred.
So you've mentioned a few UK breeders and, you know, I've mentioned one or two.
Why do you think it is that a lot of the UK breeders don't get as much notoriety as some
of the US breeders?
Do you think it's the fact that just the culture is a bit different or do you think
there's not as many breeders per capita type thing in the UK?
What do you think the situation is?
I think it definitely comes down to location and the whole scene, the American scene is
totally different to the UK scene.
And yeah, the outdoor scene that they have there as well.
Yeah, I think the selections that they've been able to do, even since the 60s and stuff
like this in America, they have a good genetic pool of plants.
Yeah. And so did people not really keep seeds from those early import hash?
Because it seems like that's kind of the most valuable stuff going around at the moment.
No, I think like even the old hippie types that I knew and stuff like that, like they
never even kept hash, even though they brought back all sorts of different things from India
and places like this.
It's because we haven't got that outdoor scene yet.
Whereas people, when they came back from their travels back to America, those seeds could
be planted straight in the ground and people could grow them out.
Yeah, that's interesting.
And so do you think overall the ability to have an outdoor season in general just really
benefits the community, like the scene, so to speak?
Yes, yes, definitely.
Definitely. I even see it here in Spain, visiting older growers and stuff like that.
They have some strains that they've kept for years and they're things that I've never even
smelt before. Some of the smells that come from these old sativas and stuff that they've
kept are very impressive.
I grew a few out last year and some of the turps, he had one that was an Afghan cross
type and it smelled like straight up chocolate from DNA genetics, like straight up
chocolate. So that was quite impressive.
But yeah, so definitely the outdoor scene definitely improves those genetics, I think.
And so you just touched on it, you're now in Spain.
What's the Spanish scene like?
You know, you're our first person from the Spanish region who's able to give us the
rundown, which is obviously, in my opinion, the kind of hot place to be in the EU right
now. Would you agree? And what's it like from your perspective?
Yeah, I think how it's portrayed on the Internet and it's totally different to how it is
in reality. In Catalonia now, some of the clubs are starting to be recognised and
they're going down that line of sort of legality.
But how they're going to actually regulate it and stuff like that, I really don't know.
And the rest of Spain, no, you can't take any cannabis on your personal self outside.
If you're in your own house doing it, you are permitted to do that.
Growing it is a big grey area, really.
So, but Barcelona is the place where it is changing and going towards the right way,
where you have a lot of clubs now.
They have the Spanivis every year, which is a really big event.
So, yeah, it's going in the right direction.
This is a much more relaxed than the UK.
How the general public view it here as well is a lot more relaxed.
And so how do you feel about Spanivis?
You know, a lot of people in the States have mixed feelings about cups for a variety of
reasons. Do you think like the Spanivis cups are pretty good?
It's not really any whispers of corruption or any people who are causing any mishaps?
So far, I've seen none of that and it seems to be like the best flower or the best
extract does win.
A group of friends of mine at the Boratory, Dabulous, which are like an extract company,
they entered the sour mandarin extract and they got a second place.
So there's definitely no, it can't be sort of bought.
How they judge it as well is quite fair in the way they do it.
I'd like to see the actual voting to show that afterwards.
That would be interesting. I like how they do that on the ICMA Cup.
I think that's a very sort of transparent cup, a good one.
Nice. And so how do you interact with all the other breeders in Spain?
You know, there's a few notable ones like Charlie Garcia and the guys from Canabiogen
are the first ones to jump to mind.
Do you have a lot of interaction with those guys or is it everyone's just kind of doing
their own thing at the moment?
Yeah, I don't tend to sort of get into the whole scene out here too much.
I'm quite far from Barcelona.
I'm out in the sticks in the country.
So, yeah, I'm not sort of, I don't get involved in that side of things too much out
here. When I go to Spanibus,
I meet up with some of the breeders there and stuff like that.
And yeah, it's a good event for that, even though they have a cup and stuff.
It's more about going and seeing old friends, new people, seeing what people have,
seeing how the bud has changed over the last few years.
It's just getting better and better and better.
So I can only see it in the next two, three years.
It's going to be some amazing stuff available in all of these places.
And so what's the coolest thing you've ever seen at the cup in terms of bud wise?
There's a few places that have some nice stuff.
Like the most like place that I like to chill out is like there's a place called
our backyard.
That has a nice vibe about it.
And they always tend to have some nice stuff in there.
One place I haven't checked out yet, but they tend to stock a lot of my things and
is the plug.
That's another place.
Seems to have a nice vibe about it.
But yeah, like I see, I also see like a price increase as
that.
I think the bud can be cheaper.
I think the prices need to be brought down definitely.
But I think that will happen as things go more towards the legal side of things.
Okay.
And do you think that the development of a scene
is largely dependent on the number of people popping
seeds? Because I've got this theory that if everyone stops popping seeds,
essentially everything will come to a standstill in terms of progression.
Do you think that's the case?
100 percent, yes.
Because nothing new will be found.
Everyone grows the same stuff.
Everyone grows the same clone.
I see it happen in Holland where everyone just wants to grow clones, even in
the UK.
But the feminized seed market,
I think this is where most people in
Europe and the UK want to go down the lines of feminized seeds.
But I think in the future, I think even people are going to come away from that who
are more serious about it and be popping regular seeds and going through
more regular seeds, doing their own breeding, doing their own selection.
Because I love to see other people's work because everybody selects something totally
different. I can give the same packet of seeds to three different people and
tell them to do some breeding work.
And what they end up with will be three totally different things.
Totally. And so we've mentioned a lot of breeders so far.
Who are some of the ones who you really look up to or you know, you're really fond of
the work they do?
OK, Bodhi at the moment, I'm very impressed with his work.
I've always been like, enjoyed talking to him and seeing his stuff online.
And Breedbase, he used to do a lot of good threads and when he used to do his trips
to South America and stuff like this.
And Nepal.
So, yeah, I admire Bodhi, definitely.
He's a good guy.
Would there be anyone you'd want to do a collaboration with?
I'd probably like to do a couple more things with Sonic because
in the past, me and him used to do a lot of work together and that.
And I like the lines that he's worked with.
So, yeah, maybe some with him.
I'd love to do one with Bodhi, that would be amazing.
Yeah.
And so to kind of be devil's advocate, what strain, you know, if the kind
of the proposed idea is you're each going to bring one side of the strain to the
table, which strain and you can even choose which, whether it's the male or the
female, what would you want to bring to the table?
What from both those people?
Well, no, on your part, if you were, say, to do a cross with Bodhi, don't worry
about him for the moment. What would you want to bring to the table on your half?
You can pick male or female, but one of your strains, you know, what would you most
kind of want to stand behind or what do you think would work the best with one of
his lines?
I think the Jungle Kush or the Mandarina, just those two lines, just because
of how they breed and how strong they are, bigger, everything.
Yeah. Terps. Yeah, those two.
So I've had this interesting theory for a little bit now, basically that
a long time ago, I used to get pretty bad anxiety with certain sativas, generally,
you know, like the more stronger ones, pretty typical with what most people would
describe. And then as time went by, I kind of didn't really get that anxiety
anymore. For a long time, I was thinking to myself, oh, you know, like I've just
had like a tolerance build up to sativas in general and I'm now able to have these
more racy ones because, you know, like I've worked my way up to a type thing.
But then thinking back on it in general, I was like, you know what, like back when I
was getting anxiety from the sativas, I had anxiety in general.
And nowadays, when I can smoke them, I don't actually get anxiety anymore.
I haven't in a very long time.
And so it makes me think, do you think like a lot of that, even with weed, for
example, is down to where you're at personally?
Because like a lot of people will say, oh, you know, don't do a DMT trip if, for
example, you're really depressed or you're anxious because that type of stuff can be
aggravated and come out.
Do you think that even applies to weed as well?
I think it like, we'll go to the DMT one first and say like, if you are
feeling like anxious or depressed and that, I wouldn't say not to take it.
I think to do it with the right person in the right space is
definitely more to do with it than anything else.
Obviously, the mindset comes with it, like the better mindset you're in.
But then you're going for an experience.
So sometimes it can help with different mindsets.
So with cannabis, I would say.
Yeah, like one of my friends, he gets a bit anxious with the sativas and that and still
does. But as he's got older, he's been able to handle it a little bit better,
definitely. Does that answer your question, I hope?
Yeah, no, for sure. It's interesting.
It's one I want to kind of think more about myself, contemplate and see where we get to.
So a quick little question I wanted to ask, where does the name Banana Man come from?
That's a funny one, that.
Right. At the time, I was the only one just growing regular seeds all the time.
All my friends were growing feminized seeds.
And I was going to day grows and I was just picking up bananas everywhere.
So I'm thinking like it's a bit of a joke.
I'm like telling them I'm more of a banana farmer.
I keep coming here just picking up bananas all day.
So when I went online, I thought, OK, banana farmer.
And then I thought, no, actually, banana man.
I like the cartoon.
So, yeah, and that's how the name came about, really.
That's awesome. What stuff are you testing out at the moment?
Oh, like my friends just done like a big like grow of orange soda.
So I'm testing out some of them and I've just done a new jungle cush times jungle cush again,
like a V2 version.
So he's given me a load of different phenos of that.
I've got a little bit of Gorilla Glue for the clone.
So he's given me a bit of that try.
Some jungle dog phenos, which was a star dog cross with the jungle cush.
Again, limited, I only released so many.
I think there's like a couple of packets still available at other places, but I probably won't make that one again.
How do you feel about the common hype strands?
You mentioned the Gorilla Glue.
A lot of people, you know, kind of hate on the hype strands, but at the same time, they love them.
Where do you sit?
No, I like a lot of them.
Like there's the GG4, it makes some real nice hash and yeah, it's a good all round strain.
Like the ones that have stood the test of time, like the OGs and Sours and stuff like that.
They're amazing.
The newer things like the cookies.
I do like the cookies.
I haven't tried like the Gelato and a lot of these new ones from like, and what else was there?
The Sunset Sherbert, things like this.
I'm yet to try them.
So.
And do you like to breed with the cookies?
I mean, I know you have.
Yes, I think it's good for breeding and from breeding with it, I see so many phenos that are so similar to like Bubba when I breed with Bubba as well.
Definitely like those cherry pie type phenos are popping up as well.
So it's quite interesting when you breed with it.
Whatever the F1 Durban is, it'd be quite interesting to find out what that actually is.
I don't think anybody actually knows to be honest.
That's my opinion on it.
Yeah.
Do you think it's the case that no one knows what the F1 Durban is or that maybe it's just something completely different?
I think they probably found it in a bag seat or something.
And they don't actually know what the parent is.
Just like so many other things that have been found in bag seats and people don't really know what the full parent is.
And so how do you feel about the idea of breeding with S1s?
OK.
I've just done a cross with an S1.
I'm testing it out now.
It's an S1 from a Fruity Pebble OG cross with OG KB line.
So I've just crossed that with my Jungle and I'm going to see how that comes out.
But my S1 of my Mandarina, I wasn't happy enough to release them as a feminized line.
I've grown other S1s out in the past of like some chem strains and stuff like this.
I've not really been impressed compared to the actual clone.
And so how do you feel about fem lines in general?
Is it something we can expect from you in the future?
Yeah, I'm definitely going to be making more fem lines in the future.
I made some Mandarina fem lines and also some Sour Diesel fem lines last year.
They've come out with some good results.
The Jungle Juice and the Orange Soda was made with my Jungle Kush with the Sour Diesel reverse.
And also with the Mandarina with the Sour Diesel reverse to make the Orange Soda.
But I did it the other way around as well.
I reversed the Mandarina onto the Sour Diesel.
And I also did the Jungle Kush onto the Mandarina and the Mandarina onto the Jungle Kush.
And I've definitely seen that the dominant plant is the plant that you reverse.
Like all the ones I've reversed with the Sour Diesel have that slightly Sour Diesel stretch.
And have more Sour Diesel taste with the Mandarina.
Whereas when you reverse the Mandarina, you get those more short sativa females and more Mandarina taste coming out.
So it's been quite interesting.
And the same the other way around with the Jungle.
I've seen some quite interesting things with reversing and stuff like that.
Even reversing...
I've had a male that produced pistils.
This was somebody else's clone.
And I got seeds from it.
So I've flowered it fully out, collected the seeds from the male and grew those seeds out.
And I'm getting 50-50 male and female from them, which I didn't expect.
So that's been quite interesting as well.
Have you finished flowering them out?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I got 50-50 male and female from the seeds.
But that was a couple of years ago. That one happened.
And were the females stable?
Yeah, the female was like a female from that line.
So would you consider further using those seeds or they just weren't that good in general?
No, they just weren't in the stash. Yeah.
Nice.
So, one thing I noticed is that you've used C99 in a few of your strains.
And a lot of these strains came out before Brothers Grimm came back.
Would you consider re-releasing some of these strains with the new C99?
Or what's your plans for that?
No, because they're back now, I probably won't work with that line anymore.
At the time they weren't around, the C99 was an amazing plant.
That was a line worked by a friend of mine from Breed Bay.
And he worked the line for many years from the original Brothers Grimm.
And then I continued working that line to F4.
And I've just used a female that I've selected from those F4 seeds.
And pollinated that with a Jungle Cush.
And that's like, I've just named it Jungle Jane at the moment.
But I'm testing them out at the moment to see what they come out like.
But C99 is a real special plant.
That pineapple-y, fruity, turp that it has is something special.
I probably won't work with that now that it's back.
It'll be interesting to see what they make.
So, have you had a chance to try the new one?
And has your F4s varied over the generations compared to what the original is essentially?
No, everything that you grow from the F4s are just pure Cindy's.
They're just all coming out so similar.
There's not much variation.
And it was already almost like a stable line to work with anyway.
I think it's quite easy.
My friend worked the line over the years just on height.
And then I worked it on those pineapple things.
So, yeah, it's come out amazing.
So, where do you rank different attributes in kind of your hierarchy of breeding?
So, in your mind, is it the case that you don't care if it's big or small yielding,
if it's just really good smoke, like that's the goal?
Or do you try to have a bit of a compromise between, you know,
like commercial value or where do you sit on that?
Are you breeding entirely head stash?
What's the go?
No, I think one of the main things for me is like the vigor of the plant
and how well it can handle like mites.
Is it resistant to powdery mildew?
These are some of the main things for me at the moment.
I think this is what most of the market needs to start looking at.
This is what most of the market needs to start looking towards
because of how things are going.
So, yeah, definitely that ranks quite high for me.
And flavor is the main thing.
But the high, that's down to different lines that I work.
Each line that I work has a different high about it.
I think that comes with turps as well, though.
I'm finding that certain turps, like the orange things, for instance,
the orangey things are on those lower THC sides.
The people that extract it get a little bit less return.
So that comes from like those orangey sort of things.
But, yeah, so it's interesting.
Have you done any work with the whole, you know, the, how should I say,
newly discovered land of turps in that people are adding, you know,
like food grade turps back to concentrates and stuff now.
And the overwhelming feedback I've heard is that it's not quite the same
and it's definitely not as good as if it was like natural turps in there.
Do you know much about this and how do you feel about the turps thing?
Do you feel it's like the new flavor of the month thing?
Yeah, I think for the future, I think it's going to hold a lot of benefits in the turps.
I think breeding point of view as well,
certain turps are definitely stop mites.
Certain turps encourage mites to come to the plant.
So I think that side of things, but the whole thing about adding other plant turps
to cannabis extract and all that, I don't agree with that, to be honest.
I think turps are quite a volatile sort of solvent anyway to be smoking a lot of.
But yeah, I think it's going to be interesting what all this testing
and stuff like that brings to the table.
And so do you feel like the same testing requirements that exist in the States
should be, you know, in Spain as well?
Yes.
But like the whole how it's going legal in the States
and what they're going to implement and stuff like that,
I don't know if I agree with all of it totally.
And it just opens up the market for big companies basically,
like you've got Scott's Miracle-Gro that's bought out Govita
and General Hydroponics and all these other companies.
And they're not good companies and these are the people that will end up taking control.
Like Monsanto and Bayer taking control of other parts of the fruit and vegetable market
and seed market as well.
And then you mix plant poisons into that and yeah, it's not good.
I think it's going to go in the future.
I think it's going to be very controlled.
So, what's the concentrate scene like in general in the UK?
You know, in the States it seems like it's completely overtaken the flower scene
for the general consumer.
Do you feel like that's the progression that's happening for the EU in general
or maybe in the UK but not Spain or maybe vice versa?
What do you think is happening?
Yeah, I think like the extract scene is becoming more popular.
It seems to be a younger generation thing as well with the whole dabbing and stuff like this.
I'm getting into it a little bit.
But like, yeah, I think in the future I think smoking will be looked at as like an old school way of doing it.
But the scene here in Spain, yeah, dabbing is very popular.
It's getting more and more popular.
Barcelona, yeah, there's a big scene for it.
There's lots and lots of extract artists now over in Spain and the UK.
And they're bringing some beautiful tasting stuff to the table.
So, yeah, I'm competing with some of the Americans even.
So, yeah, it's interesting to see what it will bring.
So, would you ever consider breeding specifically for turps or for concentrates, so to speak?
Yeah, well, I've sort of done that anyway.
By breeding for trichome production and turps in general, like the jungle cush and the jungle juice, they produce some crazy returns.
So, yeah, people are loving that.
It's like an extract artist's dream, those two plants.
So, yeah, I think that comes hand in hand with breeding good flower.
You breed good extract strains because if you're breeding for flavour, I think that's one of the main things.
Trichome production, obviously you select for the plants with big trichome production that can produce lots of terpenes, the terpenes that you choose, that you like.
So, yeah.
Okay.
And so, a question I was thinking about is how often do you think it's the case that someone grows out a pack of maybe yours, maybe anyone's seeds, and they think to themselves, oh, this fennel is not so good.
And then, like, maybe they ditch it.
But the truth is maybe they just didn't grow out that well because recently I've grown a few things again that I initially thought were bunk but they're from people I really respect.
So, I was like, you know what?
I'll give it another go.
Lo and behold, completely different, way better, totally worth keeping.
Do you think that's, like, something which happens a lot?
Because you mentioned earlier, you're like, yeah, there's winners in every packet.
Do you think maybe there's a bit of that going on for people who maybe disagree with that?
Yeah, I think that just comes down to selection.
Like, when I first started breeding, I seen this more with the plants.
Like, the plants that I was selecting and using, I would see this variation where you were getting some really nice plants and some plants not so nice.
But as, you know, that's progressed, I don't see that so much in my lines.
And even lines from other people.
I've grown Bodhi's things this year.
I've grown some stuff from Canerado.
I've grown some stuff from South Fork Seeds.
Yeah, their stuff does really well outdoors.
And I've got all amazing work from each one of them.
So, yeah.
So, the interesting thing I just took away from that is all of those are US breeders, as well as many of the other breeders you've mentioned so far.
What do you think is the go with there not being that many breeders in the EU scene, despite there being a really big market?
Do you think that more people from, you know, UK, for example, need to, you know, pick up their game and start releasing things?
Or why do you think it is, you know, there aren't that many EU breeders?
I think there's lots of them.
I think there's a lot of shit companies out there, yeah?
Like, just producing... I don't even know what they're producing.
I see some... so, like, yeah.
Like, there's so many of these little Spanish companies and Dutch companies popping up all the time.
And a lot of Spanish people grow these seeds.
They like cheap, feminised seeds.
And when you see the results, everything's just substandard weed.
It's just, yeah.
It's a shame to see, because if they were actually growing plants that were actually starting from good seeds, they could produce some amazing flower out here.
So, this is where it comes down to genetics again, yeah?
And these shit seed companies that use not very good genetics, that are just making feminised seeds because that particular plant produces a lot of pollen, yeah?
And it's good for making feminised seeds.
It's just polluting the market with substandard genetics.
So, this is something you may or may not have an opinion on.
How do you feel about the way strain hunters notably, you know, kind of went to other countries and just diluted, or polluted, I should say, the genetic gene pools, you know, with their stock in exchange for land races?
Because it's almost kind of like what you're describing in a way, like just coming and giving inferior stuff to the locals and they just don't know.
Yeah, I think that whole thing was crazy when I seen that.
Well, he's got a nice genetic library now of all the nice land races, and he's polluted it for anybody else to go back to.
But these people, like you tell these people that you can get twice as much yield and you don't have to pick up males, and these people are going to go with that.
This is how Monsanto is taking over parts of Africa with certain things that they've produced.
So, it's just the same thing as that really, like going round to these places and polluting.
And it's not even like he's given a few seeds to one little farmer and say, keep that little patch or something like that.
He's literally gone there with kilos of seeds and taken kilos of their seeds.
It's all crazy to be honest.
Yeah, the immediate thing I thought of, it's almost like a crude way of like copywriting it, you know.
Because as you said, it's like you've got your library, no one else does.
Yeah, that's what he'll be doing in the future.
He's looking to the future where he can patent certain strains or stuff like that.
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah, it'll be interesting to see what Arjen's game plan is now that the main workhorse there is no longer there.
Yeah, Franco was a good guy. He had a true passion for the plant now. Yeah, shame he's gone.
Yeah, I totally agree with you. Franco, in my opinion, did all the work and it was so pretentious the way Arjen named everything after himself when he almost openly admitted he didn't do any of the work.
Yeah, it's a shame to see.
Oh well, hopefully some good new Dutch companies can take their place.
An interesting idea I wanted to ask you about though is, do you think that people who are aspiring breeders throughout the EU should move to Spain for example to help get things going?
I guess the underlying idea is, is it better to try to have one more person, you know, like doing the right thing, being a good breeder but in Spain?
Or to stay in the illegal country, kind of, you know, fight the hard fight but not be able to reach your full potential and, you know, offer what you could maybe?
Yeah, I think even in Spain it's hard. I can't achieve my full potential out here. This is why I'm looking towards maybe working with somebody in America to sort of get a lot more of my genetic lines over there, maybe work some of the lines on a bigger scale, larger selections.
Because that can't be done here. It's still a very big grey area. I think anyone who's thinking about coming to Spain should definitely look at all the laws, come out here first, speak to people that are already living here and judge it for themselves.
Yeah.
So do you think it's possible for the average person to make a living? Let's be actually really optimistic about it. Let's say you live in America and you're a really good grower, like you've got validation of it, like, you know, dispensaries will pay top dollar for your type of stuff and it's really good.
So you're thinking to yourself, yeah, if I move to Spain, I could definitely grow stuff, it's real good, sell it to dispensaries, you know, yada, yada, yada. Do you think that that's actually possible or do you think like, no, like, you know, you're not going to get enough money for it, you need to have other stuff going on, like, how do you see it?
Because I'm not really in that scene in Barcelona. I don't know how that would work there. I don't know how it really works there. But with it going sort of more legal and they're going to sort of regulate the grow rooms and that, maybe, I think maybe, maybe they might even go towards that way. Yeah. So another thing that's going to be interesting to see over the next year or so.
Yeah, well, interesting.
If we were going to talk about some of the traits that you look at in males and think that that indicates a superior male, what are some of the things you like on males that you think indicate, you know, this is going to be my breeding male?
Okay. Resistance, you know, how well it copes with things, number one. The growth. I like to tend to go for like a slightly shorter type male because when they do go into flower, they tend to stretch out a lot more. Short internodes between spacing.
The smell of the stem was something I always used to go by. And when it dropped pollen as well. Not those males that drop too early. And obviously resin, like the males that you can get resin from and smell them. They are the special males.
And do you find that that flavor or that smell correlates?
Yes. Yeah. I'd like to actually start reversing some of my males and turning them female to actually see how they end up. That's something that I'd like to, I haven't done that I'd like to start doing.
Just as a bit of a random side question, would you ever consider doing a pollen release?
Yes. Yeah. I've actually got some pots here at the moment and I was thinking of doing a little giveaway of just three packs of seeds and one little tube of pollen to someone. Someone that's already grown out my strains as a little giveaway. So yeah, I definitely look towards doing something like that in the future.
And what would be some of the strains you'd want to do for the pollen release? Because obviously as a breeder, you could do it strategically because you can think, all right, what is something I would want to get out there? Because, you know, best case scenario, someone breeds with it, makes something amazing. And you know, whenever something amazing is around, people always look at the parents and think, hmm, you know, I'd like to try that type thing.
Yeah, it would be the mandarin and the mantis. Because of the two sort of turps that it does pass over, it's quite a dominant, both of them are quite dominant. The mantis passes over this lime zest and the mandarin passes over that orangey citrus turp. So they would be the two pollens I would actually probably look towards giving out.
Okay. And so if we just jump back to what we were talking about before with the breeding, an idea commonly brought up, and I think notably I've heard this from Subcool, is he says that he believes the males particularly bring the flavor. Do you find that is an accurate rule of thumb or it really just varies?
The male brings flavor, I think.
Yeah, so I guess if you wanted me to like elaborate a little bit more, you know, your selection of the male, that's what brings the flavor. So for example, you could have a female and she's really nice, got really good flavor. But if the male you pick, if what his profile is is not good, you know, that's going to dominate more so. So do you feel like the male you're using crosses dominates them?
Yeah, yeah, I think that plays a big role. If you're selecting a male, the outcome from that cross can be varied. And this is where you get some plants that are amazing and other plants that you just look at and think, oh, I just wouldn't even smoke that. So yeah, I think that plays a big role.
So what about this idea I've been thinking about, right? Is the best female for breeding a dominant one? In that a lot of people I feel buy seeds more so for the mother than the father, because there's a lot of people out there, notably, say Subcool, who a lot of the Australians use the same father again and again.
And so it's like the people buying these seeds are obviously interested in the mother, what it brings to the table. So with that being said, is the best mother not one that's very dominant so that people can ideally find a good replica of it in the 10-pack?
Yeah, like even males that are non-dominant. So when you cross a male, everything that comes is more like the mother. I find some males are like this, like a non-dominant male. So it doesn't matter what you cross that male to, so many of the females are coming out like the mother that you cross it to. So I think that plays a big role as well. And that comes down to selection again.
Okay, and so how do you find you select that? Do you just have to do it the old-fashioned way and make some seeds grow them out?
Test them, test, yeah. Time consuming. So use multiple males on the same female, all on different females though, so you don't mix the pollen, and then test those seeds out and see which males pass over what traits. Yeah, only way it can be done.
So how many seeds do you like to pop when you're popping one of your strains to get a bit of an idea of, you know, if it's a good line, if it's worth releasing?
Okay, I'll pop a couple of packets myself and I'll give out a few packets to friends that will grow straight away, and then give out a few to maybe a few selected people from online or something like this, and then see the results from that. That's how I tend to do it now.
Just with this new one, I've done so many new crosses with the Jungle Cush that I've just started so many seeds outside and they've veged up for a few weeks and they've gone into flowers. They're all very short, but I'll get a good idea of which ones I want to continue working with or test more.
So, yeah, like from each strain, I want to be seeing like from 50, I can get a bit of a percentage from 50 females.
And would you ever consider providing a little bit more kind of detailed information on number of phenotypes, what you could expect from each phenotype, that type of thing? Because we have seen more breeders switch over to providing, you know, these more kind of thorough analysis, particularly on F1s where it's, you know, there is a bit more variation.
Yeah, if you go on BreedBay, we used to have to fill out a form and then you can see it all there and it says how many phenotypes of each type and everything. So I used to do this a lot more, but I see that so many people are just not even interested. They just want to know what the mother is and what the father is and what it's crossed with.
And it's all about the name, it seems nowadays. But I always tend to jot all these things down. I've got notebooks and everything. So maybe I'll put that in the catalog as well. But if you go on BreedBay, a lot of my older strains and the mantis and stuff like that, you can actually see and it says there, you know, the parents, how many phenotypes of each type and explains everything.
So something I've noticed over the past kind of year or so that I've been doing the show is I've been keeping tight tracks on which seed bays are stocking who and things like that for various reasons. And something I've noticed is your seeds have been increasingly getting to more seed banks, getting out there more and more. Have you found that's been like an easy thing or has it been a bit of an uphill battle? And what should people expect if they're looking to get their seeds out there into the market?
Yeah, it's hard to sort of maybe crack America a little bit more. But I think I've had quite a few people buying from America and Canada since I sort of started on BreedBay. So we had a lot of American people on there and at the time Soapcore was on there.
And Bode was on there. Gooey Breeder, Sun Simulator, quite a few people. So it was a good little community. So a lot of people came there, bought seeds. So I've had quite a American based market for a while.
But it all comes with time. And I think now that it's all about, it seems about all about cups and what you've crossed it with. That seems to be the how you sell seeds now more than how much work's actually gone behind it. I think that's more for the connoisseur type grower.
And so like with that being said, do you not feel like it's really important for you to try to win as many cups as possible, assuming they are based on merit? Because you know, it is going to have a flow on effect to sales.
Yeah, I'd like to enter the ICMAG cup again, just because of how transparent it is and you get to see everything. I wasn't really into cups in the past. But recently I've entered a few and we've got a few cups. So that's been good.
But yeah, I think it's always good to enter one every now and again. Yeah. But maybe in the future I'll probably stay away from those and just stick with the ICMAG ones or maybe any new ones that pop up which are a little bit more transparent. Yeah.
So overall, what would be your advice to a new aspiring breeder? What's the best way for them to get into the market? Should they look to develop a library first? What should they do before they try to start getting their work out there to the masses?
Yeah, I think that's the best advice really.
So at what point did you make the jump from just making some seeds for yourself to thinking, you know what, I'm going to sell this?
Yeah. I was making a few different strains, making a few different crosses and stuff like that. And people were showing interest asking, well, when are you going to put them on breed bait? So I sent out a lot and people were putting up pictures of me growing them.
And that was around 2007, 2008. And then that's when I sort of created Trichome Jungle Seeds. And yeah, it went from there really. But it's only more recently that I've had a bit more of an influx of interest and sales and stuff like that is from the whole American market, I would say, yeah, of how it's going over there.
Interesting. And so what do you think is going to be the next big thing to hit the American market? And are you already working on something for that to cater to it?
Yeah, I'm working on a few things at the moment, and mainly the Jungle Cush crosses. So I've crossed so many different things with Jungle Cush. I think the main ones are going to be like the Tahoe TK crossed with the Jungle Cush, the SFV TK with the Jungle Cush.
The Girl Scout Cookie crossed with the Cherry Pie crossed with the Jungle Cush. So those three are in testing at the moment, which I think are going to be like, yeah, well, the parents I've selected are amazing. So we'll see how the testing goes. So they're going to be the main ones I'm going to be releasing soon.
I released two recently, which were the Hadouken, which is the Sunset Sherbet crossed with the Cookie Crisp from Canerado. And I crossed that with the Jungle Cush.
And the Jungle Rose, which is a cross of from Motive 303 of Fruity Pebble OG with UW. And I found this like Fennel that has this like rosewater tip. So that's the one that I selected and crossed with the Jungle Cush as well. So, yeah, and everything's coming out amazing.
So we've just finished testing that and just done a release on both of them.
Crystal Ship is a strain that caught my eye because it uses Kodiak Gold, which is another well-known strain from Reeferman. How do you feel about it? You know, would you consider using it again? Or is it one of those ones that's kind of long gone?
Yeah, I used it at the time and it was a nice selection. But now from the gene pool I've got, it's not a standout plant. Plus, I probably wouldn't want to work with Reeferman stuff anyway.
Do you go on?
I do go on. I don't like some of his views he's had in the past. I know people change and that, but yeah, I'll probably stay away from his genetics from now on.
Yeah, no worries. And so if we then jump a generation forward, Galactic Smurf, you know, you use Crystal Ship, you crossed it to Unknown Strain Ponyboy. I always love Unknown Strain. Tell us about this one. What was the go with him?
Okay, Ponyboy. These seeds came to me at High Times Cup one year from Coyote Seeds. Yeah, there's some mad American guy and he had this picture of all little Smurfs everywhere.
And he put them all in his bird and some seeds and he had all these different crosses with the Smurfs and stuff like that. And that's where I got those seeds from. But I can't find any information about this guy at all. I don't know if you've ever heard of Coyote Seeds.
No.
Okay, so that's where it came from. Yeah.
Okie dokie. So, we mentioned the Jungle Cush a few times. Do you think that this is kind of going to be your masterpiece, so to speak? Or do you envision there ever being a masterpiece? Or do you think you'll just continue on with strains and just keep working things until you find a new thing to work on?
Yeah, like every year I'm finding just new things and like, it's unbelievable how many different smells that this plant can produce. Like, every couple of years I'm finding something that stands out that I'm like, I've never smelt anything like this before.
So, I don't think, I think creating, we're always creating, we're always learning throughout life. So, yeah, I think that's how I'll take my breeding, yeah. Constantly learning from this plant and constantly creating new things all the time.
But the Jungle Cush at the moment, amongst everybody that's growing it and extracting from it, is one of the standout strains alongside the Jungle Juice. I think the Jungle Juice will probably become almost elite-like because there's not many seeds of that left now in circulation. So, it'll be interesting.
I haven't got the Sour Diesel. It's like a Rezdog Sour Diesel, but Karma selected it. So, I reversed that to make that and also the Orange Soda. So, I haven't got that anymore. So, we'll see how I work that line further in the future, maybe we'll see.
So, it's interesting you mentioned Karma. I had a question. You know, you've used some of Karma's strains in a whole bunch of different strains of your own. Is there any other breeders out there besides the ones already mentioned, you know, Canerado got a bunch of big ups. Is there any other breeders who you would consider using their work in?
See, Karma stuff, I like his OG lines, his Cush, Biker Cush. That was a real nice plant. I even like his Headbanger. That was a good one. Me and him don't work too much together anymore. He used my Mandarina on a few crosses. I made a few Mandarina crosses for him.
See, working with other breeders in the future. Maybe some collabs or something like that. Maybe some limited things that have been quite interesting with some people. Yeah, we'll see how things go.
Okay, so just to clarify, things went sour because he made the Mandarina Cushes or you made them for him?
Do you know what that was? That was, yeah, somebody else actually made them, right? I gave someone a Mandarina clone and they just pollinated a plant. So he ended up with some seeds from some guy that he was using to make some seeds for him. So that's where they came from.
And then he's used the same name, put the same name on it and released them as freebies now. Yeah, it's probably down to the things going sour between me and him. But yeah, it happens a lot in this game. I see a lot of breeders, they fall out of certain things. But yeah, it's how things go sometimes.
And so how do you feel about the idea of asking for permission to use someone's work? Is it mandatory or just respectful?
No, I think it's respectful to ask someone. It depends what your intentions are with the seeds. If you're going to be making a lot of money from it and that, then yeah, I think people need to be asked.
If you're going to be doing a limited drop or giving them out for freebies or something like this, I don't see it as too much of a big problem. People are welcome to use anything from any of my seeds. I say always select a male, select a female, make things, cross things. It's how we all start. So yeah, I don't have a problem with it myself.
A few people have used my things and not asked. It doesn't really bother me, to be honest.
And so if we jump back to that African land race idea for a while, will we be seeing any African crosses in the future? Notably, I see you have the Caribbean crush, you know? Guess not Africa most people are thinking of, but nevertheless, an African strain.
Yeah, well that was a solution. Me and Sonic went to St. Lucia, I'm trying to remember when it was, probably about 2009 or something like this. And we went to a field there. The variation was unbelievable.
You had like 12 foot sativas and you had like tiny little two foot plants next to it. So like because of the season there. So we went round, we collected some flowers or the things that smelled the nicest, took them back, dried them, tasted them, selected some seeds from them.
A lot of them hermed when grown indoors though. Yeah, a lot of them hermed when grown indoors under lights. But then out in Spain, I found a nice one. And I pollinated that with the mantis and I had the St. Lucian.
And I pollinated them both with the headbanger. So I made like the sour mantis and the Caribbean crush at the same time. So, but that was a real nice strain as well. Like it had that almost tropical, but zesty going on with it. But yeah, it was a nice one we selected from that field.
An idea I've had for a little bit now is, do you think that the most memorable crosses are ones that produce really unexpected but awesome flavors? Like for example, if you cross a chocolate strain with a strawberry strain, you think, you know, I'll get like, you know, chocolate stories or whatever. And then it comes out and it's like rotten meat. And like, maybe it's like phenomenal, you know, like something like that, which is like, you know, totally doesn't really add up.
Do you feel like those are often the most memorable ones or sometimes the predictable ones are the best as well?
And they've become part of the library. So people will see a lot more from those things and a little history on each one soon in the future. So, yeah.
And so just as a bit of a random question, how important do you rate aesthetics within your whole breeding operation? Do you value it highly? Would you ever knock a strain back from market if you thought, oh, it doesn't really look good, but it was like really good smoke?
No, probably not. But like, I'd sort of explain it a little bit like, you get some varied phenos and some are small yielding and some are large yielding or maybe like you get some like with like even, I consider some cookie crosses like they they have these like almost freaky.
stunted on my spinos where the buds don't want to grow too big and stuff like this.
So yeah, I'd explain all that.
And so just as another bit of a random question, if you were going to enter a cup, would you
want to enter something which you thought was just really well-grown or like would you
also want to have like a bit of that real wild card factor of like throwing some real
unique flavor or terpene profile out there? What would be your kind of aim?
Most of the time, I'd like to enter a strain I've got in seed form and a pheno that represents
the strain that he... So if it does win, people can have the seeds and a good representation
of what I've actually won. I think that's a good thing to go for.
And so do you have any kind of old school genetics or any kind of wild cards that you're
looking to breed within the near future or pop in the near future, potentially work with?
Definitely a few of the Landrace collection is definitely going to be coming out. I have
some Hunza Pakistani strains, Uzbeki, some African strains again, yeah. So that's a good
one. I'm interested in popping some of them because I haven't grown any of that for a
long time. What else? Yeah, I think more of the Landrace because I've been starting a
lot of seeds from other breeders, a lot of my own stuff. I think it's time to do a little
Landrace selection and see what comes about.
How would you want to work that? Let's just say you did pop it and you got some good numbers
of... Let's just say just one. Would you want to cross it with a certain strain or would
you want to breed it a few generations?
Yeah, I've already got Brazilian and Thai. So I'd probably look for something in the
Uzbeki strains or the Citral strain or even the Hunza and find something a little bit
more on the Indica side and cross that with the Mexican Thai.
And so what type of like... Let's say you do have this crazy hybrid. What type of work
would you want to do with it then? Would you want to keep working it to the point where
it's stable or be offering something that's a bit more wild, kind of like what Bodhi's
doing now? What's kind of the end goal for the Landraces?
It'd be nice to create something totally from scratch, from the originals and then
work that line. Even work it outside would be nice. Each year maybe do a little patch.
So yeah, that'd be quite interesting.
And let's just say worst case scenario. You got the seeds to pop but they were all showing
herm traits. Would you try to line breed it and weed them out or would that type of thing
just indicate too much effort for you?
Yeah, I try and work away from that. And especially outdoors, I'd expect not to see it as much
with a lot of these strains. I know it's their prone to it and it's natural but I try and
work away from that. Yeah. You can breed it out.
How many generations would you expect it might take? Because I mean, something I noticed
is in the earliest SSC magazines for example, they would often say, bred for four generations,
shows some hermaphroditic traits still. And so that was some of the best stock there was.
So to me, it makes me think, well obviously it's not worth just throwing in the towel
immediately but it might take a few generations. And to me, four sounded like they maybe got
lucky. I would almost expect it to have taken more to really taking a good step away from
those traits. Especially because they're recessive if they're all herming on the first
generation, right?
Yeah, I'm going to say you could do it in four or five generations I reckon.
Interesting.
Depending on what you're starting with. Yeah.
And so I guess if we jump back to strain hunters for a moment, do you think there is any real
pure land races left or they've just all been diluted in one form or another?
I think a lot of places have been diluted for a long time. Other small islands and maybe
hard to get to places have still got things. And even if it's only one or two packets that
have been brought to these places and then introduced, natural selection again will get
rid of them and they will revert back to their sort of almost natural sort of stuff
anyway. So I think there are still some places out there with some land race strains.
What places would you like to go and search for some land races?
I think maybe some Indian genetics would be nice to add. Yeah, I think India would be
maybe a nice place to go and collect some seeds.
Is that just because you're into hash?
Yeah, I think the whole hash thing, the culture, yeah, it'd be interesting to see it all and
collect some seeds from there. Next on the list after that would probably be South America
just to see some of the stuff there.
How do you feel about strains that throw nanas at the end of the cycle, the ones that do
it rather predictably? Do you feel like that's a negative trait or it's just kind of like
something you deal with?
Yeah, I don't see it as a problem. I find that sometimes I see it from the Agent Orange
before, but they were always unfertile and never ever made seeds. You could even pick
them out and try and make a seed from them and they just wouldn't pollinate. And it's
almost like a natural defence. If you've pushed a plant out and you get a few nanas at the
top, I don't see it as a huge problem.
Another one I wanted to run by you is I myself have seen a bunch of plants be re-veg before.
And when I say re-veg, I mean they've been taken more or less full flower and just trying
to re-veg from that point. Do you feel like when you do that, often it's kind of detrimental
to the plant in that the plant's maybe not quite the same as when it was first flowered
out? Do you tend to lose any traits from re-vegging or do you find that's not the case?
I think that depends on the genetics. I've seen things where me or a friend who's vegged
stuff out, re-vegged and taken clones again, grown those plants out and they've been identical.
So I think genetic drift in general can happen down to genetics and the health of the plant
in general. So if you can re-veg that plant and get it healthy, nice clones coming off of it,
then I think you'll get good results back again.
So do you agree with the idea expressed by many of our guests in that a poor clone room
in terms of the quality results in a degradation of quality over time?
Yeah, if you're taking clones off poor mothers, then I've seen it with the cheese clone in the UK
and people taking clones off it, clones off it. And when they start taking clones off
poor mothers, I start seeing the outcome, like the plants don't bubble up like they normally do,
they don't fill out like they normally do. Maybe the buds are a little bit smaller,
even down to like taste and smell can be lacking. So it can happen over time. So keeping your
mothers healthy is key, definitely. And so you mentioned earlier that you're
organics and you're really into that now. What type of growing style do you use specifically?
What are you feeding your plants? What are you feeding your mothers to keep them healthy? What
are you giving them in all regards? Okay. Before I was doing it mainly with
cocoa and bottled nutrients. But now I'm back to organics. I'm using a lot of slow release,
powdered organic amendments, making some ferments, aloe vera, I use that a lot, and coconut water.
Bean ferments. What else? If I can get nettles, that depends on the time of year,
make some nettle tea, comfrey tea, stuff like this. But yeah, going along those lines now.
Outdoors I've always done it organic and always indoors I've always done organic until I
come out to Spain really. So it's only been the last couple of years I did the cocoa.
But also a good way to test the plants. Yeah.
Just quickly touch on the outdoors. Are you enjoying the outdoors more? I mean,
given you're into your hash, I imagine you would. That's something I've always seemed to notice.
People say that the outdoor hash is unbeatable because even though maybe the bud doesn't look
quite as good as indoor because there's a bit of dirt, a bit of wind and all that,
the trichome heads are still perfect and the sun spectrum is number one. So
how do you feel about it all? Where does the outdoors sit for you?
Yeah, I think the sun, light depth weed is by far the best that you can get. The sun produces
like terpenes that you just don't get when you do it indoors. I think indoors,
organic, you can achieve similar outcomes, but still not like the sun. I think
chemical fertilizers or like mineral salts or whatever, they can produce like maybe a little
bit stronger weed, but the turps, outdoor under the sun is the way forward. I've been getting
into a couple of books from Jeff Lowenthal and what's the other guy called? Something Lewis.
But they're like the teaming with microbes, teaming with fungi, teaming with nutrients,
and they've been really good books. Putting into practice a lot of knowledge I've gained over the
years through growing a permaculture type garden, vegetables in that sort of style,
a lot of companion planting anyway. So it's good to put all this into practice now with cannabis
outside. And the garden outdoors this year is just looking amazing.
Yeah. So that's something you mentioned to me earlier that you do grow a lot of food and stuff.
And I think you even said you keep some bees. How does all that play into things? Do you think that
people do grow organically, should try to make an effort to grow their own food and things like
that, seeing as they've got the skills and often a lot of the inputs as well?
Yeah. I used to keep bees when I was living in the UK. Now that I've moved to Spain, I've stopped
keeping bees. But growing food, I think everybody should grow their own food or try it. What it
comes down to is where you live and land. A lot of people don't have the land. A lot of people don't
have the time to do it. But if you have the time and you've got the land there, definitely grow
some food. You've got the skills, so put it into practice. A lot of people grow organic, but then
they don't eat organic food. So going along those lines as well, when you're growing your own food,
you know everything that's gone into it. Do you feel like you do have a better
view on the whole plant now that you do do it organically? I guess what I'm trying to say is
a lot of people say to me when they grow organically, they feel more in tune with their
plants. Not in necessarily this weird hokey-pokey spiritual way, but in a sense of they really
understand the cycle. They understand how it's all working, whereas the stuff in bottles can still be
a bit smoke and mirrors at times. Do you feel like you have that better link with your plants in
either way, whether it be spiritual or just a more fundamental understanding of the cogs and wheels?
Yeah, organically it teaches you everything about how that soil works, how that plant works.
When you're actually making all these things yourself, this is what so many people are
missing out on, is the actual understanding of what they're feeding their plants. So many people
grow and don't even know what MPK is. It's just like, yeah, you need to be understanding
all of this stuff and organic really teaches you that. Being around your plants all the time,
making these things, feeding it to you, that's another connection with nature and that whole cycle.
I think it was Jeremy from Builder Soil who said there's a certain romance about the end
quality product of organics. Do you feel the same?
Yeah, definitely. It has something special about it. When it's organic, sun-grown, it's at its
most natural way of how it should be. You're getting everything. It's just the perfect way,
basically. You mentioned earlier that you do a lot of your own ferments and things like that now.
Do you get much into the whole KNF type of thing or are you just starting to dip your toes into
the whole water of all the various ferments and how all that interacts with it all?
Yeah, I'm just like, this is what I'm looking into more. Before I came out to Spain,
when I was doing organics before, a lot of it was a lot of bottled feeds. Yeah, I'd use some
slow-release powdered amendments and stuff like that. This way of doing it is... Well,
I used to do nettle teas for the garden and comfrey teas and stuff like that. Then this whole
fermenting and stuff like that, this is all new, definitely. I'm looking into all this now.
What's some of the newest products or ideas you're looking to delve into or implement in your own
garden? Like you were saying, build the soil and stuff like that. I've been looking into a few of
these other companies that do these amendments and definitely trying to use a few broader variety
of things in my feeds and soil mixes. Even composting, I'm starting to do a lot more
composting. I used to have a worm farm and stuff like that in the UK, quite a few bins of worms.
And I think I need to get more into that. So, yeah, definitely look towards that.
Does the Spanish scene have, you know, like a builder soil equivalent? Is there a place where
you can get all of the amendments you're after or is it still a bit of a struggle?
No, there's nothing like that. This is what I've sort of... It definitely needs... It's lacking
on that side. But as progression happens, more of these stores will start to get these products.
I'd like to see a store that only stocks organic products. I've not seen that so far. I think that
would be a really good thing to do out here in Spain. Yeah, because all of these products are
so hard to get and it's quite a big agricultural industry over here. But they like to spray
a lot of chemicals and chemical fertilizers on everything. So, yeah.
I love how your voice just like trailed off.
So, how would you describe the scene in general in Spain? Is it mostly people growing organic
outdoors given there's the availability or is it pretty well infiltrated by that commercial scene,
as you referenced, with the synthetics? No, like any of the commercial standard of Spanish
cannabis is quite low, really. I don't know how they're growing it, but everything has a certain
smell or taste to it when I see it. So, I'm not too sure what some of these people do use.
But yeah, not organic. But then everybody that grows for themselves on a personal level
tends to go down the organic line, which is good.
Bit of a weird political question. What would you rather do? Would you rather live in a situation
where it's illegal but you're growing your own or it's legal but the only people supplying it are
like big corporations and there's a lot of question marks over the quality and safety
checks in the whole process? If it has to be legalized, to be normalized and not be
felt like a criminal, then that's the line we have to go down. But decriminalizing it is the
way forward. But then, yeah, I just... it's a hard question that. But yeah, I think it needs to go
legal and be... I don't think it should be put in the government's hands, though. I think there's
enough people out there that can... ways of regulating it in different ways. Yeah.
That's not how it will go.
Well, I mean, just touching on the idea of regulation, you referenced earlier that you
think the price of weed should go down. Let's just move that idea over to seeds, though. We're
seeing a general increase in the price of seeds as time goes by. Some say it's in accordance with
inflation. Others say it's getting out of hand in some respects. How do you feel about that? And,
you know, do you think there should be some regulation on the price of seeds ultimately?
The seeds are worth what people can sell them for. Yeah. My seeds, I think, in general,
are quite cheap. I think I could even maybe lower the price a little bit
depending on how much work was involved in each strain.
Some feminised strains don't produce many seeds, so you have to charge a bit more.
But then I think it's gone crazy with like when people are charging 300, 400, 500 dollars a packet.
But then it's the market that people pay this and then people think if something's 500 dollars
and something's 50 dollars, the 500 one's got to be better. So people buy by price.
I think so many people, we do it in the shops, we do it with food, we do it with clothes,
and so people do it with seeds.
And so do you think that there are, or should I say, do you think that there is a max price which
no one should go over? Or do you think it's just really like, you know, if you want it and you're
willing to pay, go for it? I'd pay a high amount for a special packet of something old maybe,
so this wasn't about anymore. Well yeah, if I play Devil's Advocate, do you remember
Starfighter? You know, there were some auctions for a while and that got, you know, very expensive
very quickly. Do you think that was out of hand or that's the type of thing which merits
what you're talking about? Yeah, auctions are different. I remember when, I think it was the
alien technology went on to auction and it was like crazy prices for a packet. But people have
used that in the future for breeding stock, I had a good little story behind it. So yeah,
certain things sell. But to have a release of, and if you've got thousands of packets
and you're charging a huge amount for each packet, I think that's down to morals, isn't it?
A topic you just briefly touched on, auctions. We've seen a dramatic rise in the number of
auctions, especially on Instagram recently. How do you feel about this? Does it feel like
we have too many auctions? Are auctions a bad thing? I guess the thing I noticed mostly is that
people will often discredit really expensive purchases and say, oh yeah, but it was for an
auction. So you know, kind of like different rules are in play right now. But I mean,
if they're just constantly happening, is it not the new norm?
You're talking like charity auctions or is it just like general auctions?
The majority of them are charity auctions. I mean, I don't think I've really seen one for
charity, but yeah, it seems like they're just nonstop now on Instagram, wherever you look.
Right. I remember a couple popping up and I donated some seeds and stuff like this. And
I remember checking and they go for like crazy price for one packet. But then it's for a good
cause. If there's more and more and more of them popping up, maybe people need to look into it a
little bit more about, you know, but yeah, I don't see it as a bad thing. If it's for charity and
it's for a good cause. People do it all the time with other industries and people will hold
auctions and parties and stuff like that. And so yeah, why not do it with some seeds as well if it
goes to a good cause? Yeah, no worries. All right, last question for the extended response.
Is breeding an art or a science? Do you think that you could pass all your knowledge onto someone or
at the end of the day, you need to have a certain something within you, like a sense or a knack,
whatever it may be you want to call it? Do you think that yeah, it's an art or it's a science?
I'd say it's a mix of both. It's just things that you've learned along the way and some things can't
even be explained. It's just through things that you've seen. But definitely you can teach people
a lot and save them a lot of time by telling them what you know. So I'd say it's a mix of both,
definitely. It's a bit of art and a bit of science all mixed in.
Okay, awesome. So now for our last little quickfire segment. First question,
if you go back to one place in time in history, anywhere you want,
where would you go and what land-raised seeds would you be after?
Land-raised seeds would you be after?
Okay. The 60s, yeah. Afghanistan and maybe some old Persian seeds would be nice. Yeah.
Oh, exotic. That sounds good. Okay, what's the worst thing to happen to the EU scene since you've
been active in it? So not just since you moved to Spain, since you've been essentially online
or even just talking to people down the block? Shit feminized seeds.
Ones that I just don't even smell and taste good.
And so what's your current favorite strain?
I'll say from this year, out of my things, jungle juice and jungle kush. Out of other people's stuff,
I like Baldy's soulmate this year and South Fork Seeds cherry can. They're the things that are
standing out this year from outdoors. And what's your favorite of all time?
I'm really happy to have the Bubba Kush back. Just had that back. So I'm looking forward to
that at the moment. Yeah, the list is too long just to pick one, but I'm happy to get the Bubba
back. And I think SFE OG Kush. Yeah. SFE and Bubba. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of people love the SFE,
don't they? So next question, though, what is the worst strain you've ever had the privilege
of trying or growing? I've grown a few packets of greenhouse stuff that a friend gave me.
They weren't very good. And what else? Something that I bought. OK, I bought a packet of Soma
Seeds NYC diesel expecting a nice NYC diesel thing and didn't find the NYC diesel I was looking for.
That was a little bit disappointing, I suppose. But yeah, I think random seeds that people give
you and you think, OK, I'll try it out years ago and you just find a lot of shit stuff from that
as well. Yeah. So what's the biggest mistake you see people making when they're growing?
Overfeeding. Yeah. Giving the plant too many bottled feeds, thinking that this is going to do
this, this is going to do that, that's going to do that. And they end up with weed that's had a
buildup, doesn't burn very well. Yeah. So I think people that add too much to the plant.
Add too much to the plant.
And what's a little breeding tip for all the aspiring breeders out there?
Pick your favourite female, one that you've worked with a while.
Any packet of seeds that you've grown out that you find in a lot of females you like,
collect a little bit of pollen, dust it on something, grow those seeds out, give them
out for free. Yeah. I think that's the best tip. Awesome. So I think that one just about wraps it
up for us. Thanks so much, Bananame, for coming on the show and dropping all the knowledge on us.
Is there any shout outs or comments you wanted to make?
No, I'd just like to thank you for having me on the show. There's too many people to mention.
I'd like to thank anyone that's grown up my strains over the last couple of years, sent me
pictures, posted pictures up online, entered into cups. All of these people, these people make a
difference. Yeah. Thank you for growing my stuff. Awesome. Thanks so much for coming on again.
Nice one. Thank you.
All righty. So a big, big, big, big thank you to Bananame. Thanks for stopping by, chatting.
A big, big, big thank you to 420 Australia and OGS, two companies that are the lifeblood of
this show, as well as our Patreon fans. These guys contribute in more ways than you'll ever know,
and they're all getting great prizes for it. Feel free to check it out if you're interested,
or if you need an extra fix of the podcast. Otherwise, we'll see you.
