Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
As always, this episode was brought to you by our incredible sponsors, Seeds Here Now,
the number one seed bank in the game with all the hottest breeders, the freshest drops
with the most fire genetics to make your next crop a real killer.
They have guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Why would you shop elsewhere?
They promise if you're unhappy at the end of the harvest, shoot them a message.
They'll sort you out with some new seeds.
What more of a guarantee could you want?
But to ensure that your harvest is of good enough quality to evaluate genetics, make
sure to check out our friends at Coppett Biological Systems.
The largest range of predator mites and other natural enemies in the game.
Check out their Ultimite Predator, a predator mite breeder sachet for your thrips, spider
mites, russet mites, and specifically formulated for maximum release rates in cannabis production
climates.
These guys will help you to make sure your next harvest is on top of its game and the
best to date.
Likewise, huge shout out to our friends at Pro-Mix.
These guys have been in the industry for almost 40 years now, providing growers with top quality
mediums and now they're proud to announce they have a new product, Pro-Mix Connect,
a mycorrhizal inoculant that's formulated to increase resin, density, flavor, yield,
you name it.
Mycorrhiza is a versatile product that can benefit all growers.
Be sure to check out Pro-Mix Connect now to help ensure your next harvest is a success.
And last but not least, a huge shout out to our friends at the Patreon gang.
You guys are the lifeblood of the show.
You help make episodes happen.
And if you would like to help support the show, all while getting access to exclusive
interviews, unheard content, additional giveaways, podcast merch, and more, please go check out
www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
In this episode, we are incredibly lucky to be joined by one half, the fantastic duo behind
Cricuts and Cicada, Mr. Bob Hephilt.
Here to talk all things breeding, strain history, male selection, trends in the industry, and
so, so, so much more.
Without further ado, let's get into it.
Alrighty.
So, a big thank you and welcome to the next guest on the show.
One half of the genetic mastermind behind Cricuts and Cicada.
We're lucky to be joined again by the librarian himself, Mr. Bob Hephilt.
Thank you so much for joining us today.
Thanks for having me.
I'm really excited to talk with you.
It's been a while and it's always a good time.
Hell yeah.
The first thing I want to know, what have you been smoking on recently?
Today, I've been smoking on the HP 13 Lazy Dog Cross, mostly.
A little bit of the Brute X too.
Oh, nice.
Some of the new releases.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
Really happy with the way they turned out.
Those two are really killer.
And what sort of high do they have?
Is it like a more sort of functional one or like more sedating?
So, for me, it's functional.
I like to smoke them during the day, but they can be a bit overwhelmingly potent, even for me.
Both of those have a little bit of sativa in there.
The Brute X is probably like 1.8 Hawaiian sativa through the Sensu Star.
Me and you were talking, last time we talked, we were talking about the HP 13.
And I had mentioned that I'd always heard that it was just a Landrace Hash Plant, Hash Plant number 13.
Well, I made that comment recently on Instagram and somebody sent me a DM.
I don't know if they want to be put on the spot here, so I won't throw their name out.
They mentioned that they had heard a story that the HP 13 originated in Arizona.
And the mother was a Thai that was called Victoria.
And they needed an Indica to shorten the flowering time.
It was a bunch of brotherhood guys that had met in Oaxaca.
And I guess the story I heard was on an Indian reservation in Arizona,
they bred a whole bunch of Indicas on the Victoria Thai clone, and that's the source of the HP 13 seeds.
I don't know if that's accurate or not.
And when I heard it, I really took it with a grain of salt.
After I grew out a bunch of the HP 13 crosses, I saw a few of them that did have the flower structure of Thai,
where they foxtailed up into a point.
And it really made me kind of think that that story might be true,
because people tell stories and plants tell the truth.
I like that statement. That's a good one. I'll have to remember that.
I mean, the HP 13 is really interesting, because for a long time there's been all these various rumors about it.
And one that I find comes up regularly is that it's somehow tied into either Skelly or the Chemdog,
or just through some sort of common linkage to the Chemdog, basically.
Would you say that, given what you've just mentioned, that you don't think that's the case?
Well, I had the HP 13 back in the day.
And I think I ended up dropping her in 2006 because I couldn't get the PM off of her.
And I got the copy again about a year and a half ago, and it's the same copy.
I got it from Lion Tree, and he got it from a friend in Maui.
The copy I'd gotten 15 years ago was from another friend that had gotten it from Maui, and they were the same cut.
And, you know, when I remember back from 2005, you know, I've learned a lot in the last 15 years.
It might be related to the same family of hash plants that the puck is from in the Pacific Northwest.
But it just might be, you know, the same type of terpene profile.
And, you know, the leaf structures are pretty similar, but the HP 13 has a much bigger internode stretch than the puck or the Pacific Northwest.
So I would think maybe that the Afghani family from the Pacific Northwest and the HP 13 might be, you know, similar family from Afghanistan.
But I don't think there's any direct lineage.
I think the HP 13 probably predates the Chem 91 by quite some time.
And HP 13 has such a unique terpene profile.
I've never really encountered it in any other cannabis, and it really throws that in its crosses.
I bred a four-way sour diesel great white shark cross to it in 2005, and those HP 13 terps really dominate stuff.
And, you know, I see that again, this cross.
And the lazy dog male really throws certain qualities strongly.
So it was able to impart some really good qualities into the HP 13 where you get the bigger bud structure and you get really strong, strong potent weed.
And then the HP 13 added some of those really cool terpenes in there.
And they're just so unique and, you know, you can't miss them.
I really doubt that it's actually part of Chem or the puck, like directly related.
Yeah.
Okay.
What a good rundown there.
I think the other thing I'd heard about the HP 13 was that it might somehow be tied in to the Maui dog, which is another one which, you know, often gets sort of linked into all the Chem stuff.
What's your thoughts on the HP 13 and the Maui dog?
Is it the same in that maybe there's a similar bit of Afganica there, but they're probably not related?
Or where do you see those two in relation to each other?
So I actually got the Maui dog, came along with the HP 13 for the ride.
And there's a few different Maui dogs in Maui.
There's the Maui skunk dog.
There's the Westside Maui dog.
And then there's this one.
So there's at least two or three of them.
This one is Chem 91 bag seed, most likely an S1.
You know, not so dog said it probably came from his grower, the person that held down the 91 and brought it out from the East Coast.
One of their close friends.
And it was taken over and popped in Maui.
And that really, you know, that's it.
When you grow the plant, you know, it's a Chem 91 S1.
There's no Hawaiian sativa or any skunk in there, anything like that, which would be the other Maui dogs.
Like not so dog had a Maui dog.
He bred with the mass super skunk and Chem 91.
And that's not it.
This is just a bag seed.
It's, you know, one of those strains like headband or something else where there's several different strains that go by the same name.
So that causes mass confusion.
But I bred the lazy dog male to the Maui dog.
And I also bred him back to the Chem 91 that made a Chem 91 back cross.
And I grew the back cross out and I grew the Maui dog out.
And so, so similar.
The Maui dog is such a good S1 that really amplifies those good Chem 91 qualities that it actually probably turned out better than the back cross.
So it got me thinking and I'm like, wow, if it is a S1, that would make the Maui dog go back to the Chem 91 two times.
And then the lazy dog goes back to it once.
So that would make it go back to the Chem 91 three times and a very close, you know, two, three generation pedigree and where the back cross is only twice.
So, you know, that kind of makes sense that it would be more true to type because it's breeding forwards instead of breeding backwards because the Maui dog really, like I said, amplifies some of the best qualities that the Chem 91 can produce.
Wow, that's really interesting.
And it sort of brings us to another question that I wanted to ask you about.
Have you had any success or further developments in terms of sort of trying to reinvigorate the Chem?
Or do you think like what you just said, that it's maybe better just to use the Maui dog going forward, given it's, you know, arguably better?
Well, you know, as far as working a pure Chem line, I'm going to leave that to Lucky Dog and Top Dog.
I'm more, you know, just breeding for a certain type of plant that I remember in the 90s.
And I thought adding the Chem 91 to the NL hash plant, you know, not necessarily breeding for pedigree, but more breeding for a certain type of plant.
And that's the reason I hit it to the Sensi Star next, just breeding for a certain type of plant.
And, you know, I believe the Sensi Star and the Chem 91 both go back to NL.
So it's, you know, in my opinion, the best NL around, you know, even though it's not the purest, it's just kind of like the best examples of what I remember of good NL wheat from the mid to early 90s.
And, you know, that's what I was just trying to lock in those genes from those old cuts, you know, the Sensi Stars from the mid 90s too.
And I believe Sensi Star's mother was Garlic Bud and the father was NL Hawaiian.
And, you know, I think Garlic Bud is probably part of Chem 91 too.
Maybe Garlic Bud, hash plant, skunk type of thing would give you something very similar to Chem Dog.
Yeah, that's a really interesting hypothesis there, because I've been sort of debating the question in my mind about whether we ever will find out the real story behind Chem Dog.
It seems like most of the origins have been chased as far as you can take them and it's still not really yielding the answer.
But something that I wonder which you just brought up is, like, what are the genetics in the Chem Dog in your mind that give it that stretch?
Because a lot of people, and I think we've discussed this ourselves just when we were hanging out, that, you know, the similarities between Skelly or even the PNW are very present.
You know, there's that similar flavor profile and effect.
But the thing about the Chem Dog that always tripped me up was how stretchy it is compared to a lot of the plants that often get said, you know, this is maybe a parent, this is maybe a parent.
Do you think that maybe in the combination you just mentioned with the Garlic Bud, the hash plant and the skunk, that maybe it's the skunk that brings that stretch?
Or do you think it's some weird combination which just brought it out when it wasn't expected?
Yeah, you know, I'm not an expert on skunk, but, you know, I think skunk's got quite a bit of Columbian and, you know, a few other sativas mixed with the Afghani.
So Chem 91 definitely, besides the stretch, it has the way the flowers will just keep getting wider and wider in the center.
The bud is ripe, you know, at eight and a half weeks.
But if you're looking at the outside, it'll keep going until 77 days.
You know, certain people notice that it's actually a test higher and has better terpenes at about eight and a half weeks, you know, compared to like 10 or 11 weeks.
So the way that just keeps putting out and going around the bud is definitely sativa qualities.
It almost reminds me of Hay's crosses that I've seen.
Like NL Hay's crosses can kind of do that same thing.
Yeah, that's so interesting because I remember I was talking to Skunk VA about it and he said something to the effect of, he goes,
every now and again I wonder, is Chemdog even a real syndica?
He goes, sometimes I think there's sativa in there.
He goes, it's almost like kind of like what you mentioned with the lazy dog crosses.
Like it's just so potent that sometimes it tricks you into thinking it's a real heavy indica, but maybe it's not as heavy as we give it credit for.
It's just so potent that it sort of knocks you down a bit and you're like, oh, super indica.
Do you think of it like that?
Have you ever thought that maybe there's some sativa in the Chem?
I would say almost a hundred percent, maybe 25% and it just carries those few qualities.
I wish we knew more about the history of cannabis.
People have always been trading Silk Road and the Hippie Trail all went through there and people are always taking seeds and spreading them around.
I really don't know much about history in Asia, but I'm sure there was a lot of people moving from Southeast Asia, Afghanistan back and forth and people take cannabis with them.
That's what they do.
I wish we had a better view of everything.
Most land races have been ruined at this point and we only have glimpses here and there of what there was and is left in some places.
Yeah, sadly, that is the truth, isn't it?
I'm going to jump back to the Silk Road you just mentioned a minute ago.
But before I get there, I just want to quickly ask, do you think we'll ever find the true roadkill skunk?
And if you were going to try to find the roadkill skunk, where would you look?
What genetics?
Would it be in pure skunk, Afghani or some sort of mix?
I'm always looking for something like that and I don't have it in my arsenal.
I bred with the four-way so many different times.
I bred it to Great White Shark in 98.
I bred it to AK-47 and bred Chemdog from South Fork Seed, Sirius, which was a mix of 707 Chemdog and Stardog from JJ.
I bred it to NL1 and it never really passed along those skunk qualities.
It passed along a lot of other nice qualities, but I hope it's not something that's lost and it's just going to be mythical from here on out.
Hopefully someone has it in their gene pool and they'll share it with the community.
As someone who's never been able to try it, I would certainly love to see if it meets the hype or if it's one of those fabled strains from years ago.
Let's go back and state the obvious.
It's pretty exciting times for you and Hannibal recently because since we last spoke a number of years ago,
you've been able to part ways from Coastal and launch your own brand, Crickets and Cicada, which has been met with a lot of success.
Even more recently, the momentum behind your work has just been going off the chain.
How have you been since we last spoke and how's the new company and what have you been keeping yourself busy with?
It's been a wild ride since we last talked.
Lots of good times and some rough times.
I've just been focusing mostly on working my lines that I like and Hannibal likes the most.
About a year ago, I came out of a little bit of depression funk and I just really went full blast on the company.
I had a good friend pass away and put me on the phone for a few years and a couple other rough things.
The support from the community has been tremendous and it's really heartfelt and appreciated.
Even if you're just liking or commenting on the Instagram, it's appreciated.
It's really cool to see people interested in these old genetics and not just the same old cookie-fam stuff.
They're supporting us so we can continue to work these lines further and hopefully bring out some really cool stuff into the gene pool that hasn't been there in seed form for quite a few years.
What a great insight into what you've been doing.
What a great insight into what you've been doing recently.
I think I speak for everyone when I say we're glad to hear you're back kicking things in full swing.
Just in a few questions ago, you mentioned the Silk Road and it brought up to mind that you released a strain called the Silk Road, which was the Lebanese hash plant crossed by the PNW hash plant NL1.
How did that go for you?
Did it bring some of the traits you were looking to create to the forefront?
Will you possibly be working any more strains like that?
There's some really cool stuff to be found in that cross.
The Red Lebanese hash plant, as you know, is amazing smoke, super potent.
The fact that she's land-raced, though, she throws stuff all over the place so it's not my most consistent strain, which in my opinion, that's a good factor.
But there's quite a few different phenomes of the hash plant that can pop out and then the NL hash plant side.
It's a really cool mix.
And if you have two of those, there's going to be some crazy stuff popping out.
I have the Red Leb in the breeding room right now with the Puckback cross and I'm excited to grow those ones out.
Really excited about that one.
Yeah, wow. Hash plant lover's wet dream right there, having both parents come from either side with that sort of genetic lineage.
I guess the thing that I would be wondering is having been lucky enough to see the Lebanese hash plant in your garden, I've seen that it's quite stretchy.
I mean, compared to say like the PNW hash plant or the Skelly hash plant, it's got a lot of vigorous side branching, really admirable traits.
And then on the other side of the parental lineage, we've got the traditional hash plant, that Totem Pole Cush.
Do you expect people to find maybe a happy medium when these two meet and cross paths?
Or do you think you'll get some that are like mom, some that are like dad?
And in your mind, is the ideal pheno the one in the middle or is it just taking one or two traits from either side?
So, with that F1 hybrid there, I'm expecting to see 30% leaning towards the mother, the hash plant side, 30% leaning towards the Puckback cross and then the other 30% being the blend.
F1s are, if you're into hunting seeds and finding cool stuff, man, they're really cool because there's going to be quite a mix in there.
And the Red Lab, as you know, has some amazing turps, you know, Tootsie Roll, amazingness.
And like you said, the branching and the way she can stack, she gets a really big cola.
So she can add a lot of really nice qualities to the mix.
And I'm excited to grow that one out.
And I put every hash plant I had in there.
I put the Nepalese hash plant, Pacific Northwest hash plant, put the Puck in there, threw the BX2 and a bunch of Northern Lights clones.
So I'm excited about that one.
That's awesome.
And there's a whole bunch of avenues I want to delve into with you off that one.
But before we move on, I just want to quickly ask, because I've had a number of people ask me this.
Would you be able to give us a quick rundown on what you know of the backstory behind the Red Lebanese hash plant?
Came from Bamboo.
He got it from a relative of Tim Blake's.
I heard it was Howard Mark's stock.
So I don't know much besides that.
Yeah, well, I mean, you don't really hear about Howard Mark's, you know, for people listening, the original Mr. Nice.
You don't really hear a lot about his personal seed stock, but it makes sense that there would have been some, right?
That guy was a serious smuggler.
He did a lot of smuggling in the US and I'm sure he spread genetics, you know.
Really big, good dealers, especially back then.
That was before my time even, because I know in my time in the 90s, especially, the dealers would get the good cuts into the growers' hands a lot of the time so that they could get that weight.
So I'm sure in Howard's time, it was even more important for that type of thing to happen.
Yeah, well, it makes me think like that's the seed stock I want to go get my hands on somehow.
But anyway, we'll move on.
I wanted to fill people in because I'd noticed that the name of the new company, Crickets and Cicada, it's a cool name.
And I'd actually heard that from a lot of different people.
They thought it was like unique and like very different to the sort of names you hear on the market nowadays.
And I know that you used to have a dog called Cicada, beautiful girl, had the pleasure of meeting once.
And I'm wondering, slash guessing, was that the inspiration for the name of the brand?
And if you might be able to give us a bit of a rundown on where the name comes from.
Yeah, I had a cat named Cricket too.
And the name is from a terrapin.
Crickets and Cicada Sing is the line in the terrapin.
And I just put it Crickets and Cicada Seeds.
Just keep the family names in there.
And then, you know, Terrapin Station is one of my favorite songs of all time.
And Grateful Dead has been such a huge inspiration in my life.
Yeah, that's awesome.
And I'm going to get to some Grateful Dead questions in a little bit.
But I just wanted to quickly follow up.
One of our listeners had requested to ask you if you had any tips on treating dogs with cannabis.
For example, what you might use, the sort of dosages.
I know that you've had a little bit of experience with this.
Do you have any recommendations?
Yeah, start slowly and work your way up.
And, you know, if you can work with a lab, you know, get your coconut oil tested to see how strong it is, you know, per weight.
And then you can know how much you're dosing and work your way up.
And it does amazing things with old or injured animals.
But like I said, it's very important to start slow and work your way up.
Because they can get pretty fucked up.
And where they can't walk and they're just kind of like fucked up.
If you don't do that, you know, I've lived in Humboldt County since 97.
And I've heard of a lot of and seen a lot of people's dogs get into compost piles full of pounds, full of buttered out ganja.
And they just get in there and munch it.
And animals can become quite fucked up.
So make sure they don't have access to large amounts like that.
Because if they like it, they'll eat it, you know, especially if it's in butter or coconut oil.
That's just an important tip right there, though.
But I highly recommend it.
Cook it in a crock pot.
Use a candy thermometer so you don't get it too hot.
Strain it through a cheesecloth and coconut oil.
Cats eat it.
Dogs eat it.
And I've seen it extend years on the animals' lives.
And the quality of the life of old animals has dramatically increased.
They're not in pain walking around and they can sleep through the night.
It's just amazing.
That's so awesome to hear.
And just to clarify, would you recommend just THC or a mixture of THC and CBD?
Because we see a lot of CBD brands emerging that are trying to cater specifically for animals.
And then finally, would you recommend them having a dose every day or, like, how frequently?
I recommend one-to-one CBD to THC.
And you really want high terpene strains.
It really matters in the healing effect.
You don't have to have a one-to-one strain.
You can have THC strain and a CBD strain and just mix them 50-50 in there.
And then CBD is crucial and the THC is crucial.
I think they've got to be in there together to work really.
I'm sure CBD by itself would be good and THC by itself would definitely be good.
But if you can mix them both, it's far superior.
Awesome stuff.
So just to throw back to the Grateful Dead you mentioned, another one of our guests wanted to know,
what's your favorite Grateful Dead show of all time?
Or do you have, like, a specific tour that you like more than one specific show?
So as far as tapes and stuff, I love 77.
It's one of my favorite years.
I got to see them live myself in 93 and 94 and 95.
Unfortunately, I didn't graduate high school until 94.
So I got to see Jerry about 30 to 50 times.
And every single time I saw him, it was the most amazing thing.
You felt like he was talking directly to you.
It's hard to get tickets back then.
It was really a struggle.
Everybody wanted to get in.
So when you finally did get in and he played a touch of grey or something, you really felt it.
I don't know.
Some musicians are just amazing.
And the only way he can be described as amazing, I think everyone in the audience felt like he was talking directly to them personally.
And the songs were telling the story of everybody's lives all interwoven together.
Very thankful I got to experience that in my lifetime.
What an awesome recount.
That's killer.
What's your thoughts on people naming their strains after Grateful Dead songs?
I just guess I wonder, like, when there's these really well-known song names and then you get a strain and maybe it's not a good strain.
Is that like a bummer?
I think every Grateful Dead song name is already taken up in strain form.
Me and P-Bud, Mike, were actually texting today about this, laughing and joking.
I think it's a cool tribute to the band.
Hopefully people don't start getting sued.
That's it, right?
That's it.
In the age of being sued.
I mean, brings up a great point.
I love chatting with you because you're like me, you often just lurk around on social media.
And so, like, you know, maybe you're not commenting on every post, but I can bank on you having seen the post.
So my question is, what's your thoughts on Terp Hogs and getting sued by Skittles?
Do you think it was sort of had it coming or where do you sit?
You know, I think it was definitely not going to be a hard decision for the judge to decide if it was infringement or not.
So that being said, they probably didn't think of that when they started their brand.
And their brand's amazing.
And it's an unfortunate situation, to be honest, the way I see it.
Especially since the owner of that candy company is starting to get into the marijuana business.
It's just like, don't support that guy.
You know, fuck that guy.
That's what, you know, that's all I got to say about that one.
Yeah, that is suspicious timing, isn't it?
I think the thing about the Skittles situation, which makes me interested in it all, is like sort of two aspects.
A, there was the Matt Rise incident of, I believe, 2015, where he got a cease and desist from Nintendo after.
I'm sure you remember back in the day, every oil company had like a Mario or a Bowser or a Peach or something on their labelling.
And like Nintendo was the big thing to sort of take characters from.
Anyway, he was the first one, I believe, to receive some sort of legal notification about the use of another company's trademark.
So I think it's interesting that there's already like a precedent.
And I think that that came about before they found Skittles.
So that's interesting.
But I think the more interesting part about the story is the way they're reacting to it.
And it seems like rather than sort of copping it sweet and being like, yep, look, we're going to have to rebrand somehow.
You know, a lot of the posts seem to be like, you know, we made Skittles.
Everyone uses the Z in Skittles.
And like, it's just sort of like not the approach I was expecting them to take.
Have you thought about that at all?
And what's your thoughts on them when they're sort of trying to lash out and say to everyone, well, you know, everyone uses Skittles in their spelling.
We started this trend, blah, blah, blah.
Like, is that going to go anywhere?
Yeah. What's your thoughts?
You know, it's, it's, it's, I wouldn't be acting like them.
That's for damn sure.
But, you know, I hope I don't get a cease and desist for crickets and cicadas at some point.
That would be a blow, not just to the company, but, you know, the Grateful Dead, you know, the band that used to let everyone take the shows for free, that they could spread the music for free, you know?
Yeah. Okay. Good answer. Good answer.
So I've been interested to ask you, you're a passionate organic grower, like myself, like many people we've had on the show.
I like that you're always pretty up to date with the newest trends and the going ons of the organic world.
Is there anything new you've started doing in your garden in regards to growing or maybe amendments or inputs that are sort of new compared to the last time we spoke?
I've implemented the Vitamixer into my game and it's been really cool.
So I bought, for the last 10 or 15 years when I have extra male plants, I always feed them to the crop when I cull them out.
I used to put them in an extraction bag and soak them in water overnight when I brewed my dragonfly earth medicine.
And I would rub the bag to help extract.
But about a year and a half ago I started cutting them up and sticking them in the Vitamixer and just blending it to juice and then adding that to my water and they're responding even better to that.
I also do nettle and horsetail and they're loving that.
And aloe vera, just put aloe vera leaves in there and some water and grind it up and then add that to my, you know, I'm watering with a trash can right now with a sub pump on the bottom that circulates the water around to keep it all mixed up nice.
And, you know, I wouldn't recommend doing that every feeding, but a few times per trip with those ingredients I just named have been really helpful to my old regiment, which is mostly earthworm castings and compost.
Nice. And are you at the end of a cycle, are you pulling the soil out and mixing it up and mixing new amendments in?
Or are you sort of that more traditional no-till where you just top dress a few things and chuck the new plant in?
Got to work with the lab and send it in and whatever the lab says needs done, I'll do it.
If it doesn't need any major adjustments, I'll leave it in the pot two or three times, you know, sometimes I'll need to get them all out and flush them and add certain ingredients to get everything proper ratios, get the cal-mag ratios proper and whatever.
You know, you can shoot from the hip and just throw in a handful of this, a handful of that.
And, you know, you can kind of get good at doing that, but you'll never be as good as sending them to a lab and working with a lab and having them tell you what you need to add to your soil.
Yeah, certainly. I think that what you said is just so true, isn't it?
Like with time you can get good at having an idea of what you need, but the true sort of clear picture in the situation is doing a lab test and adjusting.
And there's so many different ways you can do that.
I mean, in Australia, obviously lab tests aren't utilized very often for almost anything.
Like, I mean, soil you can get tested for sure, but like, I mean, cannabinoids and stuff like that, like you just can't get it tested.
What's interesting is I've spoken to people about the way they do their soil tests and there's a lot of diversity.
Some people say they've got 10 pots, like they might order 10 tests, but that's going to be quite expensive after a while if you're doing it regularly.
And then I spoke to someone else and they said, oh, nah, like I'll just test one pot every so often that I think is like a sort of benchmark.
And then someone else told me a cool idea where they say they get a little sample from each pot and mix it together and send that in.
And then if it's pretty good, they just leave it.
But if something needs to be changed, they'll then pull all the root balls out, like all the soil out, mix it all together, fix it and put it back together.
Long story short, I know that just took a long time to explain.
The question is how do you get your soil tested?
Do you just test one of them or what do you do?
Yeah, a little bit from a bunch of different pots and mix it all together.
And I think that'll give you the best picture.
So, you know, obviously some strains are going to pull certain nutrients out of there harder, certain plants are getting bigger and they're going to use the nutrients more than smaller plants, you know, even of the same variety.
But, you know, you just can't send out a million samples to the lab, you know, you just got to kind of mix a little bit of everything together and then shuffle it up and then send that to the lab would be my best advice to anybody out there.
Sure. And the final little bit on organics for the moment is, do you try to have your soil full of nutrients and ready for the coming cycle such that you're really just sort of watering only with the occasional tea?
Or do you like the idea of sort of periodically top dressing and always having things in a state of breaking down and releasing nutrients?
I like a really rich soil, but not so rich that you only give it water.
I like to feed it teas and top dress and hit the plants with certain, you know, food regimens at certain times to get the results that I like out of them.
So, you know, as of lately, I like popping my seeds in a Royal Gold Kings mix and four inch pots.
And then I mix them. I let them go in that for about three or four weeks, straight water, maybe the last few feedings I'll mix in some cow mag.
And then I'll move them up to a two gallon in my custom soil.
My custom soil is too hot for seedlings.
It's just too much. But even with that, I still like to top dress and feed them with teas because I use smaller pots, three to five gallons.
And I really put them as close to the lights as possible.
And, you know, they eat the food up that way really hard and fast.
So that's just the method that has worked for me best over the years.
What a good rundown. We'll have to implement that next cycle ourselves.
One of the biggest sort of pieces of feedback I received about our first episode was how grateful people were about the depth of detail you went into with your IPM regimen.
And I think people have been able to successfully use that themselves.
I guess it makes me wonder, you know, are you still the IPM king? You still kicking ass each cut you get?
Yeah. I mean, you got to be on your IPM game if you're going to keep these mothers around, that's for sure.
Yeah, I sulfur is king still. I'm also doing another mix with an ounce or two per gallon of alcohol.
The 99.9% mix that with plant therapy, an ounce or two per gallon, an ounce of Dr. Bronner's soap per gallon, some essential oils, and maybe a quarter ounce per gallon.
And alternate your essential oils.
That one's been treating me real nice lately. Knocks out a bunch of stuff and doesn't really bother the plants too much.
The only thing in there that really bothers the plants would be the essential oils.
Just make sure it's not too hot when you're spraying. You don't want to be doing it above 90 degrees. You want the lights to be off.
You don't want the fans blowing on the plants too hard either, or until they dry out for a few hours.
Between that and the micronized sulfur, you're pretty golden.
Awesome. What a nice little rundown of the volumes and ingredients right there. I noticed that neem oil was missing off the list. Have you decided to take a step away from neem oil?
I'm getting the results with this mix that I just mentioned. The only thing that I don't like is that plant therapy is a little bit expensive.
I use it as a part. It has extra alcohol and extra soap. Extra essential oils really makes it really potent.
I spray with a paint sprayer. If you spray that every day for 12 days, you're going to get rid of any problem you have.
If you then clean the plants off for a week and then alternate with sulfur, you're definitely not going to have any problems.
I like to do that treatment once a year, switch in between. You've got to give a week in between.
Spray the plants off with yucca and aloe and coconut with the paint sprayer, just water. You don't want the sulfur to react with the oils and get a bad burn.
I can imagine the plants being very unhappy with that.
A question I commonly get asked, which is a tough one to answer, so I'm interested to hear your perspective is,
what should someone do if they're growing organically and want to adhere to proper organic practices, so not using pesticides, things like that.
What should they do if in week 4 of flower, they notice a mite problem?
I guess the question revolves around, should they spray something, should they not spray something, are there better options?
How do you go about battling a week 4 flower infestation?
Week 4 infestation is a rough one.
Ideally, you want to be inspecting your garden really thoroughly in those first few weeks and not having an infestation at week 4 so you would notice earlier.
At that stage, it's your personal meds, so it's going to be your personal choice.
I know plant therapy advertises that you can spray their product until the day of harvest.
I obviously wouldn't want to do that personally, but if I had them week 4, I think I would probably attack them with plant therapy, the alcohol and the Dr. Bronner's soap with some essential oils.
Spray them 3 or 4 days in a row with that and they would probably be relatively clean a month later.
Yeah, okay.
So, you sort of have the opinion and I think I agree with this that you're just sort of trying to just get through until the end of harvest as best you can.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
I think if you hit them, you know, 4 weeks in, if you hit them with that mixture I told you 4 days in a row, you'd put a hurt on them.
If you went as far as 10 days in a row, you'd kill any spider mites or micromites with that.
The 2 ounces per gallon of alcohol just dries out their eggs and they're not going to make it through that.
Yeah, great tip there.
So, before we got into the IPM, you made the comment, you know, you got to stay on top of the bugs if you're going to have the library like you do.
And so, I'm wondering, are there any new additions to the library that you're particularly happy or excited to have been able to pick up?
You know, I'm still excited about that HP 13 and that's the one I had mentioned last time that I had wanted the most.
And with the way it crossed the lazy dog, I'm very thankful that I was able to get reunited.
And I'm very excited to see her cross with the fuck bat cross.
So, that should be really cool too.
You know, I got so many cuts, it's really hard for me to think of them all.
You know, I get into the other room and I'm like, oh, look at this one.
This one's badass.
And then I get to the next one behind it and I'm like, oh yeah, this one's fucking badass.
You know, like when I'm showing someone around, oh, this one's even fucking better over here.
You know, the NL2 cut that Bodhi passed me that he got from Jim Ortega, you know, to have something like that in the library, amazing.
I'm really excited to see that clone get crossed to the bug bat cross.
Kevin Jordy just told me to come down, pick up a clone.
He wanted to see it and the puck bat cross.
It was Alaskan Thunderfuck from Dutch Blooms.
He said that's a really killer pine plant.
So, I'm excited about that one.
That one's in the puck bat cross too.
My friend Gabe shared with me this killer NL clone.
His friend has been holding on to it for 20 years.
His friend got it in the late 90s in Humboldt County.
It was an old clone at that point.
He got it as NL.
I first got samples of it a few years ago at the Emerald Cup.
I showed it to AK Bean Brains and AK Bean Brains and I both thought it had the NL5 in there.
I saw Kevin Jordy post about that old NL clone recently, about a month ago.
He thought it was NL5 too, so it's most likely NL5.
When he made his post, he was talking about how we've really improved cannabis in the last 20 or 30 years.
Because this clone is of such high quality.
It has such amazing crystal covered butts.
In reality, we haven't really done much to improve cannabis in the last 20 or 30 years.
I'm basically trying to get all these awesome clones I have in a seed form, have the building blocks out there so some people in the future can improve cannabis.
I feel like these old building blocks are going to be essential to it at some point when we realize that the cookie wave is not the ultimate cannabis plant.
I'm just hoping I can add some gene pools that some breeders will be able to take stuff to the next level with.
That would be awesome.
Really nice answer there.
So many avenues to go off.
The first one I just want to quickly ask you, that NL2 birdie gave you, does that one have thinnish leaves?
This is the more indica one.
He had two of them passed from Jim Ortega to him and this is the more indica one birdie knows what I like.
Okay, yeah. Last time I was at his place, I think I tried the thinner leaf one and he didn't warn me. It just sat me down on my ass so hard.
And I was just like, what the fuck was that? And he's like, oh, that's the NL2.
Yeah, it's good weed. I had a friend of mine, Kansa, got it lab tested and it has a real strong pine lemon. It's that old school, you know, pine, not that terpeneleum pine. It's that, you know, pine tree pine.
Yeah. Okay. I mean, yeah, so many places we can go from, I guess, just kind of building on where you said, you know, you want to build some lines that maybe people in the future can use to improve things.
Tell us a bit about some of the more recent males you're working with. I mean, you've mentioned the lazy dog a few times now. What sort of traits and flavors can people expect that male to bring to crosses?
Hash planty gas. Not your normal gas. It's a more hash planty Northern Lights Indica gas. It's something I'm really happy with and I'm really proud of, especially the way it nicked with the Sensi Star across the Brute X.
You know, we were starting to search through that smoke test and we're like, holy shit. We had about eight of them and we're like, wow, none of these are culls. They're all fucking amazing.
And then we opened jar 13 and holy fucking shit. This weed is as loud and as potent as anything I've ever seen in my entire life. And I'm like, wow, I think this thing's so good that it's going to be easy to call some of those.
We're just going to keep about four of them to have a second look at. One of them being a garlic bud leaner, which was my favorite plant the whole time through. And it's kind of like the Sensi Star mother was a garlic bud leaner.
Most of the Sensi Star cuts lean towards the Hawaiian and outside. And the Sensi Star is a rare one. And yeah, she produced mostly the Hawaiian side, which is amazing because it clicked really, really well with the lazy dog.
But I popped a whole bunch more Brute X seeds already and I'm looking through them. I'm curious to see how rare that garlic bud phenol is in there because I only saw it once in about 20 seeds.
I mean, you've got me wondering now, what was garlic bud like? Was it the same kind of garlic as what we see in GMO or was it just like an indica GMO? What are your recollections of it?
So when Ben Donkers came in after Neville got in trouble, they changed the name to Shiva Shantae. And it's the same strain. And Shiva Shantae, it's just like one, I don't know if I talked about in the podcast, but if one of the strains I grew in 96 was a Shiva Shantae clone my friend gave me.
And god damn, if I go back in time and get that fucking clone, it would be a game changer, man. This thing had been around for a few years already at that point in 96. So it's probably like the original drop, you know, when they changed the name. But it was super high quality. It's not too much of that family around, left around, unfortunately.
Interesting. I mean, do you feel like maybe one of the reasons why you don't see those strains around so much anymore is because some of those prolific older ones that you mentioned were so heavily adopted by the Amsterdam scene in those early years and all the seed companies were just putting out bad versions of those strains such that they just got lost? Or do you think they just don't stand up to more modern strains and they got let go?
Man, it's really hard keeping clones around for years and years and years at a time. No one can do it by themselves. It takes a group of people and a lot of stuff that have been lost in busts and stuff. And it takes an insane amount of almost like crazy commitment to keep stuff alive for as long as I have.
It's like a fucking crazy cat hoarder that just takes everything and keeps it forever.
I think we might be confused there because I actually tried to pop about 40 or 50 of the NL1 seed stocks about a month ago and none of them went. Unfortunately, I'm going to go talk to KU about that one here soon. Hopefully, he can get some of his to go.
This lazy dog male is the grandson of that original Northern Lights 1 male that I picked and used for the original Northern Lights crosses. When I picked the NL hash plants, I picked out of just over 100 seeds I sprouted, I picked 15 females that I really liked.
I kept them in small pots for over a year to see if any of them would pre-flower and any of them that did pre-flower, I called because that was the biggest problem with the NL1 male is he would go into pre-flower himself. I heard a lot of people say I found a keeper cut but in veg under 18 hours of light, it would just pre-flower and it would just kind of veg like shit. So it wasn't really worth keeping around at that point.
I really knew if I was going to work that line, I needed to get rid of that trait then and there. I'm very proud of the fact that I was able to get rid of that. To eliminate a trait like that out of the gene pool is something I'm really proud of. Hopefully, I can take that success and completely wipe out their mafrodite traits.
That's going to take a few generations of work.
I ended up using three NL hash plants when I made those crosses and two of them were hash plant leaners and one of them was an NL1 leaner. The lazy dog male I picked, I kept him around for a year before I used him to torture them in a small pot, never showed signs of pre-flower.
He's almost identical in structure and when I look back in pictures of the NL1 to him, they're almost identical. He just doesn't pre-flower. So I'm really pleased with that and pleased with him.
Like I said, I see the Brood X as a really good NL from the 90s. The Disco Cross, the NL hash plant by the headband, was also very similar to the good Northern Lights from the 90s.
The pedigree is not 100% pure but it's the same type of plant. So I feel like that's more important than just having a pure NL gene pool. It's more the type of plant that you're getting in seed form and producing.
Yeah, what a great answer and you're 100% correct. I made a mistake there. But you answered another question which was basically I was going to ask about the NL so you just did it. But the question I was meant to ask you is the new M10 male, not NL, derp, sorry. Yeah, you popped some seeds recently and you've got a new M10 male. Can you give us the rundown on him?
Okay, so that M10, it was an open pollination.
There was 30 to 50 males used. The only thing I called from the line was a few true hermaphrodites. I got those out of the gene pool so it wasn't a pure open pollination. Just was, main goal was preserving the M10 line and just like original with the Alcrosses.
This is the second open pollination and it was five years later. So I like to get the seeds every five years or so. Those NL1 seeds that didn't pop, those were 10 years old. So I've been starting to really lose a lot of vigor.
From the first open pollination and crosses I had done with the M10, I had an idea of what it can produce. I threw a lot of clones in this time that I thought would nick really well and we're really happy with the results.
The M10 by itself is a sweeter Afghani. I feel like from my experience with Afghani lines, there's two forms. There's the acrid, earthy, skunky Afghanis and then there's the sweet berry, purple, grape Afghanis.
M10 leans more towards the sweet side. So I thought that would click well with some of these other Afghanis and it did. I'm really happy with the way the Gan Daddy turned out and the Bubble Gan.
There's some really, really cool keepers to be found in that. You don't see Afghanis like that much anymore in seed form. I'm really proud to be bringing those to the market. If I was a seed buyer, that's the type of shit I would be scooping up. Really cool weed. Tastes great. Super relaxing.
There's some real winners to be found in the Bubble Gan and the Gan Daddy both. There's some really cool stuff for people to work lines from. I would predict a lot of breeders will find cool shit to work off all the different M10 crosses I did. It's great places to start breeding projects and work away from in different directions.
Yeah, wow, what a great answer. I love that you referenced the Gan Daddy because there was a few things I noticed about it. First of all, as you mentioned, it's got a nice little crew of supporters on social media and with all the really nice photos you've been posting of it. Just beautiful. It's not hard to understand why.
One of the big things that stood out to me was that, first of all, it's the first Granddaddy Purple cross in quite a while that's got a bit of momentum behind it. The other thing that made me wonder about it is why do you think the Granddaddy Purple gets overlooked so often? I often hear people talk about it like it's a crap version of Urkel, whereas I always just thought it was sort of different.
What are your thoughts about Granddaddy Purple and do you plan to work the Gan Daddy line forward at all or do you think it's just nice as an F1?
I've always really, really loved the Granddaddy Purple. I like it more than the Urkel. The Urkel might be a little bit more flavorful. The Granddaddy's got more potency in my opinion.
When I'm cracking open these Granddaddy jars and sampling them to look for keepers, it just brings me back to 2002. It's the early 2000s when Humboldt, you had to have Purple or you couldn't sell your bags. That craze hit. These are the type of weeds that would have done really well in that market and in that time and place. It's a throwback.
Like I said, there's going to be really cool building blocks to be found in there for breeders. I think cookies definitely goes back to Urkel, if not Granddaddy. Look what Dungeonfall has done with all that work they did off of Ken's cut with Ken back in the day.
It's a really cool gene pool, especially when you were to take something like that and add it with the OGs or cookies or something. There's going to be some really cool stuff that's going to come out of that.
I had heard some rumors that UFO, which was an old release from Coastal Seeds, Romulan by NL, was in fact the line that Alien Genetics used to find a male that they called Peach. Had you heard this and did the UFO line give Peach phenotypes that you're aware of?
I've definitely heard that story. It's awesome when people use my gear. It's especially awesome when they don't change the name and give me credit.
There you go, Diplomatic. I love it. So when you hear something like that, where someone's doing really well with one of those lines, does it ever make you think, oh, maybe I should dig through that line a bit more? There's obviously really good stuff in there.
Like I said earlier, one of my main goals is not to be the best breeder. One of my main goals is to provide really good gene pools for the best breeders. And with every breeding I do, that's a large factor in my head is what the females we choose.
Because we have a ridiculous amount of females. And you can see when I do my breedings, I don't just throw them all in there. I throw certain types that we're hoping to get certain results.
And one of my main results is potency and to be able to retain that potency and seed form. So that makes really good breeding stock. I like to breed as pure as possible. If it's not already in the strain it's being crossed to, it's the same type generally.
So it's breeding for certain types of families. And just to help preserve those qualities and gene pools rather than making crosses like I did with the M10 Malawi Gold and M10 Ethiopian Banana and Ethiopian Panama Red by M10.
The goal in those breedings is to open everything up and get craziness. But most of the time when I'm breeding like the M10 to the Black Domina or those Afghanis because they're of similar types and I feel like they'll neck well and preserve their qualities.
I wish I had 100 different facilities and I was just driving around to them all day long and doing different breeding projects. I have so much work that I want to do in my head. I'll never be able to accomplish it in my lifetime.
I don't cross it together if I don't think it's going to provide something cool to work off of.
So I have so much shit I'll never be able to get back to it, especially with me trying to preserve lanterns.
Like I said, when I do an open pollination I like to get back to it every five years.
It's difficult to decide what projects are most important and which ones I'm going to get to next because I got like 10 of them in my head at least.
So much old work that there's just amazing shit that can be worked out of them. It's just hard to leave them there and never go back to them.
Yeah, good answer.
You just sort of referenced it yourself. Would you ever consider wanting to work with bigger facilities or organisations in order to be able to do more projects or do you like the sort of in-house mum and pop feel of the way you do things?
I love the in-house mum and pop feel of the way Hannibal and I do things. She's the yin to my yang and she sees something that I don't see and she sees things differently.
Her commitment to keep these clones is at times the reason the collection is still here. So I love that aspect of it, just working with us.
I would really love to see huge selections and I can't do that by myself, especially if I'm going to work different projects.
Teaming up would be able to get more stuff done and more stuff out to the people, which would be really cool. But it's a tough one and I most likely always say no to offers.
But the right one came along and I might consider it because you really want to be looking through hundreds of plants at a time and for a mum and a pop to do that, it's almost impossible.
We have 15 to 20 females of all the different types we just tested and I got a few friends helping, but it's up to Hannah and I to smoke test them all because we got to know what's going on there.
It's a difficult job, man. I'm a tough fucking smoker too. I wake up and I fucking go for the bar before I go for the toothbrush.
Even with as hard as I smoke, it's tough to test that much weed and to keep that many clones alive when we female hunt. It puts us to the limits, especially with all the responsibilities we have.
Yeah, it would be no minor undertaking, that's for sure. So here's the hypothetical, okay? Cookies comes to you and they're like, Bob, we've got these huge facilities for you. You can have a little bit of freedom. We're going to be running Cookies X M10, stuff like that. Do you do it? Can you change the image?
No, I can't. And honestly, if it's not my way, it's definitely the highway type of thing. Like I said, I have years and years of work and the amount of different directions I can take. The amount of sativa work I could get into and do would just be years worth of work.
And with me saying that problem about having a smoke test, I'm going to keep with the Afghanis just for that reason because that's what I want to smoke. But I wish I could get into playing with sativas more just for the preservation aspects because I have some really good sativas in my arsenal.
It's interesting you bring that up because I know that there's some really nice ones in there. I actually wanted to ask you, because I've given some of these seeds to some friends of mine who are going to grow them out. You gave me a cross called the Shire Cross Hays. And I remember you telling me about the Shire and then I kind of forgot the story. I just remember like New York guys long flowering or something.
Have you ever been able to grow out those seeds? And what was the story around the Shire again?
The rat, Rez Dog, selected in upstate New York and highly coveted up there. That's all they want to smoke. She goes 100 days, 120 days. Really, really high quality smoke. I thought it would pair well with the A5 Hays Tie.
I just gave that one away. Often to anyone that's into sativas that's around I'll pass that one out. I had a friend grow it in Jamaica and he said it was really good. But besides that I don't think anyone's finished it. And that male produces gold so that female with being such high quality there's going to be some amazing stuff in there. Hopefully your friends find it.
Wow, that's cool. Maybe it might even bring the flower time down a little bit.
Yeah, that male is surprisingly fast. I've seen him. I've crossed into a lot of things and I've seen the results from a lot of the others and that male produces gold.
Interesting. Well, I mean, if we just loop back to the silly cookies question I gave you a moment ago, partly why I brought it up is because I really like the offering you guys have done with Pastry Chef. I love the name. It's a cool name. Being biscotti across the M10.
What does the biscotti bring to the table in your mind compared to say just another cookie cut? Do you think it's sort of your preferred one or is it just one that you're willing to put up with because it's slightly better than the others?
So I keep cuts like that around to pass to friends of mine. I just give them to them free so they can pay their bills, production cuts. That's how we did it in the 90s. We didn't sell cuts. We gave them to friends that were good friends that would do stuff for you if you needed someone to have your back.
That's the type of person who would have your back. So you pass those cuts to those people so they can have a better life. That's how we did it back then. That's the reason I got that one around. That's the reason I got the London Pound Cake around. That's the reason I have the Sunset Sherbert around.
I still give them to good friends. I got friends cropping them and they're extremely high quality. They're what the market on the West Coast wants right now. From their breedings, the Cookie Fam, those are some of my favorite ones. Some of really high quality. Sunset Sherbert's super high quality. The London Pound Cake is super high quality and biscotti's super high quality.
It's not what I want to smoke. It's not the high I really like, but you really can't deny the quality. I wouldn't cross them to the Lazy Dog or any of my other worked lines, but when it comes to a Landrace Afghani line that can add some really cool sweet terpenes, I thought it would be very interesting and I thought it would teach me a lot.
That's the reason we did it. We grew out some of the biscotti crust ourselves. Super high quality. We found one that tastes like pineapple pie. It's fucking crazy. I've never even had pineapple pie. This one tastes just like fucking pineapple pie. Really sweet, not like the pineapple you would get in sativa. It's a really unique indica pastry.
Another interesting note on the M10 biscotti crosses is they all went 10 weeks. The M10 didn't shorten the flower time down one bit. Whereas I grew the Malawi Gold M10 and the Malawi Gold will go 100 days.
Those phenols were ready between 8 and 10 weeks. Dramatically shortened the flower time on them, but didn't shorten the flowering time down on the London Pound Cake or Sunset Sherbert either.
How did that one turn out in your opinion? Do you have any plans to do any new crosses with the TK M10 male?
The dinosaur cookies, I was using the TK M10 male and I wanted to learn. You came by and you saw all those samples and you were like, holy shit, this is the most cookie F1s I've ever seen. The cookie phenols were popping out. I think you got to look through 15 or 17 jars.
You urging me on is one of the main reasons we released that one. It was super, super high quality, but it's not any direction that I'm going to be working.
We did cross the TK M10 to the 92 OG and I will be working that line further. Those are some really, really nice OG phenotypes and seed form right there. When I get the time, I'm going to work that even further into the OG direction.
More of the earthy side of the family is my preferred side, the headband or the TK.
Many of the listeners on Patreon were very interested in about hearing a little bit more about this purple cush. If you could sort of describe it to us and where does it come from? I think we always hear people say, oh, you know, it came from somewhere in Oregon, but do you know any more about it than that?
The common purple Hindu cush cut that you're thinking about from Oregon is the Jaeger cut. This is a different cut than that. This one's grapey, citrus, knock champa, just funk. It's the one that I bred to the Kabul cush.
I took a male off of that and I bred it to the Urkel. That's our release, Light of Venus Urkel by purple Hindu cush, Kabul cush. I also crossed that purple Hindu cush to the M10.
Labyrinth tested those out for us and they're going to scoop all those up. Those are going to be killer. I'm definitely going to grow some of those out myself when I get to it. We only made like 100 packs of them. I think since they helped test them, they're going to scoop them all up.
I have worked that line quite a bit. I have the purple Hindu cush back cross. I'm going to be picking a male out of the purple Hindu cush back cross, taking it to F2. At that time, I'll also cross it to all my purple Afghani clones that I like, like the Urkel, Grandaddy, purple Afghani, stuff like that.
Can people expect you to be restocking any of these lines? I know historically you've moved forward quite fast. If someone misses out on a pack of Light of Venus, will there be a chance to grab more or only the real powerhouses will get restocked?
The Light of Venus was a stepping stone, so you're going to want to grab that. It's been going incredibly fast, but we do have more drops coming with all the seed banks we stock with. Hopefully everyone will get a chance to get some. We have an amazing keeper out of that. She just tastes so amazing and has such a nice, relaxing high.
One of our good friends we gave a sample to, and she was like, holy shit, name this after me. It's my favorite weed I've ever smoked. Of course, another seed company already has a strain named with her name. It took us a few months to come up with another name, but Darcy came up with the Light of Venus. That's from a line in Terrapin. It's right before Crickets and Cicadas sing.
That won't get restocked, but we will be working with the Purple Hindu Kush back cross, which will bring more Purple Hindu Kush to the table in the offspring. It will be crossed back to the Urkel, so it'll be very similar. It'll just have more Purple Hindu Kush.
The Overkill won't get restocked. Overkill is one I'm really, really proud of too. That was a stepping stone cross. I used three males. They were NL1 crossed the Pacific Northwest hash plant, and then I crossed that to the puck. Three males out of that for the back cross to the puck, and I crossed that to the Black Domina.
Release that, and that won't get restocked. If you're an Afghani lover, especially if you love the gene pools that Neville put together, especially if you're into the acrid, earthy type, musty basement with a little bit of lemon type thing, you want to scoop that one up. It's killer.
You look at a three-generation pedigree on that thing, and the top side, you get the puck, the Pacific Northwest hash plant, and NL1 from my side. Then the Black Domina, you get Afghani number one M10, Northern Lights, Ortega, and hash plant, the Pacific Northwest hash plant through Neville. There's some serious, serious killer stuff in there.
We looked through 15 seeds, and they were so good, we popped a whole bunch more already. They're going to be sold out, and we're just looking through them for ourselves and for future breeding stock. It's just another one that really clicked well and we're really proud of. That makes me really excited about the puck back cross because it's the same males that were used.
Yeah, nice. What a comprehensive rundown. I want to ask you about the overkill and the kill in a bit, but before we do, I just want to quickly bring it up because I forgot to mention one of our listeners had asked if you saw any relationship between your special purple Hindu kush and Jaeger because apparently they had heard a story that that was one of the parents of Jaeger.
I don't know anything about that. I got no knowledge on that. The story on the purple Hindu kush I heard, it was an old woman used to defend it in the 215 days out in Shasta. It's just land race Hindu kush. It's not Hindu kush crossed by purple.
When I back crossed it, I've already grown out a bunch of the back crossed females. There's nothing in there but Afghani. The story I heard, the plant's telling me the exact same thing.
There's some really, really cool things that comes out of that plant. Lion tree grew some of the back cross out this year, full season. It came out amazing. One of them had this candied grape smell and then behind it, it had this funky oriental noodle smell.
That's the first time I had noticed that. I grew some of the purple Hindu kush back crossed out and we found some really cool candied grape ones.
We found one that when you open the jar, the jar stinks like peanuts. You can get that peanut butter smell from land race Afghani sometimes.
When you smoke it, you only taste candied delicious grape jelly. I call that one the peanut butter and jelly cut. I have it in cut form. I haven't gotten the chance to flower that one out again to see if those qualities are still there in clone form.
Sometimes seeds are better than clones for some strange reason. I'm excited to get a second look at that one again.
I will never redo any of the ones that Bamboo or Kegyu did. The peanut butter crosses was Bamboo's work. I tried to redo some of the NL one. Like I said, I tried to pop a bunch of seeds and none of them popped. I still have some more. I'm going to try a few different methods. I'm going to talk to Kegyu about it.
I would really like to visit NL one crosses again. There's a few things I would like to add in there to see some cool results. I have a bunch of other different really cool Northern Lights cuts now that I'd like to add to that breeding.
Like I said, there was that pre-flower problem where the males that I tried to keep alive from that. I've had that problem with other lines. I had that problem with the British Columbia Sea Club release, the Bodie release. A couple of those males would pre-flower. Maybe it was meant to be that those seeds didn't pop. I might be able to get back and rework that line.
Unfortunately, Classic Seeds does not want that line released pure. It's kind of a shame. If it goes with Kegyu and Classic, they're the real holders to that line. Without them, I wouldn't have had access to it. I really appreciate the access to it and everything Kegyu does.
He taught me about open pollinations and preservation and gene pools. Bam is really, really smart. He taught me a lot about bottlenecking and the genetic aspects of it.
It was a shame that Coastal had to go our separate ways, but I'm still focused on doing the same thing I was doing there and getting these Classic Indica's in the seed form and recreate what I remember in the 90s as good NL crosses, good NL hash plant crosses and stuff like that has been lost.
Yeah, admirable goal. Just to quickly clarify, out of those prior NL1 crosses you did, which one was your personal favorite? I see there's still a huge amount of demand for Pacquiao.
Pacquiao is fucked, man. That one's killer. I have 10 to 15, maybe 20 packs of those I'm just sitting on. Like I said, I have so much work I've done over the years and so many directions I could go. I need different spots because you can't just contaminate pollen because it's just all useless then.
I can only do it one project at a time and it's a lot of time and hard work to actually test stuff out. That's where all the learning comes from. I don't know how these breeders do it. They just sell untested seeds, man.
Growing it out is the funnest part and learning from the crosses is the most rewarding part. So if anyone out there is wanting to know how to become a good breeder, you need to grow. You need to grow your crosses and you need to grow as many different types of plants as possible.
You need to know what you like and you need to know what you're looking for. Growing your crosses out in as large quantities as you can. It's going to teach you what's there and what you have and it'll teach you about the gene pool.
Yeah, some wise words there. On the topic of a slightly different NL, I noticed that in the Pterodactyl cross you released, it's NL 2x5. Is this something you made? Is it different stock? And what sort of traits does this male bring to the table?
That male was another open pollination. That line is amazing. Amazing line. I was doing an open pollination with F2 seed stock when I made that cross. The F2 seeds were made by Canerado. The F1 seeds were made by Jim Ortega. So it's Jim Ortega's seed stock. I'm really happy with that line.
I need to talk to Bodie about it because I don't talk to Jim Ortega myself and I don't want to step on anybody's toes. But I would definitely love to take that one to F4 and share that one with the public.
When I made the F3s, I put in the NL 2 clone and that was Jim Ortega's stock. We just gave those away as freebies because it didn't seem right. He's the caretaker of that line for so long and then I just get a couple pieces and for me to be the person to cash in, that's just not the way I like to do things. I like to stay in my own lane.
With that being said, I am going to ask Bodie if he can ask Jim Ortega if I release that F4. It needs to be out there in the public. It's one of the best NL lines there is.
What do you think the best NL line is?
Great question. The best line is either the NL 1 or the 2x5. I would love to get into those together. Those are the two NL lines in seed form that remind me of the 90s NLs. I'm spacing out the guys seed company. They used to be lighthouse seeds and then they split up.
They have some really nice NL. They crossed their 5x2 and those guys have a really nice NL seed line. Most of the NL lines on the market these days don't remind me of NL at all from the 90s.
Those ones that I just mentioned have little bits and pieces of the quality NLs in them, but it's not the whole picture. That's why I said when something like the Brute X almost reminds me of a really high quality Northern line from the 90s better than these pure inbred lines.
Just because everything in that I believe goes back to Northern Lights and the Phenos are coming through. They express themselves.
There's a few NLs I haven't got to check out. I haven't got to check out Deep Elms. I got to look through AK Beanbrains NL 5x1. That wasn't exactly what I was looking for, but I have a really nice keeper cut of AK Beanbrains NL 1. She seems like what I remember. She seems really nice. Similar type plant structure to the puck.
Yeah, killer.
I'm down to take a bong hit and get some water for sure.
How you doing? I just spilled my chop bowl. God damn it.
I took two bong hits overkill. I'm going to do it again daddy.
Oh yeah. What's the overkill taste like?
Acridy, earthy, musty. Really nice Afghany.
Ever since I've had it, I've really missed that Trainwreck BX with the tie. I had well as at your place. It was so nice.
Yeah, that was the A5 Hayes tie male. The one that Karma bred, that Bodhi selected.
So good.
For sure. That male produced fucking fire. I bred him to this purple Congo Landrace cut and this guy grew some around here in Humboldt.
It was fucking amazing. That male just produced well with everything.
That's why I said those shy or super silver Hayes, super silver sour diesel crossed by a super silver Hayes.
By that male, she'll just have some phenomenal stuff on the gene pool.
Do you ever plan to work with the Trainwreck line or the Trainwreck BX any further or is more just like a one-off to get it in seed?
It's hard to communicate with the seed market and the stuff over Instagram and stuff.
I wish I could just sell my seeds directly and talk to the people when they bought them and tell them about what's in there directly.
I think a lot of the seed buyers want everything to be perfectly worked and to have zero hermaphrodites and be the perfect seeds, just like you would get with tomato seeds.
Unfortunately, cannabis hasn't been worked as much and I don't even know, even with it being worked as hard, if you can eliminate hermaphrodite traits from certain lines completely.
Because you get them in so many different environments and people feed differently and put plants too close together, put lights too close to plants.
There's a lot of different things that trigger hermaphrodites that wouldn't even happen normally.
Like all the chem clones will hermaphrodite if you do the wrong things to them, but if you treat them right, they won't hermaphrodite.
You don't want to have them too root bound. You don't want to have them too close to the lights. You don't want to have them too crammed together.
Those are things that will cause the actual chem cuts, the 91 and the D, to hermaphrodite.
So of course it's going to cause their seeds to do the same thing.
I would really like to get that train wreck bat cross out to the public, but am I going to be able to get it stable enough?
I don't know.
I've talked to Shaba, the person who has the most experience bat crossing different clones.
He said he had tried to do the train wreck a few times and it was just hermaphrodite mess.
So what I'm looking at now, there's about 25% hermaphrodites in the train wreck bat cross one.
I had mentioned in my last podcast I'm not the biggest fan of train wreck.
It's the type of terpenes that can get played out if you smoke it for a long period of time.
That being said, some of the stuff that I found in the bat crosses was really phenomenal and just really cool.
Some more garlic expressions, some more leather expressions brought to the typical train wreck.
Terpenolene, Pine-Sol, Cleaner, Lemon Pledge type of smell.
I'm kind of stuck like I had mentioned earlier. I have so many projects, I don't know how much time I can devote to that project and get it stable enough to where I feel comfortable releasing it to the public.
I thought about releasing the BX1 because I don't know if I'm ever going to BX2 it or get the F2, F3, F4, stabilize it.
I could release it and there's amazing phenos to be found in there and even more amazing breeding stock to be found.
The possibilities to take it to F3 and F4 and stabilize it and look at large numbers and only breed with the stable ones.
The potential to bring amazing lines is in there.
It's a tough spot to be in but as of right now it's shelved and it's just kind of sitting on the shelf and I don't know what I'm going to do with it.
Interesting, interesting. Maybe it'll pop its head back out when you get a chance to delve into some of that more sativa work.
I wanted to loop back quickly to a strain you mentioned earlier. I should have asked you, that should be the theme of this interview, just missing my opportunities.
The London Pound Cake is an interesting strain for a few reasons. It's being used by Cookie Fam but it hasn't made quite the same impact as many of the other cookie cuts have.
What's your impressions of it and do you think it breeds well?
I think they've just done a better job not letting that one get out.
Unfortunately, I think Jigger doesn't like his stuff getting out. His stuff constantly gets out. I can't imagine being him how painful that's got to be, especially when you don't want it out there.
That being said, this one came from Growing with Passion. He got it from Jigger. Him and Dehla did breeding with that serious male from South Fork Seeds. It's a Chabad 707 chem dog bred to star dog.
I took a male off of that. I bred that to Chem D and I passed them some seeds. They bred that to Wedding Cake and Berner named the strain Medine. I got that London Pound Cake back as a thank you.
I am not exactly sure what number it is. It was one of the keepers. I really like it. It produces mega weight. I passed it to a friend's mine up here in Humboldt that are production growers and they're getting up to three pounds of light with it.
The shit will go purple if you give it any kind of cold. It's super chirpy. It's really good. I definitely wouldn't have run with it if I didn't think it was really good and it could bring some really cool stuff to the table. I know it's a Sunset Sherbert cross. I'm not exactly sure what it was crossed to.
I really like the Sunset Sherbert. Besides the original cookies cuts, the Sunset Sherbert is my favorite thing that that crew has done. Then behind the Sunset Sherbert and my personal picks would be probably London Pound Cake and Biscotti. I'm not really a fan of the gelatos.
I think the London Pound Cake is pretty cool. As far as a cut for production for work right now, it's a really killer cut to have.
People say weird stuff about it. I think it's great. Is there any current hype cuts that you're particularly fond of?
No. I really recognize and respect everyone's marketing abilities with that kind of thing. Most of the stuff that's really getting a lot of play right now, I don't like.
All the cookies stuff down from the cookies, Sunset Sherbert, gelato, biscotti crosses, it all has a certain type of high I really don't like it. I love the weed when you're just judging quality weed. It tastes great, it smokes great, it gets you high as fuck.
Especially if you don't have anything else or you haven't had anything else. It's really nice weed. But when you have the options of some of the classic highs that I have in my arsenal, the high from that stuff is just a little bit flat in my opinion.
Fair point. I always find it interesting to find the different types of highs that people like. Another comparison I was hoping to get from you is I think you've probably got more experience with different types of Afghanis than anyone.
A few of our listeners were interested in hearing if you could tell us what the different type of Afghanis you've come across are in terms of your broad leaf and your thin leaf and the effects. Do you just think that most Afghanis are either a body high or a head high? Or do you think there's a lot more diversity within it?
And I guess maybe another way to summarize it is, what do you think when someone says, oh, an Indica is an Indica? Do you feel like, nah, that's not really true? Or where do you sit on that with the Afghanis?
Man, I definitely don't think an Indica is an Indica. There's definitely different effects of Indicas. I like the stuff from the Hindu Kush mountain ranges, from the highland. Those are my favorites. I've noticed two major types. The sweeter berry Afghanis, grapes, berries, and then the more acrid, earthy, musty basement types.
Some families are combinations of the two. They have both in the gene pool, or some plants carry both qualities. But as you get closer to Pakistan, you're going to get more turps in the weed. Pakistani weed is a little more turpy, a little more branchy.
As you get more southern in Afghanistan, you get out of the Hindu Kush mountain range, are plants that have longer internode spacings, more sativa influence in the gene pool.
I wish I had more landrace Afghanis to learn from. Those are my best teaching tools, that and the landrace Paki lines. All the landrace Paki lines I've encountered have been through Bodhi. I've increased the vintage Pakistani from Bodhi twice. I have this Peshawar Paki. I bought seven packs of that, probably more packs than anyone else. I need to get into those here really soon.
There's no better teachers than the plants, and I just try to grow as many different landrace lines as possible. I wish I could release them all. Unfortunately, people are kind of protective over them, and I understand.
It's kind of like I mentioned about Jim Ortega's stock. He has all that awesome NL that he's never really profited off of, and it didn't really seem fair for me to sell the NL 2x2x5 from him, so I just gave it away for free because I just acquired it. It's kind of like that with landrace.
As I do several increases with them, I feel like I'm more entitled to share them with the public, but when I just get something right away and just want to cash it out, it just doesn't seem right.
I have a lot of respect for this plant. I've turned down lots of money for clones 10Gs before. I've never sold clones ever. We're just guardians of this plant, and I just try to do right by her, and she does right by me.
It's such a teaching plant that one of the lessons it's taught me is not to be greedy and show respect. Everything has its time.
It seems like that sort of strain isn't really around anymore. Do you think that we've lost them over time or that it was just more of a reflection of the availability of good quality bud and people just being reminiscent about those sorts of high-quality weed when it didn't come around very often?
To notice that effect, you got to be sober when you smoke that creeper weed, and then you got to smoke no other weed for a while until that creeper effect creeps up on you.
To be honest, I do have some crosses that do have that aspect. Some of the M10 is kind of like a creeper Afghani.
The purple hindu kush will creep up on you. The purple hindu kush crosses will creep up on you. But like I said, you got to be sober when you smoke them, and then you got to smoke them and just not smoke anything for a while to notice that effect.
If you're just like at an Emerald Cobb situation where you're there smoking tons of different weed and you're high as fuck already, you're not even going to notice something like that.
Yeah, that's a very valid point, isn't it? It's about setting as well.
Yeah, definitely. Very important. You notice that creeper effect a lot of times when you smoke some weed and then you go into a store.
There you go. Another question we got was, are you able to describe the differences between your two different black domino cuts, the 95 versus the Healing Harvest one?
Okay, so the 95 is more that acrid, earthy, musty basement, almost baba kush funky sometimes type of thing.
And then the Healing Harvest has more of more turps. Just it's really hard to describe the smell. It's almost like a tupperware plastic smell with like garlic behind it.
So I had read on Mr. Nice Forums where Neville said at some point he switched out the recipe for the black domino. He switched out the Afghani one, the M10, and he switched in garlic bud in its place.
So I wonder if the Healing Harvest is after he switched out the garlic bud because it kind of has that garlic thing going on. The garlic bud would have brought a little bit more sativa to the gene pool.
The original black domino was pretty much 100% endocarpine, hash plant, Ortega, Northern Lights, and Afghani number one M10. He mentioned that he didn't like the Afghani number one. I wonder if that's just because it came from Sam.
Because when you look back in history, if you look back at the Afghani one M10, it's probably behind more strains than any other land race Afghani. JJ used it in his work. It's in the Kwai Electric. It's in Snow Lotus, Blockhead.
I can't think of them all right now, but the amount of strains that go back to Afghani number one is truly impressive.
I've only ever really tried one sample that was given to me as Afghani number one, and it was some really, really nice stuff. Speaking of cuts where there's different ones of it out there and talking about the differences, there was some interest around the different headband cuts. Can you give us a rundown on your headband, and is it the same one that other people use, or is your one unique?
I can't say what the other people use, but I do know that my cut has been passed around a lot. I passed it to Duke Diamond. NotSoDog has it. It's a really good cut. It's renamed OG. Had to get renamed. The person that renamed it reminded them of Weasel's headband, so that's the reason he used the name.
Had that same headband kind of effect on your head. So there's that headband. NotSoDog calls it the 56-day headband. He also has Lumpa's headband, and that's pretty similar but different. I like mine much better.
There's also the LA Kush headband that NotSoDog holds. That one's more like Sour Diesel. Mandel brought that one up from LA. That one's fucking amazing. And then there's a 707 headband that DNA released, and there's some really good Keeper Finos in that too that I've seen.
So Weasel's original headband, which I don't think is alive anymore. So there's a ton of different headbands, and it's a really confusing topic, and that's about all I know about that one.
So Kagu got his Big Sur Holy Weed from a surfer guy.
That's what he told me. And Kagu's an old timer. He's getting close to 80 at this point, and he's the oldest dude I know that smokes weed still and grows. He's like the OG of OGs. I've never met anyone even close.
So he's been around Santa Cruz his whole life and seen the evolution of cannabis since when the Brotherhood was bringing in stuff. So his perspectives are just so valuable.
To him, the Mexican blocks that built the Big Sur Holy, from what I know, it's an Afghani-Mexican cross, Zacatecas, Purple Zacatecas. I think Dolores is a town near there. They're two towns, two right in the same region.
That's all I know about that. I do know his Big Sur Holy line is super high quality. I don't have any of that seed stock. It's super high quality stuff. I wish I did. At one point, I had a keeper cut. It grew out in Colorado. Some samples got to Adam Dunn, and it reminded him of the same Big Sur Holy that was in Sage.
It's really good weed, really interesting gene pool. He just told me he got it from some surfer, and he had had it for quite some time and then done a few seed increases on it. That's all I know about that. He'd have to elaborate further.
Yeah, nice. A good little background on that one. I think it's one where we'll always be trying to figure out the exact truth around it. You were talking about the LA Pure Kush headband and a few other strands just shortly ago. Which of the Pure Kush cuts is the best for hash, in your opinion?
I'm not really a hash maker. I like to learn from the plant. Honestly, I think in the last few years, I've been wanting to make hash more than ever just to learn about the different types of calyxes and the way they make hash and the different strains I have so I can relate their qualities to hash makers.
Because I'm not really a hash maker, I really don't have any knowledge or any field. I've never made hash really. I've made Keef a few times, but that was in the 90s.
Yeah, fair enough answer. One of our listeners did want to ask what you know about the history of your Master Kush cutting and what's it like as a cultivar? I think this is an interesting question because a lot of people enjoy Master Kush, but it seldomly tests very high. So, it's one of those older ones that is truly old school in that it's good weed, but the numbers don't reflect it. What do you know about the backstory on it?
I've had it since probably around 2010, maybe a few years longer than that. I got it from a friend that really knows good weed and he knows a lot of people. He's a glass seller. He sells glass artwork and travels around a lot. He brought it up from New Mexico. I had heard it came from Florida to New Mexico.
She's really, really special. She has one of the most relaxing, calming buzzes. Perfect for watching a movie and just sitting there relaxing. You're going to just soak right into the plot and think about nothing else.
I'm definitely going to get to a project, a Master Kush project. I'm going to search through a few different crosses I made with that Master Kush across the Bull Kush and a few others. Gene actually gave me some deep chunk Master Kush seeds. I'm going to look through those and find the best line that I think amplifies the Master Kush qualities and bring that one to seed form.
I also have the SoCal Master. I want to work into that project. I just got old Master Kush from Eugene, Oregon. I'm really excited to work that project.
Wow, no shortage of projects on the horizon. I love it. You're keeping yourself busy. When you're doing one of these projects, do you pop a certain number of seeds or is it like I just pop all the seeds of that line I have? What's your number of seeds you like to pop to search through things?
40 or 50 minimum. I like to ideally do more. I hear people on Instagram a lot say, I got to pack so I can get them out. 12 seeds is not, you need at least twice, three times, four times that many.
Really look through the population and you need to be familiar with the gene pool and what you're looking for really helps. Somebody had just mentioned to me on Instagram that they got the Urkel cut and it's down from me.
They wanted to buy a pack of Light of Venus to make a back cross. I was like, well, don't buy one pack, buy four. Grow that Urkel clone out three or four times so you get familiar with it, know what you're dealing with, what you're looking for, and then pop those four packs.
Then you'll know what you're looking for in a male to bring to the table for your back cross. The bigger your selections, the better your end results. I look at it this way. If you're not finding keepers in the females, there's not going to be keepers in the males. It's as simple as that.
So, I mean, it begs the question, have you got any new tips for us about how to select a male? Do you think it differs from strain to strain or are there any golden characteristics where if you see that thing on any strain, you're like, yep, I want it?
I think it differs from strain to strain and what type of qualities you want that male to bring to the table.
Okay. I was going to say on the topic of popping seeds, which we just spoke about, are there any new lines you're thinking about going through or any new seed stock you've been given that you're excited to pop next?
Wow. Right now I'm going through Overkill, Black Muddy River, and both the Black Dominos cross to the M10. Testing the M10 Black Dominos for release and also running all those different crosses head to head to see which is the best one to further up Black Domino project.
So those seeds are going now, but I'm really excited about that. I'm also growing OG Kush, Lazy Dog, Headband, Lazy Dog, Ethiopian, Banana M10, Malawi M10, Panama Red M10, and more Brood X. Popped a bunch more Brood X because that shit's just ridiculous.
I'm like, couldn't be happier with that. And I popped a bunch of Lazy Dogs. I want to look through more of those before I take the line F2 and F3. I don't want to miss anything.
Wow. There's some nice projects in the mix there. I feel like there's a distinct lack of banana crosses in the market and you just mentioned one. Do you plan to do any further work with the banana lines? And I'm guessing you just use the Banana OG as the base?
No, that's the Ethiopian Highland Banana Cut Bodhi Selected and she is amazing. 2-1 CBD.
What's the high like? Do you still feel the psychoactive side or the CBD is just too high?
No, you definitely get high. I'm not as familiar with that one as the Panama Red, but the Panama Red cut I used is the 2-1, the grandmother to the Coastal Seeds CBD release that I did.
So that cut is 2-1 CBD and she definitely gets you high and she'll get you fucked up. And she can produce everything cannabinoid wise, THC, V, CBG, CBD, THC. It's going to be cool to get that one out there because I've seen some of the testers grow that already and it looked phenomenal. I had to grow that one myself before I released it to see how good it was.
That's awesome. And what sort of plants would you expect when you're crossing it with such a strong indica?
Hell yeah. And do you see the banana flavor translating through it all or is it dominated by the indica as well?
Well, I haven't grown those ones out. There's a few testers that got those in flower now, but the Ethiopian bananas have not by M10 haven't been finished yet.
Okay. Yeah. Because I think I remember Bodhi saying that it was like a different sort of banana flavor to the banana roji. Is that correct?
Yeah, yeah, it is. But it's very banana. It's unmistakable and just really loud, especially for a land-race cut. She's special.
Yeah, wow. That'll be interesting to see how it turns out. You mentioned the overkill as one of the lines you're thinking about popping more seeds of and it made me remember back to our first chat where you referenced a strain from your youth you were looking to recreate called the kill.
And I was wondering if you had made any further progress in attempting to recreate it and is that something you're still sort of working towards long term or have you sort of decided on pursuing other projects?
When I think of high grade cannabis that I'm trying to get in the seed form with these NL lines, that's definitely like what I'm aiming for and that quality. Obviously, I don't have any of that seed stock or I have similar related plants, but I'm trying to work with what I have to recreate that quality as best as I can.
And I'm very happy with the direction I'm headed and what we have achieved so far with that.
Where is it up to? I remember, is it the case that you've put it together and you're working through it now or are you looking to sort of recombine some extra things into the picture?
So I've recreated the cross. It was very good and very close, but not as good. I did airborne G13, which is NL2 by G13. My NL hash plant mouse that creates the pedigree for the kill. It was NL hash plant NL G13.
Those are really phenomenal, really nice plants. But as far as me achieving that goal, I'm not done. I think I need to keep working these lines a little bit further and just follow what the plants tell me.
But I think if I have an airborne cross, if I get into those two gene pools and cross those with something like the Brood X, I might be pretty darn close.
Yeah, wow. Okay, that's exciting because that's what? Just like one cross away possibly and then a pheno hunt?
Yeah, everything we've been dropping along these lines, I'm really, really happy with and really proud of to be getting it out there into the gene pool. So if I can recreate something as good as something I remember in my youth, is that even possible? I'm not quite sure.
Because I think the way we remember things, everything from a certain point in time is kind of special. A lot of people remember or never get over talking about their high school years. I have certain friends that every single time I talk to them, they want to talk about high school years and stuff, the golden age.
Was that weed that good? Or was it I just wasn't used to weed that good and that was a special time in my life? It's something I'm never going to be quite sure on.
Yeah, it's interesting. I think that tolerance definitely plays some part in it all. Having taken a few tolerance breaks over the past year or so, when I come back, it's a different sort of high. You can get to this point where you're almost useless, you're just debilitated.
It's interesting, but the tolerance comes back reasonably quickly, I've found. But I think you can probably make something better. But I don't know, I feel like when I'm smoking good weed after a tolerance break, it's hard to tell it's super good because it's just like any weed would get me super high.
Yeah, and back then in the 90s, we were smoking a lot of swag. And sometime the kill would come around and we were smoking Mexican brick weed that was a year old.
Yeah, I mean, God, it would make a difference then.
Yeah, I mean, I could take some of this killer phenolate Brut X I found and I took that back to the 90s. I think it would be just as good. It just might be how I remember stuff from my youth and not having that high quality of weed back then.
Yeah, okay, interesting. Well, I mean, it raises the idea, you know, you've got that female of the Brut X, would you ever consider doing feminized seeds and like just using that female of the Brut X you've already found that is what you want and just crossing stuff to the female? And as a general question, would crickets and cicada ever do feminized seeds?
So, that phenol is really good. And if I have stuff like that, I might do it. Especially if people want feminized seeds from a line of mine. I just don't have much desire to go around feminizing elite clones. Maybe if it's something we've isolated after several generations of our own work, that would make more sense to me.
Yeah, interesting. I think that there's a lot of people who are so interested in all of the elite clones you've got in your library that they sort of are begging the question, you know, would you ever do S1s of the Red Lebanese Hash Plant of these really rare cuts, the Purple Hindu Kush? Or is that less interesting to you than doing outcrosses with them?
It's definitely less interesting. The most interesting is to try to get those clones in the seed form using as pure Afghani crosses that are similar as possible and to bring them to the market in seed form. That's the most exciting to me. I definitely see value in S1ing them and getting that out to the public. It's not what I'm going to devote my time to right now.
Yeah, understandable. Well, there you go. At least, I mean, at least it's a possibility on the horizon if you ever wanted to pursue it further.
Man, that stuff is really, really good. And it's got a really, really awesome high. That's the reason we went with Kinebud. It's got a really, just makes you feel happy. It's got that old school 90s weed vibe. The Maui Dog is Chem 91 backseed, most likely an S1. Really nice Chem phenos in there. It's a good one, man.
Yeah, it's something that I'd be happy smoking on all day long, every day. That's one of Hannibal's favorites lately. She's been smoking that a lot. We didn't see any plants that weren't really, really good. They were all really, really good. They're a little bit picky in early veg, not the strongest plants. That probably comes back to it going back to Chem 91, possibly three times in two generations.
It really, as they get bigger, they get stronger and really turns into high quality weed if you flower them out, right? It goes about 65 days, maybe a little longer, a little shorter, depending upon the pheno.
Awesome stuff. Do you favor the shorter flowering phenos, the longer ones, or do you think it's sort of independently a variable of the keeper pheno? It could be a longer, it could be a short. There's another trait you sort of look for is the one you decided is the keeper.
Man, there's some really killer stuff in there. I haven't really looked through as large of a population as I would like, and at some point I will be looking through more of those because they're of such high quality. I think the best phenos in that are just really a lot like Chem weed, like the 91 Chem, not the Chem D. They're turning out like the 91. If you get a pack of that, definitely keep cuts. That's what I would say about that one.
Nice. So, a few people had asked me to get in this episode was, do you have any plans to do any collaborations in the future?
No plans in the immediate future.
Too much on the cards already?
I'm pretty busy and I like to stay in my own lane.
Yeah, okay. So, we're not going to see the Crickets and Cicada cookies collab?
Oh, I don't think me and Jake are going to have a collab anytime soon. Duke and I have talked about it in the past. I jokingly said, let's hit the four-way with your skunk mail and hit the Virginia Beach, Afghani with the M10.
Oh, yeah.
And he said we'd start way too many seed bags with that one. I've always heard the rumor that the Virginia Beach, Afghani is M10, Afghani 1.
I think it is. I've had similar Afghani 1 that reminded me of the Virginia Beach one.
Yeah, they remind me of each other too.
Interesting stuff. Okay. And then, last question I wanted to ask you before we get into the final five is, are there any old world cuts or land races that you've got your eye on, you haven't been able to get yet, but you'd love to get into your collection?
Just more Afghani and Paki lines. I prefer old stock that's been sitting in somebody's dome canister or seed drawer. That seems to be the best ones. They're hard to come up with.
I have a couple hundred seeds I got from a friend here in Hubbell County that he got from a friend. That's the best Afghani lines that this guy had ever seen.
Honestly, I'm scared to get into them because if they don't crack, it's done. If anybody knows anything about tissue culture and seeds, hit me up.
Wow. Yes, please. Anyone who's got some info on tissue culture, please reach out. That'd be incredible.
All right. Onto the final quickfire questions. Here's hopefully some new ones since we last spoke. What's been the, I wouldn't say the best, but what's been some weed you've had in the last couple of years that really blew you away with how good it was?
Maybe you weren't expecting it to be particularly good, but just really hit the spot for you.
The Sensi Star Cut that I used for the Brute X, I got it from JJ. He said I'd like it and he was right. She's super high quality and she passed those qualities on to the Brute X. I'm extremely happy with that.
I actually grew a bunch of the Sensi Star out with the Brute X and I barely even touched the Sensi Star. The Brute X is so good.
Some nice stuff. I think I was lucky enough to try some of that when I was with you and really nice stuff indeed. On the other end of the spectrum, what's some weed that was really hyped up to you by some friends or someone and eventually you try it and you were just a bit disappointed?
Gelato was pretty hyped up, but that was a few years ago. That stuff never lived up to the hype to me. That's about it that I can think of.
Good stuff for all the weed you must try. I guess that's not a bad list there. If I'm going to drop you off on a deserted island and you can grow three strains for the rest of your life, which three are you going to take with you?
Are we talking clones or can I take three of my seed lines?
Yeah, you could take three of your seed lines if you prefer or you can take clone.
I would take Lazy Dog, Brute X and Overkill.
Wow, you just think you'd be able to mix and match enough with those to get everything you wanted?
Yeah, I'd be able to bring everything I wanted out of the Gene Pools, the Chem, Northern Alliance, the Hash Plant. They're all extremely potent.
The Lazy Dog, I'm growing a bunch more of them out. I'm planning on taking that line, the F3. It's just really good smoke. The Brute X came out exceptional. I'm really stoked with the way it's smoking out. It's super potent. The hardest part is finding one that is not a keeper.
Yeah, always a good challenge that one when deciding what you can't keep because there's too many good ones.
On the other end of the spectrum, you're going to drop someone off to this desert island who you're not particularly fond of and you're going to leave them with three strains. What three are you going to leave them with?
Oh man, that's just ruthless. We're going to give them the Gelato 33 and the 41. What else are we going to give them? Runtz.
The same thing. Love it.
Exactly. Have fun with that Gene Pool.
Hey, it made me think. Did you see that post from Shabinsky the other day where he's like, these are the original Gelato seeds?
No, I didn't see that one.
He posted a photo where there must have been at least two, three hundred seeds in there, I reckon. And I was thinking, there's no way those are the original seeds. You would have popped them already.
Man, yeah, I don't know anything about that crew. I just have a lot of respect for how they marketed those strains and the way they changed the game with them. That's what I got to say about that one.
There you go. All right. Well, on to our last question. What's one aspect or thing about the industry or the community, however you want to phrase it, that you would change if possible that you think would make a big difference?
I would change legalization. I would change it to more legalization, not just corporate ramped up cannabis. I think it should be free for everyone to grow in every state, as many plants as they want, to give it away to anyone, to sell to anyone. That's what legal things should be.
There's all this talk on Instagram lately of all these big brands that want to get rid of home grows in these states that are becoming legal. That's exactly the thing that I would get rid of in the industry. Hard to call the cannabis community at this point.
Nice. What an awesome sentiment. So I think that just about brings us to the end of the episode today. Were there any comments or shout outs you wanted to make?
Huge shout out to Hannibal. None of this would be possible without her. And I really want to thank everyone for their support, all the likes and comments on Instagram and everyone that buys a pack. And it's always a pleasure to talk to you. You make the interview really easy with your awesome questions. And I had a great time. Thanks for having me.
You're too kind, my friend. I enjoyed chatting with you likewise. And also, you know, shout out to Hannibal. We appreciate her. So once again, a big thank you to one half of the dynamic duo behind Crickets and Cicada. Mr. Bob, thanks for coming on the show.
Thanks a lot, man.
There you have it, my friends. A huge thank you to Mr. Bob Hemphill and Hannibal for all the work they do. And specifically, Mr. Bob for coming on the show. I hope you enjoyed this episode. I really liked it. And I hope you took as much away from it as I did.
As always, though, these episodes could not happen without our fantastic sponsors. So a huge shout out to Seeds here now. Number one seed bank in the game. All the hottest breeders, the latest drops. They've got a new exotic Mike Red Pop drop happening soon. Get in on that one if you like that ultra frosty, exotic looking bug.
Likewise, in order to get that, you've got to grow a good crop. And our other sponsors are fantastic. You've got to grow a good crop. And in order to do that, you should check out our friends at Crop It Biological Systems. They have the largest range of predator mites and other natural enemies in the game.
I told you about their ultimite. Have you checked out their Spidex vital predator mites? They've got proof of predation, color changing technology, meaning the persimilis mites will change to red after they've eaten spider mites. So you can be sure they're doing their job. Big shout out to Crop It Biological. We appreciate you.
Likewise, a huge shout out to Pro-Mix. These guys have been in the industry forever. You know them. I don't need to introduce them. But they do have a new product that would do well in anyone's garden. Pro-Mix Connect, a high quality mycorrhizal inoculant designed to help increase your yields, your resin, your terpenes, your flavors, everything you love about good quality cannabis. This is going to emphasize that.
So go check out Pro-Mix Connect now to help ensure your next harvest is one of the best to date.
And last but not least, a huge shout out to our friends at the Patreon gang. We love you and we appreciate the support you give the show. If you would like to help support the show and ensure future episodes happen, please go check out www.patreon.com. You'll get access to early interviews, exclusive unheard content like me chatting with Bodhi, me, Bob Hemphill and Meme Gene.
And in the fat, an exclusive genetic and merch giveaway. Go check it out now guys. We appreciate you greatly.
I think that's just about the end of it for this one, my friends. I'll catch you on the next one to get that hitter.
This is Heavy Daze from the Upside Down Library signing out.
We'll see you.
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
