Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
You're joined as always by your boy Heavy Days here from the Upside Down Library.
And as always, this episode could not happen without the amazing support of our sponsors,
Seeds Here Now.
Number one seed bank in the game, guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Why grow anything else?
You might be unhappy at the end.
Go to Seeds Here Now.
They promise you'll be stoked at the end.
They only stock quality breeders and if you're not, hit them up.
They'll sort you out with some new seeds.
What more could you ask for?
Well, you got to make sure you get the crop right first and to do that, you should go
check out Coppett Biological Systems.
With the largest range of predator mites and other natural enemies in the game, be
sure to check out their new Spidex Vital, a predator mite with proof of predation color
changing system where the persimilis mites will change from white to red after they've
eaten spider mites so you can be sure they're doing their job.
Likewise, make sure to go check out our new sponsor, Pro-Mix.
We've got a fantastic new product called Pro-Mix Connect which is a mycorrhizal inoculant
that will help ensure you have a robust harvest.
You are after increased yield, increased resin, density and all the things that make your
crop stand out from the rest, make sure to check out Pro-Mix Mycorrhizal via, make sure
to check out Pro-Mix Connect, your number one mycorrhizal product in the game.
And last but not least, we would not be able to do this without all the fantastic sponsors
over at the Patreon gang.
If you would like to help ensure that future episodes continue to happen, please go check
out www.patreon.com.thepodcast.
You'll get exclusive access to unheard interviews, bonus content, giveaways and so, so, so much
more.
Please go check it out.
On this episode, we are extremely lucky to be joined by one of the land race legends
of the scene, Doobie of Ace Genetics.
Here to give us the rundown on all the different land race hybrids he's working on, origins
of different genetic lines, the culture in Europe and so, so, so much more.
We are so excited for this one.
So without further delay, let's get into it.
So, hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast.
We are very lucky today as we are joined by one of the land race legends and preservers
of our scene, Doobie of Ace Genetics.
Thank you so much for joining me today.
Thank you very much, Heavy Days.
It's a pleasure to have you here at the podcast and to be with all your audience.
I really appreciate this opportunity.
Yes, as I told you, my English is not the best, but I hope you, I hope make me feel
understand and I hope you enjoy the conversation.
Thank you very much.
You are very humble.
Don't worry, your English is great and I'm sure people are still going to enjoy it because
you've been one of our most requested guests we've had for a while.
How does it feel to be so popular?
Yes.
I never speak that.
Thank you.
That's really touching to know.
Thank you.
Not a problem.
So, the first guest we've been asking people, sorry, the first question we've been asking
our guests lately is, what are you currently smoking on?
At the moment, I have some new Caledonia boots here.
I have some CBD1, I have some Moroccan hash, I have some a bit of Indica, Airpods Cross
PCK and a few more.
I have Chinese, Cali China and a few other sativas.
Yes.
Wow, that's a really nice selection you have there.
Can you tell us a little bit about the new Caledonian?
That sounds very rare.
Yes, it's a new sativa line that we worked on last year and it has been released this
year.
It came from a grower through an interchange, a swap of genetics I did with him.
He was a very established grower there in New Caledonia.
He was interested also in our sativa so we did an interchange.
He sent me a lot of seeds from the island, the sativas he grew there.
I think we did the seed swap around 2012 and only at this time I considered the seeds were
getting too old so it was time to germinate them and explore a bit the genetics.
Knowing that we work with land rights with sativas, he sent me a lot of seeds to work
them and to refine the line and spread the genetics.
Honestly, I didn't know what to expect at the beginning.
Certainly it was something really new.
I don't know how we will link with other genetics I'm more familiar with.
We grew like last year, we started like 100 plants of the New Caledonia.
I have like three different seed lots, two with more seeds.
It was the seed lot A and the seed lot B.
We took like 50 seeds from each and grew all of them together indoors.
Initially, the groove was like really tropical sativas, very slow to reach the sexual maturity
to sow sex indoors.
The groove was really big, very big growth.
Yes, I was thinking that we have something really, really tropical on hands.
When we switched them to flower, they also took their sweet time to really start to flower.
So yeah, they were indeed really tropical or at least subtropical.
Yes, because New Caledonia is around 20 in the south hemisphere latitude and is not really
very close to the equator, but it's subtropical.
Yes, once the plants start to flower, yeah, it was really tropical.
It took their sweet time to flower.
We found like maybe a third part of the population was hermaphrodite.
So yes, this is very typical when you explore new land races, especially sativa land races
from the tropics.
It's quite common to find a lot of hermits in the first P1 generation.
And yeah, we eliminated the hermaphrodites.
We saw some plants adapting better to indoor growing, reacting better.
So start to form resins, sowing terpenes also.
So we had the chance to start to evaluate which one were more promising.
We cloned, when we started to eliminate the hermaphrodite, we started to clone all the
rest of the plants that were sexually stable.
Like it was, like it's quite common also with tropical sativas is that usually the female
to male ratio is very high.
That means that you find maybe 78% of females and the rest only males.
Within this tool, also a lot of hermits.
In this case, a third part.
So yes, at the end we removed like half of the plants after eliminating the hermits and
plants that after many, many, many, many weeks didn't respond, didn't do anything or comparing
with others were lacking of resin of terpenes.
So yeah, at the end we came out like with 30 plus really nice females and five sexually
firm males.
And then we open pollinate with the females, all the females.
At the same time, as I told you, we had all clones from all these more promising females
in the mother room or backup copies.
Yes, and then the reproduction was a success.
We pollinated more than 30 females that were sexually firm.
The males were sexually firm too.
And then when they finished the reproduction, they arrived, I was able to evaluate better
which one were more resinous and with better terpenes, although they were seeded.
So the most promising ones, I brought clones to autogrowing to do a cinsemilla cycle.
That means without pollination to evaluate properly the flower without seeds outdoors,
which is, I feel that this strain expressed itself better outdoors than indoors, at least
in this initial generation.
So yes, it was surprising because we moved the clones a bit late in August, which is
a bit late for planting, even for tropical sativa, but they catch up very, very fast.
The small clones grow up almost like two meters.
And around late October, they were already finishing.
Yeah, maybe they will need one, two weeks more, but they reacted outdoors much faster
and better than indoors.
Yes.
And at that time when they were starting to ripen, my God, I was really excited because
I started to smell like incredible refined tutti frutti aromas.
The resins were very good and no any signs in the plants we were testing outdoors.
So our selection were in the right direction regarding quality too.
So yes, at the end we end up with evaluating like eight females, the most promising females
from the seed reproduction.
We evaluate them outdoors without seeds.
Then we start to smoke them.
We brought them to the lab for cannabinoid and terpene analysis.
I already did some genetic analysis a few years back.
So yes, with all the smoking tests, the smoking, the growing sparrows, the seed reproduction,
yeah, we decided we were extremely excited about this new genetics.
When I started to smoke it, I was, wow.
It has been so long that I don't feel this quality of high in Asativa.
Like you smoke it and everything becomes super clean, vivid.
You feel like the colors more intense, but not with distortion, like everything more
alive.
The sound also, you can hear even the farthest sound super strong.
You feel like a big energy growing up from inside.
You become creative, connected with your surroundings.
You feel uplifted, motivated.
Your psyche is well focused.
It's a very, very good quality high.
Very, very good.
To be honest about the origins of the genetics, I think it's not so linked directly with
a landrace.
I would say the finished product has quite tight qualities in the smoke, like especially
in the taste.
It's a sour, lime, lemony taste that is quite common on time landraces.
The effect is quite Thai-like, very clear up.
But the flower structure is a bit more like Mexican or like American Sativa.
It's not so loose like the Thais.
The Thais usually have a very loose flower structure, very foxtile, not dense.
A real pure Thai is never dense.
This one makes quite dense buds for a pure Sativa.
Flourish structures that I have seen more in certain Mexicans or even more modern Colombians.
But yeah, my feeling is somewhat like a Thai-American Sativa mix.
That makes sense to the audience regarding the finished product.
And it's a very interesting line we have released this year.
We cannot wait to hear the opinion of the growers and Sativa lowers about this new line.
Wow, what an incredibly comprehensive and detailed answer.
I'm very excited to ask you some more questions.
I think this is going to be a great interview.
I'd love to know, you mentioned kind of how you went about weeding out the hermaphrodites
at first and sort of stabilising the line.
When you get a landrace line from seed, do you find that you have to selectively breed out the hermaphrodisms
or it just over generations naturally stabilises?
Yes, usually it depends how domesticated is the landrace.
But usually, for example, if you get seeds from a landrace that has been refined and tamed
very properly by a grower, like taking very well care of the gene pool
and all the individuals involved in every generation.
In these cases, which are very rare, you can expect lower hermaphrodite rates in these cases, in this landrace.
But most of the time, the landraces are grown in mass fields, like many plants, every generation,
whether it's in Afghanistan, Pakistan, or India, or in Morocco, or in Colombia.
They grow many, many, many plants.
And not all the farmers, not all the traditional farmers are very diligent or very efficient to remove,
to fully remove their hermaphrodite traits in their population.
That is, for example, because usually in a hass plant population, they don't mind, all the plants are fully seeded,
whether it's in Morocco, or Lebanese, or Afghanistan, or Pakistan, the plants get completely fully seeded.
So they are not very worried.
Most of the times, they select, they choose good males that are sexually firm.
But sometimes, some male hermaphrodites can escape, and they can also pollinate.
So, yeah, big populations, landrace like this usually have in some given plants, some hermaphrodite traits somewhere.
In some landraces, it will be more evident, in others not.
But yeah, most of the times when we receive the P1 generation, the P1 generation is, I refer to the first generation seeds collected in situ, in the place of origin of the landrace.
Usually when I start to work with the P1 landrace generation, it's very typical that I find a lot of hermaphrodites,
and it's very common that I need to clean a lot the landrace in this first generation.
Some landrace tend to be more, others lesser, and also most landrace are autogenetics, obviously.
So when you bring them to indoor to evaluate them, to select them and all this,
the autogenetics that have been grown for many, many generations, centuries outdoors, they don't really like the indoor, suddenly.
Like you put them indoor with artificial light, like so stable for two periods, they are not used to it.
So they very easily show more hermaphrodites that they will do outdoors in their place of origin.
But it's a good thing because you force the gen pool of the landrace you are working with to show any problem, any problem indoors,
any kind of bad indoor adaptability, any hermene tendency, you can detect them much easier indoors.
And yes, I try to remove all the hermaphrodite plants from the first generation.
Only if I don't have enough plants to work with, I will reproduce using maybe one slightly hermene, but it has never been the case.
Usually, if I have enough plants, I remove all the hermene and then focus only in the sexually stable I have.
Yeah, great. Thank you so much for that answer.
I noticed that when you were talking about all the different things you were smoking at the moment, you mentioned Erdapet or however you pronounce it.
It's a very interesting strain. I think I read online that it was sort of worked on in Sweden maybe and that it has like a strawberry flavor.
Can you tell us what you know about the backstory?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know of it. It's a quite interesting story.
The Erdapet is an herb which in German means strawberry.
It was an Afghani clone that was very widely grown in Switzerland almost 20 years ago.
In Switzerland, they have the golden era of the Swiss cannabis time that was almost 20 years ago.
They legalized for a few years also the THC cultivation.
It was around that time when Breeder Steve or Mr. Nice and other breeders went to Switzerland to legally for a few years.
The thing got out of control and then the Swiss government stopped it.
Now, Switzerland was quite straight for 20 years and now with all the CBD scene, they are in a new golden era in Switzerland but more with the CBD products.
At that time, they were growing THC psychoactive strains.
One of the Afghani clones that they work and grow a lot, it was the Erdberg.
It was an Afghani that they used to grow indoors in big indoor rooms to sell in the Swiss coffee shops at that time.
It was a quite popular Afghani strain in Switzerland like 20 years ago.
Also, at that time in Switzerland, there was also a local seed bank.
It was all seeds.
The breeder was Felix and he used to grow outdoors in Switzerland.
He was a Swiss outdoor grower.
He got a purple Swiss outdoor line from some old ladies.
He said that it was the purpurea titinensis because it was grown in Ticino.
It was purple so it was called purpurea titinensis.
It was a very, it was more sativa, hempy strain.
The origins of the purpurea titinensis are not clear.
Some people say it could be an Himalayan strain.
It's not clear but it was already an outdoor strain that was very adapted to Swiss climate and it was very purple, very early flowering, very resistant.
The indoor herbivory was crossed with purpurea titinensis.
Then it came out the airport.
When the airport came out, the golden era of the Swiss THC times ended.
Some Danish breeders like Esben and Norspe work their pure genetics.
One, two, three generations, they're in Denmark.
Esben, which is a friend of mine, is a great breeder, a very kind person.
I encourage our audience to discover more about his seed bank.
He is hybrids from hell. I don't know if you know about it.
He specializes in breeding northern lines for cold northern climates.
He has many interesting semi-autoflowing strains that finish very well in Denmark and northern European countries.
He passed me the airport after working with the strain outdoor two or three generations.
I grew the strain from him in 2006, but he gave me the seeds to start to work with them in a more serious way in 2012.
In 2012, we started to work the strain indoors, outdoors.
We saw some hermaphrodite tendencies when we brought the line indoors, which is what I told you with the landrace.
It's very typical when you take an outdoor line that has been worked and selected many generations outdoors.
When you bring it indoors, it's very typical that some parental plants give some hermaphrodite problems.
We worked the strain indoors a bit to try to adapt the genetics indoors to remove this hermaphroditism indoors mainly.
One thing that was never done with the airport, the airport was already a very consistent line for airiness, for cold resistance, and for very beautiful colors.
The airport has two main phenomes. The herbert was a green afghani and the purpurio ticinensis was a very colorful plant.
The mix between the green herbert afghani and the purpurio ticinensis produced a blend of colors.
Some leaning to the green airport, so more green in color, and others leaning to the very colorful, to the purpurio ticinensis with purple, red, black colors, and sometimes also in between.
The qualities of this line for airiness, for cold resistance, they were clear and the taste is quite nice.
The colorful have a berry taste. The green afghani phenotypes have a more earthy, husky taste, very classic afghani taste.
These are the terpenzia you can find in the line.
But being an afghani line, you know afghani line don't really, they could be problematic with the bad rot in late flowering.
You know because in Afghanistan it's a very dry climate, so all the genetics from there are very used to flower with very dry conditions, with very strong temperation, but with low moisture.
That's why a lot of the indica afghani genetics are very susceptible or are very prone to bad rot, to botrytis.
And that was the case also with airport, because it contains a heavy strong of afghani genetics, both in Denmark, that is a wet country, and here in my coastal climate, although my climate here in Spain is very warm, but I have a lot of moisture because I live very close to the coast.
So yes, we found the airport a bit problematic with the bad rot.
Since 2012, we work like maybe until now, we have worked like maybe four generations indoors, and three generations outdoor, in regular and in feminized format.
And through all these generations, we brought samples to the lab, and then we identified, no one did before, that the airport also have CBD content.
Like it's very typical from afghani hash plant land-raised population.
This is a topic that we can discuss later.
No one knew this before, that airport, whether it was a THC-rich strain.
It was clearly psychoactive, so it had THC.
But with our evaluation, work and study at the lab, we confirmed scientifically that the airport was also a CBD-rich strain.
Most of the phenotypes are a one-to-one THC-CBD chemotype, balanced, usually with 7A-THC to 7A-CBD, so quite balanced.
It gets you high, it's not the most strong indicator, but it's not psychoactive, it gets you quite high.
And yes, we found some very rare phenotypes that only have CBD, very little THC, but more or less it's like a balanced THC-CBD strain, very early flowering.
The good thing of the airport is that it has the semi-autoflowering trait from the purpuria definensis.
What does semi-autoflowering mean?
It's a concept that is a bit confusing for many.
It's semi-autoflowering because it's not fully autoflowering.
It means that you can keep clones in the mother room, you can keep them for long term, you can even try to re-veg the plants.
This is completely impossible with fully autoflowering genetics.
But hormonally, they tend to flower at any time.
For example, when they feel road-bound, they try to flower.
When they feel that there's just a slight decrease of photoperiod outdoors, they try to flower.
So they have a very early flowering onset outdoors.
When most of the Afghani indoor strains start to flower in August, in my latitude, to finish in early October,
the airport maybe starts in July and finishes in late August, early September.
The flowering is 45-50 days, but it can start to flower one to one month and a half ahead than other Afghani strains that are not semi-autoflowering.
So this is an advantage for cold and early harvest.
And this is more or less the quality and the history of the airport.
We have made some hybrids with them, some with THC, some with CBD.
And yes, it's a very interesting plant by itself for medical, because it has both THC and CBD.
It has a very relaxing high and good for pain, good for muscle, for insomnia.
And yes, it's also a very useful plant for breathing, for illness and for interesting chemotypes.
Wow, what a brilliant answer. Thank you so very much.
Speaking of CBD, you also mentioned CBD1, and I noticed you had made that more recently.
What inspired you to make that? And do you want to do more CBD lines in the future?
Well, the CBD is honestly a very interesting field.
As you well know, we have had 10 years or more like the CBD revolution.
Like people are realizing of the medical benefit of CBD.
And there is now a complete boom in the industry for CBD products.
A total range of products, whether it's genetic seeds, extraction, flower, edibles, for medicine, in the national health systems, everywhere.
So yes, when I started with FACE, I'm not going to lie to you, I was more interested to get high on the recreational side of the cannabis, like many people.
But yes, obviously I understand that not all the people approach to cannabis from the recreational side.
And some people really need it as a medicine.
I also started to last year, like a bit of anxiety myself.
So yes, I felt like it was also a good moment to focus more on breathing with CBD, also for myself, but also for others.
And yes, I saw that at least here in Europe, in the United States, the thing is much more advanced because with the legalization and all the resources and the qualified people they have there, they have advanced a lot in the hemp breathing and to develop hemp lines with CBD that are very, very interesting.
They have done and they are doing an amazing job there in the United States.
But here in Europe, the pioneers of the movement to put it in that way that were Jaime from Resin Seeds here in Spain.
Curiously, the main CBD lines that came out to the scene, to the CBD game and the CBD breathing that were more useful and more appreciated by growers came from Spain.
It was from Jaime from Resin Seeds, which was the first to identify in a DSL hybrid CBD and then they call it Cannatonic.
It won a Cannabis Cup here in Spain and then it got a lot of reputation after it won the cup and after being analyzed for CBD.
And then the origins of the Cannatonic were not clear and finally we knew that it came from another Spanish seed bank called Rega Seeds.
They were also working with many DSL hybrids and rich CBD DSL hybrids mainly.
And these were the main source of the CBD rich strains that later make the boom in Europe and later were brought to the United States.
They were very interesting because they taste like and look like the best DSL.
But they contain a lot of CBD.
Okay, so with this moment Jaime created Resin Seeds offering some CBD strains and then Jaime from Resin Seeds I think joined with Scott Blake from Santibaba from Eastern Ice to make CBD Crew.
And I think CBD Crew were giving CBD breeding services to many other companies in Europe like Server Seeds, Das Passion, many others.
So yeah, eventually many CBD strains came out from all the seed banks but all these strains didn't have the chemotype stabilized.
They were very irregular in chemotype.
So when these seed banks were offering CBD strains but the chemotype was not stabilized and they said yeah you could have 50% of balanced chemotype of THC CBD, 25% only CBD and 25% with THC and no CBD.
I said well this is from the medical point of view is crazy because the grower don't know what's the chemotype of his plants and he or she cannot tolerate well the THC and he or she got a THC plant from so-called CBD seeds is not a good job.
So yeah, at that moment people were releasing CBD strains like non-stop.
And then I had a friend that used to work for Jaime many years ago and he got some Canna Tonic S1 seeds from the original clone from Canna Tonic.
He got self-adhesive of that clone.
My friend got the seeds for many years and he told me, Luby these seeds are getting old, do you want to do something with them?
I said okay, Jaime, nice job, we will check it out.
And then he phoned me and he told me, Luis I think I have some interesting things from these plants.
I was about to take a flight to take holidays, I said okay you just keep the clones and when I come back from holidays we check it out.
Yeah I came from holidays, we check out the plants and brought all the samples of all the plants to the lab.
And then we realized scientifically that the Canna Tonic original clone that had a balanced chemotype, it was, I cannot remember, maybe 8 to 10 THC, 8 to 10 CBD, it was like this.
When you self-feed and you grow the S1 seeds, we found out all the main chemotypes in the S1 and S1 seeds behave like an F2 for the chemotypes.
In the S1 seeds we found THC rich plants, balanced THC CBD plants like the original Canna Tonic clone and then we found also only high CBD plants with very little THC.
From one of them we found one that was 27 CBD content, which is the plant that with a lab report, not that someone says that no I have a 30% CBD plant, okay you submit an analysis.
We did it. We have an analysis that proves that the Canna Tonic S1 plant we selected, it contains 27% CBD and around 1 THC.
Then we have another system with a similar chemotype that was 17, 18 CBD and 0.7 THC.
Okay, the most interesting was the CBD one, the one I told you that had 27% CBD and the other was CBD5.
It's not very easy, we say okay we already have found from the Canna Tonic population the ones we want with a very high CBD and low THC chemotype, we just need to cross the plants from the Canna Tonic S1 of the chemotype we want between each other to stabilize this chemotype.
Okay, the plants are quite easy, but unfortunately they were infertile.
This is a problem that sometimes you find in S1 generation.
S1 self-pollination is the highest form of inbreeding.
It's like having kids only with yourself, there's no other higher form of inbreeding.
You maybe could have kids with your sister, it would be a very high form of inbreeding, but it's even highest inbreeding to only produce offspring with your genotype without introducing any other genotype.
This could, this one is a very interesting tool for fixing traits for inbreeding in a very strong way, but it can also lead to health problems like lack of vigor, mutations.
One of the problems that some of the S1 lines can show, not all of them, is infertility.
In this case was.
So we tried to pollinate CBD1 with CBD5, reversed.
It didn't produce seeds.
We tried to pollinate CBD5 with CBD1, reversed.
It didn't work.
So we had like a wall, we didn't know how to advance in the breeding.
At that time, I say, okay, we have the airport, which is also a CBD-rich line.
It has not stabilized to be only CBD-rich, the airport, but it's another CBD-rich that is fertile and that we can try to introduce to the infertile cannatonic S1 plants that we cannot reproduce.
Unfortunately, it was still a bit infertile, but we managed to do a cross between the CBD1 and the green airport.
Okay.
And this F1 cross, it was the CBD cross airport.
It had like 50% the balanced THC, CBD chemotypes like airport and 50% only high CBD and low THC chemotypes like the CBD1 cannatonic S1 parental plant we selected.
And the mix of terpenes and resins was amazing.
The cannatonic has very nice terpenes from the soil DSL, like a skunk and all this, blend with the airport, tiny, hashy terpenes.
It was very, very nice hybrid, only for terpenes, resins, baguette peel.
It was great.
So we want to focus only in the high CBD plants, low THC from the CBD1 airport cross.
We selected the ones I like more, the smoke and the love have the highest CBD.
We selected four females of the F1 hybrid.
And then we reversed again the CBD clone.
It produced very, very, very little.
And we managed to pollinate these four selected females of the F1.
So produce some, somewhat like a back cross.
Okay.
CBD1 airport cross to CBD1.
Okay.
Then we grew this back cross, the seeds, and then we found that all the seeds had stabilized the chemotype.
High CBD, low THC.
Now we did it.
And it was not very difficult.
Obviously, you need help from the lab.
Otherwise, you are selecting numbers blindly.
But if you have a lab, yes, the way to stabilize follows simple mendelan ratios.
You know, it was in the cannatonic S1, it is split in basic mendelan ratios also.
And when we did the F1 cross, we cut a bit the chemotypes, but also the frequencies were very mendelan.
And finally, we managed to stabilize.
We brought to the lab, we confirmed that all the plants were like we wanted.
Then we selected again the four that I like more, the smoke.
And they have slightly more CBD than her sisters.
And then we inbreed each other.
We did a back cross again to the CBD1 clone because we wanted to make a commercial reproduction.
Something that we can come out with a lot of seeds.
Okay.
And if we use again the CBD1 original plant, it will lead us to very small reproduction due to infertility.
So it will be impossible to make a commercial release.
So we inbreed the back cross parental plants that I like the most, reproduce between them.
So inbreed line, we were just inbreeding through the line.
There was some slight fertility problem, but we really managed to produce thousands and thousands of seeds.
And finally, released the line with the chemotype stabilized.
So summing up, it takes the best from cannatonic with a bit more of earliness from Merport.
The best chemotype of the cannatonic is stabilized.
And this is the work we did, the other seed companies.
Brilliant, brilliant story there, taking us through the whole creation process.
That was fantastic.
So take me back to when you were younger.
What was your first experience with cannabis?
Yeah, it was like a classic story like any person could have.
I started smoking at the school around 14 years old.
And yeah, my story is quite normal.
It's nothing, but it illustrates quite well how we grew up the cannabis scene and the cannabis industry in the last 25 years.
Because it was quite on hand.
So here in Spain in the mid 90s, we are very close to Morocco.
The south of Spain is just a few kilometers from north of Morocco.
And the plantations of Morocco is also in the north, not exactly down to Spain, but it's very, very, very close to Morocco.
And Morocco has been since the 80s like the biggest hash producer in the world.
So the cannabis culture in Spain has been until this new century has been always been hash, Moroccan hash.
Always, always, always, always.
So you get a bit of the picture because here we have all kinds of quality of Moroccan hash, very cheap, very easy to access.
And so, yes, for us, it was the cannabis culture in Spain, the Moroccan hash.
So, yes, I started smoking Moroccan hash like most Spaniards did in the 90s or before.
And yeah, I love the creative effect, the relaxing.
And many, many friends love it.
Also the cannabis is countless, the great times and memories, great memories I have from the childhood as a teenager around cannabis and with my close friends.
It's countless.
So it's really a part of our life.
We grew up with it daily, daily.
And many of my close friends are really passionate cannabis lovers.
So it's really in our culture, you know.
And here in Spain it has been always quite tolerated to smoke cannabis.
So, yes, the cannabis culture in Spain regarding cannabis and specifically hash is very, very strong.
Then, yeah, during my youth and teenagers, what was available was mainly hash.
I had the good luck to experience in the good time of Moroccan hash all the good quality of hash.
And around 96, 97, here in Spain they start to appear the cannabis magazines and the first grow shops.
And this was really the revolution for the homegrown.
OK, because previously people didn't know how to grow the plants.
They didn't know anything about genetics.
The hash was so cheap and so easy to access that people just buy hash and smoke hash cannabis in that form.
So very people grew and they grew very badly.
They don't know what to harvest.
They don't know what it was a female or male.
It was a lot of myths, but there was not good books.
There was not Internet.
There were no good genetics.
So, yeah, the people was strictly hash.
A few hippies maybe traveled to India, Nepal to buy some clothes, bring here and they go some marijuana there, grow the seeds, grow here.
Or some people here in Spain, we have a lot of contacts with Latin American countries, Mexico, Colombia, etc.
So to get seeds from Mexico, Colombia, it was quite common, get seeds from Morocco also.
So some hippies grew some genetics that were from this place, mainly Mexican, Colombian, a bit of Moroccan, some Indian, Nepal mainly.
They were sativas.
It was what, and these genetics, they were grown very badly.
They were reproduced with no criteria.
But they have very funny effects because they were sativas.
And they have very funny effects.
But with around 96, 98, with the introduction of the magazines like Cáñamo, which is hemp in English, and the first growth show that they were selling all the seeds, the lambs, the fertilizer, the books with information about how to grow cannabis from books from the United States.
Then people started to travel to Holland to get seeds and all this.
So the picture started to change.
The hassle continued to be the main thing.
But I remember in my case, I started to grow my first seeds that I grew were Nepalese, Mexican, Colombian, and Moroccan.
And some Dutch genetics.
The first Dutch genetics I grew was in the 96 and was a Hawaiian skunk.
When I harvest, my friends were tripping.
They had never seen with such quality, completely organic.
We could harvest like half kilo when you are 16 years old.
This is so much money.
And instead of buying in half with your parents' money and all this, then we said, well, we may need to start to grow.
But obviously, at 16 years old, I was still living with my parents.
My parents didn't tolerate, but I was so passionate that they always allowed me to put some plants at home with many discussions.
But yes, I always had plants at home.
Always, always had plants at home.
Then when I go to the university, I go to live alone with my friends.
Then I already have a few girls on my shoulders.
We grew in 96, 97, we grew many good Dutch strains.
At that time, 96, 97, the Dutch seed bank were at the end of the best time, the golden era of the Dutch breeding.
It ended up around 96, 97, when the Dutch government stopped the seed banks.
They no longer can breed legally.
So after 96, 97, the seed banks, they still have a lot of good seed because they produced before it was illegal.
And this lasts until the new century, a few years later, maybe 2005.
So during this year, we got very, very nice genetics, the very best genetics from Holland.
And at the same time, we grew with the land raises we were collecting.
So it was very interesting because in the early days, me and my friends managed to realize that we have very good climate here.
We can grow almost all kinds of tropical sativas and all kinds of Dutch strains.
So we had the chance to compare the super refined hybrid from the SenCi seeds done by Neville that put a lot of work and a lot of good job on them.
And then compare them with the land raises.
And then you see something so refined, so tame, the Dutch genetics.
And you see the land raise so raw, but with some very unique traits, characteristics, you know.
So we, how to say, we appreciate both.
Since the start, we appreciated both the super refined hybrids from Holland and the unique qualities that we were starting to find in the land raises.
And this is how we started.
And I said, and I asked to myself, I will be able to breed something as good as the Dutch strains starting from land raises?
And that was a question that arises in the early moment.
And I said, well, if others did, I'm sure I will be able to do it.
Because at the end, all the super strains we have today, the Cush, Oging, Skank, they all came from land raises.
Obviously, they have been refined for so many generations that they are now very distant from the land raises.
But everything started from the land raises.
So this gives me another time, the internet was not so widespread, so it was not so easy to get information about land raises.
So I was interested in both, in to know the very, very best that time was in Holland, because in the mid-90s in California, they were starting to legalize, but Holland was still the main hub for genetics.
And yes, I tried to breed, learn how to breed, and try to come out and breed something really different and unique from land raises that I could call my work.
And that hopefully is as good as the Dutch strain and American strains.
That was my expectation when I started.
But more with the willing to learn, not to achieve.
You know, at that time it was more like a hobby, more like a passion.
There was not any business involved, not even expectation to have a business about it.
It was just passion, yeah.
Fantastic.
You know, an admirable goal to be trying to improve on sort of those early strains that really paved the way for the future.
I guess I was wondering, was this sort of the moment when you thought, I would like to start ACE Seeds?
And what was it like when you first started?
What were some of the first projects you were working on?
When I went to continue, I'll be connecting with the previous question.
When I went to study at the university, there was not a big city.
And the main growth shop, the owner hired me to attend the growers, to work on the growth shop, attending the growers.
At that time, this was the biggest growth shop in the whole province.
So all the growers, not only from the city, but from the province came to the growth shop to ask about seeds, about genetics, about growing.
So for me, it was like I learned a lot.
Because now there are many growth shops around and it's no longer the same.
But at that time, all the growers from the province came to me.
And I sold to them all the genetics and they grew it and came back to me with flowers, with clones.
So I managed to get incredible clones, the best clones from the refined strain, like the best yagerer, the best skanks, the best AK-47, Kali Mist.
From Agus Genetics, the Warlock, from Homegrown Genetics, everything.
We got everything, the very best.
And I learned a lot because all the growers came to me.
I have to explain, I learned a lot because at that time, the information in 2000 was very short.
So after working there for a few years, I learned a lot and I got a lot of genetics.
I got a lot of contacts.
And it was also the time that the internet started.
And there were some iconic old forums at that time that were overgrown, was the main one, and Cannabis World.
At that very early time of the 21st century, the worldwide cannabis community that was on the internet, we were posting and we were connecting mainly in overgrown and also in Cannabis World.
So it was a very beautiful moment because it was the start of the internet.
It managed to connect many growers from all around the world that previously were all isolated, one in North California, others in Europe, others in Latin America, etc.
And that was like a wealth of information.
It was incredible, exchanging genetics.
People from countries where the land races were produced also started to connect to these forums and we started to exchange land race genetics.
And from Spain, there were not many people interested in land races.
Only a few.
It was mainly me, Alex Mano Negra, who was a breeder from the Canary Islands in Spain.
And then Kaiki Charlie Garcia, I know him as Kaiki from Cannabiogen.
And then we all three met on the forums and we really had the same passion for the land races.
So we were talking a few years, exchanging seeds.
Maybe it was around 2002, then Alex Mano Negra came to live to my city from Canary Island with his girlfriend.
Then I met him in person. Kaiki was from Madrid.
He had his company already there, Cannabiogen, which was the first Spanish seed bank that was established.
And we all met in person.
The first years were very, very nice.
We all had the same passion. We had different characters.
Kaiki and Alex were one generation older than me.
They were around 50 plus around that time. I was just in my 20 plus.
I was very young. So they could be almost like my parents.
I learned a lot from them because obviously they have much more experience with me in life and with plants.
It was a very enriching experience, both regarding cannabis and friendship.
And then we started getting in touch more in person, like in 2002.
And then we started to work the idea to make here in Spain a seed bank working more with land races.
Because it was our main interest. Not many people were doing it.
Here the seed banks that were appearing were just interested in replicating the business model of the Dutch company.
To copy their genetics, saying, OK, if White Widow, Black Domina are the best sellers in Holland, then we take clones from them.
We feminize and we make a seed bank in Spain. That's how many Spanish seed banks came out.
Street Seeds, Dinafem, etc.
But we wanted to make something different.
The plants from Holland were amazing, but we wanted to do something different.
From scratch, from the land races, to understand with different traits, to come up with something different.
And learn through the process.
And yes, around 2005, the idea of creating ACID was already more mature.
We already have collaborators. Kaiki had a few friends collaborating for him.
I had my friends. I had other friends in the university.
I studied, Alex had his friends.
But the core of ACID, this early stage, was Alex Manonegra, Kaiki from Cannabio Gen and me.
That was the pillars. The three foundational persons that created ACID.
And then we came up with our first catalogue in 2005.
If you want, we can talk about it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, what were some of the first projects that you were looking to release as a company?
We were already a few years in touch, so we had some hybrids already in progress.
So, when we came out with the first catalogue in 2005,
there were five strains.
All in regular seeds. At that time, we didn't offer feminized seeds yet.
The strains were, the first six are quite famous and are still available.
It could be considered ACID's classics.
They are Bangi Hayes, Congo, Nepal Jam, Orient Express, Paraguay, and the other ones.
Brazilian, Orient Express, Panama, Antical.
And then four more that were only available in very short supply in this first catalogue.
They were Renata, which was a Brazilian-Cambodian Hayes, a hybrid.
Then Guerrilla, which was a Nepalese Cambondo cross Lesotho.
Tim and Faya Hayes, this was from Alex Mano Negra, which was Cape Verde, Mali Nepalese Sativa.
And Canela, which was from Kaiki. It was a North Indian cross Jamaican.
And this was our first ten strains. The first six have been available for the last 16 years.
Bangi Hayes, Congo, Nepal Jam, Orient Express, Panama, Antical.
I'm sure our audience are more familiarized with these ones.
Yes, most certainly. I think almost every strain you just mentioned rings a bell and I hope we can talk about them a little more.
I just wanted to quickly ask you, a lot of people were saying that Charlie Garcia from Cannabiogen used to work with you at ACE.
I'm wondering what sort of projects did you do together? Was that the first release?
And how come you guys decided to end that collaboration?
It was more of what each person could offer to the project.
Alex Mano Negra had a lot of experience with African Sativas.
He lived in the Canary Islands, which belongs to Spain, but it's an island that is quite far from Spain, very close to the African continent.
It's closer to Senegal than to Spain, to say it in that way.
He had, the Canary Islands is subtropical, it's like Hawaii, for example, so you can grow excellent Sativas there.
The soil is volcanic, the radiation is strong, the temperatures are warm the whole year.
There's still a bit of photo period, so it's even better than Thailand or Congo, that there's no photo period at all, it's the whole year exactly the same.
So he had a lot of experience with African land races, Sativas.
He grew, I don't know, one of his most famous was the Angolese Red, Liamba.
He also grew Sativas from Senegal, from Mali, from Cape Verde, Congolese, Mozambique.
He was the African expert.
And Kaiki, he was one of the founders, Kaiki is the person that you comment, he was one of the founders of Cannabio Gen.
And Cannabio Gen, when they came out, they already have a few strains that were very, very good.
So Kaiki was not new on the game, to say it in some way.
He has experience, he already had lines, he has already with Cannabio Gen, they already released strains that were extremely good at that point.
So each of us contribute with what we have.
At that time, when I was starting, I was working with the Nepalese and the Chinese and the Vietnam Black.
So my contributions in the first catalogue were Orien Express, which is my first hybrid.
It's Vietnam Black, cross China, Yunnan.
And also to the Guerrilla hybrid, which is Nepalese Commando, the Nepalese Commando I worked with, the Lesoto from Cannabio Gen.
And then the Guerrilla is also a hybrid I did with a Brazilian Bahia Sativa I had pollinated with Cambodia Haze from Reeferman.
And the other strains, for example, the Bangui Haze was a Congolese hybrid that came out from Alex Manonegra.
It was a very energetic Sativa hybrid with Congolese genetics.
But the problem is it was still a bit longer flowering and the effect was great.
But it was unfertile.
And Stey, he was a colleague of Charlie Garcia of Kaiki, liked a lot this clone from Manonegra and grew it.
And at the end he managed to pollinate with, they told me it was a Nepalese and managed to get some seeds.
And with this they managed to, Stey used to breed in Galicia, which is the north of Spain, is a very rainy part, it's colder.
The weather is not very good.
So he managed to adapt this original long flowering Congolese hybrid to his colder climate.
In a fast flowering Sativa he also adapted to indoor growing, making it smaller, faster flowering, 19 weeks.
But still capturing the high raising production and the very electric effect of the Congolese hybrid from Manonegra.
And he stabilized it, changed a bit the concept of the plant, making it faster flowering, more cold resistant, better adapt to indoor growing.
After sowing, after three, four generations, he came up with Bangi Hayes, that's the name they gave to the strainer.
Each one was free to name his strains in the way they wanted.
So yes, Bangi Hayes started from a Congolese hybrid from Manonegra.
Then it was worked by Stey, a friend of Kaiki.
And years later it was worked by Charlie Garcia.
And since 2012 until now I work the line myself.
So yes, the history of the line, if I tell you, is a bit long.
We have contributed each in different stages and at different moments.
Then we have the Congo.
The Congo was, it came up, Charlie Garcia had a Congolese sativa, not from Manonegra, from another person.
And he crossed it with the chitral that Canavio Henn had.
He made a Congolese-Pakistani chitral hybrid.
He worked it until F3 generation.
And then to this Congolese-Paki F3 hybrid, I cannot remember if it was the F3 at this point.
Charlie Garcia introduced a new Congolese, a flowering Congolese from Alex Manonegra, which is the Bangi Congo.
It's a Congolese that has a shorter flowering time.
So Congo was originally a hybrid that was 75 Congolese and 25% Pakistani.
And yes, it was worked mainly with genetics from Charlie Garcia and a bit from Manonegra.
Yes, it was very, very nice.
It was not so electric like the Bangi Haze.
It had a more warm euphoric effect with a bit more of body due to the Pakistani.
And the terpenes were more elaborated than Bangi Haze.
Both strains were mainly Congolese strains, but both are quite different to each other.
Okay.
And yes, later I never understand why my colleagues wanted to name Bangi Haze like Haze when Bangi Haze was not in sensei or didn't contain Haze at all.
Or why they wanted to call Congo and not Congo-Pakistan when the hybrid was originally a Congo-Pakistan hybrid.
But I was just a young man.
It was not my strains and everyone can name their strains.
It's up to them.
So they came up with this name until today.
Yes, we had some people ask sort of about that, but that answers a lot of the questions.
So that's great.
I was wondering though, do you remember much about what the Nepalese was like in its pure form?
Do you remember how it grew and what it smelled like or not really?
The stabilization of Bangi Haze was all done by STI, the colleague of Charlie Garcia I told you.
What happened there, honestly I asked a few times.
They were not very, very, very, very concrete.
It was not my strain.
I was very young at that time.
I didn't want to be...
But yes, the strain that came out was really something different.
It was something really unique.
But to answer the question, I don't know exactly what Nepalese strain go into the Bangi Haze and how it went.
This is a detail that escaped to my knowledge.
Sorry.
Yes, no, that's fine.
That's fine.
I was hoping I could ask you a little bit about the different tie strains you work with.
I had noticed many of them looked really nice and I was interested in how you would say the Mao tie is a little different to maybe some of the others.
Yes, the tie strains, well as you know, the tie is for the sativa lovers is one of the most important sativa land race of all times regarding quality.
So when we started to investigate looking for high quality pure sativa land races from tropical origin, obviously the ties were the ones that interest us the most in the first place.
And yes, at the beginning we had like four to five ties, like the Taiko Chang, then we had the Mao tie from Cannabio Hen, that it was the one that was used by Cannabio Hen in the strain.
Then lately, in the last decade, I've been working with another from Chiang Mai.
Then I used to grow another one that was terrible in my early days.
It was this car very early on and a few that was called Tie 79, but I think it was a hybrid.
This one came from Australian grower called 20 Tie.
I have the feeling that was a hybrid, I thought it was fantastic, but not really pure tie.
So yes, the three ties, the high quality ties that we have been working with since have been mainly the Ko Chang, the Mao tie from Cannabio Hen, and lately more the Tie Chang Mai.
You can see really a lot of similarities between them.
And if you compare with other green Vietnamese or other Cambodian, it's what I call the green surastathasya sativa archetype.
You can find in the lowlands of Laos, Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia, a genotype of green surastathasya sativa that is spreading in all these areas of these countries.
And they share a lot of similar traits.
They are green, even with colder temps, they remain green.
They have a long flowering time, usually four months or more.
They have a rich THC chemotype with zero or with very little or no CBD.
The terpene profile is also very common in all the different strains that belong to this archetype.
There are woody, spicy, sour, lime, lemony.
And the effects are very cerebral, not body effects.
Some are more nervous, like would be the Mao tie.
Some are pure joy, super clean, overlifting, refreshing, good energy, good vibe, like it was like the kochang.
And others are more in the middle, like the Thai chamai.
These are the three that we have been working more.
We started first with the Mao tie from Caribbean.
Charlie Garcia gave us a clone of a male that he had of the pure Mao tie.
And we at ACE have a lot of many crazy sativas.
So in 2008, with the help of a friend, of a colleague, we put the pure Mao tie male to pollinate all of our best sativas.
The green haze, the purple haze, the Thai kochang, the pure Angola, the pure tamal.
It was crazy.
The pure Vietnamese, Vietnam black, many interesting sativas.
And then the next year we came up with many interesting Taiwan Thai hybrids as limited edition.
That were green haze Thai, purple haze Thai, Vietnam black Thai, double Thai that was kochang close to Mao tie.
Angola Thai and tamal Thai, I think, and Vietnamese cross Thai were given mostly as freebies.
The Vietnam black Thai was also released.
And yeah, they were extremely good.
They were extremely good sativa hybrids.
And around 2015, I started to grow some old Thai chamai seeds I had.
I like it. I like it a lot.
And I made some hybrids with Calichina.
It came out Tai Chi, which is probably one of the hybrids I feel most proud of.
And it's Tai Chan micros, Calichina, F4.
It's amazing.
And yeah, these are the types we have been working lately.
And also similar plants like the green Vietnamese.
Yeah, if you go to northern Laos, the strains are different, are more purple strains, the effects are different.
If you go to the Philippines, the strains are slightly different also.
If you go to Banda Aceh in North Sumatra, the very famous Aceh Gold is slightly different.
Yeah, so I believe the green Thais, what people recognize more as Thai, belongs to the green Sudestasian archetype I described just now.
Yeah, brilliant. Again, just a really detailed answer. Thank you so much.
One of our listeners wanted to ask the question, they're looking for a recommendation from you that's either a Thai or a Thai hybrid that's got that really sort of archetypal soaring nice Thai high, but something that's a little bit on the shorter flowering side if possible.
What would you recommend?
Oh, yeah, we have the Tai Chi. The Tai Chi is amazing.
How to describe it is...
It has the most exotic, intense aromas from the Kali China.
It's extremely intense, exotic, like liver, roasted meat, intense, hash, with violet flowers, with tropical fruits, mangoes, creamy, sweet and sour, like the taste of a Chinese restaurant.
It's super complete, the terpene profile of a good Kali China.
And when crossed with the Tai Chi and Mai, the Kali China is my best Chinese hybrid. It's a Chinese indica, very fast flowering.
I added a bit of Kali mist to reinforce the intense aromas and a bit more sativa effect on Kali China.
And I find the Kali China does wonders when crossed with good sativas because the Kali China is not so...
It has the very low intense that many people are looking in sativa strains or in hash strains, but in an indica strain.
The high is very positive, not a stone, not intoxicating, not narcotic like our Afghani strains.
Most of the people have tried to lower down and adapt the Thai genetics with Afghani.
I think it's a complete failure because the psychoactivity, they are completely opposite.
You can come out with a very potent hybrid, but it will be a hybrid of hybrid effects.
So the Tai Chi and Mai for me is my best success on capturing the sativa qualities and enhance the exotic sativa side with the intense of the Kali China and the positive sativa side and warmness of the effect from the Kali China.
And with all these qualities, making it easy to flower indoors and in temperate latitudes.
I think my most successful is Tai Chi.
And another that people like a lot is Thai Cross Panama.
This is also very, very nice.
It's the same Tai Chi and Mai I use for Tai Chi, but instead of crossing it with Kali China F4, I cross it with my Panama Goddess Elite F10, which is the best Panama I have seen after 20 years working with Panama.
10th generation Panama.
The Thai Cross Panama is also, you can find a lot of Thai qualities.
The Panama enhances the lemony Thai bouquet.
So they match very well.
The Panama helps with a lot of gel, but still keeping the 100% sativa personality.
Okay, no indica.
These two are very, very nice for people that want to grow Thai with the Thai qualities and don't wait more than three months of flowering.
Yeah, brilliant answer.
While we're on the topic of Thai, I'll also quickly ask you, what were the different Thai mothers you used in the Golden Tiger Cross?
Okay, okay.
The first Golden Tiger, it came out with the Miao Thai hybrids I commented on in the previous question.
It was Malawi Cross Miao Thai.
Okay.
Yes, it came out very well.
That was the first version of Golden Tiger.
And the goal with the hybrid was to come up with something with the extreme potency of the Malawi, but make it a bit more up from the Thai, more energetic, more cerebral, because the Malawi has a body stone that is incredibly strong.
And it came out very, very, very well.
It came out quite well, but I was not fully satisfied with the terpene profiles of the Malawi of the Golden Tiger first version, which was Malawi mother, Malawi, all Malawi killer cross with Miao Thai male.
Okay.
So, after a few years, I was working with a double Thai, which was Ko Chan cross to Miao Thai.
Okay, pure Thai.
And then I selected a female that I like a lot.
And I said, I think the Golden Tiger can be a remake instead of Malawi Thai as Thai Malawi.
And instead of including one Thai, including the two Thais of double Thai, because regarding pure Thai feel, our best job was double Thai, double Thai F1 generation.
It's not something I've been able to replicate again.
The Thai male is no longer alive.
And so, yes, I wanted to do something better with the Golden Tiger, making it more Thai, improving the terpene profiles and putting, putting, bringing double Thai into Golden Tiger, not just the Miao Thai.
Okay, so what I call Golden Tiger 2.0 is double Thai.
It's double Thai, then cross with Malawi killer.
Okay.
Then I have selected, I selected different phenotypes, one more Ko Chan, one more Miao Thai, one more Malawis.
And lately, I'm introducing the more Thai phenotypes, I'm inbred between them to produce Golden Tiger.
So basically, double Thai with all Malawi killer.
What a powerhouse combo right there.
I'm definitely going to come back and we'll talk some more about some Malawi stuff.
But I just wanted to finish on the Thais by asking you, I noticed that you used to sell a strain called Thai stick.
Do you still sell that one? And was that one, one we've already spoken about or a different Thai?
This is a different type and this was from Gypsy Nirvana. Do you know Gypsy Nirvana?
Yeah.
I think in 2008, he made a trip to Southeast Asia and brought back to three Southeast Asian land rights.
It was the Laos Prabang, Thai stick and Camargo.
And at that time, he had some problems with the law in the Philippines and all that.
So I held them to his partners in the UK, the one that had ICMAX, Seed Boutique and Seed Bay to distribute through a seeds.
The seeds that Gypsy Nirvana collected of these three strains and Thai stick was one of them.
To be honest, I didn't find it as good as Ortais.
It was extremely long flowing, super airy.
I'm not saying it doesn't have potential, but I prefer the Thais that we already had over the Gypsy's Thai.
Sure. So I've been wondering for a long time, what is Zammal like as a line itself?
You don't get to Zammal, you don't get to try it pure. How would you describe the high of the Zammal?
Zammal. Okay, the Zammal.
It was thanks to Gypsy Nirvana that he introduced the Zammal to the cannabis community.
Because around 2000, it was a strain that was only known in Reunion Island by the French people living there.
For our audience that don't know about Zammal, Zammal is an African land-raised strain that comes from Reunion Island.
Reunion Island is a French colony that is close to Mauritius Islands and Madagascar.
It's a very beautiful volcanic island, isolated.
The local people, not the French, but the local indigenous African people from the island, used to grow very, very strong,
trippy, exotic sativas in the most isolated parts of the volcanoes in Reunion Island.
And as the Zammal is, Reunion is subtropical, and the Zammal is one of the trippiest sativas in the world.
I find it consistently more trippy than, for example, Thais or Colombians.
Some sativa lovers consider the old Colombians and the old Thais the very, very, very best.
I have found Zammals that are much more trippy than that.
It was in our first early days.
At that time, we didn't have much resources, knowledge, but we did some early Zammal hybrids and they were scary, trippy,
almost like the closest psychedelic experience I have had with cannabis, similar to LSD or something like that.
It's incredible.
But there are also some Zammal substrains.
The most trippy ones are the woody ones that have the less pleasant terpene profiles.
Then you have the colorful ones, which are very, very, very nervous, energetic, almost like cocaine, a lot of coffee type of high.
And then you have the mango carrot, which is the fruity mango.
This is the one I use for Zammal Delica.
This is cerebral, but it has a more kind and warm effect than the others that are super trippy or too nervous or whatever.
The mango carrot has the most refined terpenes, the kinder and best focus, not so trippy, not so aggressive.
Are you ever going to release the really nervous one?
Like, I want to smoke some weed that makes me scared.
The scary type is the purple Zammal.
This is what we call the purple Zammal.
We selected a purple Zammal mother like five to six years ago and it's really, really strong.
We have made a few hybrids with them.
We have a section on our website that is called Research and Development.
We list there the latest hybrid we have made, but we have not tested yet.
That has not been officially released.
But by looking at the research and development section, you can take an idea of what we are working lately.
And there you can find some purple Zammal hybrids.
We also released Zammal Bliss, which was purple Zammal cross Nepal Jam.
It was a limited edition from two or three years ago.
I have released a few purple Zammal hybrids, but as limited editions or with little stock.
I haven't done any big release with it yet.
But the time will come.
Very recently, also this year, we have released a Zammaldelica Breeders Pack.
I have been doing, it includes five different Zammal lines.
And one of the lines is purple Zammal cross with Zammaldelica.
In which we include two different types of Zammal in this purple Zammal cross Zammaldelica.
Zammaldelica Breeders Pack.
So, yeah, we are working on it slowly, but doing things.
Slowly, but doing things, yeah.
That's exciting. I'm going to have to look into that.
Just as a side question.
I'm not sure if you're aware, but that, just the term, the carrotpheno of the Zammaldelica.
It has like a cult following.
I don't know if you're aware you created this, but a lot of people in search of the carrot terps.
Yeah, yeah, the carrot terps can be found not only in Zammal, but in other African and Setebalan races.
Like, for example, I found it in Mauritius.
I found it a bit in Angola.
I found it in Congolese.
Yes, but the most refined in the mango carrot in the mother of Zammaldelica.
This clone, do you know Jared from Magwus Genetics?
I don't know him, but I've heard the name.
Okay, he's already retired.
He sold the company to Simon of Serious Seeds.
But when he was still running his company, Magwus Genetics, Jared is a very, very kind person.
And we met at the fair, so cannabis events, and we have a very good relationship.
He also received some of the original Zammal seeds from Gypsy.
But he was working, Magwus was working more Dutch strain like Warlock, which was skunk Afghani, or others that had Northern Lights or White Widow.
So he grew a bit of the Zammal, but it was not his style.
And knowing that I was quite a sativa man, he sent me the clones from Holland to Spain in courier company.
The first two times they arrived completely rotted.
But the third time they make it, and I got a very nice Zammal clone that he selected also with the mango carrot pins.
It maybe was not so trippy and strong like the ones we had, but the pins and the quality was very good.
It's the one I decided to use for Zammal Delica.
Zammal Delica is this Zammal mango carrot that Jared from Magwus Genetics gave me in clone four, and I pollinated with Golden Tiger F1 hybrid, the Golden Tiger first version.
So it's Zammal, Malawi, and Thai Zammal Delica.
Fantastic.
So I wanted to ask you if you could give us a little bit of the backstory on how you obtained your Malawi stock.
It's very famous.
The Malawi is probably our most famous strain of the last decade.
It's quite a mysterious strain because when I was studying at the university, it was a small town, so more or less I had a lot of friends.
We have a cycle where we sell a lot of clones.
At that time, we have one grower who had a clone of Malawi that he said was incredibly powerful, this and that.
Then he gave it to us and some friends that were collaborating with me at that time.
One of them was a very, very, very good indoor grower and he grew the Malawi indoors.
We couldn't believe what it was.
It was so sticky that you cannot…
I don't like the green, so I always do it by hand so I can touch the resins to be in contact with the plant.
With Malawi, it was impossible.
It was like the hand completely black, pieces of bad stick to your fingers.
It was incredible.
Then you make the joint.
You smoke like, yeah, oh yeah, I have high tolerance.
I can smoke a lot.
People smoke half joint.
You see his face.
I have so many stories of strong smokers with Malawi.
I could be hours talking about them, but it's completely devastating.
It's maybe 8-12 hours high.
You go to sleep, you wake up still high.
You cannot drive.
You cannot move.
You have a panic attack and you want to go to the hospital.
You fall asleep and you don't know what happened.
Things like that.
Very extreme effects.
Very extreme.
Then there was what I call the old Malawi killer clone.
It was that clone.
Then I asked where this clone came out.
It's from Antonio.
It's a crazy grower that now is living in Japan.
He was crazy with the Africans.
This and that.
Malawi from Antonio was for us.
Then we grow it.
We brought it to all the people that tried.
They said, what the fuck is this?
I haven't tried anything so strong in my life.
This was the consensus from many.
The terpenes is very rude.
It was earthy, dusty, woody terpenes.
Oily.
It's not refined, not fruity.
It's very rude in terpenes.
But it was so strong, so long-lasting, so profound.
That we have never...
Only a few times in my life I have seen something like this.
Then it gained a lot of popularity, the Malawi clone.
Then I started breeding with it.
Then coming out with Golden Tiger, with Amaldelica.
Then I released it in 2012.
Because we were growing this clone since 2000.
For 10 years we only grew it.
Not much into breeding.
I decided that Malawi would be a really interesting line to add to the seeds catalog.
Around 2012, with the last original seeds I had.
I had from the siblings of the clone.
Of the old Malawi killer clone.
I reproduced them.
I got to know other females, siblings of the old Malawi killer that were not so strong.
But I found carotid types in Malawi.
That is what I call the fruity Malawi.
If you go to the Malawi breeder packs, it is the only Malawi line that has good terpenes.
In some way.
Then I reproduced the Malawi.
It was released in regular seeds in 2012.
Later came the feminized version.
It was around 2014, two years later.
In the P3 generation.
The grandsons and granddaughters of the old Malawi killer.
When I found the new Malawi killer.
Which is the second most important plant in my Malawi breeding.
With these two, I found in the P3 generation another fruity Malawi.
That reminds me of the fruity types I found in the P1s.
That I couldn't preserve at that time.
And a colorful Malawi in the second generation.
That was the purple Malawi.
The ones that were killer for effects were the old Malawi killer and the new Malawi killer.
The fruity was nice, but just for terpenes.
And the purple was nice, but for colors.
The winners for potency and gel were the old killer and the new killer.
And then I started to breed the new killer into the old killer.
To make the latest feminized versions.
So I made sure that I combined my strongest Malawi killer phenotypes in a single fem line.
So the growers can buy a three or five fem pack.
And will get killer phenotypes that are outstanding just by germinating one, two, three seeds.
A few years later, Antonio, the source of the genetics, came back to Spain from Japan.
He lost all his genetic library during these years in Japan.
And was very happy that I still preserved his Malawi clone form.
And I have been working the line to keep the line healthy.
Not only as a clone, but also as a seed line.
I give back to him the clones and the seeds so he can work again.
And unfortunately he passed away two years later of a heart attack.
That's unfortunate to hear.
With the Malawi, it has been one of the most important strains in the last decade.
And I have created many, many good Malawi hybrids.
Many, many line Malawi PCK, Malawi Pakistan, Malawi Cross Panama is excellent.
Golden Tiger, Azamal Delica are very popular.
They are very good.
I have many, many, many Malawi hybrids.
And they are very good.
My goal with the Malawi hybrids was to keep the potency of the Malawi killer.
But try to improve the terpene profile of the Malawi.
For example, with the Pakistani, that works great for that.
The Panama is also very terpene.
Awesome. So one of the listeners was wondering, what is the strongest land race you sell?
And it sounds to me like maybe that old Malawi cross new Malawi might be that.
But just for clarity, what is the strongest land race you sell?
Malawi. Malawi.
So another one of our listeners was wondering, how rare is the purple Malawi phenotype?
Very, very, very rare.
It was very rare.
Honestly, I only found it in the second generation.
I never saw it again.
I never saw it again.
I selected one.
And I pollinated with the purple Pakistan chitral.
And then I created Violeta.
Which is a, yeah, like an improved purple Pakistan version.
Where the Malawi improves the vigor, the yield, the potency.
But keeping all the consistently the colors and the terpene profiles of the purple Pakistan.
So I noticed that some of your crosses are regular and some are feminized.
And it made me wonder, what sort of traits or outcomes from a cross make you think it's better suited for feminized versions?
Versus regular?
We are only one of the few seed banks that still offer regular and fems.
I think the people is too extremist.
You have one side of the big seller seed banks that they say, no, to sell well, it must be only fem.
And they are right.
Because what people mostly want is feminized seeds.
And then there's other extremists that say, no, no, true breeding, the real breeding is only regular with classic males and this and that.
And usually the reality or the interesting position is more in the middle.
You can breed a line in regular and in feminized.
And moreover, these complement each other.
The problem, for example, people that say only the regular breeding is the right thing.
There's no scientific evidence saying that you cannot fully breed doing it only feminized.
And when you're breeding in the regular way, you're including males, obviously.
And when you are breeding only with feminized, only female plants are involved.
It means that although you are breeding in the same strain and even with similar parental plants, there are different examples that will create different lines.
Even when breeding, let's put an example, Calichina regular and Calichina fem.
Calichina regular and Calichina fem.
You can continue with the Calichina regular and maybe you find some traits in the regular and you continue with the feminized.
And you are more successful enhancing and fixing other traits in the feminized.
Then you can take a male from the regular line and pollinate the females or the female line.
And you can combine the success you have made in one of the branches of the feminized breeding, you can combine with your success on the regular lines.
So they complement each other.
We don't need to be so extremely black and white.
People say, no, no, no, only regular seeds is the only good breeding because otherwise they become hermaphrodite.
That is not true. There's no scientific evidence that if you breed with feminized breeding, the lines become hermy.
This is if you breed using hermy parental plants.
But if you breed regular classic breeding with male and females and you don't select well your males and your females, you will breed regular lines that are hermaphrodite too.
So if a line is hermaphrodite, it doesn't depend whether it's regular or feminized.
It depends on the work and the genetics and the work and selection of the breeder.
Quality. Quality is the same.
You can breed excellent, mediocre and nasty regular lines.
The same for the feminized lines.
You can breed excellent quality, feminized lines, normal and terrible.
People mix things and they take absolutes like it was a fact and it's not.
I tell you from my breeding experience, first-hand experience, that you can fully breed a line through feminized breeding and only with females.
You can do it also with a regular and if you do it both sides, you will have more success, more expression, more genetic variability, more lines of the family.
In mid-long term, it's more successful for breeding.
Now, if you only do one regular or only as one or only by crossing to one, one, one, one or only self-examined, that's where the problem creates.
But if you inbreed with different parental lines in each inbreeding step, it creates different lines, regular, feminized.
You combine one with others.
After three, four, five, six, seven generations, you create a very big family with many different branches.
You can combine the best parental plans from different branches in mid-long term to avoid inbreeding depression after many generations of inbreeding.
Yes, that's some awesome information there.
I wanted to ask you, I see that you have been working with the A5 hays and the C5 hays.
I've been lucky enough to have tried both of them and I really like the hive, the C5, but I feel like most people say they prefer the A5.
Which one do you prefer and what's your thoughts on the two?
Also nice. I'm very glad you had the chance to smell both.
Yeah, I was just going to say I was lucky I got to try them when I was hanging out with Boji.
Okay, I think you may know the story behind, but maybe we can comment about it to put a bit in context or audience.
Yes, well, as you know, Neville in the late 80s made the first legal seed bank of the world in Holland called the seed bank.
Moreover, he was a very, very talented breeder.
At that time, he managed to get excellent lines from some schoolmen to breed with him legally for the seed bank.
He got the hays, the skunk, and the door vans and a funny one from some skunk men.
He also liked to work a lot with other indica strains, the Northern Lights and the Hatch Plan and the GD13.
And the maple leaves from Wilson. These were basically the indica he liked most and the sativa he liked most, the hays.
Neville was also the authority.
Credit where it's due.
Obviously, without some skunk men, we won't have the skunk revolution that happened in Holland or the hays revolution that happened worldwide.
But it's true that Neville was the one that, through the seed bank, made a spread, made the name of the hays really big and well-known worldwide with his hay hybrids.
Surprisingly, Neville didn't have much hays plants from the original stock from some skunk men to choose from.
He only had one super, I think he had two females, one that was a bit early flowering and he thought it was a cross and he avoided.
One ultra-long flowering female that he called the B female that was so ultra-long flowering, I think he was not used to and he avoided that plant.
But I think he later rejected that movement of killing that plant because probably there was fire in that plant.
So he ended up having only two males, the male A and the male C.
As I told you, when I was a kid I smoked a lot of hybrids from SenCeed seeds, all the Neville work.
Because SenCeed bought the seed bank from Neville and many seed banks were using the hays hybrids from Neville to develop their hays hybrids.
So yes, I smoked the very best from Neville, even in Holland, the Hawaiian hays, the Mexican hays, the Yager, the Northern Lark hays, everything.
A few years back, Neville developed some hays hybrids, the most famous is Northern Lark hays and Super Silver hays or Yager later.
But he also had some other direct F1 hays hybrids that are not so famous like the Northern Lark hays.
It was the Haspland hays, the G13 hays, and the Neville hays, and two Northern Lark hays.
One was Northern Lark 5 clone pollinated with Hay C male.
And the other was Northern Lark 5 clone pollinated with Hay C male.
He also lost the male A very early on, so he never released commercially the Northern Lark 5 cross-hatched with Hay C male.
But this one is the one that produced the low-during fence.
The very low-during fence that a lot of people in Holland relate to the best hays came from the Hay DAT.
The Hay DAT, from what I have experienced in the clones you comment, that you also have a small Jordi, I think is more like a tie.
The turpines are more lime-lemony and the effect is more uplifting.
Cross-hatched with Northern Lark is still quite dirty to my taste, but it's correct.
A Neville gave to some growers in the south of Holland some selected clones of his favorite hays hybrids.
It was the A5 hays, the C5 hays, the Mother of Yager and Super Silver hays, the one you smoke.
The Hushplant hays, which is a Hushplant cross with Hay C male.
The Neville hays, which is A5 hays cross to Hay C male.
And the G13, which was G13 cross with Hay A male.
And after smoking the plants from Holland, and now I understand them from the Hay A male and the Hay C, I can really appreciate the difference.
The turpine signature of the C male, the turpine signature of the A male.
The A male is curious, people was confused.
The A male is more intense and the intense comes from the American sativa.
So the A male is more Colombian or maybe Colombian Mexican, but American sativa.
The C male, although some ex-cumans say that original hays never had a tie, that it was all Colombian.
It's indeed tie-like.
I'm not saying the Hay C male is original hays cross with tie, that could be, because in later generation of original hays, some ex-cumans also did some hays tie hybrids, Indian hays hybrids.
But I qualify the Hay C male and its offspring as tie-like, not tie dominant, because I don't have the proof that it's tie.
But it's very tie-like in turpines and ethics, that's true.
The good thing is that I was in touch with Yosami, who was part of the member of this group of people from South Holland that have been preserving the hays hybrids from Neville for 30 years.
Neville lost them when he left Holland.
And they share many with us.
We have been introducing, for me it's like a dream come true, to have the parental plans that Neville used to develop the super hybrid that changed my life and that had such an impact over me.
And to have them now in my library of genetics and to be able to combine with my sativa, because I don't want to inbreed or try to replicate a header or something that hasn't been already done.
I think what I can contribute in this field is more like to cross the hays hybrid from Neville with my own different sativas and try to bring it to a more sativa direction and with different sativas genetics.
So there you have it my friends. What do you think? Doobie droppin' knowledge bombs.
If you want to get some of the excellent genetics you've just heard about, head on over to ACE's website, check it out, grab some Femseeds today.
Calichina hybrids sound like they're poppin' to me.
But you know what? Sometimes you want to grow other stuff.
If so, go check out our fantastic sponsor at Seeds here now.
They have a wide variety of both modern and more land-raised type lines.
Anything a seed addict could desire, they're going to be able to help you out.
They've got all the top quality breeders and a guarantee on satisfaction at the end of the harvest, not just on germination.
Why would you go anywhere else? They're my pick. Go check them out.
Likewise, if you need a stop on by our friends at Coppert Biological Systems with the largest range of predator mites and other natural enemies in the game, be sure to check out their new Spidex Vital, a predator mite with the proof of predation colour changing system.
Where the Persimilis mites will change from white to red after they've eaten spider mites so you can be sure they're doing their job.
And next up, who could forget our friends at Pro-Mix. They're here to help you get the best crop possible.
Check out the Pro-Mix Connect MicroRiser inoculum to ensure that your crop is productive, resinous, dense, flavourful, all the things you want.
We know MicroRiser's important. The god Jeff Lowenfeld told us.
What more do I need to say, guys? Pro-Mix Connect. It's a fantastic product. Go check it out.
Finally, the Patreon gang. You guys know it. I love you. You are the lifeblood of the show and you get access to episodes early as well as bonus unheard content.
So if you want to be a part of the club, go check out www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast for early access, bonus content, giveaways and so much more.
So there we have it, guys. Thanks for hanging around till the end.
Appreciate y'all as always.
This is Heavy Daze signing out from the Upside Down Library.
We'll see you.
