Hello and welcome to the podcast, the cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode, as always, was brought to you by Seeds Here Now.
Only place to get your seeds, only place to get your addiction filled.
Best in the game, guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
And speaking of best in the game, 420 Australia, Organic Gardening Solutions, another two killers,
go check them out.
On this episode, we are thankful to be talking to the man on the million seed pheno hunt
himself, Breida Steve.
He's going to talk about terroir, genetics, history, and what he's up to down in South
America.
Let's get into it.
All righty, so a big thank you and welcome to another veteran of the scene, the man behind
so many famous strains, Breida Steve.
Thanks so much for joining us.
Thanks for having me and thanks for your hospitality when I was in your neck of the woods this
year.
Yeah, no problem at all.
So, first question we've been starting the interviews off with lately, what are you currently
smoking on?
Well, a little selection.
I had just rolled up a bud of skunk number one for a little nostalgic smoke.
And it reminds me even the feel in your fingers breaking up skunk, it has a feel, you know,
I find like it's a very soft, silky, even though it's a tight nug, maybe a tight nug,
it still breaks up in your fingers like it if with my eyes closed sometimes I think I
would know that was skunk number one just because of the feel of the bud, you know?
Yeah, no, I can kind of relate to that.
I've never tried a wide variety of skunks, but I think I know what you mean.
It's kind of velvety feeling.
Yeah, okay.
Well, my first question would be, what's your opinion on terms of the skunk now versus when
you were first experiencing it?
You know, it's an old standby and it's such a building block of everything out there,
or many of the things out there.
And I just like, I found the last couple years that I've been going back to the strains I
remember from when I was younger, and just starting out 30 years ago, and I think I'm
still kind of nostalgic for a taste of that old Northern Lights or some skunk number one
or something.
Like they are classics for a reason, you know, and I sure love trying the latest and greatest
from everybody too.
But there's a reason those ones are still around, is they're, you know, they have character.
Yeah, of course.
And have you personally noted any kind of variation over the years?
Because I think that's the comment that often gets thrown around.
Yes, the NL I see today isn't as, it's just not the same as the first ones I've been exposed to.
There's some similarities, but there's some definite differences.
And, you know, within any population, there's some variation.
So you can imagine how many Northern Lights seeds got sold over the years and spread around
from Seattle before they were even being sold in seed companies, you know.
But I think there's a lot of variation, even within NL5, there would still be a lot of,
you know, recognizable, but different.
Of course.
And so, do you think that the NL, at least maybe we'll say NL5, just so we've got a little
more of a talking point.
Do you think that it was a line which had variation even when it was originally released
or it was more of like a clone type of thing?
I think there was a fairly stable line.
But I don't think it, you know, clones can have sports, which is mutations through cuttings,
which is why, you know, Pinot Gris, Pinot Blanc and Pinot Noir were all the same seedling
at one point and they share the exact same chromosomes.
But there was a mutation in the cuttings, which led to the other two.
They're not even sure which was the first one in that case.
But I mean, with Northern Lights, there could be the same thing where you get some clonal
variation over time, but mostly you don't.
A clone is a clone in most cases, you know.
It would take millennia for some of those tweaks to happen, like they haven't been a
fair over time.
The, you know, selecting from seed, when you grow a pack of seed, you always have one favorite
of the bunch.
Maybe you have two favorites, but they're never all absolutely unmistakably the same,
you know.
Regardless of how stable a line may be, it's not uniform like a tray of clones.
So everybody can pick a little different one.
And of course, every environment that it's grown is different, even different water source.
Anything can change.
Like you can really taste the difference between BC hydro and Ontario hydro, largely because
of the hard and soft water.
So I mean, it's the environment is half, the genetic is half of what you end up with.
But among the, you know, within the environment, there's lots of variation.
And within the genetic, there's at least a little variation, you know.
Yes, certainly.
And you just touched on a topic I always love to talk about, but rarely we get to, genetic
drift.
Do you believe that it exists?
The consensus we've heard so far is a lot of people don't think it exists within cannabis,
but you kind of just hinted that you think it may.
Well, if it does, it's a very slow process, you know.
So there's some clones that have, you know, that I know even have been around for 30 years.
So I do I see a massive change in them, not a massive change, but sometimes there's some
slippage or the introduction of a virus or something, you know, where the like with
grapefruit. Grapefruit was a cutting I got in 94.
And it had no name.
It was called the people I got it from called it the only thing worth growing.
So as and I always thought they picked it too early because I thought their bud was
sweet and it was always really long red hair and just not quite finished.
So I said, I really want to get some clones of this and try to grow it out.
And it was I got some in the spring, my first year in Vancouver, and put them out on my
balcony and flowered like 20 of them out there.
I kept one under a light in my closet, the veg, when I my first place in B.C.
right after university.
And it smelled like as it ripened and got truly ripe, well beyond the long orange hairs
all over it. Once it started to swell up and you have swollen calyxes and you could smell
it was just like scratching a ruby red.
I called it sweet pink grapefruit because when it really finishes, it's got
that unmistakable, you know, sweet pink grapefruit smell and carries into the taste is a
bit, but not as much as in the smell.
The smell is really obviously sweet pink grapefruit.
So it was really nice to find that.
But and I shared that cutting far and wide.
Anybody that calls it grapefruit got it downstream for me because I appended that name
to that found cutting.
But do I see different versions of grapefruit from different corners?
For sure. And some people I've talked to have been calling me seeing if they could get
one because the ones they've had have gone to shit.
And mostly is that you have tobacco mosaic virus, whereas other people that have had
them the whole time and they're perfectly healthy.
So it can pick up a problem on the way and in different hands even.
And then that gets passed around and people think, oh, this is falling apart now.
And it could be from a variety of factors.
But do I think it's going to morph into a different looking plant like Pinot Noir and
Pinot Blanc? That's pretty extreme, you know, considering they have the same genetics and
the genetic drift between those is not that they weren't born from the same seedling,
but they had drift through cuttings.
And that's a mutation known as a sport.
I don't see why it couldn't happen in cannabis except for the reason that typically
cannabis is an annual and people like a vine, vines are kept in, cloned and passed on.
And so I think it's more apparent in something that's been cloned over a thousand years
rather than something that's been cloned over a tenth.
I think it would become much more apparent over time, those different clones.
But I think out the gate, you're not seeing genetic drift on cutting from the same
mothers or growing those into mothers and growing their cuttings into mothers.
I think you could go quite a few generations, all things being equal, not including the
introduction of a virus or something that causes it to degrade.
Yeah.
And I mean, you bring up a really interesting point there because I can't remember where
I read it, but I believe it said that there had actually not been any laboratory confirmed
cases of TMV in cannabis.
And I was immediately suspect when I heard that.
Like, what do you think of that claim?
Well, I don't have a laboratory, but from the symptoms that I've seen always described
as TMV do seem to take down a plant, whether it's actually TMV or not.
I've never verified in a lab, but I've seen most of us have seen those leaves with the
wavy yellow splotchy color of plants.
They cease to be healthy after that.
So I don't know if it's actually TMV, but I know the cannabis community identifies,
typically they would identify that pathology, you know, as TMV.
Yeah, of course.
That's just what we think of as it.
And are we right?
Beats me.
I've never actually seen it under an electron microscope.
I am not the guy with the experience in the lab.
So I'm happy to learn something new.
If we can dispel a myth with science, that's a great thing.
But do I know?
I don't know.
I haven't seen.
I haven't confirmed or denied.
Yeah.
I mean, heck, maybe if nothing else, it's a good reason to not have tobacco around cannabis
plants.
Any excuse.
So something I wanted to quickly clarify from the little story just earlier on you mentioned,
is it the case that that cutting you got was what you refer to as, I'm not sorry, what
you refer to, was it the case that that was grapefruit or the sweet pink grapefruit?
Because I believe if you look up the genetics, sweet pink grapefruit is listed as grapefruit
cross unknown strain.
Well, there's some truth to that because the first plant though, I definitely tagged SPG
for sweet pink grapefruit.
And as I was sharing it with people and showing them from the 19 buds that I'd grown out,
there was, everybody was like, wow, that's super candy.
That's super sweet.
And it really had a very sweet, sweet flavor.
And the bag was unmistakably grapefruit.
So the first cross I made with those was with a Jolly Rancher male.
And you haven't heard of that probably, maybe you have, but it'd be unusual.
So that was the very first release of Spice of Life was Jolly Rancher.
And it actually changed the name from the original.
I bred that in a creek near the house where I spent my formative years.
I would never concede that I grew up, but where I started growing my first five years
outdoors, I would save a little bit of seed after the first couple of attempts.
And then I thought, okay, when I moved to BC, I had, I called it Medway Madness because
I grew it at Medway Creek and I had my Medway Madness seeds.
And when I got to BC, I just had a few film canisters, you know, for personal use.
At that time, I was always, people were always smoking my homegrown with me because I would
never sell anybody a bud.
Everybody would want to buy some of my homegrown because it was exceptional, but I wouldn't
sell it because I said, look, you know, this is exceptional.
What am I going to do with your money?
Go replace it?
I can't.
So when it runs out, it's gone.
So I said, the most I'll do is share with, let's share some with you when we get together,
but I'll never sell it to you because I can't grow enough for everybody.
And once I run out, I can't replace it.
So I said, once it's legal, maybe we'll revisit that.
But those seeds I just had because I made two or three film canisters probably at that time.
And I had a one-page how to grow your own, you know, guerrilla style as I did.
And I would give anybody that was bugging me to buy a bud, I'd say, here, I can give you a
one-pager of instructions on how to do it and I can give you 20 seeds to go get started.
And when you get her figured out, pass it along and show some other people how to do it
and give them some starting material, you know.
So it was just a straight hobby play is what I got into.
And then when I was moved to Vancouver, having been from London, Ontario originally,
I used to go down to Mark Emery's City Light bookstore and buy two live crew or high times
or whatever the government was prohibiting.
So I really like to support his civil disobedience efforts.
And once he moved to Vancouver, he just coincidentally was also in Vancouver with Hemp BC.
And he was selling, I think, three varieties of seeds.
And they were Northern Lights, Northern Light Haze, and Northern Light Haze Hawaiian
that BC Seed Company brought over from Sentinel Seed, if I recall.
And the police raided him and busted him the first time for selling seeds.
And I went down to see him the next week or something.
I just popped in.
We didn't know each other very well or anything.
But I said, hey, remember me?
I used to go into that pot rally you had in London and blah, blah, blah.
I said, I see you got busted selling seeds.
If you are going to keep going with it, I'd like to donate a film canister of seeds to you.
And I remember he peeled the top off of them and said, those are coconuts.
They're freaking coconuts because they were really big seeds.
They were like small peas, really.
They were fat seeds, those jolly ranchers.
So he said, well, what do you want to call them?
And I said, well, I call them Medway Madness.
And we're like, yeah, nobody's going to know what that is.
The Medway means nothing outside of London, Ontario.
So I thought about it for a little bit.
And they're very tangy.
It was a tangy herb, a little fruity and tangy.
But not overly sweet.
I said, jolly rancher.
So we put those first ones out as Spice of Life seeds, jolly rancher.
And the jolly rancher got the mail from that, was pollinated later, pollinated
the sweet pink grapefruit cutting.
And that first F1 of those was called sweet pink grapefruit.
So there's both a cutting and that first round of seeds
that was called sweet pink grapefruit.
And then the second time I crossed the grapefruit
led to the sweet skunk, which remarkably has no skunk.
And the story's been told, but I'll share it with you again.
While I was in Vancouver, my first order of business moving out there
was to collect every single cut bang I could find and get seeds from anywhere
I could and just really look at everything.
Because at the time, BC was the only province in Canada
with nobody in jail for growing.
And I wasn't worried about selling what I was growing.
I just wanted to grow out a lot and look at it.
And I had 1,500 plants from seed in my backyard in the summer, right in town.
They would get to be a meter high or so before I really started thinning them out.
It was a bit crazy.
And I had 14 lights in the basement at that time.
And I'd have live music once a week and have big parties there.
It was just stupid.
But the second time, I had one of the guys I got cuttings from.
Because anybody that was selling cuttings, I said, I'll take some.
Bring me some.
And he brought me two trees.
One had an orange dash of spray paint on the side and the other nothing.
And he said, I think this one is big skunk.
I think this one is northern light.
But he wasn't sure.
I'm like, for fuck's sake, you couldn't just write an N on one of them
or something, you know?
Because he was a moron.
But anyway, so I took these plants and I labeled them
what he thought they were.
As they grew out, it later became apparent that they were reversed.
But even worse, the moron that he picked up these cuttings from,
one of the trees, the one that I thought was big skunk,
turned out to be a male.
And I had like 20 of these cuttings.
I'm like, oh, fucking great.
But it had been growing in veg so vigorously, I was like, wow,
well, this is a real deep plant.
I was really loving the plant.
And then when I saw it was a male, I wasn't loving it quite as much.
But I thought, well, I'll kill most of them and keep one,
because it is super vigorous.
And the stem smelled really, had a gorgeous aroma on the stem.
And so that, obviously, in retrospect, turned out to be the NL Hayes.
But at the time, I thought it was a big skunk.
And I made a cross of it with a number of things.
Every year, basically, I was taking the best male I found out
of my initial years of just collecting all the females I could
and growing them out side by side.
And then any males I found, I would usually toss.
But if it was outstanding for any reason, I would keep that male
and let it hit a room of my favorite five or favorite six females going at the time.
So that was how the sweet skunk was done, was that male, NL Hayes male,
on the Sweet Pink Grapefruit cutting.
And when I brought it out in the seed catalog and took it downtown to MBC,
I was calling it Big Fruit, which would have been OK.
Should have just stuck with Big Fruit.
But Mark was out of skunk at the time.
And he said, well, because the father is a skunk pig bud, he's like,
I'll call it Sweet Skunk.
So he just changed the name on the catalog.
That was the only time that happened where I released the seed to something.
And then the vendor changed the name.
And the catalog was just what was my ad space in Cannabis Canada magazine at the time.
They just edited the name from Big Fruit to Sweet Skunk.
So that Sweet Skunk name just stuck, because that's what it came out with right away.
And when I grew it out, what became famous as Sweet Skunk now was the cutting
of one particular recessive.
So I grew out 500 of those F1s.
And 498 of them looked like Northern Lights.
Because I'm pretty sure the Grapefruit cutting was a really early version
of Northern Lights.
The guy I got it from had had it 17 years, who got it from somebody else that had it
about that long, who brought it up from Seattle, and it was already old.
So this is a several decades old cutting when I got it.
And that was a long time ago now.
So I mean, it's probably 50 years old or something, if you think about it.
But when I grew them out, they were mostly Northern Lights looking plants.
Really quite stable even, shockingly so, which really confirms that I think it was
a Grapefruit, it was an early Northern Lights.
And then the...
But the two recessives that showed up in the room were like hazes,
and they were moved to the corner.
They weren't obviously going to finish at the same time as most of them,
so they got shoved to the corner.
And while they were very similar looking haze type plants, one of them was just...
I was like, if I have to pick a favorite, you know, and I would ask my friends to
come down and rub them and not tell them what I think.
And I'd say, if you had to just pick one of these, which one do you like more?
And everybody picked the same one I like more.
They're like, I guess this one is just a little bit sweeter smell, you know?
And they were both exceptional.
And so that cutting, I shared it far and wide because, you know,
a lot of people are really into protecting cuttings.
And I was more of the mind like, I hate to be the only guy with this bud,
I would really like to see everywhere I go, people pull this out, you know?
So I really wanted to make sure that...
You know, I knew lots of growers wouldn't want it because it's 12 weeks to flower
and they're used to eight.
But I knew some of them would get the appreciation of it and go, you know what?
Even if you go 12, 14 weeks, it makes up for it because of the stretch.
And there's a pretty good yield of fluffy sativa-like buds,
if I can still say sativa without getting slapped.
The beauty of it, you know, is it just smells gorgeous.
And because it's a stretchy, you can throw that fucker into trays for rooting on 12 hours.
You don't have to keep the cloning lights on, just root them on 12 hours.
And then put them straight into flower, like six by six,
so 36 of them in a four by four area, if you like to grow lots of little ones.
If you put 36 of them in a four by four area, you will have 36 cricket bats, you know?
They just stretch up into big, fluffy, glorious, stretchy buds.
And they just smell incredible.
So people, when standard good indoor in town was maybe 200 an ounce,
that would fetch 300 an ounce, according to my friends that were selling,
because they would be growing grapefruit or...
I can't even think of what people were growing back then.
There was a lot of big bud.
It was really an amazing time.
There were some people growing some really fantastic herbs,
but most of the people aren't ever growing a lot of fantastic herbs.
It's the kiss of death of popularity.
Like at one point, grapefruit is a perfect example.
It was highly sought after when it first was showing up as a really good quality product,
and it was tasty and visually appealing, and everybody was like,
wow, I can't get enough of that grapefruit.
People that were growing it commercially and exporting it and doing a good job
were making a good name for it.
But of course, the cuttings get spread around to everybody eventually,
and then it becomes the lowest common denominator,
because everybody's growing it.
And in the case of Vancouver at that time,
the Vietnamese were growing a lot of lower grade bud,
picking everything at six weeks or whatever, and just banging it out.
And once that strain got out into the wider world, or that cutting,
it was the kiss of death, because it started out super popular,
and that would be the kiss of death, because once it got popular,
everybody's doing it.
And once everybody's doing it, now it's the regs or the beasters,
because it's not being done with the attention to detail required to make it special.
So when I just give it out to a bunch of really good growers,
because I want to see them grow it,
and I give it to beginners, anybody starting out.
I want to see them get growing some sweeter herb, it helps.
But the name gets dragged through the dirt
when too much bad commercial gets attached to it,
and then nobody wants to see it.
They're like, oh, a few years later, once everybody would have it,
it would just be synonymous with shitty weed.
You know, oh, no, no, we don't want more grapefruit.
And then now that's sort of flipped around again,
as people are missing the sweet flavors,
because everything's been on this pungent cush kick for a while,
very piney, strong aromas and punchy herb,
but not necessarily really a pleasure to smoke.
Yeah, yeah, it's definitely interesting.
I think we've been on the fuel binge for a while now,
so to speak, with the OGs and all that.
Mm-hmm.
Variety is the spice of life, as they say.
And I always like, I would, I never had one that I thought,
oh, that's the only thing I want to smoke for the rest of my life, you know?
I always say, boy, I sure want that in my library,
or my cellar of jars for the rest of my life.
I always want to have access to that flavor.
Do I want it to be the only flavor?
Fuck no.
Yeah, no, I can agree.
It's like, I like Shiraz,
but would I give up Pinot Noir to drink Shiraz forever?
No, no, no, no.
Or both, can I have both?
You know?
Yeah, definitely.
And it's crazy how many parallels there were between that story you told
and kind of the Australian scene in that, you know, even right now,
the Vietnamese are the ones pumping out the beasters
in the same fashion you described.
And I'm even personally toying with the idea
of maybe giving raspberry marmite to a few people,
but I'm fearful of exactly what you said,
like, just becomes synonymous with shitweed.
Yeah, it happens.
I mean, it's cool.
It's still good to get it out there,
because anybody can have a chance to grow good wheat
if they've got good genetics.
Without them, they don't even have a chance, right?
Yeah.
So I like to get the genetics out there,
but it's always disheartening when you see a piss-poor job done of it,
because it reflects badly on you to some degree,
because people think,
oh yeah, I talked to this one young American kid recently
that works for a big pot company,
and he was on a conference call with some other people
and trying to explain how he was a real pot expert and whatnot.
And I was like, okay.
And he says, so what strains did you breed?
And I was like, well, like, sweet tooth or shish kaboom.
And he's like, sweet tooth?
Isn't that the Beesters?
And I'm cracking up.
I'm going, that's what a frat boy that looks at boof packs says,
you know, not a grow expert.
If you're a grow expert, that's not what you say.
You'd say, oh, that looks like this, or, you know, whatever.
You might have some valid input.
But when you say, isn't that just the Beesters?
I think that's the boof packs.
Oh my god.
You know, shopping frat boys.
You know, you just lost me as far as any credibility
with what you know about a strain, you know?
But if all you know is the Beesters,
it's because you've just been looking at the shitty weed
that people are selling you garbage.
Yeah, it's crazy how many people who are just,
I call them professional smokers.
And I think they're like, you know, like the guy you're talking to basically.
Anyway, so what I wanted to touch back on for a sec was,
you mentioned Sweet Pink Grapefruit and the original Grapefruit clone
possibly being a Northern Lights.
What do you think is the origins of that?
Like just a worked Afghani type of thing?
That's what we've heard thrown around before.
Definitely.
I mean, beyond that, I have no idea.
But there's obviously it's Afghanica.
That's, I don't know what else exactly.
And I'm sure people do.
I'm sure it's already been sequenced and explored.
It's probably in that...
Vilos.
Vilos, yeah.
Vilos Galaxy.
I bet you they have it.
I mean, I just haven't looked at this stuff lately.
I've not been keeping up.
I'm just trying.
I've just spent the last couple years getting my ducks in a row to get back
into being able to breed in the wide open field scenarios again.
And that's really, to me, if I'm not doing selections in fields,
I'm not getting my money's worth.
You know, I have to pay too much to do it inside to get polluted results the way
I see it.
Because if the plants become incapable to survive outside because they've been
living with crutches so long, they'll never run again.
You know?
So I want to have them, you know, where the strong survive.
Nature can thin out a lot of you.
And it really is a numbers game.
Every time you're planting seeds, regardless of the source, it's a bit
of a lottery.
So the more tickets you have, the better chance you have of winning.
And you don't find, you know, out of 100 seeds, you might find one twice as good
as you found out of 10.
But out of a million seeds, it might not be twice as good.
But even if it's 10% better, it's still a vast improvement, you know?
So really, the ability to start large numbers of seed and grow them in the open,
exposed to the elements, is priceless as far as doing selections.
It does half the work for you, you know?
You're going to find out in a hurry which ones can't stand up in a windstorm.
And if you're not worried about that, and you're happy to stake all your plants,
that's fine.
But that may be a condition for me.
I need the plants that stand up on their own two feet because I'm not planning on
staking a thousand square kilometers of them.
You know what I mean?
I want to have plants that are resilient.
And when I started breeding in Vancouver on a full-time way, I would do a selection
a year outside for a generation.
And then I would do two generations selected indoors.
So before long, the plants that I was working with and the lines I was developing were
great for indoors, and most people grew them indoors, but they were still decent
outdoor plants.
And that was always really neat to see for me because I'd always just grown in Canada
at that point.
But I would find amazing tropical plants.
Like out of seed from Barbados, I got what turned out to be original Colombian gold that
I've never seen as pure since.
And I made two crosses with those.
I had males and females.
And stupidly, I didn't keep a pure line of it because I thought, oh, nobody will ever
want these.
They're 16 weeks.
So I used the same dad as the sweet skunk to make a tropical treat line.
I had tropical treat one and two.
And then I used the pollen from the Colombian gold on a Dutch tree.
And I believe that was tropical treat one and the other one was tropical treat two.
And then in Switzerland later, I'd grown them out a couple of lines and crossed them
later with sweet skunk and shish kaberry with each of the lines and called those
Tropicana one and two.
And I think Richard from Heaven's Stairway cornered the market on those.
But it was really amazing to me, even from the first tropical treats, was to see
customers that ordered these plants through the magazine back then and grew them out
in Northern Australia or Hawaii or in Mexico or Palm Springs or somewhere
infinitely warmer than where I was.
And they could see the real potential.
Like I would see these plants as four foot skinny little things under lights.
And then I would get back the customer photos of guys with these 16 foot monsters.
Just like, holy shit.
You know, it was so cool to see that.
And it's really been amazing, you know, and ourselves included, like with online
cannabis community, we've made friends all over the world that we share this, you know,
amazing, if somewhat controversial hobby.
And we've been much maligned and persecuted for it.
And we grin and bear it and we keep pushing onwards.
And even with, you know, when we put our personal lives at risk and at stake.
And I have nothing but respect for the people doing it right.
That's for sure.
Yeah, definitely.
I mean, let's just take a step back for a moment and fill everyone in because I'm sure a lot of people are hugely
interested in what you're doing right now as I am.
What was it that first inspired you to start thinking about moving down south and doing the big things you're doing now?
Well, I had basically taken a sabbatical from cannabis work as I was getting really fed up with the industry.
And there was getting to be a bit of a pogrom happening where we were working in Switzerland.
So we just decided to close up shop and take some time to re-evaluate what we were doing.
And I decided, you know what, I was a lot of the seed retailers because I never did retail.
I was always just selling mainly to distributors even who would then sell to shops.
And sometimes the shop would, or shops would order directly maybe in a country where there wasn't a distributor.
So I really just operated on the wholesale level with them.
And that degree of insulation was really good for peace of mind and security.
But on the other hand, I started having to deal with a lot of fuckery in people putting, you know,
starting to print fake packs and putting other seeds in it or their cheap version of it or whatever.
And selling knockoffs of them from other unscrupulous seed companies.
And then it got to be at one point I had to look right around then when shit was getting to be a real headache.
And I was like, there's not a single one of my customers left that doesn't sell knockoffs of my seeds on the next page.
Why the fuck am I doing this?
I said, until you've got some protection like any other plant breeder, I'm going halfway around the world
building out facilities for indoors, field selections, greenhouse production,
without selling all the pot by the ton all the time.
If I just grew grass for sale of weight, it would have been easy, quiet, made more money.
But I was always into how much can I roll back into R&D?
Because it was to me, it was just that's my addiction is the R&D.
I want to keep growing that. Having some money is good.
But it's not the be all and end all for me.
Maybe for other people that's different and that's their business.
And I don't care. I don't judge anybody that just wants to grow for weight.
But for me, I just want to spread seeds and I want to spread them consecutively, generation after generation
and see the development towards the ideal of the examples that I find most attractive.
And you're only in charge of your own taste.
So if people like stuff that is calibrated to my taste, that's great.
Then we're on the same page.
If not, whatever, breed your other ones.
I don't... Each to their own.
There's absolutely... There's no right or wrong when it comes to your palate.
Because your palate is your palate.
And I find, you know, whether I'm reading wine reviewers, sometimes I'll find ones,
oh, they like wines I don't like.
And that guy always likes wines I do like.
So maybe I'll follow what he's doing better.
And it's the same with grass.
Some breeders are going to breed stuff that appeals to certain people.
And other people are going to be more attracted to stuff from other breeders.
But I think overall, you know, it's really fun.
It's just like music almost.
It's like there's music, but how many kinds of music are there?
You know, even within one genre of music, which is your favorite band?
You know? So there's... It's really expression.
So we find the herbs that appeal to us the most.
And I just feel privileged to have indulged myself so long in doing so.
And having took a long break from it, which my children were young at the time too,
and I wanted them to have a non-controversial upbringing
as I was leaving Europe and going back to the dark ages.
And that worked out fine.
I'd do something else I really enjoyed and was doing the whole time.
So it was really not a huge sacrifice to take a break from the industry all that time.
And as I watched the various programs roll out in the Canadian regime,
I would read through them the day they came out, whether it was MMAR, MMPR, ACMPR,
and then the Cannabis Act.
And I would lose interest by the time I read them, because I would think,
MMAR came out when I was gone, I think, so it would never really...
Even while I was gone, the MMPR came out.
I remember reading it on my computer in Switzerland.
And I was looking at it, do I want to come back and set this up?
And by the time I'd read through it, I was like, no, this is designed to fail.
This is a joke, and there's no way I'd want to work under those conditions.
And if I can't grow outside or make cash, fuck, I can't be bothered.
And so it had zero appeal to me to build a jail to work in.
So then the ACMPR came out, and it still didn't allow outdoor cultivation,
so it still lacked interest for me.
And it was softer than the MMPR, but it was still nonsensical.
And now the latest, the Cannabis Act that came out October 17th this year,
has opened the door for outdoor applications.
So now it's starting to get more interesting.
So I'm having a serious thought about Canada, but about five years ago,
even, one of my friends that was an academic,
he'd been really trying to get me interested in doing an MMPR,
and I kept saying, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't want to bother with this shit.
Let's wait until I see something better.
And so we ended up making a company just for studying the opportunity
on the different regimes around the world,
and we really were just doing our homework and keeping our eye open and staying patient.
And when I saw the first draft of the Colombian regs come out,
it was like they read the MMPR, took a black marker to most of it,
and cut it down to 12 pages.
So it was like, oh, this is way better.
This has some appeal, and it involved outdoor as an option.
And it ticked all the boxes, because I'd always wanted to grow on the equator as well.
And for a research station, that's very important to me.
And I love the tropical turps far more than the Afghan-based ones,
and I would love to drive a combine pulling down sweet skunk for a square kilometer a day.
That's fine. Let's do that.
So I really wanted to scale up to plant equatorial fields by doing a lot of selections down there.
And in the Constitution of Colombia, people are allowed to have 20 plants as a personal supply.
And you never ever hear about anybody getting hassled for their 20 plants.
Sometimes people would pool them together.
The regs weren't really clear on whether or not it was per household or per person,
and they were deliberately vague, as many regulations are,
so that they could be interpreted by the authorities as they wished.
So we ended up putting a few names on a property not where we were getting the license,
and just doing a test plant, trying out a bunch of stuff,
while we're waiting for all the licensing process to go through.
And even from the beginning, we went down there.
When we saw this initially as a 12-page regulation,
I'm jumping all over, but the 12-page first draft that intrigued me so much,
and I said, I want to shake the hand of whoever wrote this,
I got down there August 2015 or 2016, I guess.
We'll blurs together here.
Two and a bit years ago, August.
Through friends, we got invited to go and present in the Congress of Colombia,
meeting with a lawyer who was a very intelligent woman that wrote that first draft,
and she was a lawyer for Senator Juan Manuel Galán.
Later we met with him separately.
Both really sensible people that want sensible drug policy, really.
Once their first draft came out, it expanded beyond that initial 12 pages,
but when they tried to implement and gave out the first couple licenses,
it was around January that year.
The opposition and government had never got a chance to look at it or debate it,
so they put the brakes on it.
It really did hurt the very first people to apply,
because it put them in a holding pattern for quite a long time.
But after the opposition went through it,
tightened it up as they saw it,
and made it a little more controlled and awkward for the rest of us,
then it was still allowed to be implemented.
The current government is less favorable towards cannabis than the last one,
and things aren't moving quite as quickly down there as they had been.
So that was why I picked it.
We're the only company there to have registered genetics, actually.
We made history to register the first genetics in the history of the country.
So that's kind of cool. I'm very proud of that,
and I'm happy that we'll be the first ones to go into production with them shortly.
But I'm not as excited about production as my partners and other people are.
They see the production part more than I see the value in doing the genetics work.
It's not just monetary value to me, it's absolutely selfish pleasure.
But it still works out good for the production team too,
when I increase the efficiency of whatever we're trying to achieve.
So if we want high THC-V strains, let's bump them up from 2% to 20%.
If you can do that, you've just made 10 times the production without getting another hectare.
So there's so much importance in working with genetics.
And nowadays, with greater legality and more and more jurisdictions,
there are so many really qualified people with skills far beyond me in molecular genetics
that are able to go to town and work on some of these things.
Some of the things they work on may not be things that we like, and some of them may be.
But there's no substitute for nosing your way through the place.
If that's what you're looking for, and I follow my nose,
I really want the most aromatic varieties for whatever the end goal is,
whether it's a higher cannabinoid content.
I just don't want to grow ones that have the smells I don't like.
And I find probably half of the aromas in cannabis I don't like in whatever combination.
Some totally puts me off and some totally turns me on.
There's some middle ground, but there's a lot of variety in cannabis aromas.
There's far more than in wine.
I forget the actual number of compounds in each,
but it is a substantial difference, like a factor of 10.
Yeah, wow.
So, I've seen a lot of photos on your Instagram feed over the past year or so,
and you like to use this tag, the million seed pheno hunt.
Is that the goal?
Million seed search?
Yeah, well, what I'm actually working on doing right now is planting 100,000 seeds a month.
So, I could do more than that, given the space and hands and materials,
and that's no problem.
But 100,000 seeds a month, that's a good working pool.
Most breeders of any sort would be pretty happy to do that.
And in a year, that's a significant, you've cracked a million in a year, well over.
And so, I put this million seed search hashtag out and said,
anybody that wants to contribute to this and send me some of their seeds to try,
I needed a minimum of 75, but now the regs have changed,
and I need a minimum of 100 to plant them out for characterization.
And what I'm offering in return is everybody that contributes seeds to this million seed search,
I will give them back a detailed grow report from that latitude and altitude,
and I'm taking it to other latitudes and altitudes.
Within Columbia alone, I have 11 test zones.
So, I have my main farm in one, and then one hectare test zone with the National University in the other 10 zones.
So, that's just in Columbia.
So, if the seeds make it to Columbia, they will be fully tested,
and you'll get a full report from all these different scenarios.
And I will also welcome you to come down and check everything out for yourself,
and come for your visit.
And other than that, I told people, if you don't want to contribute seeds,
just send me your wholesale list and we'll buy a bunch of you.
So, I really want to try and look at everything out there.
And if I can't get everything out there, that's okay.
I'm not going to be sweating it too bad because you know I'm looking at tons.
I'm not missing much. If anything, I'm not missing much.
Yeah, I mean, it's a huge undertaking to say the least.
I don't know anyone who's even attempted such a thing on that scale.
Yeah, that's it. Somebody has to go for it.
You have to dream it before you can do it.
When I start talking about doing stuff like this, people that don't know me well can be like,
you're a dreamer, man. You'd never be able to pull that off.
And two years later, they're like, oh, fuck.
Even when I got to Switzerland, I remember I got there,
whenever it was, it was June, I think.
It was a little wait to get set up for that summer.
But I was making grandiose plans for the following year.
And I remember getting a visit from this guy, Gypsy Nirvana, from the UK.
And he gave over and he wrote a little thing after his first visit going,
oh, this guy thinks he's big shit. He doesn't have anything planted yet.
And he thinks he's going to have all this going by next year.
And he's like, we'll see. We'll see.
And then he came back the next year, he's like, holy fuck, he got it everything.
And he said he was going to.
And it's just a matter of you've got to dream it before you can do it.
And you have to tell yourself, this is what I'm going to do.
I told myself, I'm going to get set up in a legal scenario to plant fields of grass on the equator as soon as I can.
I don't really care about breeding northern grass anymore.
I mean, I'm interested in it, but not as interested as the tropical stuff.
Because the perfumes have more high notes and not the stank that the kids are into these days.
But they're only into it because they've never had the opportunity to try some spectacular equatorial grass.
Maybe unless they live in Hawaii or something, right? Or Australia.
I got that one, don't worry.
You know?
I picked up on that little reference, don't worry.
I love the, I got to say, I loved your grass. It was the nicest I tried on your land for sure.
Thank you. I'm sure there's probably better, but I'm glad I could hook you up with something.
It was really nice. Most of the other stuff I tried from the guys brought me, with one or two exceptions, but a few other people brought me stuff.
But it was usually too chemmy to smoke.
I really remember rolling a big fat paper, because he gave me a half ounce and I was leaving the next day from that town.
And I was like, don't give me all this. And I really made him take it back. He didn't want to take it back.
But I said, let me keep a little bit.
I just felt bad for him. I'm like, surely he can find somebody that actually wants this.
Because I remember I rolled up a big fat joint and I lit it.
And I took about three big puffs on it and I looked him in the eye and I flicked it out the window.
He's like, what did you do that for? I said, I can't smoke that grass. It was so chemmy.
My lips are still burning from the first few puffs. I was like, I just can't smoke weed like that.
And he was just, holy shit, you're serious. And then I pulled out something else.
And he was like, oh yeah, something else. And I said, yeah.
So he was impressed with what I had. I had more from another friend that I'd met the day before in the same town.
And I gave it to the guy with the chemmy weed.
And I said, why don't you take this home and smoke it? Because I can't finish it before I leave tomorrow.
So, anyway.
Yours was the best. Yours stood out. Yours stood out, absolutely.
Thank you. I appreciate that.
I do want to loop back to the start because all this talk of Holland and all that.
We should probably go back to Canada.
How did you really get into things there and how did that transition into then moving to Switzerland?
Okay. I started growing my own gorilla style.
Two plants here, three plants there.
Back in southwestern Ontario near London in Middlesex County.
And the grass I would pull back there, still to this day, is up there with anything I've had from anywhere in the world.
So, I was quickly sold on, I am not buying any more grass.
I am growing my own because what I'm growing is better than what I could buy.
And it was really just a straight homegrown play from the beginning.
Five years of that and going through university and decided at the end of university I am going to move.
Once I'm done, I'm going to move to D.C. because it's the only province in Canada.
Nobody was in jail for growing.
So, it was attractive that way. I never wanted to go to jail for growing.
And I moved out there and really took my hobby breeding to the next level and ended up taking it pro.
So, as I was in Vancouver, I had opened a crow shop where we had lights and fans,
but only my organic soil mix or organic fertilizer.
And we had both a system for people to grow organic cocoa mix, Steve's special blend and worm castings and whatnot.
And then we had a water system that was pure aquaponics.
So, I started growing aquaponics when I very first moved to Vancouver.
It was the first closet I even built.
I built a quick aquaponics system because I always wanted to try that out.
I think that was the first cannabis grown aquaponically to the best of my knowledge.
But I kept doing it and it was astounding the results.
When I moved into the next house I was in, I made literally a Mickey Mouse system
that had a Mickey Mouse shower curtain where the water trickled under the rubber maids
and drained back into the rubber maid with the goldfish in it.
I think I called it the Mickey Mouse system.
But the pot that came out of it was so stunning that people just lost it.
They would just lose their shit.
And they would say, what the hell did you do to grow this?
It's so different than anything else we smoke.
And when I tell them, they were just like, seriously?
And the buds were rock hard.
It wasn't like you were sacrificing weight.
You would get the same, the plant would turn out the shape it's supposed to.
It's healthy the whole time and the light's dense enough and it packs in its nodes.
The aquaponics just made it burn to a white ash.
A clean white, not even grey.
It was stupid how clean it burned.
So I was a huge fan of that.
I thought for indoors or greenhouse, if I ever set up another indoor greenhouse,
I will only be doing it aquaponically.
Put it that way.
But other than that, I really get a kick out of growing straight into a field
and amending the soil.
Not above adding some dolomite lime, bone meal, or backwater, or molasses,
any assortment of good organic goodies.
But that was it.
So I was doing this aquaponics and that was getting attention of any of the pot writers.
They would come to the city for a visit and high times would want to come to my house
and tour my gardens or whatever.
Various ones from Andre Grossman or Ed Rosenthal or Jorge Cervantes.
They would all come through.
There was Annie.
I'm trying to think of them all.
There was at least four from high times that used to come through Vancouver
once a year writing an article.
So they'd come and look at whatever gardens we were doing with the latest strains
and the technology that we were using and whatnot.
And the aquaponics system was always quite popular.
It was dubbed Guppy Ponics, I believe, in one of the magazines.
Maybe Red Eye magazine with Nick from the UK.
So as I was doing that place, Ed Rosenthal was about to go on a consulting gig
to Switzerland for these three brothers that had one of the biggest commercial
grow operation in Switzerland.
He invited me along and said,
how would you like to co-consult on this gig I have in Switzerland right now?
I said, sounds like a blast.
Let's check this out.
So we went over there and I realized how legal legal can be.
Like you could go to the supermarket and buy trays of cuttings right beside
the Dusty Millers geraniums, peppers, and tomatoes.
They had trays of White Widow, trays of Compote Hemp.
They must have had 40 or 50 varieties of cannabis just at the front door of the
grocery store for $7.99 a clone or something like that.
And they had the same little plant tags with a picture of the bud or a picture
of the plant.
And on the back it would say, plant in full sun, well-drained soil,
heavy feeder.
You know, it finishes in 120 days.
It was just normal.
It was boring.
It was so normal.
And these three brothers, one of their four farms was a cloning operation and
they were cranking out a shitload of clones, like 100,000 a week or something.
What?
Yeah, and I had another partner because they were supplying not only to the
grocery stores but to all these commercial warehouse growers or greenhouse
growers that were buying them, 20,000 at a time, you know?
So it was really industrial.
They had a couple of delivery trucks with shelves in them and they had robotic
transplanters.
It was amazing.
It used to be a poinsettia operation.
And when the poinsettia business in Switzerland lost its trade protection,
there was a free trade agreement through the EU that included Moroccan
poinsettias.
And even though Switzerland wasn't part of the EU, they had some trade
agreements with them.
And it literally knocked out the subsidies for this poinsettia farm.
And this old man, nothing to do with Graf, just didn't want to lose his
multi-million dollar greenhouse investment, you know?
So he rented it to these three brothers and they cranked out this clone
operation.
It was a marvel to behold back then and that was 1999.
And today it would still be cutting edge.
So it was pretty cool to go over and consult in that operation for two
weeks.
And on the weekend in the middle, they'd suggested to us, you should
check out other parts of the country and whatnot.
So we went and explored a bit.
Actually, no, I think it was on the next time I came back that I went down.
I thought I was going to be up in that area because after the two weeks there,
I was like, I'm coming back.
I'm going to have a farm.
This is that.
I'm shutting down my whole life in BC and moving here to get a farm to grow it
wide open, legal like tomatoes.
I'll happily pay my taxes and be a good citizen.
Just let me do this.
And I was willing to come back and go.
So I called my wife and told her to start preparing.
And then I came home here for two weeks to BC and went back over.
And after the first few days, or first week up in the German side where it's a
little, you know, it can be drizzly and gray and, you know,
it's all German food and German speaking, which I don't speak German.
And it was okay.
I was there sitting with my German book the first week or two saying I should
study, you know, I'm really trying to learn some German.
And then the one weekend my friend said, have you ever been down to Ticino?
I was like, no, it's a scene.
They call it.
And I said, no, it's the nicest part of Switzerland.
We always go there for our holidays.
It's south of the Alps.
It's all Italian.
And it used to be part of Italy.
And the food's all Italian.
And it's really nice.
You're going to love it.
The weather's better.
I went down there that weekend to check it out.
And I called them and said, I'm not coming back.
I've got all my stuff with me.
We're going to have an office and an operation down here.
I'm literally the sunshine alone is justification of me not doing this an
hour outside of Zurich.
This is the smart place to do it.
It's a different climate.
It's a better climate.
And they got no argument from them because they said, oh, that'll give us an
excuse to come down there more often.
They love to go for their holiday weekends.
So I set up down there and had a good run of it for a while.
And then things turned sideways there when, sadly, the Pope came down on it,
in a nutshell.
And what happened was most of the people were going.
There was no law.
It wasn't that Switzerland legalized cannabis.
It was that it had never made it illegal for growing.
It had made it illegal to use it as a drug and to sell it.
There were no hash bars like Amsterdam.
But there were fields of it along the side of the train full of white widow or
white sheriff, you name it.
It was grown wide open.
And it was sold wide open in pot stores.
They would have kumos stacked to the roof in the front walls of the stores.
It was ridiculous.
And on the sidewalk of Chiasso, which is a town, there's kumos in Italy
and chiasso in Switzerland.
And there's a border on the main street, basically.
So if you walked from the Italian side into the Swiss side, there were pot
leaf sandwich boards all the way down the sidewalks for the first three
blocks, probably.
And people would walk over and buy cannabis and walk back to Italy.
And the Italians actually had to change their laws because they had the
border guys were forced to charge anybody they found with it.
So they actually reduced that to they could let anybody go with five grams
or less without charging them.
So that was their big win at the time.
But then the people would just walk over every day and buy five grams.
And they would walk back and the border guys would just roll their eyes
and wave them through because it wasn't, what are they going to do,
take five grams from 50,000 people every day?
Just not happening, right?
But what happened was an investigative reporter from Rome, he came up and went
into one of the bigger shops.
I won't say whose shop or whatnot, but they had him, he had a hidden camera
and microphone.
And he went in, saw all the weed, asked to see some samples, how much a kilo,
1,500 a kilo for this frosty greenhouse grown bud, Dutch varieties.
And he said, oh, it's such a shame that we can't get this in Rome.
He says, I could make a fortune if I get this in Rome at this price.
And the shop owner said, hey, at this price, we offer 24-hour free delivery to Rome.
So that played on the TV.
And then the flood of kids smoking dope on St. Peter's Square,
the Pope was pissed off about the weed.
He called the prosecutor in the region, told her, if you're a good Catholic,
you're going to round these people up and do a big inspection,
even if you can't legally shut them down, make their lives hard.
The Pope came down on it.
That's really what the higher-ups told us.
My lawyer was friends with the lady, or knew her from school.
They were in the same law school.
She didn't even know about our company, but she came down on it
because my lawyer called her because we had a problem with a thief that kept breaking in.
And this thief was renowned in this neighborhood.
And I'd caught him and beat him up a couple times.
I was like, if I catch him again, what am I going to do?
I said, I want to stop myself to protect them.
So I said, get this thief arrested.
We're a taxpaying company. We're doing everything above board.
There was literally no reason not to use them to put them away,
except we didn't know they were just lining up the ducks
to do a big roundup of the industry.
And when he brought us to her attention, she's like,
oh, I'm glad you told me about them because we were just about to round up 99 pot companies
and we'd never heard of this one.
We didn't have a sign.
All the other ones were growing and had retail stores where they were selling the product.
Not joints or hash, mind you, but just bags of grass.
Sacchetti profumate.
And so she wanted to do a roundup inspection of us.
We're not doing anything illegal.
We have all our stuff in order because we're a seed company.
And seeds are unmistakably legal.
And they're being exported to only legal countries.
The federal government gave us rebates on our annual employee taxes paid and everything.
If you were considered an export company and 70% of your production was exported,
ours was 97% of our production was exported,
then the Swiss government gives you huge rebates on all the taxes you paid over the years.
So we were really totally above board and not hiding anything.
So we were quite perturbed when they wanted to do this inspection and whatnot.
But we let them go ahead and they get to see a mountain of...
What do you do with all the flowers after you take the seeds out of them?
We compost them.
Where do you compost them?
In the compost pile.
There's literally a mountain of bud composting with seeds sprouting out of it like a chia pet.
Okay, so that's what all that bud looks like.
We were able to show them everything.
So we didn't have any legal troubles.
I just thought if you're going to start being a hassle, I don't need this shit.
I was just happy to wrap it up at that point.
And we had a lot of seeds produced and stashed too.
So we knew we could just ride off that for a while.
So we shut down the company.
I actually sold the facility to Shantibaba when I left and I was in Spain.
And then sadly, him and I had a friendly disagreement.
So I said, I'm just going to leave if they're going to be dicks about it.
And he said, oh, they're just trying to scare away you cowboys.
It was his words exactly.
But then a few months later, they picked him up and stuck him in a dungeon condemned by Amnesty International.
It was like a 400-year-old Mendrisio dungeon.
So I felt super bad for the guy because he's the nicest guy.
I remember writing him a letter back in the day.
But I hope I was well with him.
I haven't talked to him in a dog's age.
But yeah, so that was sort of how I got through it in Canada, into Switzerland, out of Switzerland.
And then starting up again now in the tropics.
Yeah, wow. What an adventure.
It's been wild.
And this year is really going to be something because Mexico has just come around, St. Vincent, Jamaica.
We're getting invites to other parts of the world throughout Africa, even Asia, including China and Thailand.
But I think I am going to focus my efforts this year predominantly between Colombia, Mexico, and Canada.
And I've been offered 20 acres in Jamaica and 20 acres in St. Vincent.
So I'm tempted to take those up because island time is always a good time.
But Mexico is such a hotbed of amazing cannabis evolution, different valleys in Mexico.
I've always been intrigued by Great Oaxacan.
And the first time I was ever in Mexico was when I was 16, which was a long time ago.
And the first Mexican bud I ever saw that wasn't brickweed in North America,
the first Mexican bud I saw in Mexico was gorgeous, frosty purple bud from a little Mayan guy.
And I was totally blown away. I was 16.
It was like I was just starting to see frosty bud, you know.
I was like 14, 15, 16.
You were seeing a lot more brickweed from Mexico or Jamaica is what we had commonly in Canada at that time.
And a lot more hash and oil because there's an import scene and those pack a little better.
The local production wasn't really catching on yet.
People were growing Mexican or Jamaican seed and it wasn't always working out too well.
So by the time people started growing modern hybrids like skunk or Northern Lights, modern at the time,
it was a real eye-opener.
You'd be like, whoa, this is what it's supposed to be like.
Now I get it, you know.
So they were like, and this is from here.
We don't have to import this shit.
You know, this is great.
So we just said time to go to town and learn how to do it.
And me and my friends all got into putting a few plants out and helping each other.
Maybe one of them would have a place where we could keep a light and a few mothers and start some cuts.
And we would take them out.
So it was, you know, we all drew our own, but it was still a team effort.
But it was fun.
And, you know, that was a good time.
I totally always will have fond memories of that.
The people that got pinched doing it at the time will not have such fond memories of it.
Because if you got caught with one plant back then, you were getting jail time.
It still just turns my stomach to see the people that think we should be in a fucking cage because we have better taste in herbs than them.
You know what I mean?
I mean, I saw the repression of this, not just in, it was not obviously just in Canada.
You see the whole world, how many millions of people are banged up for this bloody tasty herb.
It just made me insane.
And I always thought too that the best way we could fight back was teaching our friends to grow their own.
And telling them, teach your friends to grow their own.
And really get a strong culture of that going.
So no matter how they shut down the borders or whatever, they want to build a wall, we've got the goods.
Fuck it.
It doesn't matter.
We don't need Mexican brick weed coming up here by the bale.
We've got kind bud here ourselves.
And that's satisfying.
But I think to this day in the majority of countries of the world, the entire system, the shit system, is trying to make the plant extinct.
And at that point, there wasn't a country in the world that wasn't trying to make the plant extinct.
And when you think, what right does one species have to make another species extinct?
That's the ultimate in hubris.
And I just thought, this is just unacceptable.
And I'm thinking, not on my watch.
I'm going to do everything I can to preserve these plants and spread them around.
And I'm not going to be alone doing it.
But it really was the people that were committed to doing that early on.
That there was a really good feeling between people that felt the same.
And you were happy to share.
And it wasn't a matter of hoarding.
And I can see, as it becomes legal, people are going to want to maintain an advantage of having proprietary genetics and stuff.
And I'll be the same too.
But at the time, it was really more a matter of preservation.
And that we didn't want to see this get lost.
Think how much government spent flying around, spraying stuff, and pulling out plants with helicopters.
I always thought, if they can afford to fly around the country, pulling plants out of cornfields and backyards and cliffs, you name it.
You're thinking, what do they need our money for?
They've got way too much time and money on their hands if they can fly around the fucking world ripping herbs out of our yards.
Or the bush.
How much does that cost? That's insane.
It really put me against government and has never changed.
I've just lost any shred of respect for governments when they persecute cannabis users.
That's probably going to be lifelong.
Even when they grudgingly legalize it, but on shitty terms, I'm still not impressed.
I think it's still better than some places.
At least Canadians smoking a joint in most municipalities aren't going to have trouble.
In Canada, it changes in every municipality right now.
There's the feds, let the provinces do what they want.
And the provinces tell the municipalities, you can do as you see fit as well.
On one side of town, you can't smoke in public.
On the other side, you can smoke anywhere you can have a cigarette.
It's not a consistent, open legalization.
It's not a simple legal like tomatoes legalization like I'd seen in Switzerland when I moved there.
That was the most beautiful, to see that you could grow a field of weed, as many as you wanted,
without any regulation concerning licensing or anything like that.
The end use was the issue.
As seeds was my end use, and I was growing research crops, I was fine.
I didn't have a bong bar.
I wasn't selling blocks of hash to their kids at school.
I was simply growing a field of weed, picking out my favorites, sampling it as I would.
I'm a real hash smoker.
It takes a lot of weed to keep a real hash smoker in mouth.
It's not something you can do with four plants, which the Canadian regs currently are permitting.
In BC, you can only grow four plants if your neighbors can't see them.
If your neighbors can see them, you get six months mandatory minimum or something stupid.
It's so far from a rational legalization.
I know it's worse in Australia.
I hate to be bitching when we've got some ground covered,
but it really is one of those cases where it's far from good, but I'm sure it's good from afar.
Having been here and maybe a little bit of exposure,
what do you think is the way for Australia to move forward, given we've got nothing so far?
All you need is nothing.
You don't need to do anything other than return it to its original state as part of our fucking planet.
The regulations are what destroy it.
It wasn't a problem before they regulated it.
The regulations are where it went downhill.
I'm a real free marketeer.
I would be happy if I could pull up at the side of the road and buy untested buds from the hippies that live there.
If somebody else wants to walk into a pharmacy and get something that's verified organic and third-party tested to be free of contaminants,
I have no problem with that.
Some company, maybe my own, will exist to fill that need.
But I don't think it has to be, because let's face it,
how many of us have ever, ever had verified clean bud?
It's clean because it's generally clean.
If it's contaminated, you can smell it.
You open a bag of weed with mold in it, you don't need a test to tell you it's moldy.
You can smell that moldy weed as soon as you open the bag.
And there's degrees of tolerance.
So in Canada, CFUs, colony forming units, the limit with Health Canada is 50,000 CFUs per gram.
Now, I don't know, and I've been asking them repeatedly for a solid year or two,
what is the tolerance for CFU per gram on cigars?
Because if there is a fucking discrepancy between what a Cohiba can have and what a reefer can have,
we've got a problem.
And the Canadian regs clearly favour tobacco.
Health Canada has absolutely shat the bed on this one,
because they've made it impossible for a gram of weed to equal a gram of tobacco price-wise,
because they've made a flat tax of a minimum dollar on every gram.
So they don't tax tobacco that way.
If they did, tobacco in Canada would be as expensive as it is in Australia.
Because holy fuck, I was surprised to see how expensive cigarettes were in Australia.
Yeah, right. That's the real nanny-state at play there.
Yeah, but Canada's protecting the tobacco lobby by ensuring,
it's not even a question of low THC or anything,
even if I had low THC hemp flowers, they would still tax it a dollar a gram,
which makes it virtually impossible.
In British Columbia at least, it varies in Canada.
A pack of cigarettes in BC is 20, in Ontario it's 25,
so it kind of varies by province how many cigarettes are in a pack.
I think in Australia there were 30 in a pack.
In BC, a pack of cigarettes is in the neighborhood of $12 to $17.
So it's creeping up on, it's somewhere between 50 cents and a dollar a smoke,
but not quite a dollar a smoke.
But that's the kit and caboodle.
If it was 20 hemp cigarettes, it would be $20 excise right off the top,
then the price of the product plus sales tax.
So they're absolutely ensuring.
If I want to sell joints for the same price as cigarettes,
they've made it mathematically impossible.
And there is no reason to tax cannabis, a treatment of cancer,
for more than the cause of it.
It's absolutely asinine.
The Canadian government just pisses me off endlessly,
as I'm sure yours does to you.
Yeah, I mean the thing they say to us,
which I'm not sure, I imagine the Canadian government would do the same,
is that they say that they're going to tax more on tobacco.
Maybe they don't do it in Canada, but in Australia they say,
we're going to tax tobacco harder,
because that's how we can still be able to offer universal health care,
because we're covering all the burden on the health care system of the smokers.
It's all a tax crap.
My Australian doctor father-in-law explained to me,
who is actually a lung doctor and dealt with nothing but people dying of smoking diseases his whole life,
and he straight up told me, he said,
smokers cost the system less because they die younger.
It's the people that are on life support dragging it out from 80 to 90,
that have a bunch of little ailments that are in to see the doctor three times a week.
Those cost the system a shitload, not the guys that die of strokes at 50.
Yeah, I'd love to see the figures behind it, but yeah, I mean the taxing Australia...
You just check it out.
Do the math on smokers die younger, and the elder seniors cost the system the most.
Yeah, yeah, definitely.
The seniors getting older should be illegal.
Yeah, okay.
I mean, I'd love to make that one illegal.
We should tax people for getting old.
The older you get, the more you owe.
You should be encouraged to die young for the good of society.
Leave a pretty body.
Fuck.
Something I wanted to ask about is, you referenced it earlier,
and you can feel free to be a little bit ambiguous or as specific as you like,
but I've noticed there are a few companies that offer what looks like your work,
and sometimes it's a bit ambiguous to see like, is this them doing a knockoff or whatnot?
And so I've got one specific I'd love to ask about is,
do you have any relationship with Alpine Seeds?
Because I can see they offer a whole bunch of sweet...
Every veneer.
There you go, because they offer a bunch of sweet grapefruit stuff like Femmes, BXs, stuff like that,
and it looked like it was more on the legit end just due to how deep of an offering they had for sweet pink grapefruit.
But I guess at this point you're just used to it being the game like that?
Yeah, this is an interesting point.
I have been, in some ways, a hothead about this over the years,
but I really have a fairly simple understanding of the way this can work good for everybody.
When I share or sell genetics, like let's say Sweet Tooth, for example.
If I make a cross and I call it Sweet Tooth, and nobody else has called their cross Sweet Tooth,
that's an original seed cross and its original name for it.
If you take those and make more seeds with them, I only ask that you give them a new name,
because the seeds you have won't be the same as mine.
So I say, I don't mind if you want to call it Dente Dulce, and put in bracket,
I made this F2 with Sweet Tooth or whatever, but call it something else,
because it confuses people down the line.
This is what really happened a lot with Sweet Skunk too, actually.
But Sweet Tooth is a good example.
They're all good examples. It's happened with all of them.
As soon as your seed is popular, people are making knockoffs of it. That's a given.
It's the only seed breeding in the world that couldn't be protected with breeders' rights.
It was an easy thing for unscrupulous hacks to just start chucking pollen in their closet
and calling it a popular name.
But the letdown for me was that the vendors would carry them.
I would feel like, you know what, I want to stop supplying these people
that are selling knockoffs of the seeds I work on, because I promote them,
I get them exposure into the cup or whatever,
and then the next week everybody is selling it as their own.
And you're just like, for fuck's sake, people, have a little respect and have a little dignity
and give your seeds an original name, because they're your seeds.
I'm happy if you credit them and say where they came from.
I don't really care, but if you want to, I'm happy to.
That shows respect and that's cool.
I did the same thing when I was making seeds.
I would always list to the best of my knowledge the origins, the real origins,
because we were preservationists as well.
We had a duty to carry things on accurately to the best of our ability,
considering even record-keeping was a liability.
When I started growing, I didn't even like keeping pictures.
I had a couple of Polaroids, which hopefully I still have, but from way back when.
But you didn't keep a roll of pictures of your grow rooms,
because when people were in court, the cops would say,
well, here we've got photos of all this grass you've grown,
and that would be used against them.
So you were covering your tracks to keep no record.
It was really a verbal, oral tradition.
Accuracy, and as a breeder, accurate labeling is everything.
If you're not doing accurate labeling, it's crazy.
It just makes you think, I know we can't call your sweet tooth,
I already called these ones sweet tooth.
It's not just marketing, but it makes me crazy
when I see people growing Hermes sweet skunk.
It wasn't my sweet skunk, but it was somebody's.
Some idiot would self some sweet skunk, and then everybody would be going,
I like sweet skunk, but it's Hermes.
It's like, no, it wasn't Hermes until that moron started selling self ones.
So it really dilutes your work when people sell their work as yours,
or mistakenly close, easily mistakenly close.
When people were making, I gave Bodie Hill one line for Blockhead years ago,
and somebody made up, they understood my point, and I said,
if you called it Square Dome and put Blockhead back cross,
you'd have no problem.
I'd be fucking sending you Christmas cards.
That's super cool.
But if people can mistake yours for mine, then it becomes an issue down the road
when people start getting stuff that's not representative of what I put out,
and they start blaming me for it.
What are you going to think, right?
So that's, you know, neither here nor there.
You know, an egregious example was, and still is, Barney's Farm in Amsterdam.
There was no Barney's Farm when they entered Sweet Tooth in the Cup.
The Sweet Tooth they entered in the Cup was grown by a Dutch grower
who bought the seeds in Vancouver and was actually growing Sweet Tooth.
I was at the same Cup unloading a pile of Sweet Tooth as free samples at my seed booth.
Sweet Tooth was all the rage.
And so the coffee shop at Barney's won the Cup of Sweet Tooth.
I was very happy for them.
I knew it was our Sweet Tooth.
Then a few months later, they come out with Barney's Farm and a seed line
called Sweet Tooth that they made up.
Whatever heritage they use is totally unrelated.
They didn't actually make it with the Sweet Tooth from me.
They took their own cross and just called it Sweet Tooth, and it looked nothing like it.
It didn't look like the bud they entered in the Cup.
I mean, it was just painful to see this blatant name rip off, you know?
And I just thought, that's just shameless.
Later, they came out with Shishkaberry.
I see they have a new release I saw online.
Somebody sent me a link.
They said, here, check this out.
Barney just released a new strain called Shishkaberry.
That's funny because I seem to remember making that mid-'90s, the same crop I made the Sweet Tooth with
with the same dad and all.
But it's a new strain at Barney's now.
It looks like it should be descended from Shishkaberry, but their Sweet Tooth doesn't even look like
it's descended from Sweet Tooth.
It's just a blatant step on the name.
And the sad thing is, now there's going to be people growing out Barney's Sweet Tooth
and thinking it's Sweet Tooth or sharing it with people, and they're going,
hey, this is Sweet Tooth.
And they're like, eh, this isn't very sweet.
You know, what's the big deal with Sweet Tooth?
Sweet Tooth isn't all that.
It's like you've never even had the real Sweet Tooth, you know?
So it's a bit painful to see these people abusing it.
And that's one thing I look forward to in legalization is I haven't released anything new since like 2003.
And I've been working on things for the last few years, and I'm really excited to bring them out.
But I'm not going to mention the name of them until I can sue people's asses for fucking knocking them off, you know?
So that's it.
And that gives more viability to the business of setting up R&D centers for seed.
You know, if you're out there going to the ends of the world to plant fields and, you know,
do it where you can legally and whatnot, it means leaving your comfort zone sometimes.
And it's called work.
When people that are in their bloody apartments making knockoffs in their closet,
and then they just can't end up at the same retailer.
I just didn't want it.
I won't deal with the retailers that have a bad history of selling knockoffs.
It just pissed me off too much.
And I would really like to come back out with seeds once I can sell them direct
and cut out the middleman and bring really good quality, good value seeds directly to people.
But it still would be, you know, another division.
And at this point, A, I'm not ready to release them.
And B, I'm just going to decide closer to the time.
Because I would like to have direct retail and know that they're not getting bait-and-switch practice.
Like even at many of these other resellers, they might keep stuff up that looks like it's available when it's sold out.
I mean, there's people pretending to be selling seeds they bought from me 15 years ago for 15 years.
I know they don't still have those seeds, but they're saying they do.
Because when you send them money to order them, they're going to send you a replacement.
And say, oh, actually, we're out of that.
Well, we've been out of that for 14 years.
And it's still on the menu.
You know?
Like there's just so many grease balls in the business that I was like, I just can't do it like this.
I've got to wait until I can do it openly and legally again.
Because there's just so many greasy people to deal with.
And the sad thing is now that it's legal again, and they've got all these stock pimps and whatnot out here,
it's almost greasier now.
I think in a lot of ways it's actually gone downhill.
I've seen the caliber of people involved in the alleged cannabis trade.
They may just be involved in the paper trade, but they consider it the cannabis trade.
Because they're not actually qualified to do anything in the cannabis trade.
So these bloody paper pushers are really greasing up the scene.
It's at the point where you don't even want to go to a cannabis convention in Canada.
Because of the greasy, low-life industry players these days.
Like of the first 15 companies, there was 13 of them hired a lobby group to press for the arrests of bud tenders and dispensaries.
Because people were exercising their power of choice and deciding that the pot from the local unlicensed dispensary
was several magnitudes of quality better than what they were ordering online from these licensed corporations.
And not all, but most of those corporations lobbied for their arrests.
And I'm a very pro-choice, free-market person.
If people think they're getting a better product from somebody, go buy it from them.
And if they think your product sucks, they shouldn't be a captive market for your shareholders.
And if you have to cage your competition to succeed, you're a piece of shit.
And those same companies, most of them lobbied against field-grown pot, outdoor.
They lobbied against home-grown even.
Because they really wanted you to have to buy their $17 grams of over-dried, flavorless bud.
And most Canadians that have sampled weed from the legal producers,
they've found, I would say, no more than five that anyone likes the weed from.
The rest of them, people just constantly complain.
And it's a dance, because they're only allowed to belong to two LPs at a time.
The patients belong to the LPs, so they have to put their script with two LPs.
And that was an increase from one.
So they're at the mercy.
And most of those LPs would really get into the business wanting to serve the rec market.
And the med market was just an excuse for a little while.
And they have left their patients hanging as they've put the weed out to the rec market.
And the government was ultimately failed in its attempt to create a legal industry in a timely manner.
They wanted to protect the kids and get rid of the black market.
And make sure that the supply was safe and tested.
And all these noble pursuits.
But what's happened is, the organized crime is the government.
It is a lot of the kleptocracy we live in with the corporations joined at the hip.
With regulatory capture, with what's happening there.
So those guys were lobbying against outdoor growing,
because they knew it would make their flowering facilities into white elephants.
And that's just not the way.
Business is steering government.
And it's ready to cage us, rather than concede losses to a better competitor.
Which was the black market was kicking their ass all over the place.
And the legal market also failed to come out with edibles and extracts at the same time as grass.
I understand there was maybe some strategy politically behind that.
And that they didn't want to lose getting grass through on the first wave.
Because those in opposition were absolutely adamant against shattering edibles.
The children, the children.
So I do believe there was some strategy probably.
But in all the states that legalized it, they did it all at once.
So it was a little disappointing to see that lack of follow through here.
The other point, I swear I had another point.
No, I'm enjoying it all.
One thing I wanted to just quickly ask though, because you mentioned it a minute ago.
If you did get that direct to customer, or even if it went through a trusted middleman,
however you end up doing it, would that mean a return for Spice of Life Seeds?
Or would it be under a different banner?
That's a good question.
And it might even be a couple of brands.
There's a possibility.
Of course it would be fun to bring back Spice.
But sometimes a new project needs a new name too.
So I'm open to doing both even.
I'm just not going to say it because I'm a little ways away from that.
The other thing that I'm actually considering that you just brought up is Spice of Life Verified Genetics.
So I was going to offer a three-level program essentially for producers.
For me to verify that they're growing what they say they are.
B, that it's an approved quality that I think these guys are doing a pretty good job of this.
And the third level being Spice of Life brand or their Breeder's Deep Buds or however we want to dress it up.
And say these guys are doing exceptionally well.
I would be happy to call it my own.
It's fucking good.
So the people I meet that I believe can do that, I'm offering them a chance.
The producers that I think can do the same quality of grass consistently that I would totally respect.
I say I would supply you with genetics forever.
I'll just keep sending you new stuff as I want to release it.
And there's no upfront cost but I would like residual 10 cents a gram on the production of Breeder's Deep brands.
And I would have consistent packaging for them to get so that it was exactly the same from Anchorage to Auckland.
Anywhere in the world if you bought Breeder's Deep brand buds, you knew it came in this package with this security feature.
And then have an annual party where the licensed spice growers can get together.
You can swap seeds.
We can have lots of fun.
But we'll definitely have an annual party for a get together.
And I'll encourage this sort of network of spice growers to share amongst themselves.
Because it's so nice when you have favorite flavors that you know you can reliably find a good version of it consistently wherever you go.
That just doesn't happen in cannabis yet.
So I think that would be something to achieve if we could do it.
That's been on my mind more and more recently because there's a new window for introducing genetics into the Canadian legal system right now.
It used to be that there was a window where they could bring in no questions asked genetics for the first X amount of LPs.
After a certain date, they closed that down and they could only buy and sell what they'd had brought into the system between each other.
So they were all selling each other clones for gouging rates usually.
Like, give me $15,000 for the genetic and then $17 a clone for the 10,000 clones you need.
Don't give them to anybody else.
And the big contrant is all just, okay.
But then they're all growing the same thing.
Like, literally every single LP in Canada grows shish kaberry.
But the sad thing is, it's a pretty pathetic selection they've got, I think.
I haven't seen any of the LPs do a really nice job with it.
I've seen it growing out like frosty and full.
I don't know.
There's another shish kaberry clone going around the black market in BC making fruity, gorgeous, fat, frosty nugs.
It's twice as nice a cutting as the one in the legal system, so that's kind of too bad.
But at least there's room to bring that other one into the legal system.
Because under the new Cannabis Act, new growers and new licensees are allowed to bring in genetics from wherever they want, one time.
So they have to declare them all at the opening of their license.
You know, okay, here's what I have.
And they have to provide evidence that they have, you know, if they've got these 100 clones and these 100 seeds or whatever.
So there's going to be a... because they realize they need a fresh influx into this very closed-loop system.
They don't understand the importance of genetic diversity.
That's an understatement.
But the point I was trying to make earlier when I was pitching about how they could have done that licensing a little better,
and failed on the rollout, I just remembered, was they've spent over 20 years licensing growers to grow without ever licensing them to sell.
So all they would have had to do was say, and every single one of those growers wants to go legal,
but they don't want to have to open a public company to do it, to meet a bunch of asinine expenses.
And just let those growers submit pot for third-party verification, if you must, and call that licensed.
You know, hey, you pass the batch cleanliness test, you're in.
You get to pay taxes.
And they would all jump at the possibility.
So while the Canadian media frets about the Great Canadian pot shortage,
pot has never been more available or less expensive in this country than it is right now.
You would be astounded, man.
You can get pounds of bud you would like for under a thousand bucks, like 600 bucks, 400 bucks.
What?
You know, yeah.
It's so cheap here now.
It's so cheap.
And the people that have absolutely, let's call them gormless,
they would still walk into a dispensary and pay $15 because they don't know anybody that even grows pot
or haven't tried to themselves.
But if you have a bunch of friends that are growers, the going price,
if you have any friends that are growers, you're literally going to be able to get nice pot these days for so cheap.
Whereas they go into the dispensary or go online to order it from the Ontario Cannabis Store or something,
and they're paying, like there's plenty of cannabis in the $15 to $17 a gram range.
And I think there were some that was even higher.
And I'm not opposed to there being luxury items and charging a high price for stuff.
That's fine.
But they shouldn't, you know, there's no ceiling on price, but they put an upwards price,
but they put a ceiling on downwards price, you know.
So you can't go through the floor and make something actually really cheap.
Like if I could sell a pack of pre-rolled joints that were a gram each, same as a pack of cigarettes,
for $5 less than a pack of cigarettes, or even a dollar less than a pack of cigarettes all in,
tell me that wouldn't be appealing to many smokers who are very price conscious.
They would say, boy oh boy, I can smoke that nice organic grass cheaper than I can smoke cigarettes.
Would that encourage people to smoke more nice organic grass rather than cigarettes?
I think it would.
Call me crazy, but I think people are price sensitive, and if they're given the option to enjoy Bud,
and I know there's no reason we can't grow fat, frosty, full ripe Buds, and have them like cobs of corn.
There should be no reason you couldn't drive down the highway, pull over at the side of the road,
talk to the farmer, and pick out Buds from all the different bins you like, or hang it up there.
They can be like cobs of corn. It doesn't have to be expensive.
You can have 12 big one ounce cobs for $2, as long as you can grow it in the wide open like that.
I was doing the math on doing an outdoor in Canada, and in southwestern Ontario only,
because BC can't grow good outdoor Bud.
It can grow good outdoor Bud in some places, but it can't grow great outdoor Bud.
The only place in Canada that you can grow great outdoor Bud is in southwestern Ontario,
and it's the same latitude as northern Cal and southern Oregon, 42 degrees.
The reason that makes a big difference, and people would know in almost any agriculture,
whether it was grapes or cherries or peaches, the harvest starts down south and the harvest moves north.
They harvest their wine in California in August, and in BC maybe in October.
Oregon and Washington in between, so the harvest creeps north.
Part of the reason for this is the same with grass.
Most grass, or not all, but exceptions to every rule, but most of the stuff we grow these days is photosensitive varieties.
It stays in veg when the days are long, it's triggered to flower when the days are short.
Hence 18 and 12 typically inside, and 12 and 12 for flowering.
The thing is, in the northern latitudes, or the higher latitudes,
because for your taste it would be southern latitudes,
but the higher latitudes have such a long day in the middle of the summer
that it seems to take the plant longer to snap out of veg and go into flowering.
Say where I live here, you get days that are 18 and a half hours of daylight,
whereas 10 degrees further south, like in southern Ontario,
they might only get 16 hours of daylight in the longest days.
Those plants that never got to 18 and a half hours, they only got to 16 hours,
it's less of a leap for them to go into flower.
In BC, 10 degrees further north, I find the same plants going into flower slower,
so by the time they do, the light is getting weaker much and much quickly.
The light is getting weaker every week.
The buds that are finishing under that weak light don't look as good.
They may be a little leafier, not as full,
whereas in southern Ontario, I would pick the same plant four weeks earlier
and it would be way riper.
It's really something to see the difference between those two zones.
I think once more people realize that people out west have no clue,
and when people do realize the difference in quality,
I think you're going to see indoor places going out of business in three to five years.
It's really just however long it takes them to license enough outdoor back in southwestern Ontario.
If they never license enough, the indoors will still be in business,
but if they license enough, the indoors will be over.
We could have full melt dry sift for the price of flower versus growing flowers indoors.
This is silly, we don't grow coffee in Canada in greenhouses.
We buy it from where coffee grows well.
Same with sugar.
We do grape maple syrup, but we don't try and do cane sugar up here.
There's cannabis that works here,
and most of that is really just going to work best in southwestern Ontario.
In the outdoor market, my plan, as I come back in the circle,
is to release $10 ounces untrimmed before tax and just tops.
All the smaller buds would go for extract,
and then just the tops from the very top and the tops of the top ring of branches.
Those tops at $10 an ounce are cheaper than what most LPs seem to be selling grams for.
These are very in the neighborhood.
I don't know the actual stats on what LPs are selling grams for
because I don't buy grams from LPs.
I'm not saying I wouldn't try a few.
I would say two of them whose pot looked worth trying,
and there were some positive reviews.
There were another three where I'd see some positive reviews,
but they didn't look all that good.
I just thought they probably just had lower standards than I do.
I'm not saying they're all bad.
It looks like there's a couple of decent ones.
I'll give them that.
The outdoor will make them all irrelevant
because the outdoor can grow back there as good or better than any indoor,
as long as it's done well.
You can still screw it up outside.
I'm not saying everybody's outdoor in Ontario is better than all indoors.
That's not what I'm saying, but you know what you're doing.
You can grow better bud outdoors there than you can indoors.
In a good year, too.
You could have a crap year.
There's always exceptions to the rule,
but for my money, I'm backing outdoor southwestern Ontario
for both flowers and extracts.
I totally think I can do it at such a fraction of the cost.
By the math I did a few years ago,
and I can't remember exactly how I came to the number,
but I had estimated that the country consumes 5,000 to 6,000 acres worth
considering flower, extract, edibles, all sectors.
Five or 6,000 acres would saturate the market in Canada.
It's a lot less than some people think, but that's a lot.
5,000 acres of grass.
That's a lot.
With the Columbia project, I'm looking at going a lot more than that.
I'm starting out with less than that, of course,
but once I've acclimatized the things I want to work with
for the ends I want to achieve, my plan is to get it up.
I will leave it alone once I can get it to planting, harvesting,
and processing two square kilometers a day.
That's my goal for the equatorial project
because I want to come out with vitamin THC and vitamin CBD and vitamin CBN
and have these things made so inexpensively
that people stop looking at them as a rare drug for the rich
and just start looking at it as a necessity for everyday people
in all walks of life at any price point.
I want to make it as ubiquitous as aspirin
so that you can get a reliable—your aspirin is aspirin,
whether you get it in Sydney or Stockholm.
It looks the same, it tastes the same, it is the same,
and it's affordable.
The poor people, they don't say—well, some days they might,
but overall, many people can afford aspirin.
I don't think you should have to be rich to deserve aspirin.
It shouldn't be for the top 10% of the wealthy world.
It should be for everybody, and cannabis always has been.
From the beginning of time, it's been the poor man's herb.
It's been the herb of kings as well.
The kings maybe got the dragon's tears pressed from the edges of their hashish,
and the poor people might be boiling stocks of low-grade plants,
but it's been there for everybody.
In the Middle East, in Asia, in Africa, you name it,
cannabis has been there for human history for so bloody long.
The absolute gall of politicians that feel they have a right
to persecute us for its use when it's one of the basic human foods,
it's everything.
I don't have to tell you people, if you're listening to this show,
you're in the pot, I know that.
If you've listened this long, you might be as crazy as me.
One thing I wanted to quickly ask is, you've made it pretty obvious
that you're into growing organically, but I wanted to ask,
what is your opinion on hydroponic and salt-grown weed in general?
Do you think it can ever compare?
You know what, I've certainly done it all.
My best hydro, I totally enjoy it, I'd leach the hell out of it,
but it was using really clean, pure nutrients too.
Most of the bottled nudes that come with coloring and all that,
I generally find that even with two weeks of people flushing them in that,
I still find maybe by the end of the joint or halfway,
they start to get this plasticky smell almost.
There's just something I don't like about it.
I'm not saying all organic grass is done well either,
because it can be overfed organic and not burn too.
There's not a guarantee of quality that it's organic,
but I never find the most exciting weed not to be organic,
let's put it that way.
I think you can grow fantastic hydro,
especially if you're mixing your own salts and whatnot,
and you're really cognizant of leaching them for a totally sweet fade,
that they are burning really smooth,
and you get a true varietal flavor of each variety you're growing,
because there's no terroir.
That's fine if you want that pure varietal flavor,
water is a great way to go.
I like it with the aquaponics,
because I find it's still that clean,
but a little bit more life to it seems to bring out more flavor,
and more layers even, more subtleties.
It's the je ne sais quoi of the flavor.
There was a study a long time ago,
I remember reading in Tom Alexander's Growing Edge,
he was the guy that published Sensimilia Tips until he got busted,
and Sensimilia Tips really put me on the organic path,
for the second time I ever grew pot.
The first time I grew pot I read a book like Grower's Guide or something,
and then by that winter, before the next spring,
I'd found Sensimilia Tips in used magazines at the head stores,
and you'd read all these great blends from these old Oregon hippies,
and be like, I've got to up my game,
and I could be adding a lot more organic components to the soil.
What it came to mean to me was that if I fed one or two things to the plant,
it was very apparent in the smell and taste of the grass.
If I used a little bit of a lot of things,
none of them dominated the smell or taste of the plant.
Now case in point, a plant is what it eats.
It sucks up what it eats.
Some people will be skeptical of that, and that's fine.
My experience is it's fucking obvious if your nose works.
I had a friend, a guy I was just meeting at the time actually,
we've been friends for a long time since,
but he came into my apartment to show me a half pound of weed.
He was a friend of a friend, and he came in,
and before he even pulled the bag out of his backpack,
I said, do you grow with fish?
He said, what?
I said, do you use fish emulsion?
Because one of my friends at home was growing with straight fish emulsion,
and his weed smelled like the shitty ass bottle of fish emulsion.
It totally came through in the smell of the weed when you smoked it.
I asked this guy, because it just smelled like my buddy's weed,
because I could smell weed when he came in,
but I could smell weed with fish, and not live fish, but dead fish.
I said this to him right as he was reaching in his bag to pull out the half pound.
He's pulling out the half pound, and his eyes go wide,
and he goes kind of white, and he's like, why did you say that?
I said, I had a friend that grows with fish emulsion,
and his weed smells just like yours.
He says, I put a fish in every hole.
He was just, he's like nobody ever, people just suddenly go,
wow, that's beautiful, that's great grass.
You're the only person that ever said your weed's fishy.
He couldn't believe it.
It was just an honest remark.
I wasn't trying to be a dick.
I was just being honest about it.
It's so funny, the way the plant really carries whatever.
When you stick celery in red dye, and your celery will turn red,
you think of the grass the same way.
It will pick up, it's built out of what's underneath it.
It's not just built out of thin air.
Another time, from the first year I grew,
I had a plant that I used a bag with steer manure,
and that steer manure wasn't composted that long.
Later that winter, when I was reading about how well composted it had to be,
and it couldn't smell still, and it should break up really soft,
and it shouldn't be wet and sticky and smell,
and I thought all the shit I used was wet and sticky and smelled.
But I didn't even think about it until a non-smoker
at my girlfriend's house, she had roommates,
a non-smoker came into the room and said,
what is with that weed you're smoking?
It smells like manure.
They were dead serious, and they were pissed.
I thought, that was funny, because I was naked, I just laughed.
But I went and had a shower, or the next morning or something,
I had a shower, and when I walked back into the room, it hit me,
because I'd just smoked a joint in there.
Once I had a shower, cleaned out, walked back in the room,
it's right, it totally smells like manure.
I realized that was because that wasn't composted well enough, that manure.
So then I got really adamant about finding the oldest compost I could find
and really becoming a bit of a compost snob.
And that made that next year, that pot that I grew the second year,
having done my homework after that first year, it was so good.
I measure everything I see to this day against it.
And it was just so fucking good.
And it was one of the things, I had about 17 things mixed in the hole,
and one of them was generous helpings of 100-year-old chicken compost
from a chicken shed that just got tore down and had been exposed to the,
it was just like ground, soft sand almost.
It was really, it had no smell, it was kind of spongy.
And they had 100 years, they'd had a chicken coop there,
they hadn't had chickens in it for about 10 years,
and tore it down, and it had just been rained on for a couple years.
And it was so good.
Really, really exceptional buds that I'll never, ever forget.
The year before, the first year I ever grew,
I had already done a bit more homework than my friends locally.
And one of them, his parents were okay, they lived in the country,
and they said, you can start some here, let's take them away to plant.
So we said, okay.
So I had a sucrets tin with 2,000 seeds from Jamaican wheat
which you managed to get in cans from Montreal, from Jamaican guys there.
And I had those 2,000 seeds, and I went and planted them in trays,
and we transplanted them into little four-inch pots,
and we left them like that.
And then after, once the time they were kind of 2,000 knee-highs,
then his mom started going, that's a lot of little plants,
I want you to start getting those out of here.
And so the one day I popped over to go grab one,
because they were just starting to sex,
and there was one that was really starting to show
like a little cluster of pistils on top,
and it was just the furthest ahead of anything in the female department.
And I just said, I'm just going to take one, you guys can have the rest of them.
And I took that one plant and dug a hole and planted it at the creek near my house,
and that was the first plant I ever grew, and that was from Jamaican.
And it was the only one of 2,000 seeds probably that even finished.
The rest of them probably wouldn't finish in Canada,
but that one just happened to be a real early one, a relatively early one.
And I never smelled or tasted it again until a couple years ago
when I first went to Colombia.
And I visited some plants at a friend's place near Bogota in greenhouses,
and then I flew to Risaraldo, it's another department,
and that's an area that's known for Punta Rojo.
So I thought, oh, I'm going to see some Punta Rojo visiting farms in the hills here.
And the first farm we showed up at, I saw this plant across the yard.
It was a little shorter than the one I had, but it's always 12 hours there.
And I knew it was the same plant from across the yard before I could even smell it.
I said, oh, my God, that looks like the same structure, that first plant I ever grew,
and same coloring in that.
And I got closer, and it totally was, and I could rub it and smell,
and it just like full circle.
I never smelled that.
I got whiffs of it in things, but I never smelled that plant again
until I went to Colombia, and it totally closed the circle for me
because it was like, holy shit, that's the first bud I ever grew is Punta Rojo.
And of course, lots of Colombian seed ended up going through Jamaica,
so there's no doubt in my mind that that first Colombian stuff I had,
it may not have been pure Punta Rojo, it may have been mixed with other Jamaican things,
but it may not have been.
It could have been pure Punta Rojo, but it really, that one expression at least,
it blew my mind, so it was really fun to see that.
And again, as you get older, it's not always about, you know,
you only want the latest and greatest.
You get nostalgic for flavors you miss, you know.
And it's not the strongest one, Punta Rojo, it doesn't put the hurt on anybody.
Just a nice light social smoke, light buzz, but very pleasant tasting,
and definitely, you know, you get stoned from it.
You just maybe don't get as stoned from it as you might from something else
that's 30% THC.
But then again, it's a question of degree, because me with that 30% THC,
people are smoking pinners of, and not the same bats are smoking that other one.
Either six of one, half a dozen of the other, you're still high, everybody's happy.
Yeah, for sure.
It's hard to compare, right?
I just want to quickly jump back though to the Genesis story behind Sweet Tooth,
because I remember when we were able to hang out, you told me it,
and I was like, man, that's such a cool story.
I need to get you to tell that one again.
Specifically, the blueberry mail you were using.
The mail, yeah.
So, of the 1,500 plants I had in my backyard that summer,
and I am going to say that was 1996, and it's a bit fuzzy back then,
but I do believe it was 1996 that summer that I did this big selection in the backyard.
And of this DJ short blueberry seed that Mark Henry had given me,
I think I had five seeds or six seeds or something,
and the females were no great shakes.
I never even kept one.
The mail, there was one mail that had a hard purple top.
It looked like a cluster of dark grapes pointing up, really tight balls.
But the amazing thing about it was it had chromatic resin.
They shone like ball bearings with a metallic chromatic look to them.
They weren't clear, white, amber, cloudy.
They were ball bearings.
They were just shiny metal balls.
And I'd never seen that before, and I don't think I've seen it since,
to see that real, real metal sheen on those stripes.
And so that plant, and visually it was stunning with the green leaves,
dark purple flowers, metallic resin glistening all over it.
I'd never seen that much resin on a mail either.
And when you squeezed it, it reeked of blueberry jam.
It smelled so good of blueberry jam.
And I had one of my three grow rooms in my basement set up that I wanted to seed.
So I was just going to take the best mail from the backyard that summer
and go down and pollinate those, and that's the one I chose.
And the top bud of that plant I actually dried with my coffee cups in the kitchen,
and then I smoked it in little bits in my bong because it was delicious.
It was like licking blueberry pie filling with every bong hit.
It was the most delicious mail.
I don't think I've even smoked other mails.
That mail, it was like, ha, I'm smoking the top of it.
And I left the side branches to take into the room in the basement
that had plants four weeks in or something.
And that mail went off a week or two later and pollinated that room.
So that mail was responsible for fathering sweet tooth, shish kaberry, blue domino,
plum bud, there was a fifth one but I can't remember.
Those four for sure.
But sadly I didn't rejuvenate the mail and keep it because I was really thinking of it
at the time more as a backboard because the other ones I wanted to preserve those plants
and make back cross to the mothers to really try and stabilize a plant representative
of grapefruit, for example.
And I would try it with a different out cross before I did the back cross
to see which ones I could get to making basically a pure sweetened grapefruit.
And essentially that was sweet two three.
That was a cubed version of it.
So once you back cross it, twice you square it, the third time you've cubed it.
And assuming the mother you're working with to begin with is somewhat stable,
by the time you've cubed it, you've got a pretty good representation of it.
It's not exactly the same but it's going to fool most people, even myself sometimes.
I'm sure I would find sweet two threes would be absolute ringers for grapefruit.
But most of them were pretty much like grapefruit.
And any recessives you got were obvious because of the blue.
So it was a fun one to do that with.
And I remember the first time I met Dave Watson, he came up to me at the cup
and he asked me, he said, you bred sweet two three to be homozygous.
He says, I lurk on overgrown cannabis world, those boards.
He says, I see what's going on but I don't boast or talk to anybody.
But he says, I've been watching and I see that you've made a homozygous strain.
And until that one, the only other homozygous strain was skunk number one.
He says, why did you do it?
And I said, everybody's got a plant that they want to get reliable seeds from
but they can't because they've only got this mother.
So I want to give them a reliable backboard that they can make a cross with
and then weed out of the following generations.
Because they can see, okay, this one looks like my mullum bimby, not like sweet two.
So I'm going to keep taking the ones that look like the mullum bimby.
And after a couple of generations, they'll have weeded the sweet two out if they want.
But they'll have reliable seeds of their mullum bimby, relatively speaking.
So I just wanted to put something out stable.
Of course, it's easy to knock off stable seeds.
They're stable.
That's why most seed companies of all stripes, whether they do corn or tomatoes or grass,
don't release stable seeds.
Because A, they're a lot of work.
And B, by the time you get there, anybody can copy them.
But for me, it was like I wanted to put that into the commons
and have people able to use it to do their original work with.
When I see people that are just making knockoffs of it, I'm like, you're missing the point.
This is useful genetics for you to do more than just knockoffs with.
So I think a lot of people would realize that this was segwaying into kind of like
how you had that joint experience with DJ Short, most notably producing the Blue Satellite,
which has gone on to have a huge cult following.
What was your recollection of that experience?
Oh, that was really fun.
So actually, the first blueberry I ever grew out was that male.
And while it was in flower, DJ was visiting Vancouver and came over to my house
and actually was able to see it in person.
And he was like, ooh, you've got a sweet one there.
And of course, he looked a little put out, like I was banging his daughter or something.
But he was okay with it.
He was okay with it.
It was fun.
And there was some mutual respect there.
I'm not just going to make blueberry knockoffs.
That's not what I'm trying to do here.
And he did appreciate what I was doing.
And we both felt the same way.
And I've seen this with other breeders, as they say, why did you get into breeding cannabis?
We just want to make it easier for everybody to grow really good stuff,
because we all believe that there's a conscious evolution waiting to happen in humanity.
And it's just a question of getting enough tasty joints into enough hands.
And the people that wouldn't normally break out of the mold might be tempted to
by something that just smells incredible or tastes incredible.
And it shatters their preconceived notions of the world around us.
So what happened was we both believed in this potential evolution of consciousness
through better cannabis for the masses.
And when I got over to Switzerland and got set up and I was doing it over there,
he got in touch with me and said, hey, I really love what you're doing.
I'd like to come for a visit and discuss some business, making a deal.
I said, sure, come on over.
So him and his darling wife came over and stayed at my place for a bit
and had a look at what we were doing.
And he brought a contract with me for me to sign and said that we should do some releases together
for him to get royalties off of.
It was awesome.
So I said, that's awesome.
I'm honored that you're happy to do that with me.
So he sent me over or brought with him at the time, I can't remember,
but he got a number of seeds into my hand, including this unreleased Berry Sativa line.
The only one he had released was his Blueberry Indica line.
So the Blueberry Sativa was a really interesting one.
It had the squiggly leaves that we think of as TMV, as lots of blueberry does,
whether it's TMV or not, who knows.
But there was that one, and there was the Blueberry Sativa.
There was the Moonshine, or Blue Moonshine, an Old Flow, and maybe a Blue Velvet.
But it might have just been the Moonshine, the Blueberry Sativa, and the Old Flow.
Those were kind of his main three old work lines of seed that was old
and not getting any better and needed to be grown out to do stuff with.
So I said, okay, let me check them out, and I grew them out.
Of the Flow, there was the most diversity in the Flow,
but my very favorites weren't the ones with the nice yielding buds,
but they were this one with little popcorn nugs,
and it really totally smelled like chocolatey Nepalese hash.
It totally had that Nepalese hash aroma to it, and the nugs were no bigger than popcorn.
There was no top bud to speak of.
The top bud, if you look straight down on it, you can see a couple of calyxes
and a cluster of leaves curling upwards like a rose.
From the side, the bottom of those leaves were all mauve,
and the insides would be dark green, but it really looked like a rose,
and it smelled like chocolatey hash, and I called it Rose Bud.
I hid it with the same male as Sweet 2-3, if I believe, BX2P1.
That Rose Bud was my favorite flavor of any.
I called that stuff we did together, I named it the Joint Project.
So I said, okay, we'll do the Joint Project, and I thought, well, I'll do that with TJ.
Maybe I'll do that with some other breeders and sell them under my Joint Project line.
So the Blueberry Sativa, only two of them popped, and they were both females,
so there was no male to use again, unfortunately.
It would have been nice, because we could have kept something going with that.
But I used those two females, both in a room with Sweet 2-3 pollination,
and in a room with Shishkaberry 3 pollination, and made Blue Satellite 1 and 2,
is how it started out.
And then there were subsequent generations of each of those,
but not very long, and relatively small amounts.
We never did a really big production of those seeds,
so they were always just a small section of an indoor room,
but never a whole greenhouse.
Sweet 2-3 I made in a whole greenhouse.
The same with Louie, the Legends Ultimate Indica, and some Blockhead.
I made some seeds in really large amounts.
Once I knew these crosses work really well, we should make a shitload.
So then I would do literally 100 kilos of seed or something of a line if I really liked it.
If I was still just in the early stages of it, I'd consider it dating.
Not going to marry her just yet, but we're going to go out again.
We'd make a cross with them, and I would spread them around the spice testers and that too,
and see what happened.
But the Blue Satellites were well received, and not everybody loved them.
And there was a lot of variation.
All DJ stuff, and he'd tell you himself, there's lots of variation.
He never worked.
He was the absolute opposite of Dave with Skunk No. 1.
Skunk No. 1 was bred to be homozygous.
The blueberry was made to maintain populations,
so it was always a population seeding that he'd been doing,
and never trying to dial it into one pheno.
Two Blue Satellites were quite comparable.
One was a little bit sturdier and nicer than the other one,
but the flow, there was really quite a few distinct phenos.
It was like looking at an adventure mix almost, which was always popular.
To me, that rosebud stole the show.
And the Moonshine was neat.
We did the same cross with the Moonshine, with the Sweet Tooth PX2P1,
and that was Moonshine Rocket Fuel.
Moonshine Rocket Fuel was out for a little while too,
but again, it was kind of a one-hit wonder.
I think it got bought up by one of our customers,
so it was maybe only available through Heaven's Stairway or one of the retailers.
So it wasn't widely represented like Shishkeberry 3 or Sweet Tooth 3.
Those ones got to every country.
They were selling seeds in large volumes.
There was so much Shishkeberry in Spain, you still see Shishkeberry in Spain.
It was funny, when I had the Blue Domino in that first crop,
I had a customer in Ottawa that really liked it early,
and was one of the first to grow out the forage.
He said, I really like this Blue Domino, so he bought the rest of it.
I never made another big batch of Blue Domino, it was just that first F1.
He bought the whole batch of whatever Blue Domino was out.
So it was only available from this store in Ottawa.
People in other parts didn't know it at all,
but if I went to Ottawa, I'd see like 20 different growers with it.
It would just blow my mind to see how regionalised some of those strains were,
just because they weren't released widely.
It would have been interesting if there was more of it,
to see if it stood the test of time.
It may have stood the test of time around Ottawa,
but nobody in Vancouver is growing any Blue Domino, I'm sure,
because it was all sold in Ontario.
Yeah, well, something along that note which has been of interest to me,
I've always wondered what was the landrace, or maybe not landrace,
but the Afghani that you used that went into Shishkaberry like?
Because I think I read somewhere that you actually line worked it for a bit,
or is that not true?
Yes, it was actually the only seed lines that I released with two mothers.
So, I would usually, well, every other one I did was one mother and one female,
whereas with the Shishkaberry I had two workhorse Afghans,
one probably an Afghan hybrid, but very much on the Afghan side.
But you see different Afghans.
Some have a little more slender leaves, some have the real webby ones,
and then there's some that are just kind of thick medium.
Most of them are kind of the thick medium.
They tend to be thicker leaves and thicker plants,
and the leaves are even thicker.
They're not a thin leaf, they're a thick leaf like cardboard,
but they're chunky plants.
They form the basis of all indoor growing genetics,
and they add yield to anything that they're crossed with typically.
So, Afghanis are, you know, they are to indoor what white is to rice.
You know, it's like there is a red line and yellow line.
The red line had red petioles on the leaves.
It was a little more rounded top and chunkier bud, but a little stouter.
And the yellow line was quick to yellow as it got.
It went into fade faster, so it got very yellow as it was getting ripe.
And it was pointier, and it was a little taller and frostier,
but still had that real raw mulching leaf Afghan aroma.
And both the red and yellow were fantastic hash producers.
So, I was really into screening hash.
When you grow seed crops, you get a lot of hash.
The one thing about growing a seed production crop that I love
is I get to smoke every resin gland I grow
and still have a commercial crop without selling a single resin gland.
You know, I get spoiled with hash and collecting it over time.
Some people think hash from seeded plants isn't as good.
I know other people that think it's better.
It's personal preference. I don't think it really matters.
Nobody complained that it hit that melty bubble.
But those plants have really large resin glands,
and crossing them both at the same time with that blueberry,
you know, in a good chunky rose of it,
if I had maybe five types of weed or six types of weed in that room for that pollination.
So, there was a substantial amount of it on that F1 at least.
And then there was only more after that.
They were so popular, the blueberry really elevated it.
So, you were still getting a big, fat, chunky, frosty bud,
but you would get some more fruit in it and some more color.
Like, instead of just being all the same olive-y green color,
it would have streaks of purple.
And instead of just smelling like mulching leaves,
it smelled like a little subois, perhaps, but very much fruity.
So, it totally elevated it and still was a good commercial option.
And the thing that any seed producer, unless times have changed,
but back then, most growers were really only interested in commercial seed.
The guys that were growing for their head, they were still out there,
but they were in the minority.
So, I prefer to breed stuff that tasted fantastic or had a nice uplifting kick.
But most people were really concerned about yield and time and bag of peel
because they're commercial growers.
So, any seed company at the time realized that the market was for commercial seed.
And shish kabob every year would probably be 80% of the sales
because it was the top-yielding plant and people want the big, heavy thing.
And to me, it was not my favorite flavor of grass,
but it was one of my favorites for making hash.
It would yield maybe three times the hash of the same amount of sweet tooth trim.
Wow.
And the glands would stack up in higher screens.
You have a 220 work bag and then you've got your 190 and 160 and everything underneath it.
The 190 would melt.
It would bubble, big, shiny bubbles.
The resin glands were humongous on that.
I've never seen bigger resin glands on any other cannabis, actually.
So, I did the red and yellow lines, the F1s.
I kept them going and crossed them back together along the way.
And Shish Kabob 3, which was released from Switzerland,
was a bit of a representation of all three parents in one.
Yeah, okay.
So, it's interesting you touched on that consumer point
because when I was looking through the Spice of Life catalog, so to speak,
something that caught my eye was Donk.
And the reason why was because of the fact that one of the parents
was more of a cash cropper type of thing from the description.
Was that your attempt to offer a more commercial strain?
Yeah, you know what?
There was a couple of Spice releases over the years, very few,
but a couple that were done by a friend of mine or different friends.
So, one European, I had a friend that did one called
it was a cross of Mighty Might and Heavy Hammer and we called it Heavy Hummer.
So, that was the first one that was just a seed.
I hadn't grown, but I let out under my catalog
because it was from one of my best friends.
And I said, yeah, that's pretty cool.
Let's put it out there because he wasn't going to start a seed company or anything.
And then the Donk was sort of the same thing.
It was a friend I had in the Kootenays and I was out visiting him
and he was like, hey, I just crossed this.
He was like, what do you think?
I was like, you know what?
People love giant buds.
So, let's see, we put it out.
Let's do it.
So, that was one that I didn't breed, but I released.
Okay, cool.
Did you ever consider trying to make a strain purely to suit the consumer market
or were you just like, look, if something ends up yielding big, that's cool?
Well, the consumer were the ones buying the big stuff from the growers.
So, the home growers that cared a lot less, they might buy something like Rosebud.
Now, I put, I don't remember exactly, but I figure Shishkaberry was listed
in the grams per meter, grams per watt kind of thing a little bit on the higher side.
Sweet Tooth in the middle and most of them in the middle,
whether it was the Blue Domino or Blockhead or other things.
But the Rosebud, I think I put on a dismal for yield instead of heavy, medium, heavy, medium.
I put dismal beside yield on the description of it.
And people would say, what does dismal mean?
I would say, maybe 50 grams a square meter, 70 grams a square meter.
They're like, oh my God, that's nothing.
Why would I grow that?
Tasted it.
You know, if you're lucky enough to smoke a giant of it, you're like, oh, fuck.
I would grow that for the rest of my life just for myself.
Nobody's ever going to be growing that to sell until it's wide open legal
and they can afford the economy of scale.
But a lot of the best tasting grass is the worst yielding grass.
And that doesn't compute with the indoor grower in a prohibition scenario
because they don't have the luxury of finding the luxury buyers
that will pay extra to have something exotic.
They have to have something good looking, generic bud.
It's got to be fat, frosty, and green.
That's the basic parameters of what they need to sell.
They can't advertise it in rich and famous magazines
so that Arnold Schwarzenegger can buy $1,000 grams of it
because that market's not there yet.
When it's wide open legal and it can be like an auction
for Domaine Romani Conti,
how many people get to drink a bottle of Domaine Romani Conti?
Not very many.
They don't make a lot of wine.
And as a result, supply and demand dictates that that shit is expensive
and it's a luxury good.
Without a doubt.
You'll think that too, where you think, jeez, there's only X amount of this bud.
The people that think you can grow high-quality bud indoors
are missing the point.
It's like they think you can make high-quality wine out of wine kits.
It's not high quality.
You might be okay with it,
but that doesn't mean it's actually high quality.
There's more to it than just consistency.
The best, tastiest things like that have a year on it
because they're not consistent year to year.
They're a product of that year.
The vintage of the harvest is as important to outdoor
as the variety you're growing,
let alone who was growing it or taking care of it
and who was making sure it was cured well and dried well that year.
The same vineyard in France may be there for the last 200 years
making fantastic first growth in Bordeaux.
The winemakers changed every 20 years over that time.
The vineyard is still this famous thing.
It's not the winemaker at that point.
It's that land.
That land expresses that variety the best,
and that becomes recognized with time.
Some of that time is...
We're at a true renaissance in cannabis right now.
It really is a mind-blowing time if you're a cannabis lover to be alive.
I can remember when I started campaigning for it,
as it were, when I was 14, 15, in high school debates and whatnot.
Just talking to everybody,
you know, I said, well, cannabis has to be legal.
It's just not fair.
It's a herb.
It doesn't make sense.
It's part of the planet.
It just struck me as evil and wrong from a very young age.
I never wasted a day not talking about it with people.
But to think, nowadays, it blows my mind.
I was walking into dispensaries a year or two ago,
and I'd see electric joints,
like pre-filled disposable oil pens with sweet tooth in them.
You're just like, if you had told me that in 96,
I would have believed, I always believed cannabis would be legal.
But if you had told me, I'm going to walk into stores one day,
and people that don't know me are going to try selling me pen electric joints
full of sweet tooth oil, I'm just going to be tickled pink.
I couldn't believe it.
It was just like, holy shit.
It's a whole new paradigm.
Yeah, totally.
Something that has come up in the last few episodes,
which you just touched on, is the idea of terroir,
and more importantly, how can we in this modern age
establish new appellations for cannabis?
What is your thoughts on that?
Well, it's an excellent question.
I think it is certainly an underappreciated aspect of,
it's part of cannabis that seems obvious to me,
but I know plenty of people, they're still learning their varieties,
and they would rather have that well-leached hydro
and taste the pure varietal character.
Absolutely got no problem with that.
But the thing that is increased in the plant is in the terroir,
it really brings out more, and it adds something to it,
in a good way or a bad way.
So some places don't have a great terroir for grass,
some places do, and some they're just different.
And places with limestone, and with a lot of lime in the soil,
tend to give you limier green buds that are sweeter.
Limestone sweetens soil, that's how they describe it,
sweetening soil.
Limestone sweetens soil, and you see it sweetens grass.
The different pH affects the grass.
A lot of people will turn it down at the end in the hydro system,
so the plant shuts down and stops taking up so much nutrient.
Each to their own, there's lots of ways to whatever you're trying to do.
I know between Ontario and BC grass, the same varieties,
I can generally taste which province it's from,
even if it's grown in Rockwell.
And that's to do with the water, not the soil.
But if you think of a one design race,
it's a good competition of the captain's skills or the skipper's skills.
They're all racing the exact same little sailboat,
and there's no technical advantage.
It's really just the experience and skill of the captain.
And with a clone, I would like to see competitions like this,
whereby grower gets the same clone,
and they might be in different scenarios,
but they're all going to bring you back a different bud as a result.
And if you take the same clone,
say you took a clone of your favourite mullum bimby madness,
and you planted that in one part of Jamaica,
another part of Jamaica, another part of Mexico,
somewhere in California, somewhere in Oregon, somewhere in Ontario,
I guarantee you, you're going to be able to tell the difference.
You may not know where they're from,
but you're going to be able to say,
wow, this one really tastes different than this one.
Often I find it is even clay.
Like if there's some clay in the soil, you can taste the clay in the herb.
And it is apparent.
And this brings me back to another sesh with DJ Short.
Early on, maybe the second or third time I met him,
and it was the first time I'd smoked his bud,
was at the Melsweg at a cannabis cup in Amsterdam.
And he'd brought or sent over a few of his buds from his backyard.
And when we were smoking a joint of his flow,
and it was the first time I'd ever smoked a joint of flow,
and he rolled this joint up and passed it to me.
And I took one puff of it, or maybe even on the dry tote,
maybe before I took a puff of it.
He might remember if somebody wants to ask.
I had to puff it, whether it was dry or lit.
And I said, it tastes like beets.
And he just looked at me and smiled, and he says, I grew that in my beets.
Wow.
You know, it comes through.
Whatever you're putting it in comes through.
So that flow had the terroir of beets, because it was touching beets.
It was coexisting with them and feeding off of them, potentially.
It was wrapped around the beets, and it came through in the bud.
And it was the first tasting note I gave him, was, hey, it tastes like beets.
And it did, for a very good reason.
So he was quite surprised.
And he pulled out his flavor wheel we'd been developing,
and we realized we were both really into taste.
We both loved good cannabis flavors.
And he's a really zen man, and I always enjoyed his company.
I haven't talked to him in a dog's age, but it wouldn't hurt.
Yeah, that's interesting.
I mean, if people haven't picked up on it thus far,
clearly a bit of a wine connoisseur,
what was it that inspired you to get into wine, and what's your favorite type?
Well, wine is a parallel universe to cannabis.
They're both sort of mild, flavorful intoxicants that enhance everyday life.
I enjoy wine as much as I enjoy cannabis, probably.
We're damn close.
And I wouldn't really say I have a favorite type,
but I like wine that's clean, not dirty.
And I like it.
Some people don't mind a little barnyard in it.
I'm more technical.
I like wine to be very clean.
I do like to try varietal wines.
I also love having blended wines.
There's not a right or wrong that way, and it's not even a red or white thing.
I appreciate every wine on its own merits,
whether it's a Riesling or a Chardonnay or a Pickpool or a Columbard.
My favorite white I had in Australia was a Columbard from Primo Winery in McLaren Vale.
I believe that was my favorite white I tried in Australia.
And I was not expecting that much fruit from Columbard.
I don't think anyone in Canada grows it.
I was actually thinking of planting some.
But, yeah, I really enjoy wine, and I really get off on learning about it
from people that have been doing it more than me.
And I've been doing it quite a while.
In 15 years, I've made real wine.
And that's half as long as I've done cannabis,
but I've been doing it a lot more in the last 15 than cannabis.
So I would say at this point, they're fairly even as far as terms of appreciation go
and understanding.
The thing is I've got one friend who's got a vineyard of different clones of Pinot Noir,
and he'll make a matrix of barrels with really high-end French barrels.
He'll maybe use four different forests with a couple different toast levels,
and he'll have, like, say, three sets of those.
So there's three sets of the same barrels,
and then he'll take the three different clones of Pinot Noir
and put one into one set of barrels, one into the other set of barrels,
and one into the last set.
So you might have clone 555 and 702.
I can't remember the numbers of the clones for the Pinot,
but the difference between each of those Pinots is apparent.
But when you frame it in the different oaks, it gives you a different perception of them too.
But after you've tried them in all the sets against this matrix of them,
then it's really a lot of fun tasting.
And we end up taking breaks to smoke a joint, and we end up blasted at the end of it.
We listen to music, and it's all fun.
And we really have too much fun in our wine cellars.
But the flavors is what it's all about to us,
and we both love the nose and the taste.
And as you get to do it, once you've done it enough, blindfolded,
you could recognize those different Pinot Noirs.
Now most sommeliers, which people think of as real wine experts,
they couldn't tell you what clone is in that Pinot Noir.
It's a next level of appreciation.
They can tell you it's Pinot Noir.
They can probably tell you the producer, the country, the vintage.
But can they break down what clones are in it?
There's always somebody that knows more than you.
So it's really good when you're humble enough to accept that
and lucky enough to learn from those people.
It's no point coming out thinking you know everything
because you never learn anything after that.
You always keep learning.
And if you enjoy stuff, it's hard not to because you're obsessed with it.
Yeah, certainly.
So just out of a little personal curiosity, what's your favorite red?
That's what I'm into.
Oh, you know, I don't have one favorite.
I rotate between them like crazy.
Like I don't not like Shiraz, but I get tired of it quick.
Really good Pinot, I never get tired of.
Black Luster Pinot, can't take it, you know.
But I've been drinking more South American wine lately
because when I go down, I take some wine with me as gifts usually.
But I like to drink some South American stuff when I go out in the restaurants.
I'm always ordering Carmoniere or something like that.
I do like Carmoniere and I really love, like if I had to pick one fine wine,
which is kind of what you're asking,
I think I would take Brunello di Montalcino,
which is typically fantastic examples of Sangiovese.
And it gets one of my favorite characteristics is red licorice.
When they smell like red licorice, and some of my best Merlots even,
they'll smell like blackberry licorice, like the purple licorice.
And my God, if they smell like red or purple licorice, I'm in love.
And roses too.
And Brunello's one, I often get red licorice and roses.
Those are the noses I want from red wine most of the time.
You know, I'm open to black cherry and you name it.
But overall, if I had to pick one, like if you're saying, what's your favorite?
If I was stuck on the desert island, I would want a cellar full of 97 Brunellos.
I was in Switzerland when they came out in 2002 and they were divine.
And I was supposed to stockpile a bunch and save it for a long time
and or sell it back to my local wine merchant.
And I drank them all way too young.
If I could have anything back, give me a cellar full of 97 Montalcinos.
There you go.
Well, I mean, on a similar point of, you know, high end Connoisseur products,
I wanted to know your thoughts on recently.
We've seen a small amount or maybe you might say a little more than small,
but an amount of controversy surrounding the recent sale of $100 in the States.
Do you feel like there's room for the extremely high end cannabis market
or do you feel like we're forever bound by it?
I think it's not even the tip of the iceberg yet
because the very best producers historically
could not make themselves known to the wider market.
People saw some, but where'd you get that?
I can't tell you, you know, but once everybody's able to know,
then the forces of supply and demand are going to drive the price of the best stuff up.
And $100 each is a tip of the iceberg for sure.
And I've got nothing against that.
If it was the only price for cannabis, I have something against that.
But if you can go and buy a $20 each beside it,
if something's still decent, I think that's fair.
I think that's fair.
That's okay.
There's only so much, you know, let the consumers decide.
If nobody will pay $100 each, it'll go away.
You know?
Yeah, well, that's exactly what I've kind of been thinking.
And the underlying point of the discussion that I think gets missed
is that no one who bought these eights was forced to.
That's right.
That's a free market, free will, whatever you want.
Maybe one day I'll sell $100 each, but before I do, I want to sell $10 ounces.
There you go.
Well, something which I think is an interesting aspect of the whole discussion
is that there are some people who say that we're forever, as a market, so to speak,
going to be bound, or we should bound ourselves, by the fact that,
to certain people, this is medicine.
Do you think that that argument is going to be able to stand the test of time
or it's a little faulty?
I'm all for producing dirt cheap medicine,
and I'm putting my money where my mouth isn't doing it.
There's a big difference between people that need the molecule as medicine
and people that want the sexiest bud.
You know?
You can have medicine in a nondescript jar.
It doesn't have to be the sexiest bud.
It can be a dropper.
It can be a pill.
It can be a potion, a cream that you rub on your hands.
People want to buy boutique bud.
That's different than the medical market.
Do medical people deserve boutique buds?
Absolutely, but if they don't learn to grow them themselves,
they're going to have to learn to pay for them,
and if they're not happy with just the raw ingredient,
because mass-produced, field-grown will make the medical compounds
very, very affordable.
So if medical is your thing, probably a tincture works for you.
Right?
Yeah.
So if tinctures can…
My plan for first-world pricing is I can keep somebody medicated
on field-grown tinctures for $1 a day retail.
So if all the patients can be covered for $1 a day,
that's going to work for all but the absolute poorest humans.
You know?
It's going to work for most of the humans that have access
to any sort of pharmaceutical.
You know?
Yeah, definitely.
If you can buy it, you should be able to buy cannabis,
and it shouldn't be reserved for the rich.
But that's not to say that boutique bud can't be for the rich.
It absolutely can be, and it always has been.
Yeah, definitely.
So just to wrap up our kind of little discussion of talking around the world,
the different terroirs and whatnot,
as we've referenced a few times already,
recently you were down under and you also went a few other places.
What was your impression of the various cannabis scenes
and places where you stopped in?
Well, I can tell that there's an appreciation amongst many Aussies
for cannabis, and there is an absolute ignorance about it by the majority.
So democracy is Greek for oppressing minorities, I believe is the translation.
But as a minority, cannabis lovers in Australia face an uphill battle
because they have a very authoritarian regime descended from the Queen,
and they really are not nice about cannabis in Australia overall.
And you and many others recommended I don't travel with any, even domestically,
which I never even think about in Canada.
I just throw it in my bag and away I go.
But down there you guys told me not to travel domestically with it,
and I didn't, and I'm glad I didn't,
because everywhere I went I heard the same thing,
say, oh, don't bring it in your bag, you won't get there with it.
So it was kind of hard for me and a little bit sad to go back to seeing it
where people had to be a lot more covert about it still.
And it took me back, and in a way it was kind of an amusing nostalgia,
but it was disappointing at the same time,
because I know there's solid people keeping it real, case in point yourself.
But you still got to mind your P's and Q's to not have the neighbor turn you in.
It's all, it's hard.
And what in the world do you think people get in death penalties for cannabis and stuff?
It's just too much.
Why do people feel that entitled to rule us?
I don't get it.
I don't consent to be ruled in that way.
Definitely.
So one thing I wanted to quickly ask you,
because I should have said it earlier, but it slipped my mind.
You mentioned Blockhead, and I think you're kind of talking about Bode
and how he was using it and stuff.
One of the things I found interesting about that was,
I think a lot of people would have got exposure to Blockhead through Snow Lotus,
because I think that got a lot of traction.
Absolutely.
So yeah, how did you feel about that when you realized that that was incorporated
and then it was taking off in its own right, the Snow Lotus, so to speak?
That I loved.
I want people to use them in their own stuff.
That's what it's for.
And I love to see the recognition when they say,
hey, I made this Snow Lotus, it's half Blockhead and half whatever else.
That's cool.
That's cool as shit.
I got no problem with that.
Even if you want to make straight-up block-off knockheads,
if you call them square dome and put Blockhead in brackets,
say I made this from a Blockhead back cross, that's cool too.
I have no problem with that.
It's just if there's a potential for customers to be confused down the road,
which they have if they have the authentic one or they've got this next version
of it, that leads to confusion that bothers me.
I've got absolutely no problem, and I do wish the guy all the best,
because I know when I didn't talk to him ever directly,
but I know his friends were speaking for him and were apologetic and said,
don't worry, the guy's going to discontinue that.
He'd give you the rest of the CS.
I don't want anything from him.
He doesn't have to even stop selling them.
I'd rather he just change the name.
And you can still call it Blockhead back cross in brackets.
It's what it is.
That's fine.
But call it something that identifies it as yours so that when other people get
it, they don't see, oh, well, this isn't the same as the Blockhead I had the first
time or whatever.
I'm really not trying to be a dick about it.
I just want people to know it's really cool when they respect the origins of
what they're using.
I always tried to do that myself, but I always gave stuff an original name too,
because what you release is yours.
Yeah.
It's not mine.
So, I mean, on the topic of Blockhead, I did want to ask, it's one of those ones
which also has, or at least online, it commonly says that it uses an unknown
strain as one of the parents.
Are you able to tell us a little bit about that one?
It was the same father as the Sweet 2-3, the BX2P1, which is the most stable male
they had for hitting anything and really a vigorous specimen.
It had very thick, dark green leaves.
It was pretty much impervious to mildew.
It was just a real champion of a dad, that one.
But I used that one on a Product 19, which came from an American grower named
Soos, and he was in Vancouver for a while.
He came up from Oregon, and he had a couple of his own strains, and he kept
them close to himself.
He sold the bud downtown once in a while, and some people would get a seed or
whatnot.
This one guy that claimed to have done some trimming for him owed me some money,
and he came by and said, well, I don't have that money, but I got paid in seeds
from trimming for Soos.
So he says, if you want, I can pay you back in seeds.
And he owed me money for a long time.
I didn't even know if the seeds were really from Soos or what.
I just said, you know what, let's see, what have you got?
So I just took the seeds in lieu of the debt.
And I didn't grow them out in Canada, but I took them with me to Switzerland,
and there was two kinds.
There was a BKS, which was like big Korean skunk, and I never actually did
anything with that.
I think the seeds got stolen even.
And the other one was Product 19, or P19 for short.
That was the unknown mother, if anywhere says it was unknown.
It was the P19, Product 19, or Project 19.
I was never clear on it.
We just always called it P19.
Whether it was Project or Product, I wasn't clear on.
But it was really weird dude.
The guy was a super weird dude.
And I was always wondering if it was the grass that made him weird,
or if he made his grass weird.
Because his vibe, because he had a weird vibe to him, but his grass did too.
So you'd smoke his grass, and it was really a strong,
but almost off-putting for a lot of people.
And I know people would say, I smoked that.
I was looking out the curtains, paranoid, and wigging out.
Like some people really got a wig out on some of the strains.
So it was really unusual stuff, and it was totally unrelated to everything
else in my stable.
So I planted those, and I found one really sharp mother out of it that I liked
better than the rest.
And she was a big, chunky, frosty thing.
And it had a very unusual aroma, almost vinyl.
Like sometimes a Riesling has a vinyl smell.
It was very similar to that.
It had this kind of an artificial smell.
And the quality of the resin was very unusual too.
It was extremely greasy.
And when you made bubble hash from it, it actually would,
when you put the hash on the drying screens,
it would melt through the drying screens.
Even if you put it on like a 15, when you went to pick it up,
it was stuck to whatever was underneath it.
And you just couldn't handle it unless it was frozen.
It was really the greasiest resin I've ever seen.
It was really unusual.
And it was always a certain color, like, yeah, bizarre.
But it was strong.
And it definitely put the wig out on a lot of people, I think.
I never had it tested in the lab,
but I would see growers in the States that had access to testing,
and they would post results of it cracking 30 every time, basically.
Every time I saw a blockhead analysis,
it was over 30%.
So that's not extremely common.
And it particularly wasn't 20 years ago.
Yeah, okay.
I just wanted to bring up a comment made by one of our past guests,
Shahbaz of 707 Seedbank.
I think I've seen you even kind of briefly interacting with him in the comments,
but he's played with the blockhead a little bit,
doing some various filial projects and whatnot.
And a comment he made which really grabbed my attention was he said,
all of Breeder Steve's stuff, you grow it outdoors,
but it looks like it's indoors.
And he said, it's like all these strains are like that.
And you just never see that across a lot of breeders.
Have you heard that comment yourself?
And if so, like, why do you think that's the case?
Yeah, all the time.
And I know why that's the case.
And I told you earlier,
I always do a selection round outside every year and then two inside.
So there was always, every year,
every strain was being selected to work outside,
but it was also selected twice more to work inside.
So most breeders don't take the effort to do selections outside
and their plants don't work outside.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's interesting because he said that it was such a benefit because,
you know, like he said it a bit tongue in cheek, but he said, you know,
like he could pass it off for like much more at dispensaries because they
thought it was indoor.
Constantly.
You know what, I've seen this so many times and I hear all these people,
especially today too, now that Canada is going to allow outdoor.
And all these people say, yeah, but outdoor sucks.
I was like, look,
you couldn't even tell the difference if I gave you some proper outdoor,
you wouldn't have a clue.
Cause it looks just as good and it may taste even better.
You know, outdoor bud can be, hey bud is bud.
is healthy and reaching its full potential, there's literally no telling if it was indoor
or outdoor. If it was abused outdoor, it looks like outdoor. If it was grown somewhere where
it doesn't really work, it looks like bad outdoor. But if it's somewhere where it's
happy and acclimatized, there's no reason you would ever know if it was indoor or outdoor.
The people that tell you that are simply haven't experienced that.
Yeah, totally. Alrighty, well that brings us to the tail end of the interview. We've
got a little quickfire questions. So, first one I wanted to shoot your way. What's the
most memorable weed or hash or concentrate, you know, anything with cannabis so to speak,
most memorable experience you've ever had with it?
That's a tough one, man. That's a tough one. I think I can break it down a bit. I'll say
the most memorable weed was the second year I grew that Northern Lights that stuck in
my head and calibrates my bud forever. The nicest hash, the most spectacular hash I ever
had that I made was the incredible blue satellite, the blueberry sativa mother. The full melt
I pulled off of her looked like tiger's eye. That gem, you could see into it like rays
of gold into this amber chunk. It was so spectacular. I did have pictures of that a long time ago,
this tin I had it in. It was really something. I've never seen hash that looked like that
before or since. That blew me away. The biggest, the best hit I ever had was at Legends of
Hashish, a Lebanese restaurant in Amsterdam. Dave pulled out his old Afghan hookah, a traditional
one that was really like a family keepsake. It was maybe 200 years old or something like
this. It was a very ornate, beautiful old hookah with a solid wood pipe stem on it.
He loaded up the bowl as he does with full melt dry sift. It was like seven-year-old
haze resin or something like this, an absolute full melt. He literally packed grams of it
into this bowl. It's a room full of hash makers and hash dealers and hash lovers that we've
taken over this restaurant. He goes, sets up the thing and he says, who's going to help
me light this? Nobody in the room wanted to stand up and go over and hit it. He said,
come on guys, who's the fucking stoner here? Who's hardcore? Come on, who's going to help
me light this? He was ready with his wooden matches to light this big stinky bowl of haze
melt. I remember going, I was embarrassed because nobody would get up there all looking
around like, no way, I'm not going to light that thing. They were all happy to smoke little
pipes of it. Of course, it was a really extravagant hit and everybody knew it was going to be
a lung buster and going to drop them. That was one of two times in my life I had temporary
amnesia from cannabis. I went in, I said, fuck it. I got up, went over to the middle
of the room, crouched down, took the wooden stem in my hand. He's like, give it a big
couple of big huffs to get the thing going. I was like, okay. I take this big lung busting
blast off of this thing and stand up and bust a lung for a second and go back to my table
and sit down by the window at my table. I'm looking out the window at the Amsterdam street
scene outside going by. A minute later or so, I look at the people at my table and I'm
like, I don't know who any of these people are. I'm looking around the room, I don't
know who any of these people are. I was looking out the window, going, fuck, I don't even
know where I am. Then I was like, what's my name? I couldn't remember my name. I literally
couldn't remember my name. I knew it was that I was just really stoned that it was going
to pass. It was weird because I really had this genuine temporary amnesia from that one
blast of lighting that damn hookah. That was a legendary hit. I will never forget that.
I'll be eternally grateful to Dave for that bloody hit because it stoned me to the bone.
It was great. After five minutes or something, I just sat there quietly. Nobody realized
I was tripping out. They must have assumed I was tripping out. Once I got going, a few
people went over and took a puff of it. Dave was puffing away on it. He's hardcore. I was
lit from that. After a couple of minutes, I was like, okay, I know where I am now. I
can drink the beer. Chill out. You're good. That was a blast. For the grass, hash, and
best hit. Was there another question?
Yeah, it's a follow up. Is Dave a CIA agent?
Well, he probably puffs the toughest of all of them if he is. I would not say he's a CIA
agent. I can understand why some people are suspicious of Americans that get off lightly
and disappear into foreign scenes. I can see the issue. I think many people facing what
these people are facing in those scenarios would probably do what they had to not die in prison.
But I really don't think the guy's a CIA agent.
Well, there you go. That answers the question. Next one. The opposite end of the spectrum.
Instead of the most memorable experience, well, maybe it's the same question in a different way.
What was the most memorable worst experience?
I'll tell you one that pissed me off was when I was younger. I was 18 or 19. I was traveling
around Central America for winter. I was on an island, Key Cocker in Belize. There was a rasta
about my age named Jimmy the Lion. He had some nice bud from Orange Walk in Corazol,
northern Belize. He was out at the island. I said, hey, man, we'll buy some of that bud off you and
we can all smoke it together because I was the visiting backpacking tourist with a few bucks
and they were poor locals. I said, let me buy some of that bud off you and we'll just smoke
it together because that's nicer than a lot of the Belizean bud I've seen. I told them, I said,
listen, because it's a small island and there's a cop riding in circles around on a bike checking
us out suspiciously wherever you went. I said, let's go to, there was a palapa at the end of
this dock that was a private dock that wasn't ours. We just went out there. We sat in the rafters with
his radio and I said, let's put all the weed into one big joint. We'll smoke it. Then we're going
into the beach to do some fishing. Then we barbecued fish over coconut husks with a grill
popped up on four coconuts and the lime tree behind us to squeeze lime on the fish. I'd give another
rasta a few bucks to go get some rice and he'd grate coconut and we'd boil the rice. We'd have
like this rasta cookout going on the beach. We were smoking a joint and I said, put all the weed
in that joint so that if the cop comes by, we can ditch the joint and nobody has anything on them.
He told me, okay, I put it all in this big fat joint. We would roll it in banana leaves because
you couldn't get papers. The banana leaves or almond leaves weren't too bad even if you got
them the right age. This cop drive by, it looked like a kid on a bike. He must have been like 18
or something. He had shorts and a camo t-shirt and a black beret. I was like, was that one of
the cops? He's like, yeah. I'm like swatting the joint out of their hand because there's about
five or six of us. There was a few hippies from California in that circle and a few locals.
As the cop drove by, he was looking at the joint and then looking at me and just staring me straight
in the eye because somebody was trying, a Californian dread was trying to pass me the joint.
He was talking to people on the other side of him. He was totally oblivious to this little
cop on the bike riding by us on the beach. As soon as the guy got past the bush, I was like,
he's going to come back. I swat the joint out of the guy's hand and with my left toe,
I pushed it into the sand. That cop was running right back over with his gun out.
He didn't have his gun. He came running back over yelling. He's like, hey, you need to go get the
gun. He was saying something about, go get the gun if we didn't cooperate because we're all
bigger than him. He's like, you all got to cooperate with me. He's going off to us. He goes
around and he comes straight to me and searches me first. The only thing I have on is a bathing
suit with my room key in it, nothing else. I'm standing on the joint. He's checking my pockets.
He goes, okay, what did you do with the joint? I saw you were going to have it. I was like,
I don't have a joint. Then he went around the circle and checked everybody.
Jimmy the lion still had a bud in his pocket that he didn't put in the joint.
They busted him and dragged him into their little shitty one room police station with
the cell underneath it. I was a couple doors down at the little hotel I was staying or hostel
and all night that guy sang Bob Marley songs through the bars and it kept the whole island
awake. I just stayed there the whole night just feeling so bad that this poor bastard is hauled
in and now they may take him to the jail in Belize city, which is a real shitty, shitty jail.
And I thought this nice young rasta guy for one fucking herb stock.
That has always been the worst buzz kill is when you're enjoying a beautiful buzz with wonderful
people and really having a good environment. Then the man comes in and kicks sand in your face.
And it's like, fuck you guys. I really have no respect for the law. It's just because of pot laws.
Yeah, totally. Okay. So next one, if you're on a desert island and you can only have
two or three strains, what would you pick?
Yeah. Real original Colombian gold, maybe that rose bud and the sweetest of the sweet tooth.
The real sweet, sweet tooth had a real great candy taste like great lollipops almost. You see,
I had friends from California that thought it was great. When they came to visit me,
one time you're spoken and they're like, this is just like grape. It's been around a long time.
And I was like, well, this is a new cross, but I can see if maybe he has similar parents or something.
And my favorite sweet tooth was actually some of my favorite herbs of all time. There's a real
sweet tooth. There's nothing sweeter. Like just for straight up rot your teeth, sweet flavor.
That's it. And it didn't have any other characters that I didn't like. Some herbs that's a little bit
sweet might have some kind of rot or other smells too that I don't like as much, but the best sweet
tooth were my favorite for the candy flavored herb. The original Colombian gold is my favorite
for a real high cherry note and like an absolute succulent perfume. Totally love it. But if I had
to take a third herb, I think the mother of that rosebud, that little popcorn flow, it just was
like chocolate and you never have grass. I had a couple of chocolate herbs, but nothing that
chocolate. It was real hashy chocolate taste. It really reminded me of Nepalese temple bowl,
the real stuff. So I think those three would be diverse enough to satisfy my palate if I could
only have three. Okie dokie. It's a good selection. So if you could have one strain back that you'd
lost over the years, which one would you get back? Oh, that's a good question. There's been a few,
but I think it wouldn't be a strain per se, but a selections I've had of a strain that were
the only time I've seen true sterile females. I really regret losing those cuttings.
I had seeds. There was a release I had called tight skunk. It was a Ryan's killer. It was the
bag seed mother. We'd call it Ryan's killer. When I grew out the Ryan's killer, which was when
eighths of pot were $40 in Vancouver, twice a year, this one guy came out with some that was
a friend of a friend and she was selling herbs and she sold this other guys for 40. But when this Ryan
guys came out from lower mainland, it was 55. It was like, wow, 55. And they were like, wow,
this is very nice. And she's like, it's super strong. So I tried some and I go, okay. It's
really different too. It had a real sandalwood smell and taste. So everybody in my house got
an eighth and they all found a couple of seeds and they gave them to me. So I sprouted them and I got
six plants up. All three were females. Three of them had pistols and three of them had no pistols.
And the ones with no pistols would not take a seed covered in pollen with males right all over
them. They would not make a seed. So I actually had the perfect example of sterile females.
Now I've heard of a number of people have messed around trying to make them
through various techniques. And they're generally trying to induce polyploidy. And
I've gone back in my mind a million times about what people were doing back then. And I've got
a pretty good idea how to get back to it. And it's a little different than what most people
are trying. So I don't want to say much more about it because I feel like it's like a great
arms race right now that whoever comes out with the sterile female first wins. Because what that
does for outdoor cultivation is nothing short of evolutionary. If you've got a problem with hemp in
your neighborhood, which many Canadians do, they can't grow outdoors. There's too much hemp around
them. If we could induce sterility into their plants without otherwise making them different,
it would be a huge game changer. And even indoors, producers will have a hermion. I've seen
customers of the biggest LPs in Canada complain about getting seeds in their bud. Come on,
people. You shouldn't still be selling seedy bud if you're not trying to sell seedy bud.
So it would be really easy to correct that for all of them. I could take a cutting from anybody
and send it back to them sterilized in a few months. And the only difference in the bud would
be that it didn't have any pistils. So that was really an amazing plant to find. Nobody I've ever
talked to has ever seen a similar one. Obviously, whoever else grew those seeds saw it, but probably
didn't realize the significance of it at the time, as I didn't. Because I'd only been growing for less
than 10 years at that point. And I just thought, hey, I've just never seen this before, but I'm
sure I'll see it again. I never saw it again. So I really, really, really regret letting those go.
I'd left the house where I had them. I sold the lease to a friend and I wanted to move to another
house out on the ocean, which was gorgeous. But when I said, listen, I'm going to move out there,
I'll sell you the lease on my place, the grow room set up, all the plants are there,
equipment, it's all yours. So I sold him the place and I left. And I said, I'm going to come
back in a couple of months when I get something else set up, I'll come back and get cuttings
and everything. And when I came back, he'd cleaned out like half the stuff. And he'd lost them. He's
like, oh, I lost this. I lost that one too. He's like, oh no. I said, fuck, I was just
telling myself that I didn't spread it around a little bit more. Because the strains that I was
so proud of early on and shared far and wide, they're still around. They're more far and wide
than they ever were, because people have shared them in an ongoing way. So like a sweet skunk,
there's so much sweet skunk or grapefruit in BC, let alone in the West Coast. It'll never be gone
because it's out there. It would be like trying to get rid of oxygen at this point. There's so
much of it out there, you're just never going to get rid of it.
Yeah, no, totally. Okay. So, on to our lucky last question. If you could go back in time to one place
to collect landrace seeds, any place, any point in time, where would you go and what would you get?
Hmm. I think I would go to Equatorial Africa, 2019. I love the good African Equatorial strains.
There's Congo, Nigerians, and Angolans. And I don't think they've changed that much
in the last thousand years, you know. Maybe they have, but I don't know.
They really have some amazing aromas, and a little different effect, being that they're a little
higher in THCV than many other places. Yeah, it's not that I need to go back in time. I just need to
go and travel through some of these areas that I think still hold amazing landrace stuff, you know.
Like, if you go to Angola, the chances of everything being polluted with blue cush are
pretty low. But if you smoke Angola, and I know friends in BC that grow Angolan,
it's fabulously delicious. It really is. And it's up there with some of the Asian ones,
but I think it's a little bit better even than like Burmese and Vietnamese and that. I tend to
like the Africans just a hair better than the Asians. Yeah, I think it's a little bit better
a hair better than the Asians. And I like the Asians, but I love the Africans. So,
that's where I would for landrace collection, that's where I would want anything from Equatorial
Africa. Yeah, what a fantastic answer. So, with that being said, did you have any comments or
shout outs you wanted to make? Well, shout out to everybody that ever supported me in this endeavor,
and your encouragements always meant a lot. I would have done it for my own selfish pleasure.
As I said, I love to do it. But you know, the vindication I felt from all the people that ever
helped me along the way, my gurus that mentored me and took me in to a degree, like it wasn't like
they became my parents or anything. But you know, I got a lot of good advice from some really good
people over the years. And I think, you know, as one out of the blue, I would take that Tom
Alexander from Sensimilia Tips I brought up earlier, because I never made the point out of
that one I wanted to make, was they had a study following Sensimilia Tips, he had Growing Edge,
and they had the study I remember reading, that showed that organic produce, I think they did it
on tomatoes, the study, that it provided, they had an organic one and a non organic tomato. And
the non organic tomato had the primary flavonoids of a tomato, you could tell it tasted like a
tomato, it was a tomato. But the organic stuff grown in compost and whatnot, had developed
secondary flavonoids. So they were able to quantify the improved flavor in organic produce through the
appearance of primary and secondary flavonoids. That study confirmed what I felt that the organic
pot tasted better. And I always thought organic, you know, your backyard tomatoes taste better
than those pink ones at the supermarket. And really, you know, shout out to Tom Alexander
for Sensimilia Tips and then onwards and Growing Edge and the science of people growing kind bud.
And especially, you know, I've got to thank anybody that ever bred seed in this planet before me,
because we all stand on the shoulders of giants, you know, and I really, you know, have nothing
but respect for guys like DJ Short. And even Watson, what he's done with Skunk, and Robert
Connell Clark, you know, without his book Marijuana Botany, I'm sure I would have been
off to a much slower start. But that was the second Grow book I ever read. And that
really blew it up for me and brought it into perspective. And I'd read it after, you know,
the first year I grew, then I got some books. And that was one of the very first books I got. And
I read it and look at the drawings of the different lines and think, wow, there's so much
cannabis to experience beyond, you know, the Sunsea catalog. So it was really a treat to,
it was really inspirational. Robert Conner Clark, I really felt a debt of gratitude to him for
his excellent work, and he's done a great job. I'm sure there's lots more people I could thank,
but this has been a very long show already. And I'm sure you're all ready to go roll another one.
That's a good little sentiment to end it on. So thank you so much, Breeder Steve,
for coming and dropping all the knowledge and all the awesome history.
Yeah, it's been a pleasure. Thank you again for your hospitality. It's a pleasure to call you a
friend, my friend. Thanks to Breeder Steve for taking the time to sit down and chat with us.
And thanks to everyone who made it this far with us. As always, please go check out our sponsors,
support them. 420 Australia Organic Gardening Solutions and Seeds here now, you know,
best in the game. Finally, if you feel like you're a real fan, you know,
feel like you're like the Keeper Fino of a fan, maybe you're going to go check out the Patreon.
Until next time.
