Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
As always, you're joined by your boy, Heavy Daze, and this show could not happen without
the support from our amazing sponsors.
Seeds here now, number one seed bank in the game, all the hottest breeders, all the freshest
strains, and guess what?
Guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Why would you shop anywhere else?
You're guaranteed to be happy at the end of the grow.
If not, hit them up, they'll fix you up.
What more could you need?
They've got it all.
Well, actually, I'll tell you what you need.
You got to hit up our other amazing sponsors, Coppert Biological Systems.
They've got all the best, newest, and improved microbial powders, beneficial predators, and
feeds to keep your garden happy, healthy, pest-free, and you're in store for the best
harvest today.
These guys truly are at the forefront of the industry, having developed a new technology
for Persimilis that'll help you have an even more active and productive beneficial predator
to keep the bad bugs at bay.
I promise you guys, you'll be blown away by the quality of their products.
Go check them out.
Coppert Biological Systems, your friends at keeping the pests at bay.
Finally, a huge shout-out to the Patreon gang.
You guys are the lifeblood of the show.
I'm sure you've all heard it a million times.
Well, guess what?
I'm going to tell you again.
If you want access to early content, exclusive episodes, giveaways, and more, go check out
www.patreon.com.
These guys really do help make the show happen, and without them, I don't know where I'd be.
On this episode, we're joined by the man in the industry with his feet on the ground,
Mr. James Bean, to run over the 2020 Breeder Awards for the year.
You got your own ideas and picks on who is the hottest breeder, hottest client, hottest
strain, MVP of the year?
I hope so.
Let's see if they match up to ours.
Let's get into it.
Alrighty, gang, we are back for the 2020 Breeder Awards for the year.
I'm joined, as always, by the man in the thick of the scene, the Bean Master himself, Mr.
James Bean.
Thank you so much for joining us.
How are you doing?
How are you doing?
I'm good, my friend.
How are you?
It's been a bumpy 2020, but I didn't get sued by any processors or have any banks try to
rip my shit off, or the website stayed up, so I'm good.
Wow, this is unheard of.
How did you manage to do it?
I don't know.
I haven't had a credit card processor all year, so maybe that's how they weren't able
to steal my money because I didn't give it to them.
The guys finally got the case dropped, the processor tried to sue me for $200,000, got
dropped this year.
I didn't do Emerald Cup, so that helped with finances.
I didn't do trade shows, that helped.
Last day at home.
That's a really brilliant point you bring up.
I think for the past 12 months I've been talking to many guests on the show about whether or
not they think the Emerald Cup will be something they do in future years, or any of the broader
events for that fact, but I think Emerald Cup's a pretty focal one.
What's your thoughts on the Emerald Cup itself, and should we expect to see seeds here now
in the future?
I don't think you'll see my booth there.
I think we did our last working with them when I had the 10 booths at the last show
there.
I think that will be our end of it.
I think the whole vibe is just going to change, purely because of REC.
REC comes in and it smashes everything, and it says no smoking in public, and it kills
all the shows.
No public consumption.
So, you know, it has to change.
It's inevitable.
Yeah, and I mean, a bit of a hairy topic, but I remember around the time of REC coming
in in California at least, there was lots of discussion from the pro-REC people about
how it's going to increase the consumer base.
You're going to get more casual enthusiasts, there's going to be more money in circulation
for everyone.
But from what I've seen over the past three or four years now, it seems as though it's
almost caused the real diehard market to fall off a bit.
And sure enough, there is a lot of people casually consuming cannabis, but it feels
like our sort of crew of people who are like, you know, the real down the rabbit hole fanaticals,
it kind of feels like it's died off a little bit.
What's your thoughts on that?
I think it has.
As the shows in the West, where it passed first back in 2010, 2011, as the shows in
the West, the REC has caught up with them, they've become less cannabis friendly.
Like sure, sell it and do this and that or talk about it, but you can't sell any of it.
All the big players, your crowd, our crowd would be tied up in a REC market now or have
a recreational facility.
Therefore, they don't want to mess up their facility or their license because they want
to go out and sell some beans at a show.
And so it has fallen off and the laws have caught up with the shows.
There's not any high times cups in Seattle or Portland or California anymore.
It's going to be very rough for anybody to participate in those shows as a producer or
somebody who makes genetics because they potentially can lose all their licensing and everything.
Yeah, it's an interesting position it's put us in.
You might be in a bit of a good position to answer this one, but have you spoken to any
of your breeders or any associates you have who are kind of happy with the way it's all
panned out or do most people sort of wish it maybe panned out a little differently?
What's your thoughts?
Well, I think that everybody is not happy with their laws independently.
Just as a general consensus, they all are not thrilled with the way things are going.
I know when Exotic first got his REC in Washington, shit was rough for him.
That guy is a multi-billionaire and has all this money.
And so the beginning of his REC shops in Washington was rough.
It was a rough start.
They put a lot of restraints on him, so to say, but he's been able to get through it.
But no, there's so many things wrong with it.
The Washington law, for example, no home grow.
There's California law, for example.
It was six per person per household, now it's six per address.
And so they're just, you know, no taxes on medical, now they're taxing medical.
How do you tax on medicine?
So I think that they sold him a bill of shit for the California one, and everybody's shit
about that one and pissed off.
Just what they didn't want to happen was big corporate cameras to come in, and they came
in and got cozy.
Yeah, that's interesting.
And you raise an interesting point there.
Over the past year, we've seen a number of different, well-respected journalistic platforms
discuss how some of the big producers have gone bust, most notably in Canada.
I think their REC scene has lost incredible amounts of money across the board with just
crop failure and companies collapsing and whatnot.
You might think that that would lead to an increase in homegrown, but we just heard what
you said about they're clamping down on those laws.
Whether it's backed by stats or just sort of hunches, do you feel like over the past
year more people have started homegrown, or do you think more and more people are relying
on the REC market?
So the people I know think the REC market's a joke.
You know what I mean?
I always make a joke.
Oh, I'm going to smoke this REC weed here.
I'm going to get so much higher.
No, that's not the way it works.
And so yeah, our sales are up from last year because of my excellent customer service or
my shining personality.
But sales are definitely up than they were last year.
Definitely people are growing at home more.
Nobody wants to pay the REC prices.
Nobody knows where that shit came from.
They can grow their own and grow it for cheaper, so they're going to do it.
All you need, especially with autos coming into play now, all you need is a tent and
a light, and you're good to go.
Under $500, you can get set up.
That's it, right?
Autos are really taking off, especially with the advent of new breeders and whatnot.
Are there any auto breeders who you're keeping your eye on?
I don't want to let out my secrets, but I will tell you about my additions.
I recently brought on Gas Reaper.
He's been doing it out of Michigan and Ohio for the last 10 years.
He's got a strain called D's Runts, which is pretty awesome.
He's got four strains.
He got a big drop.
As soon as we got it, he sold out over the first weekend.
We're looking to get restocked on that right now.
He gives credit where it's best.
I've got another gentleman I work with in wholesale that does bigger amounts, bulk,
like 10,000, 20,000 kilos, two kilos of beans at a time, doing autos and knocking it out
of the park, too.
Those will all be coming our way.
I'm not going to buy a kilo, but I've talked to that breeder about buying less quantities
and putting them in the best-goes packaging.
We'll probably check for those after the first.
There you go.
Everyone, stay tuned.
I know that for the longest time I was getting messages from people being like, you know,
Mephisto's out of stock.
Whose autos do I buy?
For a minute there, it was kind of hard to give them a good answer, but I think you've
just given us a nice one.
Exactly.
That was my same problem.
At the time, Mephisto was the best in the industry.
I called them once and said, hey, you guys just need to scale.
How can I help?
As soon as we'd get them, they would fly out.
That's the same thing.
If I didn't have Mephisto in stock, people would ask me, who else?
I don't really want to tell you somebody else because I'm not really comfortable or that
confident as I was in Mephisto.
I'd rather give you Mephisto if I had it.
I really had it for a second.
But now, the industry's changed in the last couple of years.
These guys have worked with Mephisto before.
I used a couple of their males in a couple of projects.
Mephisto is still great, but other people are going to come up as well.
Yeah, of course.
Well, speaking about that, I think this might be a nice little segue into our first award,
which is hottest newcomer on the scene.
Before we get into that, I want to say this will segment nicely, I think, but I want to
thank you and your audience for having me on and doing these shows with me.
You make me feel like a superstar out here when you do these interviews with a little
bean thrower.
So, I appreciate you, your audience, and your faith in me and everything else.
I definitely appreciate that.
And I have to make a retraction.
I may have said in a couple of shows here or there, most likely, that I wasn't thrilled
on Jungle Boy's gear.
I was like, you know, those guys are growers, they're not breeders.
I don't know if I should buy them.
I'm going to retract that statement and say that even though I don't sell them yet, their
gear is good.
You should get it.
I've had multiple people run it and tell me that there's multiple keepers per pack.
So, I retracted it and may give a statement, so I want to say about that because I don't
want to mislead anybody.
Even though I don't sell it, I do think it's quality gear to get.
So, thank you, sir.
No, I mean, thank you likewise for always supporting the show.
We love having you on and gaining the insights and obviously really, really appreciate how
you get behind the show and help us to make episodes happen.
More importantly, you know, it's a sign of integrity that you're willing to, you know,
kind of go back and say, look, you know, re-evaluate it.
I think these guys are actually doing a good job and maybe we'll talk about them a little
more down the track.
So, maybe well-timed.
So, let's jump into the first award, which is hottest newcomer on the scene.
I remember that last year, this award was actually won by none other than AK Beanbrains,
our friend on The Final Frontier.
And he's had a pretty busy year again this year, but we're making way for the new blood.
So, I'd love to ask, what's your prediction?
Who in your mind is the hottest newcomer on the scene?
Well, I think that there's definitely some new guys that I've gotten, you know, you mentioned
Envy, of course, or mentioned Big Mace, you know, Bloom could possibly be in that category.
For me, it's got to be Soul Fire.
And I've been working with him for about two, three years now, but the guy is just, he's
really passionate.
He's really legit.
He had a drop set for this winter, I remember, because I was in Oregon.
And he was going to drop it.
We had the media all done.
He was ready to go with it.
But he called me.
He's like, you know what?
It's ready yet.
He's like, I've had some tests, I'm not so sure.
I don't think I'm going to release it.
I'm going to just scrap it and rework the line.
That's what he said.
It's up to you.
I said, you know, you build your reputation.
It takes you five years to build your reputation and it takes you five minutes to kill it.
And so, I think that's a smart idea.
And sure enough, he decided to scrap the whole line just because it wasn't going to be, it
wasn't up to his standard.
And so, he scrapped it and started again.
And he released that Don Mega line later on in the year and has been, you know, gangbusters.
Flew out really, really well.
He did some nice stuff for the community as well.
So, I like SoulFire.
He's a really good guy, hanging out with Exotic, sharing cards.
They've got great stuff.
So, yeah.
I think I will 100% agree with you.
The winner of this year's hottest newcomer to the scene is indeed SoulFire Genetics.
He has had an insanely big year.
He caught my eye very early on in the year when I was browsing the seeds here in our
website and I saw all of the Wai'u Jelly Femmes hit.
And I mean, the first thing that caught my eye about that was the fact that he had such
lovely photos and specimens of all of the plants grown out, which I think we've discussed
in the past is generally a sign of a good breeder.
If they're going to show you photos of the grown progeny of what they're trying to sell
you, that's just like great, first off the bat.
And so, yeah.
The Wai'u Jelly caught my eye.
And then I did a little digging and found that it used Gelato and the Don Mega Male,
which makes sense.
As you referenced, he had a great year with Don Mega, which is the really cool GMO black
banana hybrid.
So, you know, pretty popular stuff all around.
And then he went even further, had his Runts release, which, you know, one of the few breeders
who bred with Runts.
The banana Runts, that stuff flew out of the place.
It was hot.
Give us some perspective on the banana Runts.
How'd that go?
Did that just melt down the servers for you guys?
Yeah, pretty much.
It was gone in the first day, I do believe.
It went super fast.
You only had a limited amount of them.
I guess Runts doesn't, I'm not sure it doesn't put off a ton of offspring, should I say.
But no, yeah, they came and they went for sure, fastly, very fast.
Yeah.
He had gotten his drop out after Exotic got his first Runts drop out before Exotic's second
Runts drop, which is even before I think the Runts crew got theirs out because they did
a collab with, what was it?
They did a collab with...
So, I think Runts had some seeds they sold that were just Runts seeds.
And then they've also currently got a collab in the works with Compound Genetics.
That's what it was, Compound.
They did a collab with Compound.
I don't know, funny story.
I guess the Runts guys called one of my breeders and were like, hey, are you going to pay me
for that?
He just hung up on them.
He thought he was supposed to scare them or something.
He didn't give a fuck.
He just hung up on them.
And that was funny.
Oh, that's an interesting tactic for sure.
Yeah.
But yeah, that's why Exotic went really hot with them, I think.
He got the jump on them, so to say.
Before there was Runts in seed form, he had his out and crossed out with it.
I don't know how they would put out seeds.
Is there a male Runts?
No.
As far as I know, all the Runts releases have been fem.
There was a bit of whispers going around about maybe this was just a failed crop and they
seeded the whole place.
And that's where these seeds came from.
Because there wasn't a lot of discussion about the production of these seeds.
They just kind of appeared one day.
And they were, what are they, $700 a pack?
I know there were a few people who had some opinions about that.
I didn't even know they were selling them.
But no, that's something I tell breeders in the past.
It's like, just because you fucked up your room doesn't mean you're a seed breeder.
That doesn't give you rights to put them in packaging and sell it.
Just scrap the crop and try to blast it.
But don't try to be a seed breeder.
And I don't know the story behind the Runts, but that's always my question.
If they did it on purpose, there's a male.
If it's a love child, happy, lucky, there's not a male.
Because if you had a male Runt, you'd be breeding with it.
You'd have that hitting everything and you'd have that in a position to be able to lock
that thing down and get it torched.
It'd be only yours.
So you'd keep that male and you'd covet him.
But if there's an S1 running around or a Runt's cut running around, you can't protect that.
You can't keep the lid on that.
As soon as one's gone, they're all gone.
And everybody has it.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
It's another one of those things where until we see the male, it's hard to know what's
going down.
But to jump back to the man of the hour, SoulFire, done incredible work with the Runts, with
the Don Mega.
And he's even done some cool collab projects.
I know that a good buddy of mine, The North Fire, has done a collab with him using his
Northern Fire Cookies cut across to the Don Mega male.
And we also have the very altruistic cross done by SoulFire being the Free the Duke.
And I'd love to get a little bit more details from you about the backstory on that one.
So he had called me.
This was after Duke had put this stuff out about Duke.
He was like, hey, I got this unreleased strain that I want to put out.
And I wanted all the money to go to Duke.
I said, hey, no problem.
So he sent me 100 packs.
We listed them for 100 bucks.
And I cut Duke's wife a check for 10 grand at the beginning of December.
Yeah.
So that's lovely that he's willing to donate one of his unreleased strains for charitable
causes.
I think that just helps to back why we selected him as this year's winner.
And as a sort of runner up, I'm going to give it to MV Genetics.
They've made a real storm on the scene this year, come out with some real fire.
I've been lucky enough to have some friends of mine grow their work out.
I've tried it.
It's nice stuff.
Nice smoke for sure.
I mean, obviously credit to the grower as well as always.
But good genetics and some of the hottest sort of cookie cut crews in the mix there
coming from the Cookie Fam crew among many others.
Has MV Genetics caught your eye at all this year?
Oh, yeah.
We started carrying MV in the middle of this year.
He would probably be one of my seed bank sites, best newcomer of the year.
But I've had Soul Fire for a couple of years now.
But MV is a really good guy.
He has a lot of people testing his gears.
He provides a lot of pictures.
We've said before, pictures that sells 1,000 packs.
He's got great media.
He's really good on social media.
He talks to all his customers.
And that's what they want.
They want the interaction with the guy.
He says, hey, if this happens, how do I fix it?
So good guy.
He just released what I think is going to be next year's straight of the year.
I don't know.
I kind of called runs last year.
I don't know.
I want to flood the market again.
But to me, what I've seen a lot of right now is Gary Payton for next year's straight of the year.
And yeah.
And MV just had a drop with a straight key called the glove, which is a Gary Payton cross.
And yeah, I joke about that, too.
I was like, you must have somebody in JBC's warehouse.
I keep getting these cuts, man.
He's got just amazing cuts of stuff.
So he's definitely putting out something hard to get cuts.
Another Gary Payton was going for 6,000 a cut.
That's the mayor.
Wow.
That puts that 5K cut of OG to shame.
But it was 5K and five pounds for OG from Ghost to Organ Kid.
5K and five pounds.
That's right.
I'm selling it short, aren't I?
OG is still the king.
That's it.
So yeah.
SoulFire, congrats.
And MV, congrats on the nice runner-up prize.
I just want to give a few quick little honorable shout-outs.
I put a poll up on Instagram about two weeks ago just kind of gauging the community's thoughts on this.
And a sentiment that was commonly echoed that I wholeheartedly jump behind is ABF always be flowering.
He got a lot of notable mentions.
Particularly he did some work with Runts this year doing some interesting crosses.
One called the Patriot Kush really caught my attention.
TK crossed to Runts.
You know, just looking at the names on the pack, you could expect something pretty fire coming out of that.
Likewise, we had a surprising number of people who voted for AK Beanbrains again.
But he won it last year, so I don't think he can be the newcomer again.
You only get that your first year.
I mean, it's your first big year.
Yeah, your first big year.
So yeah, shout-out to AK Beanbrains.
Still doing well.
And another person who got a lot of mentions who I wanted to give a shout-out to was Jtrees and Skunktech for their work with the Black Cuban Haze.
Hopefully those crosses will be released in the near future.
They're unavailable at the moment.
I don't think any seed banks, they're still testing them.
But a lot of people are keeping their eyes on that.
So shout-out to Jtrees and Skunktech as well.
Any honorable mentions you want to throw out there?
Yeah, I don't know if it's too early yet.
He might be still a sleeper, but Bloom has been good for us.
I really believe in that guy's work.
He used to be with Oni Noodles, so it's Terry Palms is Bloom now.
And he's put out some really good gear that we've gotten a hold of.
And I think he's doing good things, but it might be still too early for him.
So if you're sleeping on him, go pick up his packs.
But if not, maybe next year.
Yeah, no, I actually did see quite a few people suggest Bloom.
And I was admittedly a little behind the eight ball on that one.
I was scratching my head thinking, who is this Bloom seed co?
But after doing a bit of researching, that all makes sense.
It's Harry Palms.
So on to the next award for this year, which I think we're going to piggyback
based on what you said earlier, where you were predicting Gary Payton
to be the clone of the year.
Let's talk about this year's hottest clone of the year.
There's been a few sites such as Leafly and Strainly,
some of the more mainstream cannabis websites that have already come out
and declared it the year of the runts.
And I hate to be a wet blanket, but we kind of declared it last year.
We were ahead of the curve, my friend.
Kind of. That was kind of our call last year.
But social media is always going to be the big media players
who aren't in the game are always going to be a year behind.
It's us kind of guys who are on the bleeding edge, if you will,
trying to be keeping up with everything.
Yeah, but I mean, runts absolutely crushed it this year.
Obviously, it went from strength to strength, although we could see last year
it was already on a momentous upswing.
It's continued to do so.
And I think if nothing else, it shows the value of good marketing
in this industry.
And I think even if there are breeders you don't personally like,
if they're marketing well, you've got something you can learn from them
because as the runts crew have shown, they're not necessarily breeders
in their own right, but by God, have they kind of taken it out this year.
So it's like every pair of breeders, I have a two-piece.
A lot of people have really defied that.
This statement is going to be the Swamp Boys.
They've kept it together.
But every other two-piece breeder pack I've had pair has split up,
and they haven't done well.
There's usually a hype guy and a guy with the passion.
And there's a guy making all the noise and yelling.
And every other two-piece I've had has split up, but they haven't.
And so what effect was I going to look at?
The importance of marketing.
Marketing, no.
Well, marketing, okay.
So there's always that hype guy that can work on the marketing
and get out there and be on the bullhorn and be pushing and pushing and pushing
while the guy with the passion is in the garage doing the work
and doing the breeding.
So marketing is huge.
When I called Nexus earlier, it's Cookie Fam.
They didn't even do that shit in the first place,
and they've got huge marketing behind them.
They push.
Berner gives a lot of credit to his first marketing guy who's doing it with him,
but that credit is due.
How they can even still operate after Candy Rain, I don't understand.
But they have great marketing, and Gary Payton is also going to be a big thing,
I think.
Yeah, I think that that will get some more traction as well.
But to jump back to it, so unfortunately, although Runz has crushed it this year,
kind of won last year, so I want to give it to something else this year.
And there has been another strain that has popped up in my feed
almost every time I go on Instagram,
and it's been worked with by some really cool people out there,
most notably the Josh D. crew has done really well with the strain I'm about to mention.
I'm thinking that might be enough to give it away already.
But I'd love to hear your thoughts first.
What do you think is worthy of the title of hottest strain or hottest clone of the year for this year,
not including Runz?
Just sales-wise, I would think it would have to be like a gelato,
just another one of those sweet kind of things that I've seen a good push on
as far as what I call hype train.
I don't know.
I'm intrigued by you, sir.
I'm intrigued. What do you got?
Yeah, I think you're pretty well on the money with your gelato prediction.
Gelato is still one of the biggest components in any breeders sort of recipe.
And some people might have thought I was alluding to like a Josh D. OG sort of thing,
mentioning that he's done well with it.
But last year at the Emerald Cup, in fact,
Josh D. and his crew won the Indoor Award for Ice Cream Cake.
And boy, have I seen ice cream cake absolutely crush it in the rec market this past year.
I think that among the casual enthusiasts,
I have seen more people hyped about this strain, trying to buy it than almost anything else.
Have you had any interaction with the ice cream cake at all?
So, you blew me away there.
I didn't know that Josh D. and his guys did that.
I thought that was going to be a wedding cake thing from VZ, because I had worked with it.
But yeah, I've seen that one a ton of times.
You mentioned it.
And if I'm just a casual rec buyer, I want your mind weed.
And you see something that says ice cream cake, I'm going to grab it.
You know what I mean?
I just want to see if it tastes like ice cream cake in the first place.
And if it does, great.
And even if it doesn't, I still bought it.
So, Josh D. is a great guy.
I love that guy.
I didn't know he was the guy responsible for it.
But yeah, definitely seen that one around.
It's not…
See, it kind of goes back to cuts that are held too tightly.
But I don't see a lot of people, other people, breeding with it or working with it.
Like the gelato, but maybe just because they're not letting go of it.
I'm not sure.
But I don't see as many crosses as you think with it.
But I know it's been a great strain.
Yeah, well, I mean, when you're right, you're right.
I hope I didn't mislead anyone there in that you're correct.
The ice cream cake wasn't made by Josh D.
It was made by exactly who you predicted, J. Beezy.
So, yeah, it's a cross of wedding cake and gelato 33, which is interesting.
Because normally you see people breeding with the 41 a little more.
But cool stuff has come from the 33.
And most recently I've seen a lot of cool stuff come out of the 41.
Yes, which I think is probably my favorite.
But, yeah, you're correct.
J. Beezy killed it with this breeding.
It's just mostly Josh D. who's done well promoting it from what I've seen and helping get some momentum behind that one.
Right.
And it's kind of like the Archives one star, the lemon peel.
He didn't do it.
He doesn't say he did.
T.R. Rojo did.
He just found the phenotype.
So, you know, there's lots of beans come out of single breeding.
And it takes people to pop them to find good stuff.
Yeah, that's it, right.
And something which has made me think about is that ice cream cake, you know, the blending of gelato and wedding cake, it's a great strain.
Not trying to detract from that.
But it is working within similar sort of genetic fields.
And it's got me wondering when the next strain that comes along will take the cake for being, excuse the pun, for being something just utterly different.
And I think that, you know, last year we said that the strain of the year was Mac because, you know, the clone was just absolutely mopping up everybody who could get their hands on it.
And I think that kind of fits the bill to an extent.
But it does beg the question of when we're going to see something just utterly left of field to the sort of cookie genetics which have dominated so heavily over the past few years.
Yeah, I think that would definitely be it.
And I'm, of course, pulling for a land race.
Something rare, something old, something new to the current people that buy but something that the old heads have known and loved for a while.
So it gets played from both sides.
Yeah, and my little tidbit to that which I can totally get behind in terms of wanting to see some land race stuff.
If anyone's keen on some crazy Southeast Asian sort of weed, the Forever Amazing Bodhi has this Vietnamese 33 or Vietnamese 32.
I'll look into whichever one it is.
But gosh, I hope something comes of that.
I was lucky enough to try some of that from him I think two years ago now and still some of the most memorable weed I've ever had for those old heads looking for that old Southeast Asian hitter.
So explain it to me.
Bodhi didn't share any of that with me.
So explain it to me.
What enticed you about it?
What kept you going back to that strain?
It was the first strain I'd had in a very long time that just made me that very stereotypical, super giggly, really happy, really uplifting.
It's like the sort of weed you wish you could bring to a party where it's not going to make anyone sit on the couch.
People are going to be more up, more dancing, having fun, joking.
It was like everything they described Super Silver Haze to be but just better.
Nice. I remember when I first got high.
I didn't start getting high until I was 18, 19.
So I was probably 19 or 20 with my roommate.
He looked at me and he's like, I wish I could get that high, man.
I wish I could get that high still.
Maybe some of that early stuff.
Yeah, for reals.
And just as a little side note, this year I took a fair few different tolerance breaks at various points for various reasons.
Some sort of work related, some sort of just personal challenges I wanted to do.
I'll tell you what, I took a two week break from smoking.
When I came back, it was like getting high for the first time.
So if anyone is like your old roommate who's really missing it, I know it can be tough.
But I tell you what, you go two weeks or so without smoking, you come back, you are going to have to strap yourself in.
Yeah, I told them to go back to joints.
It wasn't my fault.
But yeah, I don't know if I can last the whole two weeks.
Especially being in my house by myself.
I don't know if I could, but I have to try.
I'm going to give that a try for the first.
Yeah, that's true.
This year, understandably, people have been smoking a little more.
But as long as they've been smoking good, that's what we're hoping.
Yep, nothing worth.
No seeds, no stamps.
That's it.
So the next award we're going to move on to is most anticipated seed drop for the coming year.
Now, last year, we had a few people in the mix for this one.
We had Matt Wright's Blue Bonnet.
We had Karma's Sour in the mix.
We also had the A5 Hayes Femmes he was looking to do.
So there was quite a diverse sort of range of strains that were up in the air that people were really excited about seeing drop.
Is there anything this year for the coming year that's really caught your eye that you're thinking is going to make a big splash over the coming 12 months?
Well, it's not in the upcoming year.
It just happened crazy enough, since you asked.
It happened Thursday on my website.
Humboldt Seed Company came out with the Super Freak.
So it's a freak show cross.
And Humboldt has been crushing it.
I picked that dude up like two years ago.
He's a good guy, good gear, great marketing, great packaging.
But just, of course, freak show last year, I guess was at the beginning of this year.
I'm not sure.
But that thing, it's an ABF.
It's an Alaskan strain.
And so it grows, of course, like a fern.
It's got that really hyper serrated leaf, doesn't it?
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
Very thin, it looks like.
Yeah, very fern-like.
In fact, when that came out, all the seeds were white.
And not just a couple, but across the board, because you can see them in his packs.
They were all white.
And he had to make a post on Instagram that said, you know, don't send them back.
Usually white means immature, but these are not immature.
They're just fine.
Just give them a chance to be white.
There you go.
Yeah, I love it how some strains produce really unique seeds.
And I remember a while back we were speaking to Gooey Breeder.
And he mentioned that some of his African strains produce seeds that are pitch black,
like no tiger stripes, just straight black.
And so I guess it goes to show when you consider the super freak you just mentioned,
the diversity of phenotypes within seeds.
Yes, super freak crushes freak show, and that's his super freak.
But yeah, it's definitely.
And I think we're going to see a lot more of that as more different strains come to light, so to say.
Like, I still think we're definitely going to find a lot of medicinal stuff and some of that Asian stuff,
some of that Thai stuff, some of those terpenes, I think,
that haven't really had the luxury of going into a sequencing machine
or something that says what terps is going to produce.
But, you know, definitely.
Yeah, OK.
That's a great suggestion.
I hadn't heard too much about that from the fans, but I had been following it on Instagram.
So that's cool to see it's getting some traction and people can now go and grab it.
So everyone, you know where to head to to pick that one up.
So in terms of what I had been keeping my eye on, I had two things which really caught my eye.
And then I also, you know, threw the question out to the fans on Instagram
to kind of get a bit of a gauge on what they were thinking.
And we had three things come up pretty consistently.
Two of them I was especially hyped for, but one of them the fans were especially hyped for.
For me, the one I'm most waiting in anticipation to see,
and I know that some people are probably going to think that I've invoked some bad juju on myself for saying this,
but the ResDogSauerIBL, we've seen him posting packs of the newest release that he's just created.
I don't believe they're for sale yet, except for through maybe one friend he has,
if you happen to bump into that guy in person.
I haven't been following it enough to really be able to follow that.
However, he seems to have made the newest release of this SauerDIBL.
It looks like he's just got a cut of the Sauer, had some of the old SauerIBL seeds, found a male,
crossed it, taken it to the next generation.
Have you heard much about that at all?
Well, so I'm sure you've talked to the audience, but we know SauerD is a bag seed from ChemD, right?
Yeah, I mean, it's definitely a bag seed from Chem, right?
The more I try to dig into it, the more I'm less sure about what it is.
Yeah, well, actually, so Mojave had the guy on, SauerSilicate, on a different podcast,
and he came out, the guy who did it, and said that, yeah, it was just ChemDogBagSeed.
So that was kind of to have it clarified from Mojave.
So Mojave is basically Adam Dunn's brother.
He's a guy who kind of created Sage.
He works at the Big Sur Holy Weed, extremely vetted, very, very old school as far as strains go.
And so for him to come out and put his mark, so to say, on SauerSilicate was kind of, you know,
because he had met him back in the day.
They'd come to Amsterdam with it at first and blown Amsterdam away with it.
So yeah, so it was kind of out there.
I get stoned. Where were we?
Yeah, no, that's brilliant to hear that it's been vouched for by Mojave.
I actually heard Bodhi speak quite highly of him as well.
So that's cool to hear two corroborating stories.
I guess the aspect I'm most interested in is, do you think this newest edition of the Sauer IBL from Rez will do well?
Or do you think the negative stigma that a lot of people feel hangs over his head will continue,
and that would draw people away from buying it?
My hunch is that although a lot of people are quite suspicious of RezDog's history,
many of these same people will tell you that some of his work was the best they've ever seen.
And I think when push comes to shove, people will buy the packs.
What's your thoughts?
I think I stay away from things that cause me drama maybe.
And that just may cause me some drama.
But you know, he has his history.
I know somebody that's still in contact with him.
He had spoke about possibly dropping through my bank.
And we had talked to him about some – or talked to this friend in between us about coming.
But a lot of people are claiming Sauer's.
And so for him to have a Sauer IBL coming back off whatever happened, this or that, well, you know,
it's – media's a bitch.
Social media's a bitch.
So they will – I think that he will have people that will still say things of him or that will always be out there.
He has to completely change his name for him to do anything positive, I think.
I don't know.
There's just too much out there that I wasn't there for.
I don't know.
But I just do know the amount of things that are said on one side or the other.
And it's – you know, it can be equally said, but it's just a lot of talk.
And there's that much talk about a negative thing, it's never good.
So I don't know.
Yeah, of course.
And it's understandable that people might be quite hesitant to get involved given that some of the allegations revolve around, like, police and stuff like that.
Yeah, it's hard to give definitive rulings, I guess.
Yeah, and as far as that, though, I mean, if it strains fire, it's fire.
Like, you're going to come to it, it's going to draw you in, it will be unstoppable.
Like, it's something you're going to open the jar for.
And so if it's that kind of strain, you know, people may rename or do this or that, but, you know, then I think it will sell and then be good.
But I think, you know, let the cannabis plants talk.
There are some people that I don't agree with, breeders that I don't agree with, who have the same set of opinions on things.
But is your gear bad? No.
I picked them up for a reason, I'm not wrong that often, so they still make great stuff.
I'm just not thrilled with them, you know, and that could be the stuff about res.
And like I said, I wasn't there, I don't know, but with a strange fire, you're going to smoke it.
Yeah, I think that Karma kind of put out a statement of sort of similar tone when he said, you know, look, my sour BX2, it's based off a sour I found in a pack of res dogs work.
You now know, I'm not going to mention him anymore because I don't want to mention him.
So I think that kind of speaks to that idea of like separating the individual from the art, as some people would have said.
But on to the next choices, we had two contenders that I think were kind of very closely following the sour IBL.
We had a lot of people, including myself, who had been tracking AK Beanbrains, who has done a reproduction of supposedly, it's hard to vouch for certain, supposedly authentic stock of Beatrix Choice from the Super Sativa Seed Club.
Have you heard about this or seen anything about it?
The SSSC is legendary. Their packs are, I believe they're like quarter sabers, which we put in a quarter pack and there's like 10 little seeds in the middle. So SSSC on the outside. Pretty awesome. That's where Vic High got his stuff.
Beatrix Choice, I haven't heard of it. I mean, I know the strain. I don't know what they're doing with it. But that should be awesome. That's a classic.
Yeah, I think a lot of people were put onto it after our second episode ever with Skunk VA. He spoke very fondly about it. And I think that helped sort of reignite some of the flames in the community about getting it back.
And so, yeah, AK Beanbrains has been generous enough to do this reproduction in terms of he was got his hands on a pack of some more what he's kind of known for the fabled freezer stock that's been in someone's freezer for a good 25, 30 years.
And yeah, it's hit some of the seed banks. And so I think people are pretty excited about that. It does, however, bring us to the final sort of honorable mention for the anticipated clone of the year or sorry, anticipated strain of the year.
And this one has definitely got some controversy around it. But at the same time, people are so keen for it being that it is the Swabie S1 seeds, also more commonly just Pakistani land race seeds that come originally from Irizin of the Indian land race team.
Excellent interview, by the way. Excellent interview. I like listening to it. I learned a lot about that guy. So, sorry.
He's a pleasure to listen to, isn't he?
Yeah, he was just, you know, his passion. You could just tell it like, you know, he had to grow this stuff. He would do it. They would swat him and he had to go up here and get it from these people. And, you know, just that the things he did to get where he was. And, you know, they want, especially I can't, I can't imagine like how they would be in those type of countries that, you know, are definitely marijuana is not the greatest thing. But, but yeah, he was, he's got a lot of heart for the right reasons, I think. Sounded like a really good interview.
Yeah, he's a guy who I've never heard anyone talk a bad word about him. He's a, he's a very passionate guy and we're very grateful for that. But to jump back to it. So, you know, he collected these land race Pakistani seeds. He worked them for a generation or two, and then he sent some to some friends. And most notably, he sent some to Mass Medical Strains, who then did a reproduction of them.
Only available in the feminized form where he crossed, made some S1s as well as some sort of sister pairings where, you know, crossing one swabbie to its sister. And I think that although there has been a little bit of controversy around this strain, it's kind of come to fruition in the end, in the sense that the seeds are being released to the public and all of the proceeds are going towards helping to fund a library project.
In sort of the area of the world where Irizen is based and it very much sort of an idea of that there's being some sort of charity or compassion side to the release of the seeds and not being a sort of for profit release to the market. So yeah, shout out to Irizen and to Mass Medical for getting those seeds out to the public. They have dropped recently, but no one's been able to finish flowering them out yet. So I think people are very excited for what this land race is going to be.
How many weeks does it take?
Yeah. It caught me a little bit by surprise. I'll have to go and look into it. I didn't know he was releasing gear. But once again, it goes back to us saying earlier, about, it's different. It's not the same cookie bullshit. It's not the same genetics that are played over and milkshaked.
It's different and just like the freak show just like the you know
The sour it's you know, hey, who knows the sour could be next year's big thing
It's something that the new people like it's new to them
But the old heads are like this this is really sour and if it is, you know
You can hit both of them and watch him be stranded here next year. You know what I mean?
even though it's dead by rez so
So, yeah, it's different I think people are sick of the same thing that f1 Durban they've had enough of it
Yeah
That's it so
Bringing us to the second last award
Clone Hall of Fame. So last year Girl Scout cookie took the award for all of the mixed opinions and
Theories on cookies it has understandably stood the test of time and that was the given reason for why I made it into the Hall
Of Fame this year. We're kind of taking a step back
Probably surprising to a lot of people that cookies made it in before this one given the the
Grand following of we have on this show
But I am happy to say that this year's Hall of Fame clone is none other than the chemdog 91
Very nice very nice. I'm sure Kim will be happy. But yeah, it's yeah
It's also just a killer strain that has had multiple
Generational impact like I was I was lucky enough Kim
Two years ago Kim dog took me to see the guy. I've never seen a great will dead before
Kim dog took me to to see them
I was I was came to visit them to me see them
at like 20 years to the day where he had seen them before his first time and he and we were meeting up with
With Mickey heart the drummer and so we met up ahead of time because Kim dog did a release a collab with Mickey
Something called grateful and
They had like 10 pinner joints in a camp and they're like pinners like, you know, not very big at all and
Mickey's in on it. Maybe on that show. I'll make him a little bit bigger, you know
You can't go smaller. So but that was a kid anyone cross with it. I said, you know, there's I told me guess
you know, there's you know, the Kim D and the and
The says what are those? Oh
Okay, I'm not gonna get into that one
But no, it was really a pleasure to meet him and his stories the Kim and how he'd been all over with it
You know and how it started kind of with their thing. And so yeah, it's been
It's an awesome thing. I think Greg. Yeah, I've never Greg did that shit was like 17 18 years old. Yeah, it wasn't
Yeah, nobody was collecting seeds or growing shit back then. They were just hustling them. So
That's it I
Mean undeniably, you know, the chem dog is the backbone of so many companies
It's it's hard to count them and the legacy that was started by mass G chem dog
Carried on by the New York crew before the torch was passed on to the man himself skunk VA
For many years. She's been the queen of modern cannabis. That's redefined the meaning of
Potency and given birth to countless strains countless clone only's and just in general given the public something to enjoy
I think that it's undeniable that she's stood the test of time and still to this day
Puts many a grown man
green in the face and many modern elites to shame in terms of its potency and
To me she's what people refer to when they talk about the old-school funk
You know the older heads reminiscing about how they're dissatisfied with the current strains
I think she's the one that they're thinking of when they're talking about the old-school fire. They remember and
More importantly, she still gives birth to some of the most fire hybrids you see today if grown correctly
I think that if you look at a bunch of skunk VA's work
He's done a bunch of chem 91 hybrids that sure to sort of hit the spot and honor her properly
And I think that you know
That's a good way to pay homage to this strain is to to grow out work from breeders who are working with it correctly
trying to produce good offspring because unfortunately
There are a lot of hybrids out there that are labeled as having chem 91 in them
And as we've discussed many times in the past
There's only a small number of people in this world who actually have the real cutting
So far too often you see misspelt versions of chem dog with a W in the name in people's genetics
And I'm sure they think that that's chem dog, but unfortunately, it's not so yeah
I think that it's it's great that she's still around that she's giving people the pleasure of being able to smoke her and it's sort
Of our due diligence to support the proper breeders who are working with it correctly
Definitely an exit. I think it's just a hard hitter. You know, I mean just super super potent. I think you know the old-school heads
They need to get a little more kick because they're a little older. So you do a more little more potency
So, you know, they know what you're talking about and definitely it's a well-deserved
every quality breeder that
They have a national like you were saying if they haven't they can throw it and it's it's a great strain. So it really is
for sure, so
Given the timing of our chat today. I wanted to introduce a new category that wasn't in last year's awards
And it might be something we continue
But I think I said before that we were doing the second last award when I when we did the Hall of Fame strain
But this will actually be the second last one before we get on to breeder of the year and the new category
We're introducing this year will be the breeder Hall of Fame
And although high times does their own version of this and you know countless other organizations do this year
I feel is a special year because
Just this morning. In fact at the time of recording
Unfortunately heard the passing of a very revered and senior veteran of the scene bog
Bog was not only pivotal on the forums, but he was also, you know, really well known for many of his strains
You know, you got the bog bubble the sour bubble the sour dub
boggle gum blue moon rock sour grapes lifesaver LSD sour strawberry. It just it goes on and on and on and
So many acclaimed breeders have used his work within their own lines people like Swami organic
TGA 303 seeds trichome jungles alien genetics
Canerado sin city karma seed junkie and of course possibly the most notable account of his work
in it creating a large percentage of the parental genetics within
Josie Wales and Lonnie Watts GG for with the sour dub being one half of the suspected genetic
Combination in that one on top of that countless clones and breedings have occurred that utilize
You know distant lineages of his work and I'm sure even more to come that will honor his legacy within our scene
So I think it's you know rightly so that we wish Pat all the best send her our good wishes and thoughts and
Good wishes and thoughts and hope that she can do the best she can in this understandably tough time for her and the family
It also makes me think as you're speaking there
I know that you know, Duke tried to call me earlier this evening and I'll pick up the next time he calls
But um, I know that Duke had sent him
His screening eagle pollen because he wanted Duke wanted to help get bogged back on the map
So to say bring him back out into the light and give him some sales
And so I know they had sent Jim yes, Jim he would use I
Middle the deal I mediated it
But Jim said yeah, no probably would love to do that. So
Duke had sent him some pollen and this would have been before Duke went into jail. So maybe two years ago
maybe they probably reconnected at the Emerald Cup we were at but um
But I wonder I have to talk to Jim jr. See what came of that. That'd be pretty awesome. If they did that work
100% and as I know it so Jim jr. Has been breeding with Jim
Bog, jr. As he told me so
They all they still have this year's crop of gear. He says, you know, they made a couple smaller things
But as as I know it as of today, you know things always change
But he said they were gonna keep making gear and keep using the stock that he added
You know, I'm sure Pats had a huge helping a hand and all that
If he's been working with Jim jr. Then that's the father of a son so
Could be some good stuff
for sure
Miss Jill hit me up on instagram and and she said she wanted a couple packs of
Lifesaver because her and sub cool had made across way back when they first got together that involved lifesaver
And I said I said sure no, no problems
And then she she told me she said, you know, I just wanted to let you know, you know
And I was just floored I picked up the phone I called, uh, mrs. Bogg, uh, pat his wife
Um, I read a new bog. That's jim and his wife pat. Um, I called her right away
You know, she picked up the phone and and couldn't she she called me back
My first one with the voice mail she called me back as soon as I said who I was she started crying
I had and I of course said I you know, she was crying and so I just hung up the phone and
You know
Everybody
As we respect the hell out of bog, you know bog stood for bushy old grower
And a lot of people wouldn't be where they are today
If it wasn't for his help on the forums back in the day
Like getting in the chat rooms and helping people grow and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and
And and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and
Like getting in the chat rooms and helping people grow and that's when you see a lot of people
Talk trash on ig and facebook because you're so mean and so such bullshit
To where the forums back in the day. They weren't mean like if you grew something
Somebody went like oh look at the pm
They didn't tell you that they were like, hey, you know if you do this and this you can fix that situation
And so it was a lot a lot kinder back then. Um, and he he helped many many a grower. Uh,
Earn, you know learn how they're doing their basics all the way through, you know, they're great stuff. But um
He's he has so many strains that you know, uh
Sour bottle sour bubbles. Um his and some of his if you ever got boggs bubble hash amazing amazing stuff
So yeah, I was I was lucky enough to work with them for the last five years. Um,
uh, it's
I've seen shout outs from true canna
Um true cannabis, uh, barry out of there. Uh true just shout out. Um,
Everybody I mean just it was just
A pillar and a legend that didn't know it in the community and you know, they weren't um, they weren't rich folks
Um, i'm glad he got to see the passing of wreck
But i'm sad he got to see the start of corporate bullshit
Um, i'm sure he would have hoped it was going in a different direction
but I first met bog in probably 2016 and uh
At a hemp con and at the cow palace in san fran and his wife had a booth
And I went up to him and talked to him and pitched him a big fan and so we started working with him from then
and um
but yeah, uh
So I don't know if I if I put this here or not, but um, I talked to uh,
Jim's son patrick's jim's son jim jr earlier this evening right before we aired this and I asked um if we could
Do raise money for funeral expenses?
We could cover that on a go fund me and uh, and jim jr said, you know, he was he was thrilled
He was touched. He was like he didn't know what to say. He was like I can't
You know, the community outreach has been so awesome. I said your dad did a lot of things, you know
he helped a lot of people get where they were and
You did a great interview with him, uh earlier on that
I I found thoroughly enjoying the last half hour got into some true bog stuff who talks about the aliens and shasta
So just an amazing guy and pretty much it, you know
Um, I know a lot of people have used his work in a lot of different things. It's the base
It's the it's the building blocks for a lot of different strains and more importantly knowledge
To these breeders that are where they're at today
so i'm gonna do a go funding it'll be on my ig or uh,
um on that the real cg now or at the real jamesbean, um, we're gonna raise some some funds for the funeral expenses and whatnot and
Then i'm gonna try to work something out and get missus bog some money, you know
That's what jim would have wanted is for the community to raise some money for or take care of it
He would never ask of course he would never say that and I know she would neither
So, uh, we'll do it. We'll do a good thing and um, hopefully it turns out good and the reasons I don't know
um, I didn't ask it was hard. It was just
It wasn't anything coming up to it. It wasn't it wasn't, uh,
Sick or anything?
Uh, it just it just happened all of a sudden and so that means not to believe it was this crazy year of covid
That was was not covid because he would have been sick for a while and I would have heard about it
But this was just a surprising thing that happened yesterday day, I guess
so
You know my best wishes to my condolences to the family. I'm, sorry, um
You know, uh, I think the community is going to come out and surprise you though
I think we'll do some good things with that with the gofundme and definitely hall of fame. I mean, it's a no-brainer
Some lovely words there and everyone please be sure to go jump in on the gofundme and help support pat as uh,
She rightly deserves
And I think something else too is you know, I know jill's gonna make a strain that she had done with sub cool
but I think if breeders
All came out with a strain or something
Maybe I could work something out with some of the guys and say hey do a strain and maybe give a kickback
But um, I think if all the breeders did something and like paid homage or you know used his used his gear and across
That would be pretty pretty amazing pretty remarkable this day and age, you know
Yeah
so that brings us to
The final award for the year, which is the big
Big big big first place trophy that we have the breeder of the year award. I need like sound effects here
I'm, like beep beep beep
Air horn so bad. Yeah, totally i'm in smoke
You know like now, uh, dude i'm gonna post effects it in okay
I'm excited. We got for the breeder of the year
Yeah, good question
So we had a lot of people in contention for this one. So some honorable mentions for this year
uh our
Award winner of last year csi humboldt got a number of honorable mentions from the community. We also had some
Very very very strong support for the man mean gene with all the memes up his sleeve who did very well this year
And amazing breeder and amazing guy like he's hosted a lot of the auctions
um for nick or for duke and
Excellent. Excellent. Good guy. Very good guy. Um, he probably if people don't know being genius
He was uh of the breeding team aficionado
um back in the day and now he is uh, freeborn selections
Yeah, I mean mean gene's got some really nice stuff in the works
His cherry west backcross as well as he's done a collab with bio vortex being the cherry lime dog
All look really awesome in my opinion
We also had some strong support for archive as usual not surprising fletcher putting out some really nice work
So a lot of people in the community trying to give him some big ups
We also got a nice shout out for trichome jungle seeds for his most recent lilt line
which has done well and there were some people last year who were getting excited for that and
He was in contention for one of the anticipated drop awards
so it's good to see that that's panned out and people are kind of giving him a thumbs up for possible breeder of the year, but
to me
I think that there was only ever really two people in my mind who I think we're going to get this award and admittedly
It has been obviously a bit of a different year to the past and I think that plays into who's going to be able
To win this because it becomes a bit more about marketing seeing as everyone's stuck at home
So we're all filtered through the lens of instagram
but for me
I think that the winner could be none other than someone who's already been mentioned a plethora of times
He's one of the hottest breeders in the scene. None other than jbz of seed junkie genetics
jbz and the guy the guy solid
Um
It was my pleasure to work with him when he was still slinging slinging gear now. He says he sells
He sells licenses. He doesn't sell seeds anymore
so
He just licensed all his product out
And that's and that's part of the uh, the mystique to it
I think is that this guy hasn't been actively selling seeds
And yet he's one breeder of the year because he's still doing work
It's more kind of behind the scenes and I think an interesting little side note is if you go to the cookies website right now
more than half of their menu
uh jbz
Collaborations, we've got berry pie georgia pie honey buns ocean av sticky. Sorry ocean beach sticky buns sweet tea
And one that I think is a cool little pun for you collins av
That's that's nice, uh
This is excellent. You know, he he told me when he first uh got had the meeting with with burner and the cookie fam
I was like, oh shit. This is not gonna go good
You know, he said he said actually actually the opposite
He said, you know when burner picked him up they picked him up in a nice fat ride nice ride and took him to a nice place
And he thought burners gonna come out crazy, but he came out super respectful and uh, they worked out an excellent deal
And he was completely happy with it. And um, he's he's definitely crushing it right now. Uh,
His last nursery he put up is is crazy. Um, and the post he put about his nursery
He must have had a hundred people asking where can where can I buy your clones?
Where can I buy your clones at are you in rec are you in rec?
So and he and he is in rec he has his own facility now so he can sell clones
But uh that nursery that message I said you're gonna have a lot of line outside the door of your nursery, bro
You know that right?
Yeah, yeah, so, uh, you know, he's definitely the shit. Um, and yeah, he cookie
You know cookie fam didn't make cookies and so they need somebody to make the shit
Although man, he's gonna i'm gonna be in a rap song. He's gonna shoot me but I saw burner, um breeding the other day
He had a paintbrush out. He was pollinating things
Maybe to prove that he was breeding. I don't know
Good photo a good photo, but I mean, yeah
Look, it speaks to jb's his dedication and effort because you know, he's done well with the cookie crew
His cross ice cream cake got clone of the year from us as earlier mentioned and more importantly anyone who's had their eyes on
The uh, the gelato cross sherb bx1
aka
Jealousy would have seen that almost every plant coming out of those packs is fire
And more more kind of what I follow is how the remaining few packs that are out in circulation
And there are a few admittedly I see people posting them. They're just getting more expensive by the day
I'll tell you what you want to talk about a pack that's going to go for a lot of money
If you got one of those that's a nice little piggy bank you're sitting on
I happen to have five
Um, I have five of all the vizy
Easy releases. Yeah, it's funny. I didn't realize it was called jealousy, but he's done that a couple of times
So main thing is just to piss people off or do something. Um, and bz is not not new in the game
You know, I first thought I thought it was a type guy because he was so
Um, he had those strange but um once I talked to him got known
He's been doing shit since like 98 and he was buying packs from guys in town. They were taxing his ass off
So he flew to amsterdam got his own gear started breeding within the early, you know
2000s and then those guys all of a sudden he was selling packs too and taxing them and so he's a gangster
He loves the gassy shit. So when he gets uh, that's you know, he really likes
Um, but yeah, he's a great dude and we're doing it for a long time
Uh, he's a thing I said last year on the show, but he's one of those guys
I think if he was gonna stab me it'd be him, you know
He's a fucking gangster
That's cool to hear and you know what
You know as you just referenced anyone who's been following his work knows that this isn't like an overnight success for him by any means
he's been put in the hard yards and the thing I remember him for is that
I think he's probably the first person I ever saw doing like a bx2 bx3 on the tk
Because he wanted like a tk male like he recognized
How good the tk was in my opinion before anyone else except for maybe swamp boys, obviously
But I feel like he was he was on the ball a while ago and you know
Because tk is all the rage at the moment and I think for good reason
It's one of the best strains out there, but I feel like he he recognized that before a lot of people did
um
definitely and and yeah, definitely on the bx through twos and threes and
This is that kind of guy who's going to work something until he finds it. Um, and and
Now where he's got a rec facility is even more dangerous because it's like exotic and an archive
Once now they have a rec facility they can pop, you know, they can do feeding lots with thousand two thousand
Um, and they look for the one they want just take the other ones and send them out to the market
So, uh, that helps a lot. I'm sure
Yeah, definitely so big congrats to jbz of seed junkie genetics
If anyone's looking to try some of the flower as you can no longer get seeds
Unfortunately, unless you've got a pretty penny go check out cookie genetics as they're doing a range of collabs with him
however
Speaking on the topic of tk. I wanted to give an honorable mention because it was admittedly a close second place
But the person in my opinion who got runner-up breeder of the year goes to none other than the already mentioned jungle boys
With the advent of their first seed drops occurring earlier in the year
We saw a lot of their packets just selling out almost instantly. They sold them primarily from their stores
And what I found most interesting was as far as I know it could be wrong
But they are the first people I know who sold seeds through their store
And had other seed banks lining up at the store to buy those seeds to then on sell them with a markup
which you know admittedly
I think that's kind of cool because it reflects the popularity and it helps people who don't live in
California get access to these seeds which otherwise you had to be there in person to buy
But it goes to show the hype that was surrounding that drop that they had other seed banks in line waiting to buy
10 20 packs to then
Sell them on
Uh, have you heard much about the jungle boys drop you referenced earlier? There might be a little something in the works
No, not at all. I wish uh, they don't call me back
And now I know why I didn't know about the little them selling them out of their stores and having other banks pick them
up and resell them that's that's uh,
Whole lot of ridiculousness, but uh, but it's you know, it does it does speak to their
Popularity and their their skill because as I mentioned earlier, um, a friend of mine did a phenol with a bunch of a bunch of packs
Um, he said there's multiple keepers in the CJ in the jungle boy stuff. And so, um, they definitely
uh
Have have potential to do some serious some serious damage to the industry so they seriously make their mark
but for breeder of the year
I definitely think that uh, you're right on on point with with bc because he's just been doing it longer
He's been you know, they i'm sure jungle boys used to grow out some of bc's gear
and so, you know, um, they got bc's got a longer history in it and
Um, he's got a probably a greater, uh, greater genetic catalog in the library to choose from
but uh, but yeah, no jungle boys don't call me back now, I know why they don't need a seed bank
They have guys are gonna wait in line and resell shit for them
Yeah, look, I mean they they gotta be one of the masters of the marketing right like um
Ivan has done a very good job at marketing jungle boys. I think anyone who denies that is just a little bit jealous
Yeah, no, i haven't he crushed it with uh, obviously it's orange cookies
That was the first that's how he got on my map because they were crushing it with that stuff
And you know obvious of course was a little no, they're not giving me enough credit, you know, but uh, he always he always does that
But uh, but yeah, they uh
They are marketing, uh geniuses. I don't know why they don't return my emails
Dara i'm just as upset as you i'd love to get my hands on a pack and I don't know how it'll otherwise happen
But I mean to give credit where credit's due
They've done some really nice work with the the tkbx1 mail. They've made they've also released some nice crosses with the jungle cake mail
They've used they've got a few other crosses
They use using like an mbk sunset sherbet sort of mail and they've also got a skittles cake mail
They're using among others which have done really well
I think the thing which impresses me the most about their work though
Is that they've done what I had always advocated as the best way to be a breeder which is they just spent years doing these?
Pheno hunts finding these killer cuts that people were dying for and then once they amassed enough of them
They were like cool
I've now got my palette to do my painting and to do my breeding
And so pretty much all of their crosses for the most part use
Unique cuts and or strains that they've spent the time pheno hunting. There's a lot of documented
Demand and uh quality surrounding those strains. So
Yeah, as much as there might be some people who don't like the brand itself
I feel like there's very little if anything you can criticize about the way they've gone about releasing these seeds in the you know
They they didn't just go buy a bunch of clones and hit it with the first mail
They found they did spend some quality time pheno hunting many of the females used in the crosses as well as generating the mail
Yeah, that's a bunch of years of time that they that they do have in it
And they crush it with their social media again
They crush it with photos and we spoke about photos earlier and they had awesome photos because you know in point because their shit's awesome
I couldn't have great photos of my gear wasn't awesome. But you know, uh, but everything was good super frosty
Yeah, like I said, I heard good stuff. I'm trying to get them. I will try now
I know i'll hike there but uh, I don't know if they'll sell to me. It's probably time to take a number get mine
That's it, right? So
With that being said I think we're just about at the end of the awards for this year's were there any comments
Shoutouts or hot tips you wanted to give the listeners personally?
I haven't dealt with bz since 2019 and I haven't dealt with jungle boys and I haven't gotten there in their line yet
Um what I do know though is from my bank personally, I'd like to throw out there just as a as a
Honorable mention but exotic genetics and I probably talked about him last year, but he had six big drops with us this year
Of my 60 breeders. He was he outsold everybody
Um, the closest guy wasn't even half the packs that mike sold
Um the six drops he came out swinging with the grease monkey fem line at the beginning of the year, which was huge
Um, and then he had a two, uh, the the runch drop came which he got like I was saying there, you know
He got the jump on the runts guys
And so he was able to release a whole string with those guys or a whole uh, whole line of those
Um, then he had the red pop which is his strawberries and cream fino
That was another another complete drop and then he came back and redid the runs the runs drop again
Which I mean all these sold out within less than a week
Like I even hit him up for packs after the fact. It was like hey
They got more and you know, the big ones were sold out
um, and then of course he closes it off with the rainbow chip line, so
uh, you know, he's got he's
It's kind of a winning combination. I think we're starting to see he takes great photos
He's got a rec license. We can run he can run finos. He can run the numbers
um, and that gives him, you know, it's not a
It's not cheating, but it gives him a greater ability to find the thing
You know, the more numbers you run the more things you can find
um, you know, he's been i've been lucky to deal with him for for eight years, I think he's been doing it for maybe 15 years, so
um, you know shout out to exotic mike and he
As my seed bank goes because I don't carry
Because I used to carry and I don't play the jungle. So he'd be my reader of the year
Definitely, so I would just give an honorable mention to him
Yeah right on I mean honorable mention exotic genetics
Shout out to your listeners for for for for for joining me and having me on I appreciate it
Uh make me feel cool. Uh shout out to my office staff
This next year, uh marks my 10 years in business
And so, you know, I couldn't do it all by myself. Uh, you guys send me too many emails. Um,
but uh, uh
I do have a staff of 14 people that work really hard and have worked for me, you know this year
We had a bunch of three-year anniversaries. So that's when I really started picking up. So i'm happy about that lad
Uh, you know shout out to them for working hard and busting their ass and you know
Shout out to you. I saw you had a six hour hour with uh, with ryan
Yeah, yeah, that was a good one. Yeah, it's pretty pretty impressive to sit down with that guy for that long
I mean he's he's got he's super out top echelon of breeders and whatnot
So, uh, I was I was interested to hear that
It's you know
You've been knocking it out this year with a lot of good stuff and i'll shout out to you and thank you for you
I picked up true canna because of you I picked up trichrome jungle because
I'm gonna show you help me introduce me to those guys and um get their gear on my on my banks
Oh lovely, I mean it's it's awesome to see good breeders pairing up with good good seed companies good distribution
So people can enjoy the good work. So that's that's awesome to hear. So yeah
Thank you so much for supporting the show as always it means a lot to have you know
the top tier seed bank behind our content and uh
Excited to see what content we can help bring out over the next year
No, uh, definitely. Thank you as well and look for a new look from us. I know, you know this year
We introduced our rewards points. So we give rewards points you buy a bunch of packs you give it, you know
Basically 10 back towards your next purchase on everything. Um, of course you get your discount keyed from heavy from uh from from the podcast
Um, we might work something out for his patreon members here shortly too. So, uh, but thanks everybody. I appreciate it
Uh awesome. So thank you so much again for joining me for the breeder awards, mr
Bain and I can't wait to talk to you again in the near future
Thanks, sir
So
So there we have it guys 2020 breeder awards for the year do you agree do you disagree
Tell me why
As always a huge
Thank you to james bean for helping out with the awards
The man in the industry who can help give us some of the insights as to what goes on behind the scenes of the seed sales
And likewise huge shout out to seeds here now without their support
We couldn't make this episode or any of our episodes really
These guys have a guarantee on satisfaction. Not just germination
Hottest breeders around go check out lucky dog seed. That's my pick for the moment. You won't be disappointed
Likewise our friends at coppet biological systems are working hard to grow the most active and healthy predator bugs
To keep the bad guys at bay in your garden. Are you ready for the best harvest to date?
You are if you've been to coppet biological systems go check them out their products are phenomenal. I guarantee you'll be impressed with it
Finally as always big big love to the patreon gang. You guys are the mvps
You really help make the show happen in a way like none other if you love the show and want to help support it
all the while getting access to
interviews early
Additional exclusive interviews with people like bodie mean gene bob hemphill 707 c bank and so much more
Go check out the patreon
www.patreon.com
The podcast check it out now guys
I think that just about brings us to the end of this episode guys
I hope you've enjoyed it stay tuned for the next one
And i'll see you next time
I'll see ya
So
