Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode, as always, was brought to you by 420 Australia, your premier store for all
things lifestyle and apparel.
Organic gardening solutions for all your organic gardening needs, as well as aficionado seeds
and freeborn selections.
Be on the lookout for the newest lines from both.
In this episode, we're lucky enough to have Mean Gene from Mendocino on the show to chat
all things breeding, strain history, and some of his plans for the future.
Let's get into it.
All righty, so a big, big, big thank you to the man behind all the badass genetics you've
seen at Aficionado, Mean Gene of Mendocino.
Thanks so much for taking the time to sit down and talk with us today.
Yeah, thank you for having me on, man.
No problem.
First question I like to ask all breeders is, what was your first experience with cannabis?
Well, I mean, there's different, there's layers to that one.
My first experience with cannabis in memory was actually being a really little kid and
seeing cannabis growing at my house when I was like two years old or something.
I remember like 1982 or something, my mom getting arrested for it.
The roommate had a, her roommate had an argument with the landlord or something.
The landlord called the cops and, yeah, there's six plants on the back porch or something
like that, you know.
But as far as smoking, I'd say I was probably about, I don't know, I was a kid, man.
I was probably like eight years old and I had a buddy who always, you know, he had older
brothers and they always had a lot of weed and whatever.
They were totally, house was full of crazy contraband of all types, you know.
I remember, you know, them being around and being like, oh, you know, smoke the joint,
smoke the joint while I was staying the night at my friend's house.
You know, I took a couple hits off the joint and I didn't feel anything, nothing happened.
And you know, I probably didn't really, it probably didn't go past my mouth.
And I was like, you know, okay, cool.
Well, this was nothing.
All right.
And then I stayed away from it.
And then, you know, a couple of few years later I smoked and I actually felt it and
I thought, okay, this is what it was like.
And then I think maybe I was 12 or 13 and I was with my buddy, Jody.
And Jody had this weed that he got from this dude that lived in Napa.
And for whatever reason, that time, I think it was probably because of the way we smoked
it.
We had like this little, it was like a little bottle with a little down stem into it and
a little tube that came back up out of it.
Like it was like a miniature bong or a miniature chalice, you know.
And I remember I smoked that with him and I remember telling him, you know, this isn't
weed, there's something else in here.
You know, that dude, he gave you weed that was laced and, you know, those guys out in
Napa that I don't know, man, they laced the weed and I was so gone.
And I remember thinking, oh, I'm going to be in trouble.
My mom's going to show up.
And he's like, dude, it's like 1.30 in the afternoon.
And I'm like, yeah, I know, man, but I'm so high.
I'm going to be in trouble.
And he goes, what time's your mom getting you?
I'm like, I don't know, like 8.30 or 9.
He goes, dude, no weed's going to get you high for eight hours, bro.
Just have fun, you know.
And I just remember being like, honestly, like probably like half blacked out almost
of being in and out of really knowing what was going on.
I remember like running around in circles by this pond at the hog farm and just kind
of like falling down, chasing him through the water and the edge and just like, you
know, playing like kids do, but just high as a kite, man.
And that was the first time I remember getting really like really going, okay, so you can
get this high off a weed.
Before that, it was like I thought I was getting high, but I realized that I was just kind
of, you know, dabbling and tasting it and whatever.
And what strange do you think that was?
Jeez, I don't know, man, but I wish I had it now because it was killer.
I mean, I had smoked a lot of weed before that.
Before that, I had smoked Northern Lights.
I'd smoked different like Afghanis and different crosses of different stuff that was around,
you know, like turn of the 90s weed.
Probably that first time I tried weed, I was probably like 88, didn't really, just kind
of smoked it to not get made fun of, you know.
And then probably, you know, later on, then smoking like really killer weed, but not smoking
it so much, but getting high.
And then, man, I smoked that weed from Napa and whatever that weed was, it was some major
stuff because I imagine it was probably like hash plant or something really potent.
It just, it knocked me, you know.
And I didn't get that high again even smoking for maybe another year or something.
And then, that was the first time that I smoked a lot of Keef and that was my first experience
with a concentrated smoke and that really got me too.
But strain wise, man, it'd be hard to say really what that would have been, but some
bomb 1992, whatever the hell was there, you know, and nobody would really know.
Back then, you would have just said, oh, this is either good weed or bad weed, you know.
Yeah, okay.
And so, from that point, how did you then transition into growing?
Was it the type of thing where from these experiences, it was just implanted in your
mind like I've got to do this?
Or was it more of the type of thing where everyone around you was doing it?
So, you didn't even like make a conscious decision to start growing.
It was just like, oh, I just started doing it.
Well, it was going on and people who were older than me, of course, everybody in the
area was kind of growing.
But at my age when I first started growing, it was more like, you know, I used to work
with the family and, you know, like when I remember being a little kid and like transplanting
some pansies or like some little flowers for the yard and, you know, like supposed to water
the trees in the front yard and half acid.
And then at a certain point, just being like, oh, I want to grow one of those plants, you
know, and they were like, all right, well, you know, here, this one's yours.
This is your baby plant.
Go ahead and, you know, put this stuff in the dirt and stick this in and you're going
to water it.
And if you take care of it, you know, you can have it.
And I was like 10 years old.
It was a Northern Lights plant and that was kind of my introduction to it.
And then, you know, I don't remember growing any other plants until maybe I was probably
like 14.
That was 94.
And you know, I got some killer seeds and I planted them and I grew them in a big garden
and I just had my few little plants.
I had like whatever, 10 plants or eight plants.
And, you know, the weed that came off of that was, you know, that was like basically my
second try.
That weed was as good as anything I've ever grown or still grow to this day.
It was just a really good place to grow.
And that was down in Sonoma County.
It was a really good place to grow.
I had the knowledge that, you know, you should use all nice organic stuff, kind of, you know,
minimal handling, slow cure, slow dry, and great genetics, you know.
So, it really came out and that was, you know, I think anybody who really ever tries it,
the first time that they get some good weed in their hands from trying it, they're going
to go, oh God, I got to do this.
I want to do this some more.
I want to learn more aspects of this, you know.
Yeah, without a doubt.
And so, what was the catalyst for your first breeding project?
Was it accidental?
Was it intentional?
And a question I haven't asked anyone so far, did you start breeding because you were particularly
inspired by someone or just because you kind of wanted to just have a crack at it?
I mean, I'd say what happened was probably that time, like 94, I got some strains.
One of them, there was an Afghani called Dirt that my buddy had.
See Money, he had this Dirt plant and it was this earthy Afghani, so they called it Dirt
and it came from a crew of people who were big old school growers back in the day.
And this guy, Randy, brought it back to the Branscombe area, which is in Mendocino County.
He brought that back in like 83 or 84.
And so, he gave me some seeds that were crossed.
There was a Dirt cross Big Bud and Dirt cross a thing that they call Perp out there.
And so, basically, they were Afghani crosses.
I had those.
I had some other different stuff.
And then what happened, I think 95 or 96, my buddy said, oh, I took that Dirt Perp and
I crossed it with Mark's stuff from down the road.
There was this guy named Mark.
He had really killer Afghanis.
We called his stuff Mark's Red because it always had more red hairs than most stuff,
not more abundant, but they were a more true red color.
So, he told me, hey, I got this Dirt Perp cross Mark's Red and he gave me those seeds.
And he only gave me a few, maybe a six pack of seeds.
So, I had already had the Dirt Perp, grown them, cloned them, had a really good clone
out of the Dirt Perp, had really good clones out of the Dirt Big Bud.
And so, I said, well, I wish I would have kept the males when I cloned those plants
before, a year or two ago.
So, 97, I went ahead and I took those seeds and I planted them in one pot and I let them
grow up and they were just little like knee high plants.
And I let them do a little open pollination and then I got those seeds.
And then after growing those, I was hooked because I started off with this nice stuff
and I wound up with a bunch of seeds that were just as good and a bigger number of them.
So, I found even better ones in there.
And then the first year that I really got to grow those out in quantity, I think was
probably two years later and I grew out a bunch and I made a bunch more seeds and I
made some different out crosses.
And so, that was kind of really the start and it wasn't the inspiration, I would say,
it kind of came from those guys like from Steve-O and C-Money and these guys who gave
me the seeds and I saw that, wow, okay, they gave me these seeds and I got this and now
I made these seeds and I got this.
So, it just made sense to keep making seeds and try to do selections and improve and recombine.
I had read High Times since I was like 10 years old and I saw the stuff from the cannabis
cups and people with seed companies and it just all seemed really cool to be able to
make your own types of weed and keep around good ones that you already liked, have more
seeds.
Yeah.
So, I mean, just fast forwarding to 2015 for a moment when you got your first place with
Cherry Lime at the Emerald Cup, what was that like to go from the guy reading the magazines
to now being the guy in the magazines taking the first place type thing?
Well, it was a trip.
It was kind of surreal, you know, like you think, okay, it was like, all right, 2006
my buddy enters a plant that I gave him and he wins second place in the Emerald Cup.
2007, I go, okay, well, I got more stuff from those same lines, I'm going to grow some and
enter it and see if I can do okay.
The next year, there's almost twice as many entries and I still did sixth place and I
was pretty excited about that.
And then that was 2007.
And so, then, you know, the next year hit and in autumn that year, one of my really
good friends passed away and it set me back like I was like not in the mind state of going,
okay, well, I'm going to go ahead and get these entries together and do this stuff.
And so, I just kind of stopped doing it.
And then 2012, I went up and I entered some stuff and I kind of my entries weren't entered
right.
I entered big chunks of weed.
They had to pop them apart for the judges.
So, the judges didn't get to see my trim job or anything.
I might have done good or I might have still not placed, but I didn't do anything that
year.
So, then the next year I go up, I kind of have some more idea like, okay, the judges
only get two grams, so only enter two gram pieces or they're going to pop your stuff
apart.
They want it trimmed really, really tight, which I think usually makes really pretty
weed kind of featureless.
So, I don't usually, I like to show the features a little bit.
So, I realized, okay, well, they don't care about that.
They're just going to take it, crunch it up and they're not going to pull out leaves or
stems.
They're just going to crunch it up and smoke it.
So, I better make it as close to a good, ready for smoking as possible.
So, I improved it in that way and then I took third and then the next year I entered again,
I took second.
And then when I won, I took first.
So, it was kind of weird to me because it was like, all right, I did third, I did second.
I went, well, it would be, it's not realistic to think I'm going to do third, second and
then first.
So, when I won first, I just kind of was like, okay.
And I mean, you can look at the video and look it up and you can see when I'm up there,
I'm like, hey, okay, I just won the Emerald Cup.
So, all right.
I didn't even know what to do really.
It was a weird, surreal thing.
And I remember it didn't really soak in until that night we went and we went to this pizza
spot in Santa Rosa and we order food and we're eating the food and I'm like, hey, guys,
this is a victory dinner right here.
We just won the cup right here, sitting with my family and we all kind of laughed.
And the Emerald Cup was Saturday and Sunday and Monday morning, we were going on vacation,
the first family vacation I took my family on.
So, the whole thing was just kind of this crazy like, hey, that happened.
And you kind of expect it to have like an impact when it happens like, hey, you just
won and it kind of, it was like, I won and I grabbed my cup and I didn't really even
realize that I had won until dinner sitting there.
So, it was a trip, man.
And it was really trippy because honestly, up until like 2013, I really didn't know.
I had never been to any other cup except the Emerald Cup, which was kind of a little local
thing.
And I'd never been to a High Times Cup.
I'd never met any other people who were like breeders, who were on the scene.
I know a lot of people over the years who always made their own seeds and worked lines
and stuff, but I didn't know anybody with a company.
I didn't, I had never seen any of that whole scene that was going on.
I didn't know about the forums.
I didn't know people were on Facebook and Instagram posting weed.
I didn't even really know Instagram.
I thought Instagram, oh, it's just some place people put up pictures of their food and stuff.
Then after that, once I kind of started seeing it when I went on social media, it totally
changed.
So, to all of a sudden go from being completely in the dark and not know any of the stuff
is going on and then all of a sudden be like, hey, I just won one of the big contests.
It blew me away.
It was a trip, man.
It was a trippy experience for sure.
Yeah, without doubt and certainly deserving.
If we just take a bit of a wind back for a moment, how did you make that progression
from, you said you were making your own seeds, you had friends doing really well with them.
How did you progress from that point to being the head breeder at Aficionado Seeds?
Well, what happened was I got a hold of Leo and Ellie and they were the people who built
Aficionado.
I said, hey, I want to get some seeds from you.
There was this party going on at this place up here called The Peg House.
The Peg House is a cool place, really cool vibes up there.
I'm like, hey, if you guys are going and they're like, yeah, actually we were going to go.
I go, hey, cool, cool, cool incident.
I'll meet you guys up there and I'll smoke you guys out and stuff.
I brought up some cherry limeade and they saw the cherry limeade and they're like, dude,
did you enter this last year?
Because they had won that year.
I was like, no, I actually haven't seen it till now.
It was a 420 party, so it was 420.
I go, no, I just went and took this out.
This was hanging up in the drying room.
I haven't even tried it yet.
They go, dude, if you would have entered this, you would have blown us out of the water.
I was like, oh, you guys think so?
I go, I entered the mother of it, but it's not that potent.
This one is crossed with the black lime, so it might have some potency to it.
So we smoked it and they were like, dude, that's the baddest weed there is.
We never seen nothing like this before.
I was like, oh, okay, well, damn, maybe I'll enter because I had honestly gone like, oh,
I'm not going to bother.
I'm not just going to give people weed for them to tell me that it's good.
I already know the weed's good.
I'm not into this whole contest thing.
So when they said, though, that it was that much better than the winner, I was like, well,
all right, I'll enter this next year.
So next year I entered it and that's when I took third place with it.
So basically, I showed them different stuff I was working with and I saw different stuff
they were working with and they were like, hey, do you want to
do some projects together?
Because they lived like four houses away from me at that point.
And so I was like, yeah, I go, show me some more stuff.
They go, you know, and so Leo drops by one day and he goes, hey, this is the rest of
the winner that won the Emerald Cup.
And I looked at it and I went, wow, dude, that's crazy because that looks a lot like
what I call Lime One.
That's my favorite black lime clone that I keep around.
That's a PK cross black lime.
And I go, you know, we should do that cross.
And so he goes, I go, you know, do you have a male of that that's proven that you like
it?
He goes, yeah, I got the pollen right now coming out of the tent.
I go, well, cool.
Let's go ahead and do that.
Bring it by and I'll make it.
I got stuff going into flower pretty soon, you know.
And so I went ahead and I did the Lime One crossed with the chem that he had.
And that's what Black Lime Reserve is, you know.
And so I did that one and I did a couple more crosses with them.
And that's just, you know, that just kind of worked out to be that stuff, you know.
And so it was just kind of a trippy, just a weird luck kind of, you know, like, hey,
I want some of your seeds.
And they're like, hey, you know, your seeds are really good.
You want to do some stuff.
And that's, you know, that's how it happened, just real organically like that.
Yeah, it certainly sounds like some of the best collaborations do happen on that real
organic side of things.
The question I'm interested in is a lot of breeders or, you know, companies will generally
describe their work as a certain style, you know.
Like maybe someone would say, oh, I tend to do like one parent will be old school, one
will be new school, you know, like kind of the merging of the flavors or someone else
might be like, oh, I just do two new school things.
How would you describe a aficionado's work?
Do you think it follows a general style or not particularly?
Well, I mean, you know, it's the positioning on aficionado is basically like, all right,
this is the best stuff there is.
This is the stuff that, you know, growers who are experienced want to grow this to get
stuff that's basically the highest end product, you know, not necessarily, you know, there's
some people who are like, oh, these are the monster, this grows the monster stuff, every
plant's going to be huge and heavy or this grows that or aficionado, I'd say it's really
aimed at being something that's quality so that you can say, okay, this is craft cannabis,
this is boutique quality cannabis.
And, you know, I'd say really that is the style that it's kind of shooting towards.
And then also with like a little bit of added heritage stuff.
So that's why Leo works with a lot of stuff like from Mandelbrot because Mandelbrot at
this point is kind of like more of an old school staple breeder, like, you know, like
Royal Kush is something that people who are from around here, they're like, oh, yeah,
I've been buying Royal for you.
I've had Royal for years.
I've been growing that stuff for years now.
Like a lot of the old school growers I know have converted over to old stuff like that.
And so, you know, by kind of infusing that going, okay, well, here's something a Mandelbrot,
but then it's crossed with something that's more new.
You know, it's more like it's not, I wouldn't say Mandelbrot's like a real old school, old
school breeder, but time flies so fast to the point now where Royal Kush is kind of
like an old school emerald triangle staple strain and, you know, like some of the chem
stuff, you know, it's like, yeah, it's been around for a while.
But I mean, that's kind of the whole aim of a Fishin' Otto, I think, is kind of to say,
okay, here's stuff that's really high end.
Here's the stuff that's really good in your joint, in your bag.
And it has, you know, some history to it.
So, you know, like I'd say that's kind of the thing.
And then there's, you know, for me, like as a breeder personally, like my whole thing
really has always been, okay, I want a better plant.
Like I want to grow, you know, I've honestly over the years, I've kind of slipped from
being a proper preservationist in that I tried to always go, okay, what's the best possible
thing?
So I had like some Afghanis, they're too short, they get mold too easy.
Then I cross them with this, I cross them with that.
Now I have this strain and now I don't even have that Afghani anymore in some cases.
So for me, it's all like improvement and trying to have a plant that I really want to grow
and that when I show it to people who are other growers who I know, they really want
to grow that, you know?
So, you know, that's like the basis of my work pretty much.
Yeah, okay.
And so, I mean, if we just touch on one of the points you made, that heirloom slash land
race type stuff does pop up reasonably frequently in aficionados, you know, the line in general.
The thing which jumped to mind to me is how do you source these types of genetics?
Like they're not, it's certainly not easy type of stuff to source, like, you know, like
highland Afghanis, stuff like that.
I have to imagine that would be some of the hardest type of stock to try to acquire, right?
Yeah, like, I mean, as far as like highland Afghani, that's like, that's something that
Mandelbrot got, I think, from Salmon Creek around 2003 or something like that.
I don't know the exact story on that.
But, you know, a lot of like, a lot of what aficionado stuff is, is like stuff that comes
from Mandelbrot or that comes from Shiloh or that comes from me, like guys who have
been here for a long time, or like the family vault purple that comes from a guy named Larry,
who actually passed this year.
He was a great dude, a hippie Larry or crazy Larry.
And so, you know, it's just a matter of people who have these things and who have kept them
because they like stuff enough to not just switch over to commercial mainstream clones.
I mean, you kind of have, you kind of have, of course, there's a million kinds of growers,
but you have kind of two major subgroups in this area.
You have people who either grow all diesel and Blue Dream and they bust out units and
they make money.
Or you have people like, there's people like me who take a big hit on money because it's
like, okay, I want to grow everything from seed.
The last time I grew a clone in my garden to actually grow weed from it and not just
to seed it for fun was probably 10 years ago.
You know?
And in between then and way back before that, there was probably only maybe one or two seasons
where I ever really produced clones to say, okay, I have this weed and it all comes from
this one clone.
I sacrifice basically ease of manufacture.
I don't just go, okay, I'm going to grow all this.
So somebody wants all OG, I got all OG.
I'm like, no, I got a plant of this.
I got a plant of that.
I got a plant of this.
They're all different because they're from seed.
And even if your stuff is completely consistent, as far as like, if you have like, you know,
quote unquote IBL stock, it's like, you're still, people are still probably not going
to take those plants and mix them in the bag.
And if they do, people might go, yeah, I don't know.
I smoked one joint out of that bag and it looked the same as this other joint, but the
one joint got me a little higher.
The one joint was a little tastier.
There's still these fine variations anytime you come from seed.
It doesn't ever get to the point where it's 100% consistent.
So, you know, people don't like that in commercial stuff.
So the main thing is with sourcing genetics is you have to track down the other set of
people like me who actually want to grow from seed so they still have seeds.
Because most people are like, I don't need seeds, dude.
I just go buy OG clones.
I just go buy cookies clones.
Whatever's the flavor of the week, I'm going to go buy that and I'm going to bust it out
and kill it.
And that's all I want.
I don't want to mess around with having a bunch of different stuff, you know.
But if you really have a love for different genetics and stuff, then that's when you're
going to be one of those people who says, no, I actually have stuff.
Like I have strains.
I have old seed strains and they are unique because they were bred by people who were
isolated for a long time.
So, you know, that's how I have stuff.
And that's where all that kind of special stuff comes from when people have it.
And then, you know, then there's people who preserve things through cloning, which is
awesome too, you know, also really important.
But it's definitely not quite as good as having, you know, open pollinated population of plants
that come from that gene pool instead of just one select clone that's been around, you know.
Yeah, for sure.
And so, you kind of almost hinted at this idea I've been interested in a while.
Do you think there's any value or maybe a better way to phrase it is, would you ever
consider doing a breeding cycle whereby the mother and the father were from the same stock
each cycle, but, you know, like you were doing it from seed every time so that each batch
was kind of a little bit unique within its own right?
Well, you know, that's really interesting that you said that because I kind of have
a concept that I'm working on and I want to see how well it flies.
That's how people have grown weed for thousands of years at the very least, you know.
And a lot of these, like these people say, oh, there's all this improvement.
And it's like, yeah, there's improvement.
But I'm sure there's been points in history when people had, you know, reached a point
that was similar to this or in certain areas, people have a particular type that's a certain,
you know, up to the standards of today because, you know, the way genetics work is those traits
have to exist in the original stock in order to be able to lock them down.
So maybe the old seeds weren't as consistent, but they still had all the stuff we love in
them today.
Like people are crazy over cookies.
And when I smell cookies, it's I'm like, oh, this is like a Hindu Kush and the resin is
a little bit more waxy as opposed to being a little bit, a lot of the Hindu Kush might
have a little more dry feel to the resin or, you know, like all the things that are
hot today, I see those traits and they just look like old stuff I saw from hippies weed
from back when I was a kid and when I was a teenager.
So for me, I always grow from seed that I make basically over the years.
Maybe it's not last year's seed, maybe it's seed from five or 10 years ago or whatever.
But I always grow seed that way.
And I really like it.
So I'm kind of interested in maybe starting to put out seed in that way where I say, okay,
this is Cherry Limeade numbers one through 20 from 2017.
These are the keepers out of, you know, run a big population and go, okay, here's the
females that I like the very best.
There was 10 of them.
There was 12 of them, whatever.
These are really stand out and then be able to release the seeds and say, okay, here's
Cherry Limeade.
These are the F5s that I made from this line from this year.
And then it's like people get a window into the way that people actually used to grow
weed and get seeds because everyone's into clones now or they're into getting a breeding
that came from cloned parents.
And I have appreciation for like all of those different ways to do stuff.
And they're all really good tools.
But at the same time, it's trippy because I don't see any companies who are putting
out seeds that are made the way that weed growers have been growing for all of history.
So when you said that, it's trippy because it's something that I've really been playing
with going, okay, yeah, I'm going to put out, this is going to be the 2000 batch, one through
10 of this strain.
And people who get that, they get it.
And if you don't get it, then you got to get the 2018.
You got to get the 2019.
They're all a little different, but different lines will come out that way.
And that way, instead of providing the public with a really narrow snapshot of the genetics
that are in a gene pool, they actually get access to the whole gene pool in all these
different little ways so that somebody can go, oh, yeah, well, I made knockoffs of this
strain, but it turns out their knockoffs are this cool new novel thing that they wouldn't
have got if I just take lime number one and lime male number one, and I just put out seeds
like that, and that's it.
Because they're only going to get this little window into the gene pool that way.
Yeah, for sure.
And so, I mean, I'm just thinking, I think the last breeder who I can think of who actually
did that was Tom Hill when he did the deep chum.
That was kind of open pollination, wasn't it?
As far as I know, Tom Hill, when he did deep chum, yeah, he just did open pollination with
that, and that's one that had been bottlenecked so much that it's one of the more consistent
strains I've seen from seed.
But even in that, there's ones that are really hard and chunky, and there's ones that are
really leafy and loose, and there's ones that are green, there's ones that are purple, there's
ones that are sweet and earthy, and then there's ones that have the really like the magic coffee
Hindu Kush smell where like when you smoke it, it smells like magic from a mile away.
And those ones are really rare in those breedings.
But when I first saw deep chum, I think he released that 2004 as deep chum, but in like
2000, I saw it as monkey balls in Spiroch.
And in those earlier ones before the release, I smelled a little bit more of that old like
what I call magic purple indica.
That's just this old Afghani where when you burn it, it smells more like a really good
true old school haze, or it's got that spicy, incense-y, funky, like just really special
stuff to it.
But I think those were when he did that was just an open pollination, and then he probably,
I don't know if he mixed the females or if he just took his favorite female and it had
mixed males and he only released them from one female or he took all the seeds from a
bunch of females and put those in packs.
I'm not really sure what he did with that.
Yeah, it's interesting because I mean a lot of his lines are just open pollination of
stuff he's had earlier.
Have you ever delved into any of the other lines?
I know that his haze often got a good rap, but the ones I'm more interested in were the
ones people seem to have been less known about.
X18 I'm really interested in, no one seems to really run it too much, or Pine Tar Cush,
another one like that.
The Pine Tar Cush we used to see back in the day, people used to get it from his family.
I went to school with some of his family, and so his stuff would pop up like when I
was in high school, and they just called it the Pine.
My buddy C-Money remembers it more clear than I do.
I don't really remember it.
I just know that it's dank, and he says it was super good.
For me back in those days, all the weed was so good that it was just kind of like, oh,
this guy's got this, and this guy's got that.
Not that much stuff really stands out unless I was the one who grew it kind of for me.
But the X18 is another one I haven't personally seen.
But Aaron from DNA said that that really blows the deep chunk out of the water, that it's
just a way better plant with way better weed.
So that makes it interesting to me because deep chunk's one of these ones with crazy
mixed reviews because it's such pure stock that people really love that aspect.
But at the same time, most people don't really like to smoke it because they usually only
get a few seeds.
And then they started with a pack, and they made some.
So they didn't ever see the older when the line was really more opened up.
So they haven't seen those special like—there's ones in it that are more like a Master Kush
or a Hindu Kush.
I mean, it is Hindu Kush, but it's more of that classic funk to it.
So when someone tells me that X18 is way better—and I mean, Aaron sees a ton of weed too.
So I figure that the X18 must be killer.
And then there was one—I had a buddy who I used to work for, and he had this stuff.
And I was like, dude, what is this?
This stuff's incredible.
And he was like, oh, you like that one?
And I was like, yeah, dude, what could you not like?
It has buds as big as my arm.
They're basically black and silver because the weed is so purple, and the resin is so
silvery white on them.
It smells like spray paint and ammonia and skunk.
It was just amazing.
And I was told that that was probably the North Indian, but then when I talked to another
buddy, he said, oh, the North Indian's not really like that.
It's not quite so big.
Then I saw Bodhi run out a little bit.
I only saw like maybe one picture or something, but it didn't really look like what I saw.
So anyway, Tom Hill's dad—when I asked, well, what is this stuff?
My buddy said, oh, this is Tom Hill's dad's stuff because Tom Hill was his buddy, and
he had just given him a bunch of seeds and said, oh, this is my dad's strain.
And everything that Tom Hill has, as far as I know, comes from his dad and those guys
that had worked with it over the years in Mendo.
And so to me, that was the one that for me is one of my holy grail strains, and I still
can't really figure out 100% what it is.
It might be the North Indian.
Maybe if I can finagle some seeds from Bodhi at some point and try some out, I can see
if I see that one popping out and maybe lean it back if it is it.
But I'm not really positive, you know?
And unfortunately, to ask around to try to sort it back out, I'm sure Tom Hill would
say, my dad has lots of strains, and I'm sure my buddy would go, yeah, I don't know.
It's Tom Hill's dad's stuff.
It's just the stuff from chemists, you know?
So that one to me was incredible.
So if by any chance someone ever tells you, I have this stuff from Tom Hill, and it gets
these big, huge black and silver buds that smell like skunk and spray paint and ammonia,
definitely, you know, like if you got to buy them or you got to trade or you got to
fly somewhere to get them, get those suckers.
Those things are—that was a really, really incredible line.
And to me, that was the one that I saw from Tom Hill that was incredible.
I just don't know if he ever released it.
I mean, for all I know, it's X18, you know what I mean?
I just—I've never seen X18.
I don't remember the pine—I don't remember the pine tarcush really well.
I just remember it was stony, and it smelled a lot like a pine tree, like cutting pine,
you know?
And that's all I really know.
I have some haze that I got from Backyard Farmer at South Fork Seeds.
I have some deep chunk crosshays, F2s, and those probably have some really neat plants
in it.
My buddy at Roundtable Selections, he grew out some of them, and he got some incredible
plants that looked really neat, like a deep chunk but very narrow leaf, which is kind
of like the Achilles heel of deep chunk.
It's cool to look at, but it lets in no light, and it causes it to really only get
little buds on the outside, whereas the monkey haze, as it's called, it gets—it lets
the light in, so it gets these long buds, but they still get the deep chunk color and
you know.
That's a neat one, for sure.
Yeah, wow.
So many points you just hit on.
I'm a little Tom Hill fanboy, so I need to clarify something quickly.
Is the chemist Tom Hill's dad?
Yes.
Ha ha.
All right, cool.
I heard he might be hanging out in Southeast Asia somewhere, still kicking on.
Okay, yeah.
I mean, I would imagine, you know?
All I know is I was working with my buddy, and I said, oh, what is this?
And he said, that's Tom Hill's dad stuff, you know?
And at this point, I didn't know who Tom Hill was until maybe two years ago or something.
I just knew him as the guy who was my buddy's friend who gave him these killer seeds, you
know?
And so I said, what is this?
And he said, oh, this is Tom Hill's dad stuff, you know?
And he's like scientific with his breeding, you know?
He's like a scientist.
And I remembered it for years as him being called scientist.
But it turned out I was talking to a backyard farmer, and he goes, no, no, his name's chemist.
And I went, that's right, chemist.
But that's what my buddy said.
He's like, this guy's like a scientist with his breeding.
He knows all the tricks.
He knows all the ins and outs.
His strains are true breeding.
And so that's how I know who he is and stuff, yeah.
Just as a little side note quickly, I've grown out probably like close to 40 deep chunk
females from this stock I had.
It probably falls exactly into the category you described.
But only one of those was like kind of as you described that magic Hindu thing and haven't
been able to find it since.
I didn't clone it.
It's neat, though, when you get it, right?
It's like coffee and earth and a little bit of like interesting.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
It's interesting because quote unquote indica's, or broadleaves, they kind of get lumped into
this category of being very kind of bland on the high.
But I've had some over the years.
I used to have this indica called Big Blue, which I think is a different line from the
same import as the deep chunk, because it's pretty much the same plant.
And when I grow a big population of deep chunk, I get ones that have the same form.
It's the one that's like as hard as a rock, and it has the extra flavor, and it gets the
extra purple on the leaves and down all the way through the veins of the leaves where
it's usually white.
It's very like psychedelic and laughy and giggly and cerebral.
And you would never think it from looking at this plant.
It's the definition of a boring broadleaf high when you look at the weed.
But when you smoke it, it lays people on the ground with the giggles for hours.
Yeah, wow.
I got given some seeds from a friend, and all he told me was that they were supposedly
from an unreleased Tom Hill line called the Blue Afghani.
And so maybe it's something to do with that.
I'm interested.
I'll have to get them going.
Yeah, you haven't tried them, huh?
No.
Are they large seeds?
Yeah, I think I've got about six or seven of them.
I'll have to get them going today.
Yeah, they look...
Do they look like they're big, muscle-bound, look like a piece of rock and they're really
big?
Or are they little seeds?
They're reasonably big, but I know what you're talking about.
I've seen the real, real big Afghani ones.
They're not that, but they aren't small ones by any means.
Okay.
And that's interesting too, because I generalize like, oh, that's what big blue seeds look
like.
But the deep chunk as well, like Bodhi gave me some of his deep chunk seeds that he made.
I was stoked on that.
And I was stoked in another way because they are small seeds.
And all of the ones that I do from my old stock that came from a friend of Tom Hill's
before the release, they always have really, really big seeds.
So that made me know, okay, well, this might be a little bit different of a leg of that
line, you know?
Do you think that the size of the seed is entirely dependent on the genetics?
Or do you think it also has some part to do with when the pollination occurs in the
general timeframe of the plant's life cycle?
Well, I would say that when you start with a pollination where you're in very early flower
and you just have kind of the primordia of the flower is there, you just have those first
hairs are showing, you're going to get fewer seeds.
They're going to be bigger.
They're going to be healthier.
They're going to have a thicker shell.
You'll probably have a higher female ratio from them.
They'll take longer to germinate, but you'll get a better germination ratio and they'll
store longer, better.
But if you take the same strain and you seed it a little bit later, you'll get a lot more
seeds.
They'll still be fully viable and the genetics will still all be, of course, intact and good.
But you'll have smaller seeds with thinner shells.
And so there's a trade off there.
You're not going to get a lot of people producing seeds for money who are going to want to seed
them really, really early.
I like to seed stuff when you can barely tell it's flowering, just when it starts to get
enough to get so you know you're going to get some seeds.
And then I basically get really close to 100% just perfect, flawless seeds.
You never get the wonky ones.
You get a lot less twins.
You get a lot more of the seeds are a lot more symmetrical.
So there's definitely something to be said for that.
But you're never going to make, you're never going to take these certain strains like blue
dream, for example.
You're never going to make seeds on a blue dream plant, even if you make it right when
it first buds and you juice the hell out of it and it's in full sun and it's the most
happy plant ever and you leave it until the buds almost nearly dead and the seeds are
as good as could be.
They'll never get as big as a well-produced deep chunk seed from the, or big blue, like
from these really crazy Afghanis.
They just genetically, they get these really, really big seeds.
But like Bodhi seeds are always great.
And these seeds he gave me were beautiful.
And so that's what makes me think that they're genetically leaning a little bit to a different
side in the gene pool.
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah.
But there's definitely like a correlation.
There's certain, like a certain variety has a certain range of seed size.
Like some just can't get as big as those.
Those suckers get huge.
Yeah, man.
Those things are like little nuts.
Yeah.
So if we just loop back to a topic we were talking about a while ago, you were talking
about how broadly speaking, there's two types of growers in California, the seed growers
or the clone growers, so to speak.
It's interesting because this idea seems to be coming up more and more, especially
in terms of how advantageous seeds can be compared to clones, specifically in the outdoor
setting.
You know, the idea of having the taproot, you know, that's really advantageous.
The one major argument I've had against this though, is that, you know, not every seed
is going to yield a product as good as what an elite clone would.
So the question is, do you feel that through strict and high quality breeding, you can
with reasonable certainty offer a seed that is going to produce on average quite a high
quality product?
Yeah, no problem.
And I think a lot of it comes down to taste.
So what happens is you might have a gene pool that can consistently do, it can consistently
recreate these plants with potency, with yields, with this, with that.
A lot of times it comes down to a slight variation in anything makes people get turned off to
it based on taste.
So you might have 10 female plants and you clone them all and you have a bunch of people
who think the number three is the greatest weed ever.
And then you have a bunch of people who think that the number nine is the greatest weed
ever.
And then there's some people and you have somebody who loves every plant that comes
out of those seeds once they're bred really well.
But there's certain plants that are just more pleasing to, they're like pop.
They're pop plants.
They're like pop music or pop art.
It's like, this is what people, people just like these.
You can sell this weed at Walmart.
You can sell this weed at Tiffany's.
It doesn't matter who you are, you're going to like this.
And of course there's always some people who don't like it.
But generally if people like strong weed, they're going to think OG is pretty good.
If they like strong weed, they're going to think chem is pretty good.
Or if they like those more indica kind of highs.
So I think a lot of it comes down to not so much are the plants, can you create plants
that are all quality?
But it's like, then you have to lock them down to be this particular thing.
In which case you're going to kind of alienate the people who might have liked the other
thing that you didn't lock down.
So I do believe you can make a strain where everything is really high quality.
Like I grow my stuff that comes from my black lime crosses.
And I don't ever really get a plant from them that I go, I don't like this one.
I like them all.
If people have never seen something from the line that they're attached to, the first time
they see any given plant, they go, whoa, that's good stuff.
I like that one.
But once they've grown attached to one type, then they'll start to see some of the other
ones and go, yeah, I don't like that one.
But it's because of the one that they do like.
It kind of turns them off to the other ones.
So I think a lot of it comes down to just your taste, what you like.
And then of course, bottlenecking out the stuff that just nobody thinks is going to
be quality.
So that's what I've spent years doing is trying to get rid of the stuff that nobody's
going to like and try to keep in the stuff that I know somebody's going to love, even
though I know you can't please everybody with every single plant.
So an idea I've been thinking about a lot recently is, do you think it's possible to
selectively breed for either one trait, like either breeding in or out?
And I guess what I mean by this is, let's just say you had a clone or a strain in general,
and you love everything about it, there's just one trait specifically.
Let's for example, say maybe resistance to insects or something like that.
Do you think you can breed that out and breed it out in such a way that you only get rid
of that one trait?
Or do you think you're always going to lose some peripheral aspects that will be related
to the genes involved in that trait?
And I mean, maybe more specifically, if you could actually do it, do you think it would
just take a ridiculous number of generations to achieve the goal I kind of outlined?
Or do you think you could do it in a reasonable number of generations?
You know, it's an interesting thing because it's really like the perfect question for
like, why would you want to hyperdise something?
Because if you already have something good, why would you want to screw it up by adding
something else?
I think, like in the case you said of like insect resistance, there's two ways.
It's like this, if you have a gene pool, and there's already plants in it that are
exactly what you want, except they are very insect resistant, and you don't have to
go outside of the gene pool, then that's a case when line breeding, without adding any
outside genetics is a great tool.
So you can say, okay, well, you know, when I grow five of these, they all get attacked
by insects, then that's a great time to go, okay, well, let's go ahead and pop 10,000
seeds or 500 seeds or whatever you have room for.
And then basically introduce that insect to that population and see if there's one that
really shines.
And then if you can get actually a whole variety of those particular plants, then hopefully
you find one that was insect resistant.
And it also has the other traits that you already liked about the strain, which in this
hypothetical thing would be likely because it was already a strain you liked a lot, but
it just wasn't resistant to bugs.
So in that case, that's when you really want to do selective breeding within the gene pool.
And bottleneck out all the plants.
So by taking that one plant and you can back cross to it and back cross to it and back
cross to it, and because it's already consistent strain, back crossing to that plant is really
going to dominate the gene pool with itself.
And that's actually like a really good time to inbreed and back cross and do all that
stuff.
You wouldn't want to throw out all the other stuff because down the line, you're going
to realize, hey, wait, there's another trait we didn't know because we had never seen
this type of wilt before, or we'd never seen this type of mildew or blight or new strain
of insect or species of insects.
So you still want to have the other ones put in cold storage or whatever.
But now you have this new line where you can go, okay, sweet, we're not getting eaten
by thrips every time.
Like who's getting eaten by thrips?
This is obviously a terrible plant.
So we got to go ahead and go for this part of the population, preserve the part that
we really don't want right now so that we know we have it in case we need something
from it later.
But now we'll take this new direction where we have this.
The other place would be, okay, now, well, we grew out 500 or we grew out 10,000 and
we didn't find any plants that are not resistant to insects, which means that in the past,
somebody's already bottlenecked these traits into this population and they're all going
to get attacked by insects no matter what.
In that case, you're going to have to borrow genetic material from a different race of
plants.
So you're going to have to say, okay, we're going to go to this land race over here, or
we're going to go to this heirloom breed over here and go, okay, look, these ones, they
just, and you grow a big population.
And of course it doesn't have to be that they all grow like this, but that's the best
way to do it is to find a breed where none of them get attacked by insects.
And maybe if you're lucky, this plant already breeds true for a lot of the traits you liked
about the other strain.
So that way you're making less work for yourself.
So let's say you have a strain that gets attacked by insects.
It has a great smell that you really love.
It gets you high like you want, the plant grows like you want it to.
It finishes when you want it to.
And the only drawback is that it gets attacked by insects.
Then maybe by some luck, you find another strain that has all those same traits that
you really like.
And even the terpene profiles are similar.
So it's similar weed, but you go, well, this one over here, it doesn't get attacked by
insects in any of the population.
The whole thing is insect resistant.
So it obviously has, it breeds true for this particular trait in this case, which is insect
resistance.
So when you cross the two together, I mean, if it's so close to being perfect, like I
just said it was, then of course you'd probably just throw away the first strain because you
just found a second strain that's already perfect.
But there's going to be-
I was thinking that in my head.
Right.
Yeah, for sure.
But I mean, I'm just saying that was kind of the ideal you would be looking for to have
a lot of traits that line up.
Of course, they're not all going to line up.
So let's say strain A yields well, but strain B doesn't yield well, but it really has the
insect resistance.
So you go, okay, we do still need something from the old strain that doesn't have the
insect resistance.
And it still is the one that has the better buds with the better resin and all this stuff
to it.
So, okay.
So it's worthwhile.
So then in that case, you're going to make that hybrid.
Now, when you make that hybrid, you're going to go through and you're going to look for
all those traits you wanted, but you're going to look for the plants that do possess that
borrowed trait.
And now those are going to be the plants that you're going to breed to go forward.
And it all really depends on the frequency that this particular trait pops out in the
population.
Like, is it a one in 10?
Is it a one in 100?
Is it a one in a thousand?
And if it's already like the strain's really true for that, it's going to be pretty easy
to borrow that trait into the other one, because at the very least, you're going to start off
and you're going to get a quarter or a third or half, or depending on how dominant that
strain is for that trait.
So to answer your question in a simple way, which I never do, I would say that it's not
really that hard.
It's just, you have to approach it in that way where you go, okay, what is our list of
traits that we need for this strain?
And then what are we looking to borrow from another strain?
And does this other strain really have it to donate?
And in that case, then yeah, you'll make your new hybrid.
You'll find your plants that fit the description.
And as long as they fit the description, you take them, you breed them together, try some
different combinations of parents.
And then at a certain point, you'll find one that has all those traits that you want.
I mean, that's kind of just what...
I mean, that's not what you do when you're making simple hybrids, but when you're breeding
a strain, that really is something that's going on.
I do that with strains a lot.
Yeah, for sure.
And I know that that type of approach is used in many, many, many other fields of agriculture
around the world, and it's certainly effective.
Yeah.
While we're on the topic of kind of locking in traits, I remember having this discussion
with Mr. Soul about backcrossing.
And I specifically was interested in why he chose to use the Shiva skunk male as opposed
to one of the brothers of the princess and the genius in the stock.
And he said to me, well, it had good traits, obviously, the Shiva skunk that he wanted,
but more importantly, it was really easy to see those phenotypes when he was going through
each generation backcrossing it.
That kind of brought up an interesting idea because, I mean, one, would you guys consider
doing backcrosses in aficionado?
Because a lot of the work is more kind of F1-y type stuff.
But the other question is, is that the type of approach you would take?
Would you want to use something that was really different, just such that it was almost just
doing the job of providing the Y chromosome, and then you could easily weed out most of
its traits?
Or would you look to use something which was more similar, as you just mentioned, but the
implication of that is maybe it's a little harder to weed out exactly what you don't
want?
Yeah.
I mean, as far as to be able to see something outright, I mean, I used to always go, okay,
you want to use...
If you're going to say, like, you're going to take an OG and you want to make an OG from
seed, let's find a male that's already almost just like OG in every way, and then we'll
do that.
And then after a while, I went, yeah, but I can't see it.
Once I did it in practice, I went, it's really hard to see what it is.
So what I realized, and I started the project and I never did anything with it, Dying Breed
and Roundtable Selections and, geez, I don't know, probably a couple other people did stuff
with it.
What I did was I took the deep chunk and I put it on the Fire OG.
And I gave that to the guy who gave me the deep chunk seeds originally, and he called
it Great Balls of Fire.
So what's interesting is deep chunk is a really trippy plant because it's totally inbred
and it is, of course, it's dominant in breedings for all these traits, like I would say, in
a lot of cases, the dark color, a lot of resin, broad leaves.
But one thing that it wasn't dominant for in outcrosses that I did, meaning that I guess
it's probably a double recessive trait in its gene pool, is that its height, it's not
dominant in outcrosses.
So what happens when you make deep chunk cross something that grows fast is you get basically
deep chunk plants, but they're very fast growing.
So I haven't grown out a large enough population of that, but what I really wanted to do with
it was go, okay, it's going to be easy to see these plants that are the ones that aren't
the broad leaves.
They're going to be a lot more likely to be the OG types.
And it's so dominant for that trait that I think I'll probably have to grow out a thousand
of them to be able to get a few good plants to try combinations with that have the narrow
leaves.
And Dying Breed took that and they actually selected one that was a little bit more narrow
leaf and they put that back on the fire OG again.
I haven't seen that grown out yet, but I'm curious about it.
But that's an example of doing like what Mr. Sol was talking about where you use something
that's really obvious and then it's easy to take out.
The problem with deep chunk, it's not really a problem.
It's just that when I do, you plant 20 or 40 of them and you go, hey, we have a bunch
of giant size deep chunk with a little bit more THC coming from the OG, but you don't
get many that have any kind of an OG smell or an OG look to them.
And so it's kind of a pain in the butt, but it's definitely a valuable thing to do.
And I don't see any reason not to do back cross projects if you have a plant that you
really, really like.
I think it's good and I think that doing something that pops right out at you like that, using
a plant that is different so that you can weed it out of the population really easy,
I think that's smart.
It's a sharp idea.
Yeah.
And so you just touched on this idea of popping, you said popping a thousand seeds.
How many seeds do you like to pop when you are going to look through a line for a male,
for example?
And as a little side question, if you were to pop another breeders seeds, how many would
you want to pop to get an idea of whether you could be like, oh, that's bunk or they
do good stuff?
I'd say it's all dependent on the genetics.
I don't think, I think there's some strains that the way they're bred, like if you're
going to pop something from Mr. Soul, I don't think that you probably need to plant more
than a pack or two because of the way he breeds.
He's locking down traits.
He's using parents that actually mesh and make the gene combinations that he wants.
And he's, I mean, the dude, he's a, what, he's a nuclear engineer or something, right?
So, I mean, he's not just going to be jumping into and doing stuff like that.
Now, that in comparison to somebody who says, hey, I'm going to take this and throw it
together with this, I mean, deep chunk cross OG was one that was, that takes big numbers
because of this interesting interplay between the genetics where deep chunk basically eclipses
everything it collides with.
There's nothing that really can stand out like deep chunk just throws a shadow on anything
in the genetics.
So, you are going to be able to get ones out of it, but it's going to take you a bigger
population to find them because there is really true dominance for a lot of its traits that
it has.
But like I said, height is not one of those traits.
So, then that kind of shows you with my knowledge of genetics, like I'm no rocket scientist
with it, but that's probably a double recessive because it breeds true in an inbred population,
but it doesn't breed true or it doesn't dominate anything when you do out crosses
with it at all.
So, there's your two examples of, okay, here we got Cindy 99 seeds or Cindy 99 fem seeds,
like, hey, grow three, you're going to get a good plant, grow regs, grow 10, grow 20,
grow 30.
You're going to have a lot of cool stuff in there and it's kind of going to be that
because that's his goal as a breeder.
Then there's other people and there's stuff that I make too.
I make stuff.
I try to make stuff that's not as hard as it is.
That is really, really consistent.
And I try to make stuff that's really, really wild because in stuff that's consistent,
when you go ahead and you plant a row of it, it behaves just how you want it to.
It does everything that you want it to do.
It finishes when you want it to finish and all this stuff.
But then if you want to find something that's really going to be out of this world and it's
completely different than anything anyone's ever seen, you're not going to get that out
of your true breeding seeds.
Your true breeding seeds only have what you've seen from them because that's all they do.
Deep chunk does deep chunk.
You're not going to grow deep chunk and go, whoa, I grew this deep chunk and now I got
this crazy plant with this crazy terpene profile.
It's going to be like, oh, it's just a variation on deep chunk.
It's pure.
Cindy 99, you're going to get a variation on Cindy 99, which is awesome when you're
looking for that.
And then doing crazy polyhybrids and stuff is really cool if you're just looking for
something that's really weird.
I got one called Nubia that my buddy Braveheart found out of some seeds and it's one of the
only CBD plants that's high in CBD, two to one ratio, and it makes really, really good
full melt hash.
And that's not common with CBD plants.
And I kind of attribute some of that to the old genetics, like the dirt perp in it that
has, it's terpene rich, it has really nice resin that's really, it's really melty anyway.
But then at the same time, then it's this crazy polyhybrid thing that I did.
And then you get this plant that you don't really see this in other populations.
People grow out tons of CBD and they're like, it's great, but you can't make full melt
hash with it.
But through doing some weirdo stuff, you get these weirdo things that you realize are valuable
once you actually put them into practice.
As far as for to get somebody's seed to know if it's good, it just depends.
I feel like with breeding, it's all about honesty.
If it's wild, say it's wild.
If it's ultra consistent, say it's ultra consistent.
And then that way, when people go to select what they want to get from you or what they
want to spend their time on to grow, they have an idea which ride they're buying a ticket
for because you don't want to try to grow something where you want to get all good stuff
that's all the same and have it all be wild.
And then some of them aren't even that great.
But if someone tells you, hey, these seeds are wild, they're not all good.
But when you find the best one in it, you're going to have something that's incredible.
Then it's like, cool, now you know what you're signing up for.
And so it's not so much that maybe a better breeder is going to have more consistent seeds.
It's that, in my opinion, a better breeder is going to tell you what is what so that
when you get into it, you know, like, okay, do you want to have...
You want to find this purple one here that's got this really special terpene profile.
It only pops out maybe one in 20.
So you're probably going to want to plant about 50 or 60 seeds just so that you know
you got more of a likelihood because if it pops out one in 20 in a big population,
somebody could buy one pack or two packs and get 20 seeds really easily and go, well,
it didn't come this time because it's not going to hit.
But you want to know that when you buy the seeds.
I don't want to get seeds from somebody and have them go, yeah, they're all this.
And then you plant them and you go, dude, I didn't get any of that.
And then if somebody tells you, oh, there's all kinds of neat stuff in this.
And then you plant it and you go, dude, I only got one thing out of like 50 plants.
They're all exactly the same.
Either one of those is going to be a disappointment, you know.
So it's really up to for, you know, for the breeder to be ethical and give you an idea
of what you're getting yourself into, I think.
Yeah, sounds like a good philosophy.
And so just on a slightly different topic.
Recently, we've seen the launch of your own new company, Freeborn Selections.
What inspired you to start this?
Is it kind of a bit like Bodhi's companies where it's just kind of like a different type
of work he wants to do?
And what type of things can we expect from it?
Well, I'll tell you what.
I mean, like I said, you know, I was 10 years old looking at high time seeing people with
seed companies saying, oh, that'd be cool, you know, to have a seed company and breed.
And then I started breeding.
I got all these different breeds, you know.
And so, you know, like when I when I first talked to Leo from Efficient Auto, you know,
he said, oh, yeah, you know, you should you should you should come on the company and
we'll you know, you can do this and do that.
And I was like, yeah, man, you know, I go, you know, I'm down to do stuff.
I like to work with people.
And, you know, that's it's cool.
But, you know, I'm still I'm not just going to be, you know, I'm not coming in to just
be like part of somebody else's thing.
I've been doing this for, you know, I've been I've been, you know, improving and creating
strains for 20 years.
I'm not just trying to just sign on to somebody's stuff.
So I basically I basically just thought, well, I have all these things that I've made.
Efficient Auto, the way the marketing is positioned is to say, you know, this is basically
the best weed you've ever seen, the best seeds you've ever seen.
And, you know, I feel like when we had Black Lime Reserve, I was like, I feel like this
is a game changer.
I gave them to people.
I gave a lot of lime stuff over the years to a lot of different people.
And I always ask them, you know, is this is this blowing stuff away?
Is this what you want to grow now or are you just going to retire it?
You tried it.
You don't want to do it.
And everyone who I gave it to always said this is something that I really want to that
I really want to go with.
So that's like something that I felt like was appropriate to release and say, hey, this
is this is good.
You know, this is like the best stuff.
Anything that I do, of course, I'm going to think it's great.
But I have to know that, OK, it's going to match with the market.
It's going to it's going to it's going to be really big, good yields.
It's going to be great for this.
It's going to be great for that kind of, you know, check all the boxes.
And so I was comfortable to do that.
But honestly, like to say, OK, I'm just going to make seeds always to be released as being,
you know, the greatest thing around.
And maybe they don't really you know, there's not really anything that different.
You know, I'm not going to sit here and tell you I'm a better breeder than than Mr.
Soul or Bodhi or Inspecta or Fletch or any of these guys.
I'm not.
You know what I mean?
Like, I'm not going to sit here and tell you that I'm that I'm, you know, Mr. Awesome.
So it's hard for me to to position stuff that way.
So for me, I'm like, OK, I just wanted to do a company where I could say I'm going to
I'm going to make this stuff.
It's stuff that I think is great.
I think it brings a lot to the table and people will enjoy it.
And and so that's why I'm really, you know, making the push on doing on doing my own stuff,
because any time when you're when you're working with people, you know, your visions have to meet.
And if your visions aren't meeting up, then, you know, it's not it's not really conducive to
to success in that way.
So, you know, Freeborn Selections is just like, you know, my middle name is Freeborn.
You know, these are my selections.
And, you know, like you see, like on my thing, it's like, oh, it's a company, you know, it's
a new company.
It's that why is it say since 1997?
Because, you know, Freeborn's been selecting since 1997.
That's what the work is.
So that's basically, you know, that's that's the whole thing of of it is just going, OK,
this is a place where I can put my work.
I don't have to worry about meeting any kind of standard beyond what I say it is.
If I say it's wild, it's wild.
If I say it's unstable, it's unstable.
If I say it's if I say it's the best strain I've ever seen, it's the best strain I've ever
seen.
I can just do whatever I want.
It doesn't all have to fit into the heading of going, OK, this is the best you've ever
seen, because that's that's a lot of pressure and that's hard to that's hard to deliver
on, you know?
Yeah, for sure.
And so just as a bit of a personal curiosity, even though Cherry Lime took first place and
Black Lime didn't, which one do you think is actually the more stand out of the two?
Um, you know, Black Lime is really trippy.
It's one of these ones like I know a guy who used to get all the weed from the from, you
know, the main diesel guys on the East Coast, the chem guys.
And, you know, he'd buy their weed for, you know, huge amounts of money, stuff that's
just ridiculous.
Like people don't believe people pay this much for for weed.
And he used to come over here and get Black Lime before I crossed with OG.
And, you know, I I I didn't ever know until I was talking to him last year and here two
years ago.
And he goes, oh, you're the Black Lime guy.
I go, yeah, I go, you like that?
And he go and he told me the story.
He goes, man, that was the best weed that I ever got was Black Lime.
And he goes, I used to get the Super Skunk.
I used to get the diesel.
I used to get the chem.
You know, I've seen all the OGs.
He goes, the Black Lime.
He goes, that was my stuff, dude.
Like that was like I could kill it on that back in those days.
And I was like, wow, I didn't even know back then.
I didn't you know, like you're very isolated when you're in the, you know, in the woods
for one, you're very isolated.
But beyond that, when you're not, you know, you're not really tied in.
I was never one of these guys who flew to Amsterdam or did any of this stuff.
So, you know, anyway, you know, my point being that for me, Black Lime is like, it's
like the best weed there is.
And I crossed it with the PK, the OG back in the day, not because I wanted to make any
improvements, but because I took the OG and I hit it with every male I had at the time
trying to get OG seeds because nobody wanted to grow my seeds.
All of a sudden they were talking about, oh, we want to, we want to buy only OG because
we can sell this, you know, we can sell this in LA for $8,000 a pound and all the rest
of this stuff we can't.
So, you know, Black Lime for me was really like the heavy, it was heavy hitting.
It had all the flavors, it had fuel, it had fruit.
I had been looking for years for something that was like Lime because my buddy who was
from that crew who originally gave some of my friends some of the original seeds that
I got, they had a thing called Lime and I was always like, oh, I want to find this Lime.
I want to breed a strain that's Lime, like a Lime popsicle, you know?
And so once I finally did it, it was just to me, I was like, here's the ultimate.
Cherry, if I have Cherry Limeade and I have Black Lime and I have a bag of each, say I
have an ounce of each and I'm smoking heavy, I'm going to probably smoke the Black Lime
like 10 to 1.
And the Cherry Limeade is incredible.
It just, it's not, it doesn't resonate with me as well.
And I think that overall the Cherry Limeade is more of a crowd pleaser.
It's purple, but it's stony like OG.
It has an incredible amount of terpenes when you smoke it.
It literally tastes sweet in your mouth, not just like a sweet smell, but it actually
on your tongue is kind of like sweet, like sugary.
And it's just really, really good weed.
It's really resistant.
But Black Lime for me is just like Black Lime's the king of the jungle for me.
And then my other one that I call Root Beer, which is a headband with some old Afghanis
and Hindu.
That's super dank too.
Those are the two for me.
Cherry Limeade is totally like a back burner strain for me as smoke.
But if I want to really impress somebody with a bud, I know that unless people have a relationship
with a history of smoking those other things like me, I know that when they smoke the Cherry
Limeade, that knee jerk is going to be like, oh, that's the best.
That one's the best.
But if somebody has a lot of them for a long time, it's the lime for sure.
The lime is killer.
Yeah, that's really interesting because I was listening to you on the Cannabis Connection
talk about the creation of the Cherry Lime.
And interestingly enough, I think you said that the mother was a Cherry Pie S1.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And what I find interesting about this is we're seeing this happen more and more.
You know, people are breeding with S1s as mothers.
I've even seen people breeding with an S2 as a mother.
How do you feel about this?
Do you feel like it's fine to do as long as you do the necessary testing on the progeny?
Or what's your feelings on this?
Well, here's an interesting thing.
You know, I mean, some strains, they have exceptional stress, causes them to seed themselves.
And the progeny from those breedings, it'll take an exceptional amount of stress to make
them seed themselves.
Something like Cherry Pie doesn't take any stress at all.
Just seeds itself, right?
Unless you're like some kind of phenomenal space grower.
I don't know.
Everybody who I know is like, dude, you grow Cherry Pie, you're going to be picking off
some balls off the bottom of the plant before you flower it out.
It's about day 21, day 25 or something, day 30.
And it's just going to start getting these little balls at the bottom of the plant.
So if I would have used that as a mother and hit it with a lime and release cherry lime
seeds, it would have been a disaster.
Like, I would have never done that.
So even at this point, I'm still having people test them indoor.
I'm growing them outdoor.
I'm at F4 with a few different directions.
And they're all very stable outdoor.
They're even stable indoor for really good growers, which is better than Cherry Pie.
But they're not stable indoor in every...
It's not every line is good.
The number seven line is one out of five my buddy Jasper had to do before he got a good
one.
The number eight, Quality Over Kwan just did a few of them and he had no problems whatsoever.
And the number eight, there's also Kevin Jodry has a cut off of that that I guess does really
well no matter what.
So it's a matter of, okay, what kind of an S1 is it?
And then in that case, here's the deal.
If you take the wrong road and you get to S5 or you get to S10 or you get to S20, you're
going to have plants that are so herm that you won't even know there's females in there.
They're just going to all be producing pollen like mad.
If you take the right turn, you're going to get plants where you're like, dude, I watered
it with all this stuff.
I used everything they use to make feminized seeds and I can't get these suckers to reverse.
Just depends on which road you take.
So you have to take it in the right direction.
So I honestly think that there's a big lack of people making S1 seeds.
And the reason I say that is because people lose clones.
So like my buddy right now has this skunk six.
It's this incredible plant and everybody wants it and nobody has it and he has it and
he almost lost it.
And it's my opinion, not that these seeds need to be distributed necessarily, but that
they do need to be made.
Like I told him, I'm all, dude, get some of those cuts up there to inspect and have them
S1 those out.
So you've got the seeds to put in the fridge because as long as you stress test those S1s,
you're going to find S1s that are more stable than the mother they came from.
And you're going to find some that are less so.
That's the nature of genetics is that you always get something that's more so and one
that's less.
So you get like a more resinous plant and you get a less resinous plant.
You get a more purple plant and you get a less purple plant.
You get a taller one, you get a shorter one.
So you get all these combinations of whatever's in the gene pool of the plant.
And I really think that selfing stuff is neat.
I had this Northern Lights back in the day, the one we got in 89 from seeds and it was
incredible.
And it's still to this day is one of my favorite plants.
I underrated it for years because it was a little plain on the terp side, although the
flavor was incredible.
I just kind of didn't, I don't know.
I was a little bit infatuated with smells that were a little more crazy.
So I didn't really realize how amazing of just like a hash plant this thing was.
And it used to, in cases where like the generators would die for a couple days before they could
get back up and running or it would get heat stressed or whatever these different issues
are, it would seed itself.
And these seeds, we always went, oh, they're hermes seeds and we always threw them away.
And every year there would be one or two that would be in the compost pile, it would come
up and we'd go, oh, it's a girl.
Let's go ahead and grow it, give it a shot.
And they'd always be perfect.
And we just thought, just throw the seeds away.
I wasn't looking at the evidence that, no, look, these plants are good because we already
had the clone.
I figured I'd never lose that clone.
We got it in 89, that clone was around to like 2005.
But then that clone got lost.
The only guy who had it, he lived by the Russian River, which is notorious for flooding.
He had it in a trailer in a grove by the Russian River.
The Russian River flooded, it washed the trailer and all the stock was lost.
And now I go, God, I wish I had one of those bags of handfuls of beautiful brown pear-shaped
northern lights, S1 seeds, that I threw away.
And so I think it's important that people do it for preservation.
I don't know as much for distribution unless people kind of let you know.
You really got to know the parent.
Is it herme-prone?
Is it not herme-prone?
Because if it's a herme-prone parent, if it's prone to intersex trait, then you're
going to have some problems with those seeds.
But for preservation purposes, I think that feminized seeds and self-seeds are a really
neat tool, especially in the case where you have the clone and you don't have the population
of seeds to pull a male from or whatever.
Yeah, awesome.
And so maybe as like a little follow-up question, do you think that if you have a plant that
doesn't display any hermaphroditic traits in normal cases, like it's just a stable
plant by all measure, but for whatever reason, it's exposed to some serious stress, maybe
a light leak, for example, and it produces some nanas and makes some S1s, do you think
that those seeds are necessarily more herme-prone, so to speak?
Because the general consensus would be that like a plant that tends to herme, the seeds
will likewise tend to herme.
So I'm interested, like if a stable plant makes S1s due to the stress, is those offspring
any more likely to herme than the mother?
Like are they stable as well, so to speak?
Yeah, I think there's a crazy stigma surrounding the whole thing where people go feminized
seeds, herme.
And I think the reason why is because a lot of people take plants that are easy to reverse,
they reverse them, they make quote-unquote feminized seeds, which really aren't feminized,
they're usually about 90%.
I mean, you can go all the way back to marijuana botany that I read when I was a kid and they
tell you, hey, if a plant seeds itself, you're going to probably get about 90% females, so
you're going to get the rest of them are going to be like true intersex plants, which
means you're going to have balls on one side and hairs on the other side.
I think that because people did that where they took these plants that go really easy,
like the apple doesn't fall far from the tree.
If you have a plant that likes to seed itself and it seeds itself, you're going to have
progeny that are going to like to seed themselves.
If you have a plant that won't seed itself unless it's in very unusual circumstances,
then you're going to get progeny where the bulk of those seeds are not going to seed
themselves unless they're under those same extraordinary circumstances.
So yeah, I really think that the stigma surrounding feminized seeds, I really think it comes from
people choosing poor parents and that if you use the right parents, then you're going to
get something good.
Then I think it's important that people understand that being that there's no male in the cross
and that some of those plants in the cross are going to represent the male plants, basically.
Those are going to be the ones that are like males with hairs.
They're like 50-50.
So you shouldn't be surprised if you get a pack, if you get 10 seeds and one of those
or two of those seeds in that pack is going to be a full-blown intersex plant because
those are basically the males in the pack.
Not that you want to use those as males, but that those are the ones that are in the population
trying to ensure that they make more seeds.
You know?
Oh, sorry.
Go on.
Yeah, no, no, no.
Go ahead.
Go ahead, man.
I was just going to say you kind of jumped in on the next question I was going to ask
in that, yeah, should you ever use those intersex ones as males?
Because I know that the most notable example in my mind is, and this is not like a bad
thing because I think the strain is quite good, Pairty Purple by Cannabiogen.
They said that that whole project initially started by finding what was essentially a
male bubba cush out of what was meant to be a pack of S1s and they've bred that for several
generations, so maybe not the best example.
But overall, the work doesn't seem to be super hermiprone, but I mean it also has basically
no potency as far as my own growing saw.
How do you feel about using those males?
And the other little point I'll add is DJ Short once said that he thought they were
the best males, like the males which had a few pistols on them and stuff.
And so, I always thought that's really weird.
Was that just like an idea he just pulled out of nowhere?
You know, I don't think it is.
It's something that I've kind of been trying to explore talking to people.
It's something that I've been able to read a little bit on forums, Tom Hill talking about
DJ Short, various people.
I know a breeder of a really successful strain who doesn't actually want to be mentioned
by name or by strain because he used a male like that and he got basically the most stable
progeny anyone's really ever seen out of any of their stuff.
And it was a male.
All right, there's a division though.
You have ones that are straight feminized and then they come up and they, or selfed
or whatever, they come up and they're like 50-50.
There's hairs at first and there's balls at first.
Okay, those ones to me, those are very unattractive because in my mind, although I've never seen
it in practice, in my mind that's what they are going to bring to the table is more plants
that are just 50-50.
50-50 doesn't play for us, you know?
So, there's a big difference though between what DJ Short's talking about which is actually
a male plant which shows male and grows as a male all the way until it reaches towards
the late part of its life and all of a sudden starts to grow hairs, right?
Now, there's females we know and this is where people are going to start to go, oh,
mean gene's lost it here.
And I'm not saying, just as a disclaimer, I'm not saying this is what I'm going to start
doing, this is what I do.
I haven't actually done any real work with this so it's not solid stuff.
It's just something to basically tickle your brain so you can actually go, okay, hmm, this
is a hmm moment, all right?
You have these plants that grow and they're completely male and I have seen them and they
come from ultra-stable lines like some of my Afghanis and I got this stuff from Kentucky
from a buddy of mine, Shanti Farms, that was really good and really stable and showed
no problems whatsoever with the females ever.
But the males, when they reach a late stage of flowering, they begin to produce a little
bit of female flowers in the male clusters.
So, what I think is interesting is that we know that there's things like hemp that basically
are 50-50 like those plants we're talking about that come out of the S1s.
They're 50-50 because when they grow hemp, they want it to finish at the same time and
males finish early and they begin to basically break down and you start to screw up your
hemp.
They don't get as big.
You don't have a consistent agricultural crop.
So, that's normal.
We already know that that's normal and can happen in cannabis.
If we know that a 50-50 state exists, then we also know that we have these plants where
the females, when they go late, the females start to actually stress or feel overdone
or feel freaked out because they haven't set seeds yet or whatever it is and then they
start to get some balls late in life.
Usually, there's a lot of different types of it, but some of them get just the bananas
or some get little balls up at the top or however they do it.
It's just interesting to wonder that, okay, if that is one side of it, could that—and
it's genetically influenced because we know it is because plants that are, quote-unquote,
hermeprone, they are hermeprone.
It is their gene pool.
It's not all environment.
So, you have to wonder, okay, is there an opposite state to that?
Is there a state where the females—assuming that it's possible that the females that go
hermy are gene pools that are so male that even the females are slightly male, could
there be an opposite state where the females are so female that even the males are slightly
female?
And would that be the most stable form of genetics for what we want it for where the
females will never produce male parts?
And is that what that would look like?
And I'm not saying that that's how it is or that's the case, but that's the point that
Tom Hill, DJ Short, who are definitely not rookies in the breeding game, they were curious
about it.
And when I read about it, I became curious about it too because you have to wonder, okay,
if we have a 50-50 state and we have a state where the gene pool is so male that even the
females are slightly male, is there gene pools where the females are so female that even
the males are slightly female?
So, anyway, that's that whole thing you brought up from DJ Short.
Yeah, that's actually, how should I say, reassuring to hear because I've done the same
thing with one of my lions and I too found that the progeny are all extremely stable.
I haven't found any hermies.
But what I wanted to ask was, have you ever done it yourself in that you had the male
produce some calyxes and then it pollinated itself so it's made an S1 off the male and
then you've grown that out?
Because I've done that and I'm in the process of-
Did you get males?
No, I got a female and I'm growing it out now.
I can't wait.
I've been told that if you do that, that you'll get males.
But I've never, like I said, I've never done anything with it.
It's all theory for me.
It was just that I see these guys who are experienced and who are older than me and
here they are playing with this idea.
I'm like, yeah, I don't know.
I mean, it looks interesting.
So, for me, it's all totally speculation.
That's why I was making sure that people know that I'm not drinking the Kool-Aid.
I just am curious how it tastes.
Yeah.
Good phrase.
Good phrase.
So, just to jump off topic for a moment, at the Emerald Cup, I was really grateful to
be able to try some of the skunk you were playing with.
The thing I remember taking away from it was it had this awesome skunky metallic vibe and
it made me wonder, what do you think is the deal with metallic tasting terpenes or weed?
Like, surely it has to be a terpene combination, right?
Like, surely we're not inhaling, you know, larger than normal levels of aluminum or something
like that.
Well, I can tell you, you know, that because I grew it and I dried it, I know that there's
nothing weird in that weed.
It's very metallic to me.
It smells like blood was kind of my take on it.
It really, like, it smells like you have a nosebleed, kind of.
And it smells like skunk, like the animal.
It was kind of a true skunky smell with a lot of metal behind it.
And that came out of the black lime.
It's a weird throw.
And, you know, I don't really know, but I do know that there's stuff going on that is
separate from terpenes.
You know, we consider terpenes to be responsible for 100% of the smell in weed, but there is
other stuff that goes on in there that creates smells aside from, you know, things in nature
that create smells like, you know, bacteria or fungus or whatever.
But, you know, I wonder.
I don't know.
I mean, what is that?
What's the blood terp?
You know, that's really weird, man.
Really weird, man.
That weed was so killer, though.
That's a really, that was a really exceptional plant.
And luckily, I made some seeds on that.
So in the future, I'll probably go through them.
And I still have some of the weed.
I suppose I could get it tested.
And then, you know, that might give us an answer.
I think I need to probably start doing that, basically filing away a sample of every single
plant just so that if something comes into question, in hindsight, we can go ahead and
test it, even though we kind of missed the boat, because I can still test that now.
But yeah, really, really, really, that's a really weird one, dude.
I don't know what that is.
But I mean, there's, you know, there's like the purple color in weed has a flavor to it.
Depending on what it is, you know, there is stuff in there.
It might not necessarily be a terpene, but it seems like it probably is a terpene.
It's just weird because I don't ever see like on the terpene wheel them going, yeah,
this smells like an old dirty nickel or, you know, smells like the gate, the chain on your
gate or an old dirty lock or something.
That's how that weed smelled.
It was really neat.
Yeah, it was some really cool stuff.
Thanks again for that.
Jumping to the next little skunk question, the roadkill skunk, long debated, much talked
about on the show.
We're slowly getting there, though.
First and foremost, what do you think the genetics are?
Because over time, we've had a larger and larger amount of guests seem to either agree
or throw it out there that it is also their belief that the name roadkill skunk is likely
just a namesake for how it smells, but not a reference to the genetics.
And most people have been throwing it out there that they think it was maybe an Afghani
even.
What do you think?
Yeah, I mean, I can chuck my two pennies from the peanut gallery here.
I don't really have...
This is definitely not my expertise is what is skunk.
But what have I seen that was skunky?
The super skunk was skunky, and we know that was Afghani.
It's a cross, of course.
It's like a skunk Afghani.
Like I said, it's not really my thing is the skunk.
But I have only ever grown one plant that to me was really like a dead skunk.
I got it from Steve, C Money's dad.
That was what he called Pissy Pungent Favorito.
He gave Spanglish names to a lot of stuff.
That's where I got the name Pina for my pineapple strain that I got from those guys.
Pissy Pungent Favorito, man, it was that kind of weed where
if you have it, you got to apologize to people even if they smoke because it's like,
hey, sorry, I got this in my pocket, guys.
Like, hey, you need to probably wash your T-shirt and go take a bath in some tomato
juice because you smell like you got dirty laundry and skunk all over you, man.
It's just funky and raw.
And it was...
Here's the thing to me is the reason why I'm interested in skunk is not because I'm that
impressed by something that smells like a dead skunk.
It was because when I had that weed, which was an Afghani, it tasted so delicious.
It's so hard to describe what it tasted like.
It was this...
I don't know, man.
It's one of those weird ones where I can only describe it as tasting like
the color of a parking cone here in the States.
It was like this orange, not like citrus, but it was just this thing that just lights
up your tongue.
So hard to describe, man, but it was such an incredible smell and taste.
And it was just like my favorite weed ever.
And I had one little plant of it and I grew that.
That was the first time in 94 that I grew those seeds that I got.
And I never had another thing like it.
The closest I saw to it was what I called the Arcada Super Skunk, which I'm not positive
if it's the Skunk 6 or the Skunk 4 or any of these other ones that people have.
I'm excited to see the Skunk 6 because talking to a couple guys, it seems like it could be
the same one.
That was the closest thing that I ever smelled to the Pissy Pungent was a Super Skunk.
And then, honestly, out of the line, you smelled that one.
It's in the ballpark of animal funk skunk.
There's a lot of skunkiness in the lime.
The lime will make your clothes smell like a skunk.
It'll make your car smell like a skunk.
But up close, it smells usually like a mix of gasoline, lime peels, urinal cakes, and
spearmint and earth and moss and funk.
But from a distance, it smells like a skunk.
And there was a lot of weed back in the day that was really skunky from a distance more
so than now.
But then there was some stuff.
There's another skunk too that was Afghani-based, actually.
I had a buddy up here, and we called him Grimple.
And the weed that his family had, we'd call it Grimps Grapes.
And to this day, Grimps Grapes is one of those strains that is one of those lost, lost grail
strains.
If somebody had that, it would be incredible.
It was like when you would open it up in the car, you wouldn't think someone opened weed.
You would think somebody drove by a dead skunk.
And then when you smelled it up close, it smelled like a skunk, but it smelled like
pine.
And the only reason why it was called Grapes was because it was purple.
And it had nothing to do with the smell.
It was skunk pine, and it was skunky, really.
And in an amazing way, it was super, super funky.
And that was another one.
And that was one that you could really easily look at the weed and go, yeah, that's Afghani.
That's just a straight Afghani.
And I mean, you can go back and you can read like Marijuana Botany, and you can read any
of these old books.
And they'll tell you if you want acrid, skunky, funky weed, it comes from Afghani.
And when I smell a skunk, I smell coffee, onion, burnt rubber, garlic, and what everybody
calls skunk that you think of when you smell a skunk at a distance.
But if you've ever had a house skunked or ran over a skunk in an old car, it makes your
eyes burn, and it smells more like burnt.
It smells like somebody put a piece of attire, a bunch of garlic, a bunch of onions, and
they took that all and they lit it on fire and blew it in your face.
And some coffee beans.
That's what it really smells like, a real fucking dead skunk on the road for people
who haven't actually smelled an American skunk.
It's a really, really funky smell.
And then there's the smell we think of from weed that's the skunky smell.
But if anybody's going to have a real roadkill skunk, those are smells that I've smelled
come out of Afghani a lot.
It's not rare to smell a garlicky, oniony, a coffee-ish.
Those things come out, a burnt rubber.
So someone's going to have to find the right combination of something that smells kind
of like what I gave to you, and then have the heavy coffee, the heavy burnt onion, the
burnt garlic, the burnt rubber.
Those things are, you know, when I smell a dead skunk up close, that's how it hits me
in the nose.
Yeah.
I mean, that's so interesting in relation to that grapes, the Gramps grapes about how
it's purple, but it smelled like skunk.
Because we also referenced earlier how a lot of purple stuff tends to smell the same.
So, that's really interesting.
I think ultimately the question is though is, do you think in theory cannabis as a whole
has the potential to generate almost or including every smell possible, so to speak?
I, as far as I've seen, I think so.
I mean, I know at least at one point it did.
I don't know about our current gene pool and what we've done with it because, you know,
it takes who knows how many thousands or millions of years it took to reach a point of diversity
where it really produced everything.
And then we kind of grabbed it all and did what we did with it.
And now it's been bottlenecked out.
And what's interesting with genetics is that everything's still in there, but it's not
maybe in their short term.
Like, there might be tons of stuff with roadkill skunk and I know we could get it back to be
that exact thing.
And maybe it's there right now.
But if it's not there right now, we don't know if it's going to take six months or
6,000 years to get back to the point where we've opened the genetics back up to that
point.
Because things get bottlenecked out and we think of them as being completely gone.
But if you were to grow millions of these, then things would pop back out.
It's just we're not, you know, we don't have, there's not enough people in the world, I
don't think, to bring back the diversity that was there possibly at one point.
But just to answer the question, yes or no, I think yes.
I think cannabis has the potential to produce any smell that exists anywhere else in the
world, including bacterial and fungal smells.
I think so.
That's awesome.
I think so as well.
But I mean, yeah, it'd be interesting to see what it would take to actually do such a thing.
Given like, I mean, certainly like for me, mango pops up more than any other flavor to
me.
Maybe it's just the things I select.
But it's like, given that, like, yeah, there's a lot of things which must go unrepresented.
Yeah.
And there's things that just really take over gene pools.
It's really easy for, you know, I mean, you know, I'm not a terpene scientist, but you
know, if such a thing exists.
But as far as my understanding is that a lot of times it's like a limonene and myrcene
tend to be kind of like the precursors to a lot of the other terpenes that develop.
And I kind of noticed that because I'll smell something and I'll go, this one smells like
train wreck.
And then I'll go over here and I'll go, oh, this one smells like that sweet Afghani kind
of berry grape Tootsie Pop kind of smell.
And then later on they develop and I go, there's none of that left.
It's not there at all, but it kind of is there to start.
And, you know, I think that those things, what happens is they kind of take over, they
kind of take over gene pools to where it's like, wow, okay, if you got anything that's
got that kind of train wrecky Amsterdam haze smell in there, or you have anything that
has that kind of grapey raspberry sweet thing, it's like they take over gene pools so much
that I think they've given themselves the reputation of being generic smells at this
point because they're just so dominant in gene pools.
And I think that that, you know, everybody hybridizing things and kind of mishmashing
and hodgepodge and stuff up, I think over the years that it's like, okay, well, you
have this real special thing over here that smells like roses.
And now you crossed it with this thing that smells like train wreck and guess what?
You know, rose is not going to overtake train wreck.
So now you just took a gene pool that had something special in it and you kind of erased
it unless you want to grow, like I said, you want to grow thousands or millions of plants
to try to, you know, recuperate those kind of funk, you know?
Yeah, without a doubt.
I guess it's safe to say one wrong step forward is going to take a crazy amount of
effort to undo it in using those seeds generated.
Yeah, you know, because you have these different genes, they behave different ways.
They don't play well with others at all.
They just come in and they just basically, you know, they just bully the whole yard,
you know?
And then it's like, okay, well, now we have this, you know?
I have one that's really cool.
It has that smell but it has all these other smells and it actually keeps the smell and
the other finer smells with it.
It's called candelabra.
I got it from a friend of mine in 2004 and it was, I used to call it the 10,000 smells
and some people smell it and they go, oh, it smells like train wreck.
And I'm like, dude, smell it again.
And they're like, oh, it smells like grape.
And you're like, smell it again.
They're like, oh, it smells like orange.
It has all these terpenes.
And then when we see it get tested, you send it to SC labs where they test for like 35
terpenes and it hits for like 33 of them.
And there's not many strains that do stuff.
So it really does have a lot of, it really does have thousands of flavors in it, you
know?
But that's a neat one where it has that thing in it that I kind of am turned off by.
That's kind of the train wreck smell because it just is, it's like kind of overly common,
you know?
But it has something really nice to it, you know?
So it's, they don't, yeah.
They don't always ruin everything, but they have a tendency for sure.
So, I mean, while we're on the topics of like labs and all the modern kind of techniques
that go along with that, the emergence and growing popularity of these kind of pre-sexing
science kits you can get seems to be growing.
Initially, I figured it would probably be something more a breeder would be interested
in.
But I don't know.
It seems to be just on the rise growing in general.
Is this something you would be interested in?
Because, I mean, given how many seeds you run through, I figured maybe not.
Like, I mean, you'd be spending crazy amounts of money on it.
But at the same time, it seems to be a growing technology.
Like, do you think it'll stick around long term or not really?
I think it'll stick around long term.
I think it has its benefits.
I think that when new technologies come around, the price line tends to drop really fast.
And anything that's based on technology, it has a big expense to start.
And as soon as it's been established, then the price drops.
And that price carries from the labs to the consumer because they want to get everyone's
money, right?
They don't just want people who have a lot of money.
So they're trying to get their prices down.
And I think eventually it would be practical.
My joke as a troll on social media was that I'll do it when it costs less than a pot and
some dirt because I can grow the plant until it's a male for cheaper than I can get it
tested.
You know?
They want $8 a test.
And I can grow a plant until it sexes and see what it is for less than that.
So in that case, I was like, yeah, I'm not going to do it myself.
But it would be practical.
And it could be practical for certain projects.
Like, if you really don't want the males, I think that it's practical for people who
have their areas maxed out and they want to only transplant their females.
So that they don't have to grow the males.
For me, losing the plants before they show what they are is just foolish because I'm
a breeder.
You know?
Like, if it's a terrible plant, I'm going to kill it.
And if it's a good plant, I want to keep it.
And if it's a male, even better.
You know?
Like, I don't want my best plant to be a—you know, whatever I can measure just by looking
at it and smelling it and stuff and veg, I don't want that.
I'm hoping that's a male.
You know?
Because I'm like, okay, this is the one in this breed that I know is killer.
Like, if I was growing a bunch of deep chunk and I see the one that has the smaller leaves
that taco on the edges a little harder, and I'm looking at that and I'm associating that
with the best type of deep chunk, then I'm like—fingers crossed—I'm like, I hope
this is a male.
You know?
Because if this is a male, I can tell which ones of the females have that.
But the males are a lot harder to tell.
And if I can see these things that I really know relate to the traits that pop up in the
females, then I'm going to be going, okay, cool, I'm glad it's a male.
So for me, it's not that practical.
But for people who are growing to produce flowers exclusively, I think that—you know,
I think it's worthwhile.
I think it's something people can do.
And you're going to go from being in your little six-packs or your little four-inch
pots, and instead of going—instead of potting into all these bigger pots, you're just going
to be able to take your females and stick them right into your final pots.
You know?
So, number one, you can skip a transplanting stage.
You can skip a nursery stage where you're actually building them up to be ready to go
into their final homes.
And you can go ahead and get them into their final homes established right away, which
can be a benefit too if you have the right strains.
So, I think it's practical.
Yeah.
And so, how about on the other end of the spectrum with the labs—oh, hold up.
Sorry, I'll wait for this truck to go past my house.
I don't know if you can hear it, but it's pretty loud.
Yeah, it's not popping up.
Sweet.
So, on the other end of the spectrum with labs, how do you feel about the THC values
and I guess the newly emerging terpene values?
For someone like you, I guess terpene values are quite important given how well your strains
do chart on them.
There's always been the ongoing debate about the validity of the THC values given and how
they seem to be kind of creeping up over time.
What's your take on all of this?
What's your take on all of this?
How do you think the terpene values are going to slowly over time become more highly valued
than the THC values?
Well, to start off, I can say that I know there's a lot of people who are—as far as
inflated numbers, I know there's people who are adding resin to their flower samples.
And in that case, it's really easy to jump from 21 to 29 or 27 to 32.
Then I know also there's breeders who are using testing to make sure that the males
they're using are the highest THC male and that is a new thing.
And testing the females as well is a new thing.
You didn't used to be able to test.
So I think that that will make the numbers jump up too.
I think that for me, I'm not looking for the highest THC.
I'm looking for the strongest effect.
So my joke is that I test on humans.
You can test it in the lab all you want, but I've noticed over the years that I smoke
some stuff from reputable guys that test at reputable labs in the community.
And I've noticed that in reputable labs, the THC might be really high and it might
be really high in certain terpenes.
But when people smoke it, they don't really think it's that strong.
It doesn't really hit you that hard.
So I think really labs are neat.
But I think basically they're a little bit more valuable as far as for finished product,
like telling what's good.
Then the lab is cool to tell us why.
So if we go, okay, this is the most potent weed I've ever smoked.
We want the lab to tell us why.
Now we go and we see, okay, well, it turns out it's only 14% THC.
Well, how can this be the most potent?
Well, here we got CBG.
And then it turns out we didn't know, but there's THCV.
And then it turns out that there's this certain ratio of this terpene to that terpene.
And when they're all together, you get this effect that creates the most potent weed with
a 14% THC content or however it is.
That's hypothetical, of course.
But for me, as far as breeding, to answer that part of the question, I'm too young to
be a hippie and I'm too not hippie to be a hippie as well, but I'm kind of a hippie,
man.
I like to look at the plants and kind of talk to the plants and communicate with them and
see which one really...
When I smell it, there's these certain smells that pop out.
I mean, cherry limeade and black lime are bred purely on stem rubs.
And it's not really something that I can show people what I'm looking for.
It's this thing where I go, that's that one.
I've seen that before.
And when I saw that before, that was incredible.
And so for me, the labs are cool to tell me what that means.
Okay, when I see this, what does that tell me?
And then if I can see a correlation that says every time I see this and then when I test
it, it turns out that it has this in common, then maybe I can test and I can go for the
ones that have more of that.
But at this point for me, it's really more a question of what do I like and what kind
of makes my brain jump when I see it or I smell it or that kind of stuff.
And I really like it because I know that all of the good things, like I said earlier, that
we see in weed, they've been there for a long time.
And all of the genetics that we have are still here from people doing traditional breeding
where they basically are doing just what I'm talking about.
And so I'm comfortable, honestly, with just picking plants and making seeds.
And I feel like as long as I do open pollinations to preserve the genetics, that I'll be all
right.
And I've wised up now because I know the value of stuff.
I used to think that everybody would have the seeds that they gave me because it was
their stuff.
And now I know better.
When someone gives you something, you might be the last person that has it.
So I'm into trying to use labs to get to new places.
But at the same time, I've really realized, again, you've got to keep it all.
You've got to keep the old stuff intact.
And you've got to take the new stuff in new directions.
And for going in new directions, the labs are cool.
But for keeping the old stuff intact, they're worthless.
The lab's not going to tell you anything about your open pollination.
They're just, you've got to keep it all, no matter what.
And then when you're going to selectively line breed, then the lab telling you that
this is the highest THC male that they've ever seen, hey, well, you want the highest
THC line out of that?
Then that's going to be worthwhile.
Yeah, I think they're good to tell you what you're seeing.
Why is this like this?
They can explain that for you.
Yeah, without a doubt.
Some awesome information there.
Just to loop back on one of the points you made a bit earlier about using humans to test
it.
This is a great point that I've always stood by.
The interesting kind of counter-argument to that point, though, is, is it not the same
people who, over time, have driven the prioritization of aesthetics, which has led to the loss of
certain other qualities?
Because I only kind of thought of this idea not long ago, and I realized it is almost
a bit of a dichotomy.
You know, it's like the best weed is the stuff that you've got to try for yourself,
and it's just overall effect.
But at the same time, we also knowingly push for the most aesthetic weed, which we do,
at least now, know is generally not the best.
Yeah, I mean, you know, like a big fat bud, a really, really sugary look.
They don't necessarily, I mean, like the black affie that I had, sure, it had big fat
buds and was purple and pretty, but it looked like it had no resin on it.
Even when I crossed it with a Hindu kush, which is a really white looking bud, like
incredibly white weed when you grow it indoor.
Once it was crossed, you'd look at the weed and you'd go, there's no resin on this,
and you'd break it up and your hands wouldn't get sticky, and you'd roll it up and you'd
inhale it and you would go, holy shit, this is potent.
I mean, just on the, it was the expansion and the exhale and the flavor and then the
effect that just immediately got you.
It wasn't, you know, to look at it, you would think this stuff sucks.
And based on that, I would say that probably in test, it probably couldn't have that
much THC because it didn't have that big of a percentage of resin.
But the flower was incredible, you know, and a lot of the stuff that's all those really
cool sativas that people love so much, it looks bad.
It's not good looking stuff.
But I'll tell you what, if you start to think, okay, this is my favorite kind of weed
is the sativa, all of a sudden that look is going to become attractive to you because
you're like, ooh, that looks like that one.
That's the stuff I like, you know?
I think that, I mean, it's been documented and a lot of people have spoke on it before
that everyone bred things to be fast, sugary, fat.
Those, you know, as a smoker, fast, sugary and fat, that doesn't really do anything
for you, man.
It's got to have, for me, I've always bred it.
Sure, I like weed to be, you know, all of those things.
But then I want to have the really nice smell, the really nice taste.
I want to have a good effect.
And I'm not locked into a one effect type of thing, you know?
Like, I'm not worried if it's a racy sativa or a heavy indica or ultra potent strain or
a very mild strain.
For me, I'm like, whatever's special about that strain, that's what I want to maintain
about it.
So, you know, like, I really like, I like to laugh, you know what I mean?
I love like comedy.
I love funny movies.
I love funny people.
I love funny stories.
So if weed will make you giggle, I'm like, oh, what's that one?
I got to try to lock that in, you know?
I got to make sure I keep that around.
And so like, there's those little things that really, those don't show up on a picture
on Instagram, you know?
So I think that's why right now kind of the king of everything is like, if you look on
Instagram and you see a pretty picture and you go, oh, that's a nice strain and you click
on it, you're like, yeah, it's probably something, probably cookie fam, you know?
It's gelato, it's sherbert, it's cookies.
Or if not, then it's probably OG or, you know, chem or something from that, from the family
of all those fuels and everything like that.
And those are all great strains, but I think the reason why they took over is because they
look so pretty and then when you get some and you try it, you go, oh, okay, and it's
good.
But a lot of the stuff over the years, it did just kind of go down the tubes.
It looks great and then it's just not, you know, it's not all that good.
I know there was a deal where for a while people loved the nested calyxes.
That's the look where you have like, you know, a bunch of little, you know, little
things and then you have like, you have like the, you have the pod inside the pod, inside
the pod, inside the pod.
And what happens is there's no room really for the resin to develop.
So you wind up with stuff where when you break it up, there's really not that much resin.
The resin's only on the outside of the bud or in between, you know?
Hairs, yeah, people think, you know, the stigma, the hair is attractive.
We need to be very hairy.
Hair is burnt, hairs burn hot.
They don't produce, they don't produce resin.
I mean, I've seen some where seemingly they do produce resin, but they certainly don't
produce resin like the rest of the, like the flower.
So, yeah, I mean, I think it's definitely, you know, aesthetics and ease of growing have
taken stuff down, down a notch for sure.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, not trying to have a jab at you or anything, but recently in the Aficionado catalogue,
we've seen the introduction of some crosses with zittles and sunset sherbet, you know?
I think a lot of people wouldn't have predicted these ones coming out.
In your opinion, you know, what was the reason behind doing this?
Do you like those cuts?
Like, do you, the zittles is an interesting one because a lot of people reference how
like it in itself is not a great strain, but there's so much potential to make something
with it, you know?
Are you of that school of thought as well?
I think that the Skittles has a lot of, it has a lot of neat stuff to it.
I personally, it's not something I'll grow.
It's difficult to really have do nice, you know, to come out nicely.
I saw recently Archive just is doing some stuff with a dosey dough, I think.
It looks really nice.
It's got a lot of resin.
Dying Breed, those guys are the guys who named it, Skittles.
And, you know, they've done cool stuff.
I like the Oz Kush, the Eddie Lep, basically OG seed crossed with
the Skittles.
I like that better than the Skittles myself.
It reminds me a lot of what I call Sky Cutler Kush that I have that's a cross that has some
of the old stuff from mine that mixed in with some like Skywalker and PK and stuff.
You know, honestly, for Aficionado, people, because people know me from, you know, being
at the booth, putting stuff out with Aficionado.
The only stuff that I ever really did with Aficionado was I gave Leo some pollen and
told him that it would be great on the In the Pines clone.
That got released as In the Pines.
I told him I had the black lime and it would work really good with the chem.
He gave me that pollen.
That was Black Lime Reserve.
I released some F3s of what I call Red Hindu Kush, which is Big Red cross Hindu cross pure
Kush.
I gave him some of my Skywalker cross Sky Jaro to put on some stuff.
He did that with a Louie OG and we called that Versailles.
Other than that, man, none of that stuff is my work.
I mean, all the Royal stuff is all coming from Mendelbrot.
I'm giving that to Leo to work with.
Anything that you see with cookies, cherries, sherbert, Skittles, I didn't make any of that
stuff so I can't really speak on it.
Okay.
And so, another kind of interesting topic I've seen is that we've seen both an increase
in price of seeds and an increase in quality or maybe consistency in recent years.
However, we've also seen an increase in price for some seeds that don't equally have an
increase in quality.
Do you think this is going to continue?
Do you think that like, you know, I think that there will always be a market for high
price seeds that are incredibly good quality and we've got some of that right now.
But I also think that, yeah, like we might get more and more people selling bunk seeds
for just more.
Do you think that's going to continue or do you even agree with the idea that the price
of seeds has kind of increased over time?
You know, I mean, I think the most expensive stuff that I really saw was like some of that,
I guess, like alien stuff.
I heard people were doing those for like, you know, $1,000 and $1,500.
And of course, people do like charity auctions and stuff and stuff brings in like ridiculously
high prices.
But people spend different for that kind of stuff because, you know, it's just a different
thing.
And it's like buying a $1,000 plate of food or something, you know.
But as far as like stuff being high priced, I mean, like Black Lime Reserve, the donation
on that was $250.
And a lot of people said, oh, that's ridiculous.
That's way too much.
Anything over $100 for 10 seeds is crazy.
And then, you know, they were gone.
And then everybody was like, oh, where are they?
And it's like, well, there's only 300 packs.
That's why, you know, they have, there's added value when you have leverage basically for
your product because it's super limited, you know.
And I don't mean for myself, but for the people who actually got those seeds, you know, Black
Lime Reserve is a little bit more sought after than something that comes out of a pack of
seeds that you could buy from a huge company.
And there's millions of packs, you know, because, you know, it's harder to get.
But I think, you know, there's been stuff over the years that's ridiculously expensive.
And there's stuff that's not ridiculous, of course.
And I, you know, sometimes I kind of wonder like, you know, I see breeders that make certain
stuff and I'm like, wow, those are so, that's such a small amount to get
for the seeds.
And it's not because the seeds, it's not the value of a seed.
A seed is worth nothing, you know what I mean?
It's the genetics that are inside the seed.
What is this seed?
Otherwise, it's, you know, a hemp seed's a hemp seed.
You can buy it by the pound.
But for me, if there's something that is really special, I'm willing, you know, I've given
people, I've given people $200, $300 for 10 seeds because, you know, it was something
that I wanted.
And I know the value because I can take a pack of seeds and I can get a whole ton for
them.
I mean, not for them, but out of them, you know what I mean?
Like, you can go, okay, well, like right now I have Bodhi's Super Snow Lotus.
It's Super Skunk Cross Snow Lotus.
And I'm like, well, I just want to bud them out and see what they are.
But I go, I'm going to keep that one male and I'm going to go ahead and make sure that
out of my one pack of seeds, I have like a few hundred more seeds out of them.
So it's like for one pack of seeds, you can get hundreds of seeds.
And of course, you could get thousands or millions if you were to clone them up and
stuff.
But, you know, I think seed value is a trip.
Like, if it's really special enough, I think stuff is worth it.
Like if somebody told me, oh, dude, I got chemist stuff, that's the stuff you were talking
about, dude.
I'd be like, well, what do you want for them?
I mean, like if I got to trade somebody, if I got to trade somebody like three pounds
of cherry limeade and they got the real thing, I'm going to be like, dude, dude, here we
go right now.
Give me those.
Give me 15 seeds.
I'll give you three pounds of weed because it's something that I really want.
So, you know, value is weird, man.
Like, you know, what's a dog worth?
What's a horse worth?
Well, you know, some horses are worth dog food and some horses are worth, you know,
$800,000 or some horses are worth $5 million.
It just depends on how it breeds, what it brings to the table and all that kind of stuff.
And so I think we're going to start seeing a lot more seeds that are a lot cheaper because
seeds are really easy to produce.
And if people are willing to part with their genetics for cheap, then you can produce seeds
for very cheap.
It's the same process pretty much as producing hemp seeds and you can buy those suckers for
cheap, right?
So I think also that there will start to be seeds that are more and more premium as well
to where people go, yeah, these are, you know, this ridiculous amount for this pack of seeds.
You know, when I did Black Lime Reserve, I told everybody, hey, if you don't find what
I, you know, I showed everybody what the weed looks like off of good plants.
I said, if you don't get this like this in your pack, come back to me.
I'll give you two more packs.
So people look at it and they go, oh, well, that's so out of control.
And I'm like, yeah, but there's not any, there's not anybody else who's telling you right up
front.
If you don't get what you want, I'm not saying if they don't germinate, I'm not saying if
you get something that's intersex or if you get these issues, I'm saying that if it just,
you don't like it, like a restaurant, like you send out the steak and you asked it for
it to be rare and it comes out and it's rare and you didn't realize you don't like rare
steak, I'm giving you another steak.
You know, like even if it's their fault, basically, I was still guaranteeing those seeds.
And I didn't really get anybody who ever took me up on that and I didn't get any complaints
or anything.
But I think that if people are willing to, you know, like when I put those out, people
would contact me and they'd say, hey, is it all right if I make seeds?
And I'd be like, there's the only, the only rule is that you make some good ones, you
know, make some nice stuff.
And then they'd say, well, what do I look for?
And I'd say, well, what do you want from the seeds?
And as a breeder, I would tell them, here is what, here's some of the markers for these
traits and here's some of the markers for those traits so that, hey, you want the one
that's really, really limey?
Let me, send me pictures of your plants and I'll tell you which one is most likely to
be that throwback to that old lime line that is, you know, the genetics are basically,
you know, locked together where you get this leaf type, you're probably going to get the
lime smell, you know, you get this smell, there it is, you know?
And so I feel like if people want to really put out seeds for really high prices and they're
willing to give you a service that goes beyond just this little thing of seeds, I feel like
they're valuable and they're worth something extra.
And then if somebody is going to say, hey, here's some seeds, I don't ever want to hear
nothing about it.
These cost 20 bucks a pack.
Cool.
That's cool too, you know?
But it just all, it all depends on how people want to do their thing.
And I think it really comes down to just being ethical and saying, this is what this really
is.
If you find out it's not what it is, put it on your website, put it on your, you know,
do whatever.
Like I have my root beer.
I thought for years it was 707 headband.
It turns out, no, it's the headband they call LA Kush.
It's the mother of the 707 headband.
So it's in the ballpark.
But I'm like, sorry guys, it's not 707 headband.
And this is strains not even released, but I've been putting out info about it.
And I, you know, I feel like you're supposed to have the right info.
So when you do go to breed, like people are like, don't breed with my stuff.
I'm like, dude, you ain't going to live forever.
You know, like everybody shouldn't have to wait for you to die to go, okay, well now
I can do these seeds.
Like, you know, it's just a, it's just a question of, I think, um, uh, I don't know.
You know, quality and like, uh, you know, commitment to what, whatever the thing is.
And so that's your difference between your $20 seeds and your, and your whatever $20,000
seeds, who knows how high prices are going to get in the future when stuff is, um, you
know, whatever's more sought after.
Because now there's a bigger community of people, which causes more demand, you know,
so we'll see.
Yeah.
So it almost raises another interesting point.
At which point do you think someone can call, uh, some work?
I won't say across because maybe you've just actually line bred it, but at what point can
you call work your own?
You know, if you took Mendelbrot's Royal and took it to the F20, do you think you, it'd
be fair to say it's kind of your own at that point?
And likewise, you know, if you make an F1, is, do you feel like you can really kind of
say it's yours in the sense of like, it's, you know what I mean?
Like it's not just kind of borrowing off other people's stuff too heavily.
I think that the, I think that where the line is drawn, um, I think that when you make a
hybrid, um, and it's just a fresh hybrid of other people's work, I think that it's just
a hybrid of other people's work and you did a selection and that's cool.
And that's like the beginning of a process.
Um, I think that as soon as you take it in a new direction where what you get doesn't
come out of the things that you started with, then it's deserving of a new name because
otherwise it's almost a misrepresentation of the old genetics.
So like in this case, if I take, you know, like I have cherry limeade, right?
And I go, okay, here's a black lime cross cherry pie and I make those seeds.
Well, it's black lime cross cherry pie.
But when I take a selection out of the F1s and I breed it in a new direction and now
it's got some of the terpenes of the cherry pie, but it's got the, it's got the strength
and the stoniness and the increased size of the black lime.
And, um, you know, I keep taking it in further and further and further to the point where,
um, you can't get those plants from what you started with.
Then, you know, that's a new thing.
And, uh, I don't think you ever get so far into something where you don't need to give
people credit or, um, you don't need to give a background of it.
I feel like that stuff is more of like a academic thing.
Like it's more of a, of, of like a thing for science where you say, Hey, here's what this
is because when people know what this is, if we ever need to recreate it, we can recreate
it.
What if, you know, say like cherry limeade, I lost it all, but somebody has one clone
and it turns out that it's the cure for some crazy disease.
And then I lose, then they lose the clone and they're like, well, what was it?
And I'm like, well, I don't know what it was.
It's like, well then now nobody knows what it was, so they don't know where to look for
it.
So if it became really useful and valuable at a certain point from a scientific perspective,
it's like you just screwed things up there.
Now it's not really what it's supposed to be.
Nobody can backtrack, nobody can figure out what it is.
And, um, you know, so I, I think like, that's like why it's really important in, in ways
to have your, have your, um, you know, your lineages there and, um, and give credit to
people because they did do some work and then, you know, for your work, then you do, then
you deserve some credit too.
Everyone deserves what they deserve, but they don't just deserve everything.
You know, like just because somebody has a plant doesn't mean now they deserve all the
credit for that plant.
Like there's other people who, who should get some credit too.
Like if I knew the people who gave the seeds to dudes who brought them here to California
that were in Afghanistan, I'd be like, yeah, it's dude over there in Afghanistan.
So, and so he's, he was the guy who had him in Afghanistan and, but I don't, I only know
him back to a certain place.
And, um, and so I'll tell you, you know, Black Lime comes back from Heath and Ian and goes
back to John and it goes back to, um, this Burmese, uh, and it goes back to Afghani and
Wahakon and Northern Lights.
And, you know, that's, that's all I know about it.
That's as far back as it goes.
And I don't lose anything by saying that, um, that it all comes, that stuff comes from,
from places like that.
And, um, it's like, yeah, the, the reason why Black Lime is Black Lime is because I
chose a sport plant out of, um, you know, as an oddball in a, in a population.
And then I crossed it with something that was in a completely different side of the
spectrum.
And then I got it to be where it took something from both places for the flavor and for the
plant.
And I made it into something and it's something that's, it's totally different.
Like you can't show it to either of the people who it originally came from and they go, oh,
that's my stuff.
They're like, ooh, this is nice.
This is something new.
I've never seen this.
And so at that point, I feel like now that's a new thing.
And sure, you deserve credit for what that is.
Um, but you know, ethics is, ethics is weird, man.
You know, ethics is a weird subject because, uh, it all comes down to belief and belief
isn't, um, you know, belief in right or wrong or good or bad.
It's not like a concrete thing.
You know, some people are, some people are spiritual and they're cannibals, you know,
or some people are, you know, it's like whatever.
It's just everybody, basically what I, what I think comes down to with like ethics, with
what's yours and what's not yours and all that is basically like, if you have rules
or you have things that you hold other people to, um, you know, you make the rules.
So follow the damn rules.
They're your rules.
You know, don't be mad about somebody doing something that you do all the time.
Like that just isn't, that doesn't make any sense, you know?
So, um, you know, I think it just, it just all a matter of, you know, do real work, make
real stuff happen.
And then you get the credit for what you did.
You don't, I don't need the credit from, from Ian.
I don't need the credit from Heath.
I get the credit for doing what I did and they get their credit for doing what they
did, you know?
So.
Yeah, for sure.
So, I mean, on the topic of ethics and potentially questionable ones, I remember around the time
of the Emerald Cup, or I think maybe even the day after you put up a post basically
saying, you know, along the lines of you knew that you weren't going to get placed where
you should have been and that, you know, hinted to the idea that maybe there was some more
politics behind the scenes in regards to the judging than what the public was aware of.
Did I just kind of misinterpret that post or is there something a little more serious
going on?
No, you know, what was going on honestly was people were saying that I was going to win
and they were saying that I was going to win because it was fixed.
And the reason why I won was because I was going to win no matter what.
And my weed probably wasn't really that good anyway.
And the contest isn't blind and all this different stuff.
And, you know, what I basically was saying was, look, I've won third, I've won second,
I've won first, all in a row.
If you guys think I'm going to take first again when there's going to probably be a
thousand entries from all over California, you guys are tripping because it's just not
going to happen.
There was no way that I was going to do that again.
It just wasn't possible.
There's not like, you know, like, yeah, I got good weed.
But even if, you know, there is people were like, oh, well, I know who's going to win.
That guy's going to win.
And I'm like, you guys really think I'm going to win again?
You know, and they were like, well, yeah, of course you'll win again because that's
why you won in the first place.
And I'm like, no, I really won in the first place.
And I can tell you right now that I'm not going to win again because I know I really
won.
Now, if it was fixed, I'd be like, yep, I'm going to win.
I know I'm going to win because it's fixed.
I always win.
But, you know, that's not why I won, man.
I won because I had because everybody entered fuel and everybody entered fruit and I entered
fruit fuel and everybody's purple doesn't get you high and everybody's kush tastes like
kush.
And I entered I entered purple weed that gets you high, tastes like purple, tastes like
kush, tastes like a bunch of other crazy stuff, too.
I took seven hours to trim three ounces, you know, and that's just how I did it.
You know, I didn't touch the weed when I cut it off the plant.
I did all this special stuff and, you know, it gave me an edge.
And I just knew the reality was that's why I put up the post.
I'm like, dude, if you guys really think that, you know, I'm big headed enough to go
in here and think I'm going to win, you know, I just I don't I don't believe that.
I don't think it can be done.
I don't think anybody's going to win this sucker two years in a row.
Sure.
Third, second, first, you know, I always do pretty well, but it's because of those tricks
I use to make my stuff look unhandled.
I, you know, people's weeds dry in seven days.
My weed ain't dry for 24 days.
You know, people's weed is cut down and put in a wheelbarrow.
Mine's cut down and stuck on a hanger.
People's weed is touched with hands.
I touch the stem.
People trim the weed and they put it in a pile.
People pull weed out of bags.
Their trimmers are trimming.
I'm like, no, man, this stuff is like this is like scientific grade right here.
You know, that's like these are specimens of the plant perfectly preserved.
But I, you know, did I think I'd probably be in the top ten?
Yeah, I did, because I know how much care I put into those entries.
But, you know, I knew there was no way I was going to win.
And that's what the post was about.
And there was and I was joking.
It was tongue in cheek.
I was saying, oh, yeah, you know.
I hear Swami talking to Tim, figuring out how to let me win, you know.
But it was really it was because, you know, I was making fun of people who were making
fun of me because, you know, it was just unrealistic people.
Basically, if people if people lose, it's fixed.
If they win, it's fair.
That's how people think, you know, they're like, well, my friend didn't win.
So it's fixed.
And then when their friend wins, they're like, hell, yeah, this is a good contest,
because my friend won.
It's like, dude, people's weed's not just good because it's yours.
It's not just good because it's your friend's.
It's only good if it's good.
And the weed I entered was good.
And that's why I won.
It doesn't mean I can do it every time.
Yeah.
I mean, it's interesting you mentioned that because I was going to say your online presence
in my opinion, I hope you don't take any offense to this.
It's kind of like semi troll in a lot of ways.
Like, it's like a lot of good jokes followed up with kind of like, no, I'm just kidding
type of thing.
And-
No, it is.
I'm a fun lover.
You know, I'm not mean about stuff.
I don't bully people.
But, you know, like I said, I like to laugh, man.
I like to make people laugh.
I think like laughing is one of the greatest things there is.
That's why, you know, like if people are into the weed community and they don't like to
laugh, like I don't know what they're smoking, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, I mean, just relating to that, do you think that things in general have gotten a
bit uptight and tense in the community?
And maybe we could use a bit more of this kind of just, you know, kind of lighthearted
fun?
Yeah, you know, I don't know.
I mean, it's hard because everybody's got a different sense of humor.
Some people take things too far.
Some people don't know when they're being a bully.
Some people don't- they're not really intelligent enough to actually make a joke that's like
a joke.
And their joke is just, you know, calling somebody fat or calling somebody stupid or
calling somebody a fag.
And they think that's a joke, you know?
Like some people just- they're not- they're missing it.
And they're like, oh, well, you do the same thing.
And I'm like, no, I don't, man.
I make jokes, dude.
These are jokes, you know?
And a joke might be, yeah, a little over the top.
And it might- you know, generally, if you see me say something offensive to somebody,
that means they're my friend.
And when they read it, they know that I'm joking with them because we have a rapport,
you know?
Some people just are just, you know, trolling strangers.
And they're just, you know- I get people on my stuff sometimes who just come on and go,
oh, and make- you know, tell mom jokes.
And they don't know me.
And I'm like, dude, you know, that's- you know, you're an idiot.
This is not acceptable.
But I think as far as like, you know, like, yeah, as far as like just like fun loving
stuff, I mean, man, this is- this is, you know, everything's different now.
There's all these people coming in and they're uptight and they're different people.
But back in the day, it was like if somebody smokes weed and they grow weed, you know,
they're kind of a smart ass.
You know, they're kind of a joker.
And all of us who are a little more old school, we can recognize each other and go, yeah,
that dude- that dude right there, he's full of shit, you know?
That's why, you know, he's funny because he's- he's being funny.
He's not, you know, it's just- it's just- I don't know, man.
There's different levels to people's banter and different stuff like that.
And, you know, I feel like a lot of people just- they just basically bully people and
they're jerks and they, you know, people don't know that it's not serious and, you know,
it's just out of context and stuff.
It's like it's got to, you know, it's got to kind of- you got to kind of have a context.
I don't mess with anybody who I don't know.
Honestly, I know human nature well enough to be like, no, I'm not gonna mess with people
who I don't know.
They have to know I'm messing with them.
And, you know, otherwise it's dangerous and it can be cruel and it's just kind of not
staying in your own lane, you know?
Like talking to- you know, I'm from the counterculture, man.
Like, you talk about people, that's like, you know, that's not cool.
That's like snitching, you know?
So for me, I'm not into, you know, I'm not into being a jerk like that.
But yeah, like you said, like I'm a little trolly, but, you know, I'm trolling my friends,
man.
I troll roundtable selections.
I troll, you know, I troll.
I just- and we say trolling now.
It used to just be called fucking with people.
You're just messing around.
You're having fun, you know?
And that's what I do.
And I think that that needs to be like something that hangs around as far as people being able
to laugh at themselves, being able to laugh at stuff that's going on, laugh at situations,
laugh at ideas.
You know, I'm not really trying to laugh at people.
I'm trying to laugh at myself.
I'm trying to laugh at the joke, you know?
And I think that goes hand in hand with weed.
Weed is funny, man.
Weed makes you giggle.
Weed makes you laugh.
People look funny when they're high, you know?
People get high and they look like, you know, you might have a buddy who gets high and he
looks like a tired giraffe or something, you know?
You're just like, man, this is, you know?
I think it goes together with the whole thing.
And I think if that kind of gets lost and it becomes this, you know, I see people who
are all science and they're all technique and they're all this and they're all that.
And I'm like, man, do you guys smoke this shit or what, you know?
Sorry.
So, I mean, on the topic of fucking with friends or maybe just more generally friends,
in regards to Freeborn Selections, would you ever consider doing any collaborative work?
And if so, you know, who are the kind of friends you'd love to jump on board with?
Man, yeah.
I mean, that's like a cool thing about doing something like that is, you know, like,
uh, you know, like, uh, man, Coastal Seeds, super cool.
I've already done roundabout stuff with them.
Bodie, of course.
Bodie's just the nicest guy.
Just super cool dude.
Let me see.
Coastal, Bodie, you know, Coastal being Bamboo, Mr. Bob.
Hannah Bolt, Kagyu, those guys, they're just, they're really kind of onto like the whole,
they understand weed, you know?
And, you know, like, let me see.
I, you know, this, every time people get into lists, it's like, oh, I'm going to leave people
out.
Chris at OG, the real OG Cushman at Source Genetics.
You know, Kingston at Verified Genetics, Art at Roundtable Selections.
Oh, man.
I just, I know I'm going to leave out half of everybody, but like, these are people who
I already kind of work with, you know?
Like I've already, people have already worked with stuff.
Diane Breed has already, Diane Breed has already worked with stuff.
Emerald Mountain.
I'm sorry if you get a flood of inbox messages from your friends who are angry.
They're going to be like, man, you didn't give me a shout out.
You know, like, I'm just trying to think of stuff I have going, like, what do I got going
right now?
Like,
Do an extra shout out to Art, our good buddy.
Yeah, of course, man.
Art's hella cool.
And like, Unknown Prophet.
I'm trying to think of what I'm growing now that I'm actually probably going to wind up
making something with that I can just hit them up and go, hey, dude, we want to do something
with this.
So,
There's a good list to say the least, I guess.
Yeah, it's a good list.
I mean, man, I really like the people who, I like the people who go back a little ways
and I like the people who, you know, I like the people who are like, I'm going to do this
and I'm going to do that.
I like the people who are like, I'm going to do this and I'm going to do that.
I like the people who go back a little ways.
I like the people who are really into it.
You can kind of talk to people and know that they're into it, not for the scene, but because
they're into the plant.
You know, any anybody, man, who's really into weed, who's chill and who's a smart ass or
whatever, you know, just like, man, I know there's a bunch I should have been probably
on my phone looking at stuff right now.
So I could tell you, but yeah, I mean, you know, I do some work like with Kevin Jodri
up there.
He pops stuff for me.
He hooks me up with clones.
I've done some stuff with him.
There's a lot of going on because that's my, that's my brain hitting the, hitting the wall
with all of it.
That's so good.
I'll edit it all out.
You just sound super, super eloquent.
Super, super slick, man.
This is slick talker.
But yeah, man, basically like, you know, just, just, just anybody who's really into doing
stuff.
And you know, most of the people who I named, it's not because there's a lot of people who
I'd like to work with who I don't name.
The people who I did name are people who we've already done something with, or they gave
me some stock and said I could work with it, or I gave them some stock and said that they
could work with it.
And maybe they've already made some crosses or I've already made some crosses.
And so that, you know, that's, that's the people kind of that I mentioned.
It's less people who I'd want to work with and more people who I already do work with,
you know?
So as far as people, you know, who I'd want to work, of course, there's, there's a bunch
of them, man.
Like I, you know, brothers, grand man, they're super cool people.
Jeez, just, you know, there's, there's all kinds of guys.
Actually, Duke Diamond, he gave me some really cool seeds and I'm looking forward to doing
something with those.
Next year, I'll probably pop all of those.
And that's like a super generous dude who when I asked him, yeah, can I get a pack of
this?
He's like, well, how many would you plant?
You know, I'm like, man, I don't know, probably only like, you know, 35 at a time or something.
And he's like, oh, cool.
I'll give you like 50 or 75, you know, so you can go through them.
And I was like, shit, okay, right on.
You know, like Bodie, man, I met Bodie maybe for five minutes.
And the next time I saw him, he had a gift for me for Christmas, you know, like, there's
just, there's some people, you know, Bamboo, man, super nice guy.
You know, Kev up there, he always hooks me up with stuff.
He's always looks out for me.
You know, all the art, you know, they're, they're always, it's just people who we're
all kind of looking out for each other.
We're trying to see each other do better.
And we all kind of know where we're coming from, because in the past, everybody was kind
of in a certain regard, as far as like, society, we're all kind of like, you know, on the outskirts,
like deemed by society as kind of like being loser potheads, you know, and now all of a
sudden, people are like, oh, no, you guys are the you guys are the best and you guys
are good at this and blah, blah, blah.
I'm like, all right, cool.
You know, that's great.
I'm glad it can turn into something since I already spent my whole life doing it.
But, but, you know, you can kind of you meet those people and you and you know, you know
that they're that they've been around and they've done stuff, you know, I mean, Swamp
Boys, those guys are cool.
Like, I've still never met him.
But, you know, I, you know, we troll each other lightly.
And like I said, you can just tell like people have been around.
They're smart asses.
We're all kind of on a on a little level.
We're all totally different.
You know what I mean?
None of us are really, you know, that's the thing is that's what's the same about us is
we're all hella different.
So, yeah, man, anybody who's who's really into doing stuff for the plant's sake for
itself and not just to not just to come up and look hype, you know, so.
Yeah, for sure.
And so, I'm interested, you know, given your kind of, you know, closeness, I'll put it
as with Frenchy through whole aficionado, has that influenced any of your breeding?
Like, has he ever mentioned anything or have you ever tried to maybe create something that
was more well suited for kind of, you know, these really high quality hash production
methods?
And if so, what type of things would you be looking to do if you were trying to pursue
that?
Well, that's kind of an interesting one.
I mean, Frenchy's cool in that, you know, he'll take something and he'll make it.
And, you know, he might make a few different things at once and you get to kind of see,
OK, well, this comes out like this and this comes out like that.
You know, I was making hash for a long time.
And then as soon as I started seeing people really do it a lot, I kind of got bored with
it.
As soon as I saw people get this really, really crazy high grade hash, I was like, well, I
was just waiting to see that.
And they already did it.
So I kind of just stopped doing it.
And so I really like to give stuff to people who do take the time to do that, because to
me, that's like a whole other aspect that's kind of like going all into that where, you
know, for me, it was, you know, I used to make hash.
I used to make dry hash.
I used to make water hash.
And, you know, being able to go now and go, OK, you know, Frenchy, here's some of this.
And he makes it up and it's like, OK, wow, look at the difference in texture on this.
I thought that was going to happen.
OK, this stuff is like liquid.
This is water hash, but it's like liquid or give something to somebody who makes butane
extracts, you know, and go, OK, that does that.
Look at how much terpenes is in this.
This is ridiculous.
It gives you a little insight into genetics.
And as far as like steering the breeding, what's really cool is that I've always bred
really for the smoke.
And when you're breeding for the smoke, coincidentally, you're breeding for the extract because a
plant that doesn't smoke well doesn't typically extract well, although I'm sure there's exceptions
to it because some plants don't smoke well because they have a tiny amount of resin.
And once you extract it, the resin might actually be exceptional.
But for me, it's been cool with seeing some stuff that Frenchy does where, you know, he
makes it and I'm like, whoa, this stuff just turns into straight liquid or, whoa, this
stuff sugars out really crazy.
And, you know, then, you know, Frenchy's a old school dude.
Like, you know, Frenchy's from like the generation of people who taught me about weed.
And so they're into different things.
He's into dark pressed hash.
And I was making dark pressed hash when I met him.
He's into, you know, he's into, you know, he's different, man.
Number one, he's older.
Number two, he's European.
And that comes down to, you know, some different, there's different mindsets.
He's looking at different stuff than other people are looking at.
And then, and number three, he's Frenchy, man.
He's a fucking character.
Frenchy's a hilarious dude.
Like, he's just like, you know, he's just a, he's Frenchy, man.
He's a trip, you know, he's got a lot of charisma.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Alrighty.
And so, how do you feel about the topic of tobacco and cannabis being mixed together?
It's something we very, very briefly touched on with Bodhi, but it's something I want to
get into more because I feel like as time's gone by and there's been an increasing focus
on the flavour and the terpenes of modern cannabis, I feel like tobacco's slowly crept
out because it's almost like it's, a lot of people would argue that it can detract from
some of the natural flavours.
And so, given there was that focus on flavour, its usage kind of fell off a bit.
Do you feel that's the case?
And do you feel like it is an overall negative or maybe it has like its place in the world
of cannabis?
Well, this is a trippy one for me.
It's kind of a slippery slope because for years, all right, I never smoked tobacco.
I'm not a tobacco smoker.
I didn't like, some people are like, oh, I'm 15, I'm smoking cigarettes.
I didn't ever smoke cigarettes.
My mom smoked a little when I was a kid.
I hated the smell.
I was never into it.
And then I think maybe we got a friend and his dad is, I think, Spanish.
I'm not sure, man.
He had one of these accents where he lives in like three countries in Europe.
So, you can't really pin down his accent really well.
He's like Italian, Spanish and something else.
And he was like one of these old school hardcore dudes.
He was an outlaw.
And we saw him when we were smoking when I was like 15 or something, 14 and we were really
getting smoking.
We saw that over there at their house, they would smoke with tobacco.
We never really did it.
And then I was a dude who, I took mushrooms for the first time, man, when I was like 12
years old at school.
You know what I mean?
I was like a cosmonaut at one point.
So, basically, one time my buddy, C Money, he goes, hey, let's roll one up like those
guys down there.
He goes, I'm going to take a little bit of tobacco and a little bit of weed and then
we're going to put a little bit of hash and a little bit of keef in there.
And man, we lit it up and I think we each maybe took like four hits and we were so gone.
We couldn't believe it because we had never experienced nicotine before.
And when you're not a nicotine user, it's a really, really intense drug.
It's one of the strongest drugs there is.
It gives you a really heavy, heavy rush in the face and it makes your feet feel light.
You kind of feel like a spaceman.
And it was really neat.
And then I think it was all the way, maybe two or three years later, one of my closest
friends, man, a guy named Moise, he was like, oh, let's smoke this.
I got this Jamaican tobacco.
It's called Fronto, you know?
And I was like, oh, yeah.
And he goes, yeah, you know, you put it in a bong a little bit with some weed, man.
It gets you super high.
It's like nitrous or something.
And I was like, oh, OK, crazy.
And so I was like, all right.
And so I tried it and I couldn't believe it.
I was like, oh, my God, this is like smoking that tobacco, but this is way more intense.
So that was kind of my experience with it.
But I was always anti-tobacco.
Like I said, I don't like the smell.
I don't like the fact that I knew a lot of smokers who got cancer.
Not to say it was definitely tobacco, but of course, they're smoking this big tobacco
products that aren't probably even anywhere near as good for you, considering there's
like 800 additives.
A lot different than smoking a plant that's growing in the ground.
And so then I think it was maybe about 2006.
I'm hanging out with Mo Eason.
He's always smoking blend.
We call him Mo Blend.
Blend, blend.
He's smoking blends.
So he's rolling these big Bob Marley cones all the time.
And so I'm always like, man, roll up an Itol.
Roll up one with no tobacco.
Just roll one with weed.
Roll one with weed.
No, man, I want to smoke a blend.
So I'm like, all right.
So after a while, I'm like, man, screw it.
Let me hit the blend.
So I start hitting the blend.
And after a while, I get this real like, you know, just like, man, hard to describe, like
just this feeling of like well-being and not the edge that the heavy weed would give me
where I'd get the little bit of like unexplainable paranoia a little bit, you know?
And so after a while, I started smoking blends.
And so from 2007 maybe until probably 2007 to maybe 2010 or something, I smoked blends.
And what was interesting was I was breeding at the time.
And I don't condone smoking tobacco in any way.
Anybody who's listening to it, you know, that's why I said it's a slippery slope.
But here's the deal.
There's very few strains that the terpene profile can cut through tobacco.
And there's very few strains that when you are a nicotine user will boost the effect
of the nicotine to a point of giving you a really heavy head rush even when you smoke
tobacco fairly often.
And those strains are the really heavy duty ones that are the very best weed.
And so if you have a plant and you're a blend smoker and it's good in a blend, you know,
it's the best weed, you know?
And I don't, you know, it's one of those weird things.
It's like, you know, it's like a badass jazz dude like Bird who shoots heroin telling you
not to do heroin, you know?
Like it's not the tobacco that helps you breed.
But, you know, I can't really say that it didn't help me to develop a couple of strains.
You know, black lime and root beer were the two strains that no matter what, you could
always put them in a blend and they would launch you straight to the moon every time.
And then you try some other stuff and it just didn't work, you know?
It's just like they're the ones that really work that way.
So for me, I can say, you know, if anybody is going to smoke tobacco, don't smoke any
of that big tobacco stuff.
Smoke, grow a plant, learn how to dry it.
You know, I used to smoke.
I know it's big tobacco still, you know, but me and Moise would smoke American Spirit
and at least it doesn't have the additives in it.
It's probably still pretty nasty just from how they grow it.
But, you know, it's a plant, man.
I think it's really got a bad rap because people use it wrong.
I talked to my doctor about how I was smoking blends and he was like, yeah, you know, that's
not really a tobacco user who usually falls under the statistics of people who are going
to be really unhealthy for it.
They're smoking a lot more tobacco than you're talking about right now, you know?
And I was like, oh, okay.
And, you know, I just wound up quitting because I can tell you it is hard on your lungs.
But my lungs do feel like they felt before I ever smoked tobacco, you know?
They do feel like they've come back to being totally normal again.
But, you know, I couldn't breathe as well.
I didn't do as good like trying to run away in the woods or anything like that when I
was smoking tobacco.
So, you know, it is dangerous and it is harmful.
But that doesn't mean that it's dangerous or harmful to take a puff of it here or there
or, you know, whatever.
So it's an interesting thing.
It's definitely a trippy subject.
And, you know, man, there's tobacco.
I got this tobacco.
I got this tobacco back in the day and this guy gave it to me and he said, oh, do you
blend?
And I said, you know, yeah.
And he goes, oh, just put a little of this in there.
And I took it home and I put it in the bong and I smoked it in the bong.
And what happened was I woke up, you know, 45 seconds later on the ground asking for
a towel, laughing and crying.
Because, you know, I had snot coming out my nose and I had drool running down my face
and I was laying on the carpet like I was doing snow angels.
And, you know, I couldn't believe it.
And what that was, that was the old stuff.
That was the rustica.
And that's the original thick leaf Indian tobacco that's, you know, basically for a
medicine man to smoke, you know, or kind of what they really what they would smoke when
you see people smoking, you know, in a peace pipe and stuff.
It's this thick, hardcore tobacco.
It's like if tobacco is like paper, it's almost like cardboard.
And when you smoke that, that's not like smoking a cigarette, man.
That's like, you know, it's like something you'd see in a movie.
It's somebody, you know, it looked like somebody must have blew ayahuasca up my nose
or something.
Yeah, well.
Blowgun.
It was, yeah, that was crazy.
So anyway, that's my experience with tobacco.
If people are smoking it now, every once in a while I might smoke a little bit.
I didn't quit in the way that I went.
I'm quitting.
I just went, I just quit in the way that I just didn't smoke it anymore, you know.
I never got smoking it with weed.
I feel like I didn't get addicted like other people got addicted to it.
I don't know if there's something to that or not.
I'm really strong-willed.
So I was able to just smoke tobacco every day, all day for years, and then just quit
in a day, cold turkey.
And I did that a couple times.
I started smoking again after another year or whatever, and then I just quit again, cold
turkey, you know.
So.
Yeah, well, nice.
I'm sure a lot of people wish they could do that.
Yeah, for sure.
But I think a lot of it, you know, I was talking to an old school friend of mine, and he said,
you know, he used to smoke some big name tobacco back in the day.
And when he would quit, he would get terrible headaches, and he would feel really bad.
And then he started smoking American Spirit, and he smoked just as much.
And then when he would quit, he wouldn't get the headaches, and it wouldn't be that bad
to quit.
And he associated it with the additives, and he believes that the additives are more
addictive than the actual nicotine.
So I don't know.
Anecdotal evidence, but he felt that way.
So.
No, I think that's very much true, because a lot of people I know who have tried to use
the nicotine-type vape pens say it's nowhere near as gratifying as an actual cigarette.
And that should automatically show that, yeah, like a lot of the other chemicals.
Plus, also, there's studies that show that, like, organically grown tobacco, like non-big
stuff, the chance of it giving you cancer is greatly diminished, because all the additives
are far more carcinogenic than the actual tobacco plant itself.
Yeah.
I mean, I can believe it, you know.
And we know there's a lot of those additives, and we know that those additives are related
to addiction and health problems.
And most of the studies done on tobacco are done on—they're done on that tobacco.
They're not done on pure tobacco.
So it's really hard to pin down what is really the problem.
I can tell you for sure that smoking my own tobacco that I grow, it's still really bad
for your lungs, and it's still really hard on your respiratory system and everything.
But, you know, I feel like there's—I feel like, you know, it's definitely a step up
from smoking all that other nasty stuff they put in there.
Yeah, without a doubt.
And so, I mean, if we just to take a step back and take a more macro view of the whole
scene, I've heard a few people describe breeding in general as falling into kind of
two categories at the moment.
We've kind of got, you know, your new school breeders who are, you know, running with,
you know, like your Dosey Does and your Girl Scout Cookies and all that type of stuff.
And that's got its own merit.
And then you've got the other camp, which is more looking to delve into the older work,
preservation work, land raise, or just working in that general direction.
Do you think this trend will continue?
And if so, do you think the divide will get bigger between the two schools?
Because already I can see that it seems to be becoming more and more present, like more
breeders become—are becoming more kind of known for working with that old school stuff
and less for working with the new school stuff and vice versa for their counterparts.
Yeah, it's an interesting thing, man.
I think that they both have their place.
I think that the kind of the new school mindset is what—it kind of takes things in that
bottleneck direction of things being narrowed down to these things that everyone can kind
of agree are good in the market, the bag appeal, the general like it's a crowd pleaser
kind of effect.
But then I think it's very, very important for people to keep those old genetics around
because that's where everything came from.
And people tend to think of that in a vague sense like, well, Girl Scout cookies, 40 years
ago, there was things that turned into other things that turned into these things that
turned into cookies.
But when I smell cookies, it's like I said, it's an Afghani to me and it has a little
something else.
If you love cookies, you might be able to go grab a Landrace Paki or a Landrace Afi
and go, okay, well, here's that same thing.
And it turns out it didn't take a whole lot of work to arrive at this place where this
stuff is here.
So people think of Landrace and heirloom and old school as being like this far off thing
from our modern day weed.
And in reality, you can take a lot of those old seeds.
I'm sure you could go back and get seeds in 1900 or 1850.
And if you still had those and they were viable or you had a time machine or whatever, you
could pop them now and you'd go, whoa, look, it's the next OG or it's the next whatever.
Like, I've never really been sold on this whole concept of people doing these crazy
hybrids that all of a sudden give you these new things that were unheard of in the past.
I think that the old genetics really have them right there, either just under the surface
or just right there in the same population.
It's just that nobody grows anything, man.
Everybody grows the same things.
So they're thinking like, okay, well, I'm going to use this because it's the hot thing
and not going back and going, well, hey, did you ever think?
That's why I'm excited to see what Bodie's doing right now on Coastal.
Because they're going back into the old stuff to make new stuff that I think in the
long term is going to wind up being, there's going to be some stuff that comes out of there
that's the new stuff because there's no one else doing it.
Otherwise, it's just basically regurgitating other people's work as it's like people
make a cookies cross and they're like, look how resinous it is.
Wasn't cookies resinous though?
Did anything new happen here?
Everybody's doing the same thing.
It's like music and everyone's doing Down by the Boardwalk and it's just Down by the
Boardwalk.
Yeah, it sold records, but isn't this just Down by the Boardwalk?
I respect it both, but I really think that the modern guys really need to understand
what the modern stuff is.
It's just a good clone or a good cross of something people have.
I really want to see people dig in and find all the old stuff before it just doesn't exist
anymore.
Yeah, so with that in mind, what old school gems have you got in the works first?
I mean, because you're known as someone who has from time to time delved into their bag
of goodies.
I mean, Bodie even hinted at it saying that he likes all the old stuff you pull out.
Anything on the horizon you may be thinking about popping?
Maybe some old school stuff going to be coming back?
I got a really, really neat collection of stuff that I totally did not understand how
neat it was because at the time it was just like these crosses of stuff people had given
me and I was like, well, I made the cross, but I'll just get back the pure one.
And then I didn't store them right because I didn't want to grow them.
Nobody wanted to grow them.
And then I knew how to store seeds.
I knew that I should.
And I was just like, yeah, whatever.
I basically thought my stuff was trash because I was seeing other stuff or the stuff that
it had come from that was either more consistent or more marketable or whatever it was.
And then just the thing of when things are too close to you, it's hard to see them.
It's hard to see the big picture.
You're used to it.
I tell everybody, whatever you smoke all the time, that's the Reggie.
That's Regs.
If you have it, then you're going to think it's Regs.
People who only grow OG are like, some of them still like it, but a lot of them are like,
I kind of want to try something new because this is just OG now.
And when they first got it, it was like, oh my God, I got OG.
And now they're like, yeah, OG, okay, same old flavor.
So for me, that's how it was with the seeds that I had.
And then it would be like, oh, this one's prone to PM or this one likes to mold or this
one doesn't get tall enough.
And then you make the hybrids and the hybrids better so you don't plant the old seeds.
And so, man, I got some seeds that basically are still viable because I'm not saying I
stored them in the attic in the heat.
They came up for 10 years, but then all of a sudden I hit 12 years and they wouldn't
come up anymore.
They sprout a tail, but they won't come out of the dirt.
And so I basically need to link up with somebody who, and I have a couple leads right now,
who can do the tissue culture where they either do the seeds and test tubes with the
plant version of antibiotics that prevent everything from attacking the seeds and forming
bacterial colonies and stuff while they're trying to sprout and that give them a little
extra carbohydrates to replenish their stores and hormones to really make them want to grow
faster so that they can really get out.
And then there's another way you can do it where you can actually cut the seed open,
get inside the germ, get viable cells and grow them out as a callus in a petri dish.
And then you can add hormones to make those effectively become basically like seeds.
Or you can also encase the cells through a process where you make like artificial seeds.
And that's another way to bring stuff back.
It does exist.
It is practical.
It's been used for other stuff.
I just have to find the right way to do it.
And man, I have some really neat stuff.
I have the original F1 pollinations that were the original black lime.
I have the old Dirt Pert mark that I made, stuff from 99, 2000, 2001.
I have all this old stuff and I have like a thousand of each and they're totally viable.
I'm just afraid to risk losing genetics out of them by trying to pop a bunch only to get
a few when I know that in a laboratory they can come back.
So that's one aspect of it.
The other aspect of it is that I've been asking around too for people and saying,
hey, what do you guys got?
Who's got old seeds still?
And there are some people and some people don't want to part with them.
Some people don't want to share them even though they have plenty.
And all those, I totally understand where people are coming from on stuff.
But recently I scored this one.
I don't know if you saw the post that was the Santa Marta Indica Red Vein.
Did you see those little plants?
Yeah, I think I did.
I'm actually looking at them now.
Okay, so those ones there are a really special one.
I'm talking to the guy and he's like, yeah, 1977 or 78, I get the Santa Marta Gold.
And I'm growing that.
And in 1980, I go to the bar and these guys smoke the best joint I've ever tasted with me.
And he's like, what is that?
And they're like, oh, it's called Indica.
And then they give him like five seeds and he crosses that with a Santa Marta.
And then a few years, five years later, six years later, something, he puts in the stuff
that's like what I call the perp that he called the red vein because the stalks get really red.
You see it like in DJ Short's Blueberry except instead of the purple of it, it's like red.
I think it's different than what I call perp, but it's that same look
of where the stems have color instead of being green.
And I think it's what's in my black lime, honestly, because it came from the same area.
And it's really interesting because there's all these old things you get
and people tell you the story, but they only have the story they have.
Like I can't say without a doubt that everything is only what is in it.
I just know those things are in it for sure.
Because back in the day, it's like, oh, this is so and so stuff.
And then you ask him what it is and he goes, oh, it's Afghani.
And you talk to him years later and he goes, oh, no, it's Afghani and Burmese,
the Northern Lights.
And you go, oh, okay.
It just behaves like an Afghani.
So he called it an Afghani.
So I know what it was because he thought I'm just going to grow them and grow dope.
People don't know you have interest in it.
So there's all these old things that are like that.
And so that's what I'm trying to track back down.
But that particular strain, he's like, yeah, test it 25% THC.
He goes, I call it lemon kush.
I'm like, there's other people who have stuff called lemon kush.
He's like, well, name it for me, man.
And then people will know what it is.
And I'm like, dude, I'm on social media.
I'm able to show people stuff.
I know it's going to be the bomb because this guy, he's this old school dude who's like
an old school rock star, party animal, badass dude from the area.
And I don't know how old he is.
I don't want to date him as being older than he is.
But he's like my mom.
He's like 60 or something, maybe older, maybe a little younger.
But he was around growing dope to get seeds in the 70s.
And he didn't ever go, he didn't ever do what I did with a lot of my stuff and go,
oh, I'm going to cross this with OG, or I'm going to cross this with Diesel, or I'm going
to cross this with Urkel, or I'm going to cross this with whatever these clones are
that came floating around that everyone wanted.
You try to make things be happening for the time, for the market, for the people who want
to grow the seeds and be able to have a reference.
People want to be able to tell people, oh, it's an OG cross.
Okay, cool.
Now people know what to make of it when they show it to them.
So it's old pure stuff.
I mean, it's not pure, of course.
It's still a three-way cross.
But it's a three-way cross of strains that were around in the 70s and the early 80s.
And he's never changed it.
And it still tests at 25% THC, and it's super resilient, and it gets huge yields.
And the weeds and shit, you smell the stem, it smells like gummy worms.
And now it's starting to develop into like a lemon peel smell.
Not like a lemony, like what people call lemon in weed generally, but like real lemon peel.
And it's exciting to see when they were tiny little sprouts, they had more resin than anything
else in the greenhouse out of a whole, like five big tables full of six-inch pots.
So that's an exciting one.
That's something that I'm doing something with.
And I asked him, I'm like, dude, do I need to keep this tight or what?
He's all, no, dude, blow it up, popularize it, put it out there.
Awesome.
Yeah, so that's one of those ones.
And then so I've been trying to find things that are like that.
And then for me, a lot of my stuff, it's just worked polyhybrids.
So I made these polyhybrids, and then I bred them in directions, and now they're real strains.
Like they're like something you could have got from someone back in the day that was a real
strain.
But as far as a lot of the stuff that went into them, it's not viable.
And so now these new true breeding hybrids that I have, they're like, that's where all the stuff
is. And honestly, I like the new ones better than the old ones.
It's just I value the old ones because they had other ways I could have gone with them.
Yeah, okay.
Well, I think this brings us to the last little bit where we just got a few little
quickfire questions.
Shall we blast through?
Sure, man.
So first one, what's your favorite strain of all time?
Ah, man, I really liked this old school stuff that we thought was garlic bud.
I don't know if it was or not.
It came through the hog farm in the mid-90s.
It was incredible.
It was just the most amazing definition of a broadleaf Afghani.
The weed was completely solid white.
It was purple on the very inside.
The bud actually was mostly colorless because it was so dense that light didn't get in through
the outside of the bud after a couple weeks in.
I never got to grow it.
That was incredible.
Grimps grapes was incredible.
Pissy Pungent Favorito probably to this day is one right up there with my favorites.
As far as something that is still around, what's my favorite smoke?
If I had to only have one thing, probably something out of the black lime.
The black lime is for me, that's just, I don't know, when I smoke a lot, that's what I want to
smoke, black lime.
Solid answer.
So what's one strain that you used to have but you've lost and you wish you could get it back?
Let me see, like a seed strain.
I really liked the black Afghani that I had.
That was really neat.
I still have a bunch of the seeds.
They just don't quite come up.
That was a neat one that I lost that I really kind of like, darn it, I lost it.
And then, man, my old Northern Lights clone as far as a clone.
That was really one that I just am bummed about.
Yeah, for sure.
All right.
I can already tell you brought up twice.
It must have been special.
It's a lot of what the black lime is, is that clone.
Okay, it all makes sense.
Yeah.
So if you were just a grower and you could only have one pack of seeds that's kind of
currently on the market, which one pack would you go with?
One pack of seeds.
Jeez.
Man.
You know, I haven't grown a lot of people's seeds.
I know there's a lot of people's seeds who I might, you know, if I had that, if I had
their stuff, I might throw mine away.
But I, you know, I haven't done a lot of them.
And out of everything I've seen, I still, I mean, I'd have to say probably like, you
know, my LimeOne clone with something from it.
So just lime cross lime.
But as far as like from other breeders, dude, I just don't, I don't have much reference.
I haven't grown a lot of stuff from people.
And so it's kind of a loaded question in that I'm going to say something from me because
I'm just not that experienced with seed packs.
You know?
Yeah, no, I understand.
That's all good.
I'm sure, I'm sure many people would have picked your lime cross as well.
Next one.
If you could go back to one place in history and time to collect seeds, what would they
be and where?
Man, for me, I think I'd probably have to say like, go back, like, probably to like
the 50s and then go in the Hindu Kush region and, you know, collect everything there that
was like what I know, what I saw here when I was growing up.
I know that's the genetics, you know, it was basically the Afghani before it got messed
around with by outside stuff.
Yeah, okay.
You know?
Yeah.
Back before anybody really brought anything over.
Yeah.
And so, final question.
Which person or groups do you hold kind of in the highest regard for the overall progression
of cannabis throughout time?
You know, man, hippies for sure.
I got to put hippies up there because that's where, you know, a lot of stuff happened in
that part of the counterculture coming from the, you know, the 60s and the 70s and all
those people going through the 80s and the 90s and all that.
But, you know, other than that, I'd say, you know, like, I really think there's not enough
value placed on a lot of what people think of as land race in a lot of cases is from
places where the weed doesn't have to be tended very much.
So people don't really know that people are influencing it.
I think in places like Afghanistan and Thailand and India and Africa, I think there was a
lot of people who were actually making selections in the field and choosing which seeds got
planted over others and cutting plants they didn't like.
And I think that I think a lot of the land race stuff was actually being bred in a sense,
although, you know, it's a land race because it's wild.
But I think a lot of times it's wild because people don't have to grow it, but they're
still influencing the genetic drift.
So, you know, basically the hippies and all those kind of counterculture people and, you
know, not to get too specific, basically just to kind of say, yeah, just like people
who were like, yeah, we're going to smoke dope and hang out and have a good time and
enjoy life and nature and the mountains.
And, you know, and then those early people who kind of get left out of the story, like
people are like, oh, it was just good.
No, good weed was just good in Afghanistan.
It was just good in Thailand.
I think people influence that, you know, to keep it from being hemp.
So, I think those, you know, those more ancient and traditional people and then these more
modern back to the earth types who moved up into the hills and Santa Cruz and the Sierras
and Humboldt and Trinity and Mendo and stuff, you know, I think they kind of shaped how
everything is now, you know, deadheads and hippies and all these guys.
Yeah, without a doubt.
Deadheads especially, I think.
But yeah.
Yeah, for sure, man.
Yeah, so thanks so much for coming on the show and for dropping all that knowledge.
Did you have any comments or shout outs you wanted to make?
Um, you know, I, um, man, we went through so much material right now.
I feel like we touched on a lot of stuff and, you know, it's the same like, you know, I
can give shout outs right now, but of course, I'm going to space out a whole bunch of people.
So, probably better to just shout out everybody, you know, everybody that, you know, is interested
in weed and, you know, all my old school friends and my new friends and my family and, you
know, my sons and my kids and my lady and, yeah, everybody.
Yeah, awesome.
So, again, thanks so much for coming on the show.
Yeah, thank you, man.
Thanks for having me on.
It's awesome to be part of, dude.
A huge thank you again to Gene for coming on the show and for taking the time to talk
to us.
As well as 420 Australia and OGS who helped make the show happen.
If you guys haven't checked out the Patreon yet, there's tons of extra content up there.
I highly recommend you look at it, guys.
Thinking about possibly increasing the length of time that content stays Patreon only because,
frankly, I want to reward the guys who chip in for the show, you know.
The response has been overwhelming and I'm actually going to make more content than what
I initially said I would.
So, you know, get on board and enjoy all the goodies to come.
We'll see you.
Farewell.
