Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
As always, you're joined by your host, Heavy Daze, here from the Upside Down Library.
And as always, we couldn't make these episodes happen without the help from our sponsors.
He's here now, number one seed bank in the industry, all the hottest breeders, the latest
drops and a guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Why would you go anywhere else?
They guarantee you'll be happy with the end results to grow.
What more could you want?
Well, you need to make sure that your harvest is on point.
And to do that, you want to make sure that your garden is happy, healthy, pest and pathogen
free.
And in order to do that, you need to check out our buddies at Coppert Biological Systems.
These guys have all the best predators in the game from the Afi Par M, if you've got
aphids to the Spidex Vital, if you've got spider mites, get it now guys.
Keep your garden pumping on all pistons, pest and pathogen free.
Trust me guys, nothing better than knowing your garden is clean.
As always, shout out to our friends down under, holding down the fort, organic gardening solutions
for your organic gardening needs.
Best soil in the game is what I use, check them out.
Or if you're looking for some of my genetics, go to Top Shelf Seabank.
They've got a great range of both domestic and international breeders, go check them
out if you're after some of my work.
And last but not least, huge shout out to the Patreon gang.
You guys are truly the lifeblood of the show.
Without you, episodes could not happen.
If you're interested in helping support the show, all while getting early access to episodes,
unheard additional content, prizes and giveaways, check out the Patreon.
Heck, we just gave away 30 packs of Hash Plant 13 cross to the puck back cross one from Crickets
and Cicada.
They were generous enough to donate it to us and our fans got those for free.
Go check out Patreon today guys.
On this episode, we're lucky to be joined by GAS, the SWAMI Organics.
Here to talk breeding, history, plans for the future and so much more.
Without further ado, let's get into it.
Alrighty friends, we're back for another one.
And on this one, we are joined by the man behind SWAMI Organic Seeds, the old school
genetic guru himself, GAS.
Thanks so much for joining us today.
Hey, how you doing man?
I'm doing well, my friend.
The first question we love to ask our guests, what have you been smoking on lately?
Well, you know, I just had some NL5 Hayes, along with a Fosters, bro.
God, that's so funny that you bring up the Fosters.
I don't know if you know this, but it's not really sold in Australia, but it's sold everywhere
outside of Australia.
Yeah, I'm not a real big fan of it, but you know, there it was.
I appreciate it.
You know, putting in the effort for the Australian chat, I love it.
And it's so interesting that you mentioned that you're smoking the NL5 Hayes.
You know, it's such a sort of trending strain at the moment.
How would you describe the effect of that?
Well, it just depends on who you are, really, because it's quite introspective, you know.
I wouldn't recommend it for anybody with anxiety issues.
I wouldn't recommend it for anybody who has any kind of bipolar or mental disorders or
anything like that, because it can take a normal human being and turn them into a freaking
nut in seconds.
They'll be walking through glass, they'll be crashing the ditch, you know, they'll forget
to water the dog.
It's just one of those things.
And that's why the warning is still there, you know.
And I don't find it extremely comfortable to smoke it, but I'll take a pull here and
there, you know.
Just it's a good tasking thing if you don't get too far into it, you know.
Okay, interesting.
Yeah, I know that for a number of years, I certainly really couldn't go near some of
the strongest sativas I enjoy nowadays.
And I think that in part, that was probably because I had a lot of sort of general anxiety
at that time.
But interesting nowadays, it's sort of one of those things I gravitate to more.
So it's funny, I imagine having a conversation with myself, you know, five, 10 years ago,
and like, you couldn't pay me to smoke NL5As.
Right.
And you really hit the nail on the head right there.
It's a state of mind.
You know, I can smoke anything, you know, around the globe.
Oh, no, there's nothing to be afraid of, ever.
It's all what society put there.
Oh, it's illegal.
Oh, no, it's illegal.
So automatically, your brain's set up for failure, you know.
So if you avoid those thought processes of oppressing nature, then you're going to do
well, you're going to do way better.
And then you can do anything in the world, you know, smoke anything, smoke all the highland
Thais, smoke all the Africans.
Yeah, it's going to give you some anxiety.
But you know, if you're skilled at what you do, you're going to find a way to deal with
it.
And you're going to go out and put that to use, you know.
Yeah, that's interesting.
Yeah, finding a way to make it work for you.
I certainly can jive with that.
I'd be interested to know, because I was pondering this last night as I was writing some questions
for our chat.
I've spoken to a few people who have sort of touched on this idea, but never fully gone
there.
So I wanted to ask you specifically, do you think NL5 Haze is one of, if not the ultimate
expression of cannabis?
No.
It's just one of those things that made its way into history at a time when the DEA was
really harsh on everybody in the United States, you know, and how Neville introduced the NL5s
and all that to us over here in the United States.
That really changed the game over here.
I grew up in the Pacific Northwest.
I know what roadkill skunk was.
I know we were buying bags in Northern Lights.
We're, you know, it was all here.
But what dominated everything here was Killer Green Bud, sidelined NL5 Haze and anything
that came around, you know, because all the local growers are growing this Puget North,
you know, this Puget weed, whatever the hell that was.
But it's just different.
It's totally different.
I've been wondering this myself for the past week or so.
Is Killer Green Bud the same as Kentucky Bluegrass?
You know, I just don't know because it's possible that somebody actually did take something
out of the Pacific Northwest back then.
But when we were growing up as kids, it was everywhere.
That's all you had.
That was all you bought.
Everybody was growing it.
It was everywhere.
And it had a really pungent indica kind of, it was, it reminded me of California Orange
quite a bit, you know, but it had more of a garlic thing going on.
And it's very well could be in our lines and in that Killer Green Bud too.
My parents knew Steve Murphy too.
Oh, okay.
You think maybe it comes from Steve Murphy?
I don't know.
You know, what he gave people, it spread around and the imports had a lot to do with it too,
because the brotherhood imports were coming up there.
You know, my parents had Panama, Colombian, Thai stick.
I remember being in fifth grade and unravelling the twine off the Thai stick, man.
You know, we smoked that shit and oh boy, I thought I was in trouble for the next universe,
you know.
Oh man, I think everyone listening to this right now is a little bit collectively jealous
of your childhood after hearing that.
Well, it was my parents that had a lot to do with it.
I was born into the culture, you know.
My dad unloaded tankers of Mexican weed in North Hollywood in 1966 at 18 years old and
got paid by my grandpa to do it.
So, it's just been something that was in the family for a long time, just working with
the biker side of the gig.
The Brotherhood of Eternal Love, what people don't realise is they were bikers and surfers
and they'd made a pact to work with each other, not work against each other.
So that's what they called the Brotherhood of Eternal Love.
Yeah.
Often we hear Hell's Angels thrown around.
Do you think that it was like sort of them and then a group of hippies and they combined
together and then that made the Brotherhood?
It was up in the Pacific Northwest.
It was specifically the Bandito faction of the Hell's Angels, yes.
Many nights I'd wake up when I was a kid and they'd just all roll out there, 300 strong
and fire off all their Uzi and just leave, you know.
But that's who brought us the roadkill.
That's who brought the roadkill out to us.
And I remember seeing it growing in 1981, 1982.
I remember watering the plants.
I remember picking buds off the plants and taking them to school and smoking them with
my friends, you know.
That's how I got busted with this stuff.
Oh wow, wow.
So many avenues we're going to have to loop back on.
I guess before we get into the roadkill skunk too much, because I would love to pick your
brain on it, I just wanted to quickly ask the KGB, the killer green bud, any speculation
as to what the genetics might have been?
It was an Afghani, probably a Mexican.
Or Colombian, I would say too, because there was a lot of Colombian imports.
Most of the herb that was coming in back then in the late 70s was Colombian.
Brown, dark, black Colombian.
Cheap, plentiful, fat sacks, good weed.
Yeah, wow.
And just because I'm a little out of touch with the timeline, was this before the commercial
release of Skunk One?
Oh yeah, absolutely.
I never heard of Skunk One until probably 1987 or 88.
And by then I was already incarcerated, I had already gone through the wringer with
roadkill.
And when Skunk One came out, and I smelled it, and I grew it, and I looked at it, man,
I thought it was a joke, because it wasn't skunk at all.
It was just a plant that seemed to melt under every condition that we put it in.
It would melt in the frost, it would melt in the heat, it would just melt.
These weren't the Pacific Northwest genetics that we knew.
Yeah, I've never been a fan, and still not.
It's just not a real skunk.
So what is the RKS to you?
Is it like a pure Afghani?
How would you describe it?
It was probably...
HC says it was a pure Afghani, and I believe him, because everything he told me corresponds
to the timeline that my parents were associated with this gig.
So I trust what he's saying, and I would say he's probably right that it's a pure Afghani,
but it could have an import in it.
We don't know.
When I was growing those plants in 81, they were thin.
They were thin leaf.
They weren't wide, fat leaves.
And they would get black and green when the cold hit them.
Lots of purple in the buds.
More of a Christmas tree indica profile.
If you look at the old catalogs, the old indicas, they looked a lot like that.
It was probably a Hindu.
One of the things we've heard from other people who have come on the show is, obviously, they're
not stating it with certainty, but they've said there might have been a few things that
had that aroma, and not just one specific clone.
Where do you sit on that one?
Absolutely.
I've grown just about everything from around the world, and not just one or two at a time.
I grow a bunch.
I've seen a lot of that skunk pop up in a lot of different things.
But what I see it pop up in most is unmolested Hindu-type stuff.
The higher altitude, Afghani, Pakistan, Hindu stuff.
That's where I see it.
Yeah.
Okay.
People often say that the reason why roadkill disappeared was because people were getting
busted.
Is that your thoughts on why we saw it vanish?
It's probably at least 70% to 80% of the reason, yeah.
Because it was so loud.
It was so stinky, man.
You were just done.
You're done.
You're not getting away.
They're going to track you down through scent.
It was impossible.
It really was.
It was quite difficult.
Yeah.
Look, I can only imagine pre-carbon filters, the anxiety level must have been through the
roof.
Well, I got cracked.
I did two weeks in juvie for it.
We did know growers that were getting cracked.
You'd be driving down the street and smell it.
You just knew, that house right there.
Duh.
So we've seen a huge, over the past probably three, four years now, this huge resurgence
in people looking for the roadkill skunk.
Do you think it's the type of thing where we will ever find it again?
And if we do, would you think we should try to breed it from scratch again or go back
on old seeds and try to hunt it through that?
Well, I've done both.
I have a five-year RKS project going now and we're just about done with it actually.
We looked at a lot of stuff, man.
We went through a lot of things, a lot of old land races, a lot of old types and it
just boiled back down to the original lines.
It really did.
But of course I had to outcross to get it back.
I'm using an 85 Humboldt roadkill that was taken to Mexico in 1985.
Dude stopped by Humboldt, bought a bag, went straight to Mexico, gave it to his sister.
She smoked the weed, took the seeds out of it, gave it to her local farmer who's doing
exports and he crossed it to that type, which was a Europan type.
Europan.
It's outside of...
Oh man, I forget.
But anyway, it's a good region for growing good herb and it's noted for that.
The seeds were sent back in 2017 and I only got two males.
They were pretty big.
I figured I'd just outcross them to my oldest types in the hopes that I could grab that
genotype in there somehow by waking it up with these old types.
With Mr. Green Jeans Cherry Bomb, with Coots Blue Orca, and with this Purple Zeep, which
had Blue Mystic in it and the Purple Roadkill Skunk in there.
That one was pretty good, but that was more of a poly from Nirvana than just an old unmolested
type.
It did, it worked, but I had to go through a lot of seeds.
I did F2 of the Blue Orca by the 85 Roadkill Europan and just searched massively of those.
We found what we were looking for.
We was going, yep, this is it.
This is what it looks like.
This is what it smells like.
Let's hope that if we cross it back to one of these 63 breeder packs that HC gave me,
that we can wake up that genotype.
That's all we got, man.
Honestly, unless you're going to go out there in the world and go search for unmolested
types for that skunk phenotype, and then bring those types back to the United States and
sit there and work and work them and work them and work them together.
It's just nobody's ever going to find that, unless they don't have it.
Yeah, it's interesting because that sounds like it could well be a nice recipe for success.
We've heard other people use alternative routes and looking through what they consider to
maybe be really early skunk releases.
I guess I'd be interested in hearing, a lot of people say that at a certain point, pretty
early on in the grand scheme of things, Sam bred it from stinky to sweet skunk.
Do you think there ever was a stinky skunk?
That's what they say, but I think Sam's bullshit, man.
I think that guy's just shit, dude.
Everything he said, he tried to sell out the industry.
He's a known liar.
All his stories don't match anybody else's stories.
There's people that were here, there's people that were there, and everything he says seemed
to contradict everything, man.
You know what I mean?
David Watson is a douche, man.
I said that.
Okay?
You're right.
Anyway, I don't believe him.
I think it's bullshit, because I've seen a lot of types, man.
I know what a Colombian does.
I know what Thais do.
I've worked almost every damn Thai.
To confirm, do you think it always was sweet?
There was never this RKS prior to the sweet skunk?
It had nothing to do with it, nothing to do with it at all.
None of that.
It's just bullshit.
If he got a hold of it and bred that out of it, he had nothing to do with it.
Yeah, I guess I still see where you're coming from.
Yeah, even if he did make the sweet from the rotten, it's sort of by itself saying he didn't
make the rotten.
It was just another claim to fame.
People want to just jump on a bandwagon and be the one and the only to have the one and
the only, whatever it is.
Either you have it or you don't.
It's a pig with lipstick or it's the real thing, man.
Okay.
So I'd be interested to hear your thoughts on...
I mean, you sort of just touched on Sam and mentioned you're not a fan.
I'd love to hear your thoughts on Neville, because he's someone who more recently we've
been hearing thoughts about.
Well, I respect Neville.
Yeah, I respect Neville.
Because he was actually a breeder.
He bred dogs before he bred cannabis.
So that gives him authenticity.
He's not some dude that just woke up one day, oh dude, I'm going to be a breeder and open
a seed company.
Cat had an idea and Cat did it.
He's not the father of modern breeding for no reason at all.
He really was a breeder.
So he knew what he was looking for.
They say Neville had the eye.
You know what I mean?
When they say he's got the eye, if you got the eye, you got the eye.
You know what you're looking for.
You see it.
They're smiling compared to the ones over here that are frowning.
You know when you see it.
So Neville had the eye.
So he was really good at making selections like I am or like a lot of other breeders
are too.
They see it.
They see the hybrid potential.
They see the vigor.
They know what they're looking for.
He knew what he was looking for.
And yeah, he took it to the top, didn't he?
Yeah, definitely.
I mean, I certainly regard him like yourself as the father of modern breeding.
I guess I'd be interested to ask, some guests in the past have mentioned that through having
known him more closely on a personal level or maybe friends of that, he might be one
of those people where you need to do a little bit of separating of the art and the artist,
so to speak.
Have you ever heard anything like that?
Like he's a great breeder, but maybe there was some character flaws.
Any thoughts on that at all?
Well I talk to his best friend every day, you know, and he's online now because he just
resurfaced out of the woodwork from being, you know, these guys were persecuted internationally.
They were sought after for a long time.
By, you know, and so people just get tired of it.
They get tired of hiding.
They get tired of seeing all this bullshit and they want to pop out of the woodwork and
say, hey, no, that didn't happen.
So before Neville died, he said, he told Dwight, find me because I'm doing what he was doing.
I'm doing what Neville was doing.
I'm focusing on breeding, not magazine culture.
My head isn't in magazine culture and capitalism and trying to be the next big thing.
My head's in breeding and the fascination that lies in that.
So anyway, when I posted my back cross of the Neville NL5 by the 88 NL5 Hayes, Neville
saw it and he's like, ooh, that's it right there.
And before he died, he pointed Dwight in my direction and we got in contact with each
other.
And so we've been communicating each other and sharing projects and doing things with
Neville's last works, you know, like the Outback Hayes and Neville's Kush and a couple other
things, you know.
Wow. Would I be able to pull you up for a quick second and ask you about some of those
varieties? Because I had seen the Outback Hayes mentioned, never heard of Neville's Kush.
I'd love to hear a little more.
Well, here's the thing about the Neville's Kush is we don't know what the lineage is.
It's because Neville was really sick at the time.
And he didn't want to bug him, you know, hey, man, what's this?
You know, so we don't know, but Neville wanted the Kush because that's what everybody was
doing in the game. So he said, hey, I want to make one, too.
So he did. And yeah, Dwight has those.
And yeah, he's he's in with the family.
The Neville family is...
I can't talk about it too much, OK?
I can just say that things are happening.
That's all.
Just for clarification, say, are we talking about like his extended friends or like his
literal family are sort of doing stuff with his...
Literal family, family and friends.
Ah, that's exciting.
He had a son, you know, and he's interested.
Wow, that would be cool.
I know that just out of like, you know, being Australian, I tried to sort of track him down
many, many years ago and it was very hard.
But I had always hoped that some news like this would sort of come out of the woodworks.
Oh, there's a lot going on, man, but I can't talk about it.
You know, it's not my position.
But if you interviewed Dwight, he might talk about some of that.
You know what I mean? I can't overstep my boundaries and just, you know, give that
information out.
Sure.
You know, but yeah, you know, it's alive.
Wow, that's really exciting.
And just to loop back before we move on, the Outback Hayes, I think it's one that people
are still sort of learning about.
It's not super well known.
Are you able to tell us anything at all about that in terms of maybe the genetics or what
it's similar to at least?
Well, you know, it says it's 2133 and Hampi's tie.
You know, whatever tie that was, we don't know.
But you look at Thailand and you look at the types in Thailand and for thousands of
years, it was the squirrel tail type, you know, that was held by kings and distributed
throughout the regions by the people that held that type.
And that's that's the Isan province type, the tie stick, those types.
But there were other types, of course, that were, you know, like the red tie, the blue
tie, the blah, blah, blah, blah tie, the chocolate tie.
You know, these were developed for export.
You know, not not the red, but the chocolate and the tie stick.
That was all that was all export.
Those were export crops.
But they were based off of the squirrel tail variety.
And there's like three or four or five different phenotypes of this squirrel tail tie.
And I think that's probably what it is.
It's a squirrel tail variety.
And Neville liked it, you know, so he used it.
So he put it in there.
And there's probably a tie in the haze, so it mashes up great, you know.
Wow. And I'm feeling a bit out of my depth right now.
You said, I think you said 21 cross 33.
I'm sorry, what were those cultivars?
That was his haze.
Ah, yeah, like the numbered cutting.
There's photographs of if you look, I can find photographs of them and they look nice.
You know, they're like, wow, that's a nice looking haze, man.
Yeah. Wow. Nice.
And for some reason, I thought when you said the 21, I was like, is he talking about Malam madness?
Because I think there's a famous 21 cutting of Malam or something.
Yeah, I grew those.
That flowering time was too long.
And what Neville said, sent Dwight his branch of the Outback.
He also gave it to other people.
Connoisseur. You know, and a couple other guys,
but they they have different lines or different branches of the work.
So each one of these guys that have a different branch of this Outback work
have different, you know, they've put their own selections on it
in their own IBL, Elling of it and have made it what it is in their own selections.
So Dwight's is different than connoisseurs.
And it's different than whatever, whoever else has it in San Francisco.
And, you know, so the phenotypic
variations are going to vary depending on what breeder gets it.
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah. OK. So I've already, you know, like like how I got a hold of the NL to the R2,
you know. My selections are different than than Dwight's selections.
So right there, our line goes in two directions.
You know, so if I keep going down my my path, my
my is going to be totally different than his in three or four generations,
even though it's a 30 year IBL.
And how would you describe your NL to?
I've been lucky enough to try Bodie's thin leaf NL2,
but I've never tried the more indica leaning phenotypes.
What's your thoughts on the line in general?
This is the I got this line from from Dwight.
It's the the R2.
It's it's popular up in northern Ontario.
It's a 30 year IBL of the NL2 that they did outdoors.
They had privacy and they had a lot of space
and they had a lot of room to do a lot of selection.
So they really did a good job on selecting for phenotypes
that finished early with a nice cush profile, you know.
They're fast and the resonance
and they withstand the cold pretty great.
R2 means Ron had two seeds, whoever Ron is.
That's a great name.
And it was rumored that there's skunk one in it, but we don't know.
You know, it looks like NL2.
It behaves like an NL2, you know, cushy because that's what NL2 is.
It's NL1 by Neville's Cush.
And do you see any real sativa in there at all or no?
Very, very little.
Just enough to make it interesting, you know, how most Afghan dominant
types are with that one sativa in it.
Yeah, I think that was largely the sentiment
Bodhi echoed when I was talking to him.
He was like, oh, you know, this was just one plant out of God knows
how many that had a little bit of a thinner leaf
and just melted your face, the highs, lovely stuff.
Oh, I like it. It's great.
I smoked the hell out of it.
It reminds me of a good Williams Wonder, you know, nice rounded,
nice, warm, huggy kind of thing, you know.
Man, I love that you just said that.
Williams Wonder is one of my super nostalgic strains I love.
And not enough people have had experience with it, I feel like.
Yeah, it's a it's a good one, huh?
Nice and huggy.
Yeah, I think I think it was the first weed I ever tried where I was like,
oh, this is kind of like mangoey passion fruit, like getting towards
that passion fruit side of things, at least the sample I tried was.
It's the root or Alice in it that gives it that unique kind of astringent,
bitter thing that it has, you know what I mean?
On top of the sweet that the Afghani has.
And do you know anything about it?
Like, I think there's some rumors that it was created in Oregon,
somewhere between Williams and Wonder, but I've always wondered,
do you think there's any truth to that?
I used to think that, too, and that's what that was the rumor, right?
But it was bred by some guy in Indiana and his name wasn't even Williams.
Do you think like that was the case for a lot of the SSSC crosses?
I don't know.
You know, when those guys sourced that stuff back then,
they were getting what they could get, you know.
Oh, this is good. Let's get it.
You know, Oregon Afghani.
What the hell was that?
You know, a can of her probably, you know.
Who knows?
But back then it was mostly imports
or what heads had gone and collected from their travels abroad.
You know.
What I want to know is who sent Mel Frank,
the nine seeds of Afghani number one from Kabul, Afghanistan in 1979.
Was that Watson?
Who did that?
Yeah, that's actually a really good question,
because I always ask people who are a bit older, like,
do you remember distinctly the first time you saw Afghans
rolling into California, for example?
Oh, the brotherhood brought them in, man.
They brought them in in 69.
They were going to Afghanistan and getting the hash.
They were the hell.
Hawaii was loaded with hash that the brotherhood brought there, man.
It was all Kandahar, you know.
It was the Kandahars.
Yeah. Wow.
And I mean, you may not have a definitive answer to this,
but do you have any guesses as to what Steve Murphy's purist indica might have been?
Mazar or just one of those region,
you know, it's rumored to be a Mazar, it looks like a Mazar.
But it could be a Kabul, it could be anything within that region, a Balkh,
anything, a Sheberghan, and who knows?
You know, we had little knowledge of these things back then.
We just knew Afghanistan.
You know, it was only the brotherhood and people that kept record of this stuff
that came back and said, yeah, we got this from Kandahar, you know.
I think a lot of people looking at the purist indica would be quite impressed.
It's a very pretty looking plant.
And in a lot of ways, it sort of reminds me of deep chunk.
Do you feel like it's one of the better expressions of Afghani
or like there's actually a lot that's better?
It's just less known.
No, it's the Western world's used to one thing, man.
And that's the combination of a Mazar and a Hindu in one package.
It's simply because of the introduction of the Northern Lights combination
of the Hindu and the Mazar.
So people, this Americanized thought process,
they love that outward
exhaust smell on Labor Day.
You know what I mean?
That that greasy, sweet, tiny,
you know, they're just used to it.
So that's what all through the 80s is what Americans
palate was used to.
So as we bred with these types into the early 90s,
that's what everybody got.
That's what everything is now.
It's all all Mazar Hindu effect.
So unless you really go to
the specific regions and get those specific Afghanis,
you're not going to know what this is all about.
It's one of these hash plants.
You know, these families kept these things for hundreds of years
in their family or their tribe or whatever.
So they have a unique, special product
that's like unique and special and like food grade, super valuable.
You know what I mean?
And it was only war and stuff like that that started disrupting that that,
you know, that heritage.
So like I said, I've got a lot of Afghanistan's.
I've probably grown maybe 10 different land race Afghanis.
And we're talking, you know, up to 40 plants every run outdoors.
So I'm looking at the traits of all these these Afghanis,
and none of them have that.
That modern indoor perfect cola thing going on.
But all of them have a higher
kind of resin quality, a higher terpene value, a higher,
you know, you really your eyes really light up when you when you put your senses on.
You know, like the ball cash, for example,
that's like one of the best cash is in the world, man.
Smiley, giddy, happy, just boom.
Yes. You know,
like if all could smoke like that,
everybody be happy, you know.
Wow. You've got me thinking, I think I might have some bulk seeds stashed away.
Maybe I need to get onto them.
It's interesting, man.
You know, it would be really cool to do an indoor run of something like that
and, you know, maybe hybridize it to a modern type and see what you can do.
That's a popular thing now, you know, and I don't know if I'm the cause of that,
because that was that's what I started doing so long ago.
And then other guys started doing it.
And other guys started doing it.
You know, back then it was me, Snow High.
Budai. It's just a couple of guys doing it.
Now, now we got 500 seed,
999 seed banks, and they're all like,
ah, trying to be the next big thing, you know, it's just funny.
Yeah, certainly.
And you know what you just touched on a question I wanted to bring up,
which was sort of ties into both when you were talking about Neville
and he had the eye, as well as what you just mentioned about the types of crosses
you do. I noticed both in Neville's work and with your own
that possibly from my perspective, one of the sort of key components
that seems to have a good chance of success is doing those raw F1s.
You know, you mentioned earlier that hybrid vigor, you know, you really can't
replicate it. Do you think that's one of the keys?
There's a method to my madness, and it's not magazine breeding culture, OK?
I have an agricultural background.
I went to college for this stuff, you know, before.
I was listening to the advice of Ask Ed.
You know, I'm talking about. But
so when I popped out of college, I had an edge.
I had an agricultural background when I first started growing cannabis,
you know, on my own as an adult out of school.
And so I approached it at on that level.
The way I cloned the way I did everything was different than this magazine paradigm,
which seemed to be geared towards product sales and selling Mark gimmicky.
This and that.
And the way they taught us to do this in agri and in the agriculture sense,
it was so much more simpler and basic and right.
You know, it was really the magazine, the myths.
That turned turned me off about all that
because it's just bullshit, you know, you don't need none of that shit.
Yeah, look, it's interesting that you bring that up
because I did want to talk about that and a thought I've been having more recently.
I think it's pretty edgy, a bit controversial, is that I'm starting to think maybe
High Times was like equally as damaging for the scene as it was beneficial.
It's true, but, you know, it's like, don't shoot the messenger.
They gave us a lot during the 70s, they gave us a lot during the 80s,
but somewhere in the 90s, it started to fall off into into glossy
marketing gimmicky shit, you know.
In the 70s, they were they were thick, fat.
Informative magazines, you know, I remember sitting around
reading these things as a kid with my parents would buy them,
you know, so they're always around, I read every damn High Times there ever was.
You know, I've watched the magazine deteriorate into what it is today
is what you might say, but yeah, you're right.
It did, in a way, lead to a lot of misinformation
and targeting a lot of 18 to 25 year old males to buy just junk, you know.
Yeah, that that junk comment you make really hammers home,
because I think at a certain point you see that, you know, pay for play,
advertising and awards and articles start to creep into the magazine.
And for a long time, I thought, you know, whoever was the editor in chief
sort of dropped the ball a bit by, you know, we're going to do a big
strain write up about this company's blueberry.
And it's like, what?
Like that's just some random paid advertisement, more or less.
And you start seeing what it is, man.
You know, you start seeing it for what it is.
You see right through it.
Yeah, I thought it's interesting.
And I thought even more funny was that, you know, a few years ago, High Times
sold and like Danny Danko and all those people working for it moved on.
And now they've started a new magazine and everyone was like sort of keen
to support it.
And I was like, hang on, wasn't Danny Danko the editor in chief
who allowed all this sort of faux advertising to occur?
That's funny you say that.
Donnie Danko did a Living Organic Soil article
and basically plagiarized all of our information and didn't give us any credit,
you know, because we're the ones where I'm the proprietor of Living Organic Soil.
We just dropped the soil thing in favor of the seed thing
because that really wasn't going anywhere.
You know, you teach a man to fish.
Guess what? He fishes for the rest of his life.
So that's what we were doing.
We weren't making any money off that and we couldn't sustain that.
So we taught a man to fish a thousand times for free.
You know, the information is out there.
You can go and get it.
You don't need nothing, man.
The secret to all of this is increasing your negative
ionic surface area in your soil.
That's it, man.
Wow. Yeah. OK.
And you think that's why without people understanding
exactly what you're saying, they sort of have this propensity
to want to increase your cationic exchange capacity?
Well, as Americans and capitalists and marketing victims,
they're there, you know, they want instant gratification
because they're Americans, they want to spray the bug and the bug needs to die now.
You know, so when they apply these fertilizers, they want to see magic.
They want to see, oh, just like in the picture.
If I put more on, it'll get bigger, more, more.
You know, the plant craves electrolytes.
Yeah, exactly, bro.
OK, so that's what's going on.
And it's it's a big scale.
And then there's a lot of money to be made, millions of dollars, you know.
And now Monsanto has their hands in this.
They own General Hydroponics, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Miracle Grow, blah, blah, blah, blah.
They're not going to take their dirty fucking hands out of that scene.
They're going to they're going to keep marketing,
they're going to keep pushing their fucking poison on us, you know.
So, you know, like I said, my information is free.
Get online, you go find it.
You know, the soil recipes, all of that, everything.
Tell you how to do everything for free.
What's trippy about it all is is that the seed company idea,
because anybody can do this.
So that's that's what's happening.
Anybody is doing this.
So it creates a lot of confusion and it creates a lot of, you know,
I don't even know what this stuff is anymore.
Nowadays, I totally disregard it and excuse it as bullshit.
I don't pay attention.
Wedding cake, whatever. Cookies, what?
No, not doing it.
Never have any bought weed out of a dispensary, man.
You know, I smoke black Colombians and Panama's and just come on.
You know, it's it's.
So I guess I don't need to ask you what your favorite Girl Scout cutting is.
No, I just don't know.
No. Well, I mean, so let's tap into that then, because I'd love to ask you,
you know, out of those cool, funky, you know, black Colombian, cool stuff like that.
What's a variety that you think isn't particularly well known,
but everyone would like love the shit out of it?
Oh, you know, anybody that smokes a black Colombian would just love it.
Or it's a Jamaican or a nice African
or a good tie, you know, one or two pulls off this shit.
It's all you need, man.
And you're so see you.
Go, go do a task, bro.
You know, that's that's awesome.
And I'd love to touch on the Colombian a little more, because I think as time's
gone by, I've started to realize that when I first got into genetics, so to speak,
I maybe put a bit of overemphasis on tie.
And especially with the reemergence of like the
the black Colombian haze, things like that.
I think I'm starting to learn more from people that like Colombian
might be the unsung hero in a lot of different things.
What's your thoughts?
I think you're right, man, I think it's it's overlooked a lot.
It's quite potent.
It's quite has a nice effect.
It's it's your eyes, man.
They just boom, you know, you're baked.
You're stoned.
You know, there's there's CBD in there.
You know, you're you're on the couch.
You think, oh, I'm going to smoke this Colombian sativa
and I'm going to just get all this energy.
They don't really work that way, man.
You know, I had a I smoked some black Colombian with a friend of mine
who grows a bunch of poly's wedding cake, there's cookies that and all this
one hit dude was on the floor, one hit of some ropey ass
looking black Colombian.
OK, that's that says it all, you know.
And do you feel like, you know, a lot of the consumers out there, for example,
who might say, oh, you know, cookies is all that really does it for me.
Do you think like they just don't have the exposure to really make that claim?
Yeah, they don't.
They're just they're just lost in that world of capitalism.
And, you know, they don't.
Maybe they're not thinking enough.
Maybe they're just complacent in their lives with their device
and their programming and everything that they do in their life.
And they just don't care, you know.
But I mean, look at somebody like me who's passionate about cannabis
and everything and has done it his whole life compared to somebody
who just wants to smoke, smoke a whatever and get stoned.
What does he care about, cookies or whatever?
You know what I mean?
And there's a lot of that, a lot of kids, younger, younger.
Yeah, look, I think it's actually probably one of the more pertinent questions
that's been in my mind for a while now, which sort of if I just it out,
it's like is the onus on us as the growers and breeders
to try to educate the general consumer or like like how do we let people know
that like cookies is not the ultimate expression of cannabis?
Well, I kind of do that, you know, I kind of that's my
there's a method to my madness and that's introducing different types
of cannabis to people from around the world, man, in different combinations.
And in going back to what you were saying about
hetero hybrid vigor now, there's a method to my madness with this.
And I don't I guess I'm going to say it.
I'm working with heterosis breeding, OK?
I'm following the heterosis pattern that when I take parents
of unrelated genetic origin and I cross them together,
I'm going most likely going to have a heterosis hybrid child.
There's going to be
parent, there's going to be kids that look like their mom,
there's going to be kids that look like their dad, and there's going to be kids
that have hybrid vigor because these are unrelated
genetic parents that push everybody out of the way.
Their flowers are bigger, there's more resin, they're faster,
they're they're everything.
So that's kind of what I focus on is because I want people to experience
the heterosis value of the F1 and they get it.
Finally, they see it.
Finally, they're getting it.
Finally, dude buys a pack of seeds, cracks them open, finds this plant, goes,
Oh, my God.
You know, over and over again.
It doesn't matter what what happens online, because that's all bullshit.
That dude's life just changed.
You know, he told me in an email.
It's year after year, man.
You know?
Yeah. You know, you just made me think back myself.
When was the last time I grew a true F1 hybrid?
And I thought it's probably a while ago.
And so then I thought, you're right.
There's probably a lot of people out there who have never grown a true F1.
And they do have that sort of, yeah, like revelation moment.
Yep. And that's what it is, man.
And the chance exists that you're not going to find that heterosis vigor
in some of these these outcrossings.
But the reality is, is it works 95% of the time, man.
So out of a pack of 15 seeds, cats going to get five individuals
exhibit heterosis traits, you know, like with a bulk.
I did a balk by a cyanide.
They're monsters, man.
Those are just just colas of hash,
you know, are branches of hash, you know.
And that's what those plants were traditionally bred for.
They were hash plants.
They were bred to produce resin, not take centerfold pictures in high times.
Sinai, it's not not a strain you hear about often.
I have heard about it before and I thought, oh, Egyptian, that sounds sort of cool.
Anything unique about that one from your perspective
that maybe differentiates a little bit?
Well, just the fact that it's an ancient type
and it was developed as a hash plant for thousands of years.
You know, it's drought tolerant.
It's potent, you know, it has flavor.
It's it's you could tell it was selected, you know, it was something
that was kept by these people for a long time.
It's pretty neat, actually.
But you got to be you got to be a land race guy to appreciate this stuff.
You got to be like, wow, man.
Yeah, I'm going to I'm going to grow a bunch of Sinai's and like fill a jar of that.
You know, you got to be one of those guys.
Yeah, certainly, certainly.
OK, so if anyone was listening and they're like, look, I'm keen to give it a go,
I want to try a cool F1, maybe find some of this hybrid vigor you're talking about.
What's something you offer that you think you'd be happy to sort of say, look,
if you start with this, you probably find something good.
You know, one of the things I always point to people to is
that is a Masar Sharif by the 76 Peace Corps Guerrero.
And I've worked that line into the into an IBL over the last 10 years
using siblings and back crosses and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
to get what I want out of it as as a line.
It's got a good meditative quality to it.
OK, it's better than an OG. It's better than cookies.
It's better than that.
You're going to eat. You're going to sleep.
You're going to be well.
And you're you know, this is weed you don't smoke for like two,
three days in a row because you're going to have a hangover effect
for two or three days in a row.
You know. Wow.
That's that's.
Well, you can look at the numbers on my page
and you can see the CBG in there and you know, it's very odd that these
these these turf profiles are so different from all these modern polys,
you know, because they are different period.
These these all these modern polys have the same genetics and less.
These guys are out crossing them to these land races.
Masar Hindu, Masar Hindu, Masar Hindu, you know,
out of curiosity, because it is like a bit of a focal point
in discussions more recently.
Have you ever tried Mac one?
And if so, do you think the Colombian in that is a real Colombian?
There's been some question marks around that from people.
No, I haven't.
But I have had smoked the Cuban black haze.
And I can tell you that is definitely in all five haze and probably skunk one.
Ah, interesting. OK, because I think some people think it's just pure NL5 haze.
Do you suspect some skunk?
Here's my theory. Here's my theory.
Here's what happened.
Dude bought a pack of seeds from the catalog.
He moved to Florida.
Skunk got mold.
He got a male. So he used it on his NL haze.
And are there any specific skunk traits you see in the Cuban black haze?
Yeah. The orange hairs, you know, the nose bite
that SK1 has, you know, those traits that SK1 has
that are identifiable in most of its outcrops, you know,
but it's definitely NL5 haze. No doubt about it.
And you mentioned before the Peace Corps Guerrero.
We had a listener who is a fan of yours ask if you could maybe talk a little bit
about the Peace Corps Panama.
OK, here's what happened.
I knew a guy one time who knew a lady
who during the 70s, all throughout the 70s,
worked in South America and Mexico as a Peace Corps worker.
She was heady.
She's from California and she was a stoner.
So she collected seeds from the weeds she bought
in every freaking region she went to.
When I got the package, there were over 30 types and stuff
I couldn't even pronounce.
You know, they were all stored, they're all stored improperly.
Rolled up in little bundles and put in a film container, you know.
Kept in a box somewhere.
So the only thing that we got up was the Panama,
the Guerrero and the Acuna.
OK, now the Acuna was given to another grower and he got robbed and we lost it.
So the Panama.
We reproduced it, we reproduced the Guerrero and we distributed it.
Snow High got some of my Panama and he calls it the 76.
OK, we don't know what the years were on the Panama.
So I say 74 through 76.
He says 76, I say 74.
But they all came through my hands first.
Yeah, wow.
And do you feel like they're quite unique compared to maybe
some of the other Panamas we see, like from maybe Ace Seeds or Coastal Genetics?
Oh, yeah, they're pure, man.
They're just pure Panama.
There's no molestation about it.
It's just a pure Panama red line.
You know, everything that it ever was.
It started them under 1212 in seed, you know.
Big, long red spears, lots of lots of hairs,
you know, one or two hits and you're blah blah blah, you know.
So I guess I'd be interested in asking you.
Some people think that the reason why Hayes is so good was because collectively
it was better than the individual parts.
But it sounds like you're really fond of each of the individual parts.
Do you think that Hayes was much of an improvement on each of the components?
Well, the thing is, is nobody really knows what Hayes is.
OK, we can only guess.
And we what we what the top guys think me, Dwight and these other guys.
We're tracing lineage and we're tracing history.
And we're we're we're tracing roots of import and all this other shit.
So it was most likely brotherhood imports.
OK, whatever those guys brought in.
Well, you know, here's a here's a hint.
In 1966, there was a movie called.
Oh, what was that? It was a surfer movie.
Mike Henson and the other dude, they go around the world.
It was called Endless Summer.
OK, that was a Brotherhood of Eternal Love sponsored movie.
It was actually a hash and seed scouting mission.
OK, they used the movie as cover to go and do this in 1966.
So they set up all these relations, seed, hash and everything in 66.
So they could come back.
And this is where it held Mike Henson got all these seeds and hash back.
He started making the old surfboards because you could carry a surfboard
on the plane and you could carry epoxy.
So they could fill up these compartments with massive seed.
Massive hash and just get right on the plane, man.
Yeah, so by 1971, they told me, OK, by 1971, all the genetics
in the world that they knew of were in Laguna Beach.
And do you think like there's this treasure trove of genetics
sitting somewhere waiting to be cracked open or it all got dispersed?
There's brotherhood guys I know that won't come off their shit, you know,
and like I could have had a chance, but not anymore.
You know, it's just that way.
These guys are never going to come off their shit.
They're going to die with it or they're going to give it away
when they're dead, when they're dying.
You know, that's how I got the one and the blue orca off.
Cute. You know what I mean?
And we were on good terms the whole freaking time, man.
Just one day I'd show up at his house and you don't even know who the fuck I am.
Dude had a heart attack.
OK, forgot everybody and everything got addicted to fucking opiates.
Forgot who the fuck I was.
Forgot he even gave me the one.
And just, you know, just forgot us, forgot that we had kids,
you know, we'd come there with our kids and sit on his couch and eat dinner
and all this other fucking shit, you know?
Yeah, it was it was kind of disheartening, you know?
But I've seen that before where a guy has a heart attack
and he forgets his own fucking kid, you know?
So whatever, whatever, all this shit that Koot said, it's just crap.
You know, we never really said anything about it.
He said he only said one thing to me.
He said, well, you've got the genetics now, so you're set.
I said, yeah, I know, man, as he says, but we got to do something for you.
We got to, you know, he says, just just make a donation in my kid's name.
This kid got run over by a drunk driver in the early 70s.
And he went out, beat the shit out of the guy and went to prison for it.
So we did that.
We'd made a donation in his kid's name and we still got all that shit.
Food bank or whatever that we're doing for what he gave us, you know,
because I've always been fair and I don't steal shit from people or none of that.
This game's pretty cutthroat and dirty, man.
Some scallywags out here.
I mean, it's good you brought that up because we did have a viewer submit a question about that.
And I guess you sort of answered some of it, but they were sort of wondering,
is there an alternative cutting of like the one, like a sort of a fake one,
or is it just the one real one?
And that's the one you have.
Yes.
People that Coot didn't trust and people that I didn't trust who we thought that were going to
fuck us, that we're going to go out and just automatically start a seed company.
We didn't give them the cut.
We gave them the one by Blue Moon Rocks, Backcross 2 or Backcross 1.
And they looked almost the same.
And sure as shit, man, those guys take off and boom, that's what they did.
So guess what?
Now we can illegitimize you.
You know, if you think that you're going to like just blow smoke up somebody's ass to come steal
a cut and you're not going to get found out in the process, come on, man.
And yeah, there's been people that I've worked with that have been like,
And yeah, there's been people that I've worked with that have stolen the cut.
Blue Orca from me, have stolen the one from me.
There is the one and there is the Blue Orca out there.
I can't tell you who or where or whatever, but it's floating around.
And but they're hard to keep.
The cuts are hard to keep.
So good luck.
And the reason I like them so much is because they're authentic old brotherhood tie in an
Afghani combination.
I love Afghanis and ties, man.
That's my favorite.
You know, that sounds amazing.
I would love to ask you because it's actually really hard to find this sort of information.
What are in terms of the one, what are like the turps like?
What's the flavor?
What's the effect?
Oh, man, it's just really strong.
You know, all these cake cookie growers, man, once they get a hold of that, they're like,
Fuck that, man.
This is all I want to smoke.
This is all I want to grow.
And that's what they tell me.
It's the truth because that's all you have in your jar that fucking works.
You know, after you smoked everything in the universe, there's the one sitting there in
the jar.
You know, it's one of those ones where you're like, it'll wreck your day.
So, you know, you don't just jump into that.
Now, Blue Urca, on the other hand, that's like a Williams wonder or something like that.
That's something women can smoke.
It's going to make you feel good.
It's going to, you know, it's going to make you feel warm and huggy and smiley and have
a good appetite and sleep well, you know, because Blue Urca finishes at 56 days and
the one finishes at 80.
So if anybody out there thinks that they have the one, better check that at 80 days, bro.
You know what I mean?
Okay, that's interesting to hear.
And one of our listeners specifically was interested in picking up a cross from you
of the one to something.
They said, which cross would you recommend?
And which of the crosses do you think like you're best going to get like a dominant,
the one sort of expression?
Well, I'll tell you what I'm doing now is I'm trying to put that package into seed form.
So I've done all these various, I did an out crossing to the Black Candahar to get the
one and the Blue Urca together in one package.
So I've been working those lines and working for the traits to get into a seed line that
represents everything that I expect out of it.
And if it's not going to work, I'm not going to do it.
So I'm pretty far into it right now.
And that might be done pretty soon, maybe this year.
But as far as like what somebody can buy, it's the one by Blue Moon Rocks, the back
cross 2, 3, 4, it's cubed.
You know?
Yeah, I had seen that one online and I wanted to ask you, was there anything specific about
the Blue Moon Rocks that you thought made it like a well-suited partner to the one?
Well, when I was growing herb in the 90s, I went to Canada and I bought Bubble Berry,
Bubble Gum and Shishkeberry off Mark Emery in like 1993 or some shit.
And they were $200 a pack, dude, for 10 seeds.
And I grew them all, you know, and I found a nice Bubble Gum and I found a nice Bubble
Berry and it wasn't really, the Shishkeberry didn't do it, you know.
But I kept that one kind of that Bubble Berry and, you know, made a million dollars, you
know, because it was the best thing anybody had ever seen.
It was the original DJ Blueberry by the Indiana Bubble Gum, you know, Sagarmatha's Bubble
Gum.
It was a DJ Sagarmatha collaboration and they made the Bubble Berry and won the cups or
whatever with it.
So we're like, yeah, this is it.
Boom.
You know, and then I got cracked, thrown to prison, all that other shit and I got out
of prison.
The first thing I want to do is go find Bubble Berry again.
Well, that's gone.
But now we have OG Kush.
I'm like, what?
So I go to Humble, buddy's down there and they hook me up with these cuts and I bring
them back up to Olympia and I grow them and I'm like, what the fuck?
What is this?
This is what people want.
Big spindly, tall, falling all over themselves, mold and tiny little popcorn buds, but they
smell good.
You know, get your stone.
And then I started looking for Bubble Berry, started looking and looking and I found out
that Bog had crossed an old DJ Blueberry to Blue Moon and then to his Bubble Gum, which
is a good Bubble Gum.
You know, so I thought, oh, oh, this is going to be good.
You know, and I got him and bought the pack.
But there's also some fucking hay, man.
You know, same same thing with everything, though.
People think, oh, man, I got this and it did through a nanner, you know, and from my experience,
all this intersex shit comes from poor Brady.
OK, from my predecessors, not me.
It's their fucking lines.
They fucked up off, you know, and I'm like, well, I'm going to go to the gym.
You know, because I won't use that shit, man.
I guess an interesting sort of counterpoint, maybe just to be devil's advocate slightly,
is I can't remember who it was, but someone who deals with a lot of land race work, it
might have even been Lewis from AC, said that if you do truly want to work with the land
race line, there is a bunch of Hermes stuff you got to weed through.
Would you agree that there is some land races that do have sort of Hermes and it's not
all horrible breeding per se?
Absolutely.
You know, a louse, for example, absolutely riddled with it in a cashmere, absolutely
riddled with it.
Things like that, you know, that are often these really weird regions of the globe that
they don't really give a shit about intersex.
You know, they're using this hash plant, you know.
So when you go up, you start pulling this stuff out of the woodwork and think that you're
going to breed with it.
You better think again, man.
You better look at it real good, you know.
Yeah, definitely.
But then again, there's a lot of land races and a lot of narrow leaf drug cultivars.
And we're talking as far north into Kazakhstan, 50 degrees north that have no intersex, that
are just nice plants, you know.
Yeah, that's true.
I guess it also is a reflection of the thousands of years of caretaking and whatnot.
But just to jump to another question that a listener had submitted that I think you'll
be able to answer for them is, they said, oh, you know, unfortunately, I'm sort of limited
to growing in a tent.
Do you have any offerings that you think would do well in a tent or just a small space in
general?
Yeah, I would do like, you know, if somebody came to me and said, hey, this is what I need,
I would give them what they need, you know, like a blue or a cross or something that I
know stays squat and compact and that they can manage.
The short flowering time, you know, what they want.
Yeah, nice.
Where myself is like, I'll grow anything, you know.
No roof limit.
Pretty much, you know.
I just don't grow inside.
I don't grow inside anymore, man.
It's all in greenhouses, light up, you know, because I can control the flowering and height
and everything.
And I can see the full range of expressions and do whatever I need to.
Do you think that commercially produced cannabis, like, you know, for the masses, so to speak,
will eventually transition to being sort of all greenhouse slash outdoor?
I don't know.
You know, I just don't know.
The industry is really a mystery to me right now.
It just seems that marketing is over the top, man.
CBD toothpicks, CBD socks, you know, CBD cars for your tire.
I mean, cars, tires for your car, you know, it's just a joke, man.
So it's going to spill over into the legitimacy of it, you know, all this gimmicky shit.
So it's going to climax, it's going to boil over, and then it's going to settle.
So whenever this, the settling is when it goes federally legal, that's going to be, that's it.
And that's kind of what I'm waiting for too, because that puts legitimacy to what I'm doing.
I can now go and patent my types.
Nobody can patent a type.
You can't do that.
Don't believe anybody.
It's bullshit.
Only Monsanto can.
Okay.
Not until it's federal.
And we're talking, you're going to be shilling out, you know, a thousand,
two thousand bucks for this patent.
And you're going to be waiting six months, seven months, 12 months for an answer.
And it's going to come back as a, oh, what's the word I'm looking for?
Not a patent, but in the process of being a patent for the next five years, you know?
So you got five guys trying to patent the same type and you're hoping,
oh, am I going to be the one to do it?
So that's what it's going to be.
And if I don't patent my types, guess what?
It's up for grabs, man.
You know, everybody's type is up for grabs until the patent is on.
You know, I could go steal cookies if I wanted to, you know, there's no patent on it.
Yeah.
Wow.
That'll, that'll be an interesting day for sure.
Yeah.
It's going to, it's going to level the playing field, man.
And it's going to really get rid of the noise.
I'd be curious to know what strain, like in your opinion, most emulates a coffee.
Good question, man.
It's going to be South Americans.
You know, here's a, here's a, something that, well, I guess the Western world doesn't know
much about is that the indigenous people tend to select for their culinary traits.
So a lot of South American types echo their culinary, you know, spicy, cilantro, chocolate,
coffee, all that stuff, you know, peppers.
You go to Africa, what happens there?
They start, it starts imitating their color, what they eat, you know, that's one thing I've noticed.
Yeah, that's cool.
I'm gonna have to give that a go.
Nice, nice Mexican or something.
I would say, yeah, man, a Mexican or a Colombian or, or even a Oaxacan would give you a nice,
probably a good coffee, you know.
Oaxacan's better.
I'm just, I might say that Oaxacan's probably my favorite.
It's just, it's just, man, wow.
You know, pretty neat.
Yeah, that's, that's really neat.
Is it one of those ones where like, it's a nice balance of different sort of things or?
It's just, it's a, it's a feel well type, you know, it's a well-being type where you smoke it
and you just, shit's okay, man, you know, it's just something you can work on, something you can
play on, something, something you can do anything on and not be too out of your mind, you know,
like say a Vietnam would do to you.
Certainly.
And as, speaking of Hayes origins, we suspect it's Vietnam making the noise in there
because I'll say it, there's nothing stronger than a good Vietnam, man.
They're just, you know.
I'm really glad to hear you say that because I, I think that one of the most memorable
equatorial land races I've ever had, I've had some really nice ties through Bodie, but he,
he let me try one of his Vietnamese one time and that's forever held the, the spot in my
mind is like most memorable sort of weed I ever smoked.
It's, it's very Hayes like, you know, and these properties that Hayes has, they're,
they're reminiscent if you're, if you're a smoker of all these land races.
So what these things that I identify and these other guys identify Vietnam, Colombian,
Oaxacan, Thai, these are, these are, there's notes in there, you know, it's like when you,
when you're playing in a band, you, you, you know what that note is, you know,
they're playing a G man, you know, it's like that.
It's like, you can, you can, you can, you can tear it apart with your mind, you know,
but anyway, get ahold of these Viet, get a hold, just watch what happens next.
Okay.
Dwight and me, we're, we're, we're working on this Vietnam Hayes trip thing.
Okay.
That's, that's awesome.
I'd love to see that.
Oh, I got some good Vietnam crosses.
I did cross that Vietnamese provincial park land race to the black Colombian.
And that's probably pretty Hayes like man, you know, if you're a Hayes guy,
that'd probably be one to get and check out and go through a pack of those, you know.
Wow.
I might need to do that.
What sort of flower times do you think might sort of happen?
They're long, man.
Now the black Colombian isn't as long as people would think we're talking, you know, 70 days,
but it will go over a hundred.
If you have that phenotype, it does now my selecting, when I do this stuff, I'm doing it in a,
in a light depth hoop.
And I'm looking for stuff that finishes early because I know what you guys want.
You don't want that.
Oh, 2 million day, whatever, when we can have the same package in 80 days,
I'm not overlooking that we may lose something in later flower times either.
You know, I'm still paying attention to that.
Yeah, sure.
Sure.
Sure.
I, I wanted to ask you because for the longest time I had always seen this most beautiful picture.
I think it's of your chocolate tie.
How, how did you get it?
Like, like which, which time do you think it was?
I think it's of your chocolate tie
How did you get it like like with those really swollen bracks and the purple look?
I think it's an outdoor photo from memory. It might even be I think it might be Darwell's chocolate tie. I don't know
Yeah, it's it's that line. But one of them's from snow high and one of them's from
Kirby, okay
Kirby did a back cross and he wasn't he wasn't supposed to but he did it anyway, and I got a hold the pack of seeds
So I put that to the to the snow high and worked it out
Into what I remember buying chocolate tie
You know the traits I remember the smells the look the you know
What the flower looked like and everything so that's what I was doing
So after a couple, you know a couple runs of that that was pretty easy because that lines pretty much an IBL anyway
You know, I just put my hand on it, you know
Yeah, wow
I mean
I think one of the things which always caught me about it was that it looked so modern for a strain that obviously was old-world
Well, you got snow high working it you got Howard which is Darrow spelt backwards working it
Okay, and you got
Herbie working it you got me working it you got three four breeders on the thing
And we're not just dumbasses. We're breeders, you know
But you know, we we were looking for stuff we're looking for trades and everything so if it's gonna happen after that
Yeah, it's gonna have a modern
You know Cola nice looking flower kind of trip
But they're still radial eyes, you know
Reminds me of what do they say takes a village to raise a child?
That's one of those things man, really and that's the result, you know, you're looking at it right there in that in that photograph, you know
That's awesome look we touched on it a bit earlier, but I'd love to come back. I am a passionate organic grower myself
I would love to hear a little bit about your grow style. Obviously you mentioned it's organic
What are some of the general things you think are important to focus on in your organic grow?
Well, it's just soil food web gardening, you know, we work with the soil food web not against it microbes
Funguses there's so many things that we utilize that enhance this experience on a natural level man
That just takes this to a different place, you know, and
We've educated people on all this, you know, I'm the first guy to use aloe. Okay and post it
I'm that we know all of this stuff you did
We hammered it out an icy mag 10 years ago
It's all hammered out there and the mess is still there
The mess is still there but they've you know, they've gone in there we got banned and all this other shit and you know
what happened was
We had a big group on icy mag and we're you know
My thread was leading the fucking charge on icy mag every day biggest threat ever, you know
Biggest flood ever biggest fucking listen that ever whatever, you know
but it was just good fun for us and we were teaching people and learning and doing all this other shit and
And we just busted everything open and everybody came together at once and
Really took it to the next level, you know
everything enzymes
microbes fungus
fertilizers ionic reactions
everything
You know and so we put all that information in one package and yeah
And I'm not gonna just tell everybody it anymore
You're gonna have to pay for it because I don't want to do that anymore, you know
but
You're working with the soil food web and one of the main
Things that makes this all work is the fact that you have to increase negative ionic surface area in your soil
Yeah, you have to there's only one in all this
Hydroponic shit. They're cheating. They're cheating the system by tricking the system with a little with with ions and anions
Okay, it's a trick
That's why the weed shit, but
if we can
Increase negative ionic surface area and how we do this as we add those things into the soil
Compost the humic material. Okay
earthworm castings humic material
Anything that has that that that value like basalt rock dust, for example has a paramagnetic
Negative charge on it and it's igneous rock. It's every freaking mineral known to man. It's immediately uptake able and
You'll burn your plants with it if you don't follow the directions
Okay. Now there we go. Again. We've just increased in our negative ionic
You know
Everything so you're getting more calcium you get more magnesium and all the system works better if you have those negative attraction sites
and I
could go into this in more detail in in another time, but
What I can tell you right now is the way you can get this is through compost
Earthworm castings and using those inert materials like like char for example, you know char isn't humic material. It doesn't
Unfold to accept more ions. It's just a carbon-14 frame which will hold ions. Okay
The humic molecule this is what's weird about it actually unfolds
to accept more
So it's just this weird mechanism that like that the whole earth runs on it and you can look it up and read about it
Some of the better studies come out of Germany on it
Yeah, check it out, you know check it out
That's that's cool to hear. I mean, I guess I would be interested to ask you
Are there any things which over the years you've realized are probably more important?
I mean, I guess the obvious one is like in organics watering when you do it how much that's pretty important
Are there any other things which you think I like should really have attention paid to them or not so much?
It's really just that you know, once you change the negative ionic surface area in your soil your whole game changes
everything changes
so whatever food you use is gonna
Have an effect if I go didn't buy whatever at the grow store
It's gonna it's gonna work if I go and I get some horseshit. It's gonna work, too
You know as long as that mechanism is there as long as that attraction as long as those attraction sites are functional
You know as long as you have them in there, so when you see people with growing in cocoa cord, oh, how come I pleasure?
It's in their material it doesn't even have a negative charge on it man
What are you doing?
You know
It's that simple I
Noticed when I was reading through some of the old posts I had seen that there was at one point at least there was some
Talk of you leaving I see mag starting your own forum. Is that something you ever want to pursue or not so much?
Oh, we did. That's what happened
They banned us because they thought they were they were spying on us in a private group and I see Mac
We had an advanced living soil
Private page, you know and we there were mods in there and everything and one of the mods Narcos out to like skip or somebody
You know, these guys are they're talking about going to the C Depot because they say we suck here
You know, this is when the C Depot opened up and whoever that what was that guy's name?
I don't know, but he ran off with everybody's money or something
But anyway, he opened up the C Depot and
Whatever that that forum was or whatever the hell that thing was called
And he made me a mod made other people mod and we had a big section there and that's that's where we took over at
the forum again
but then that collapsed he got busted doing something or ripping people off or some shit and
Then we created our own website, which got really big
super big massive members everybody knew about it and
But it was private because we get sick of dealing with fucking dumbasses and trolls
You know if you're gonna come in here and start shit, you're out man
You know and and and people did get banned because they would do that
They would argue and fight and and just go against the progression of it
So, of course you're getting fucking banned
So a lot of those problems reflect on me now because of the people we banned back then, you know
Like dank Frank and all those other disgruntled employee vibe people
You know, they their butt hurt because they didn't get what they wanted out of it. They didn't get they didn't get my seeds
They didn't get this. They didn't get that they didn't get to be a mod or they you know
It's some kind of
Entitlement issue, you know, and they were never even hired. This is all volunteer shit
Yeah, sure I can see people often get very passionate and involved in these sorts of things
I've got a bit of a longer question here to ask you
But it was one that sort of I was hoping to get around to and this seems like a good point to jump into it
Basically as I was sort of doing some research for our chat
I I came across some posts of people who sort of said that their experiences with you were a little bit questionable
But then many of those same people would go on to put a post up and say oh, you know
Hey guys gas contacted me. He's made everything all good
And it made me sort of wonder, you know
Was there maybe a specific time or incident where maybe orders weren't?
Sort of going out as we might want or something which might explain why there was this hiccup
I'm confident that you're not a fraud and many of the the posts go on to say that but it appears some people
Did have blips. Yeah, the posts are made by those very same people
I was just talking about and they're the repeat offenders
Okay, they're the repeat guys
They got mad because I didn't let them release this or got mad because I didn't get them that
There are those guys and they actively follow me around and troll my ass. Just do it, you know
That's what they do. But yeah, it's bullshit. It's all bullshit
okay, we've we've worked with a lot of distributors and we're trying to find a
Distributor that we could rely on and get our shit out there when we need to you know
It's been a hard game man because
Ten years of mailing fucking seeds dude at every fucking post office and every fucking place up here and getting busted and only stupid
Ass is filling out the wrong thing getting us crack busting our shit in that post office
Oh god, they fucked up that one gotta go this one
Year after year after year. All you got to do is read my instructions and you can figure it out
That we're just done with the bullshit man. You got to do the shit right or don't do it at all
I'm not to the point right now. I don't want I'm just ready to give their money back if they're gonna give me any shit
You know
If you don't follow the instructions and you're gonna start flipping me and shit and expecting that
I'm gonna just jump out of bed at three o'clock in the morning to answer your question. No, here's your money go away
You know, it's getting old man. Yeah
Look, I can certainly appreciate that when you hear stories from some of the older members in the community who are like man back in
The day, you know, I'm sending off money to Amsterdam's not tracked like, you know
You just got to put your faith in it and it all worked out
Oh, man, not only that but all these guys they they rip you off man, you know, oh I didn't get my seeds
They'll the classic. Oh, I didn't get my seeds trip, you know, so every order man. Guess what tracking now?
We don't have oh, I don't get and get my seeds, you know, we've seen every trick in the book man, you know
Yeah, I would say
50% of the time it's a positive experience 50% of the time. It's a pain in the fucking ass
Because these guys are really fucking entitled man, you know
Look yeah as someone who has sold seeds themselves
I certainly feel like there are some very high expectations at times
I remember one guy he like made payment on the seeds and like within an hour. He's like, where's the tracking number?
It's like that's what I'm talking about. Just give me a minute bro. Who are these guys man?
What do you think man that like a fucking drone is just gonna come drop them at your fucking feet in five minutes
So what we do is we take orders
We have a thing now where we take orders for two weeks
And then we pack seeds and we send them to our distributor who then sends them to you because we're done man
We're done going to post offices
It doesn't work anymore for us
We Guardian family tree is our distributor now and we're happy to work with them and they're doing a good job
And they're getting our shit out there and there's a lot less mix-ups now
Yeah, that's awesome to hear and there you go for anyone who's keen on getting some of your gear
That sounds like a good spot to stop by do they have an Instagram or they're primarily website sort of thing
I believe they have a website and they have an Instagram page and they distribute other people seeds as well
Yeah, fantastic. I found myself working with seed banks who prioritize like customer service and quick shipping has always worked really well
Yeah, if you have a good relationship with people and everything's flowing good and right everybody's happy man
you know these guys get their seeds in a decent amount of time and
but you know sometimes weird shit happens, you know as
A more personal question. I was lucky enough to be gifted some of your nl5 Hayes
I believe it's the f4 could be the f5. I think it's the f4
I wanted to know you got any tips for me any certain phenos you think I should keep an eye out for
What's your recommendations?
The f4 is will probably probably be pretty good
But it's not as refined as the f6, you know
Because every time I go through them I go through a lot of numbers and I always get rid of the shit
You know, there was that there was intersects in that line from the beginning and now f6. I don't see I don't see intersects anymore
So, that's good
So it's possible in there for you might see some nanner maybe but unlikely I would say
99% no
You know, but you're gonna see more sativa expressions back at f4
More hey, that's got me excited
Yeah, and it's no joke man. You know, this is herb that you like it's gonna sit in your jar for
Maybe a year because you know, you're not gonna smoke it that much
You know, you gotta be excited now. That's that's amazing
So oh and I was also gonna say I uh
I feel like as growers people need to accept that every now and again you're gonna get a plant with a nana and that's okay
You know the world keeps turning. It's all good
Well, here's it here's something that people don't realize is that you can take these stable lines and and give them a little bit of stress
And and give them a little bit of stress and guess what happens yeah
stress anything in
Stuff man that I've worked so hard on and I give it a little stress and boom, you know
It's just the nature of the beast man, you know, you can't you can't you can't get rid of something that's part of it
Yeah, you know and if you bring any condition that's gonna wake that up. It's gonna wake up
You know
Certainly look let's uh, let's go back to the question. We used to start off the interviews with
Tell me about your very first experience with cannabis. Oh
You know
Probably as a kid, you know, I started smoking herb in the 70s, you know
Back then parents smoked herb with their kids. It was like, you know
It wasn't so frowned upon if you have people think oh what was the 70s like well everybody smoked pot man
Everywhere you went everybody smoked pot
You know
So but I didn't tell my mom I was smoking pot fourth grade man, you know
I
go out with my friends after pinching some tie stick off of them or something and and
And go smoke it after school with them and chase ducks at the park or something, you know
Play football or frisbee or something
You know until we had to go home and eat and
Then I guess somewhere around sixth grade. I'd went live with my dad. My dad was way more heady, you know biker
He was teach. He didn't give a fuck. He was like chair
Whatever just don't make a habit out of it
So, you know we get big but when I was 13 14, I was getting bong hits for allowance man
Every day dude would leave a bong hit on the counter for me and my brother
After we got on the bus because he didn't want us he didn't put the weed out before, you know
We got on the bus, but after school man, whoa, we'd race each other home
You know to get the bong first
Sure shit, man, and he wanted us to do our chores first, you know
Do the dishes clean up the house vacuum and all this other shit before we smoked our herb because he knew you know
We smoked our herb. We just sit there and go
So we we obliged him we did our chores first before we smoked our herb and everything
But that's how our lives were we scored weed for our parents. It's all throughout our teenage years, you know
Yeah, wow, it does really make you realize it's been quite a shift in the dynamic hasn't there?
It's a different it was a different world growing up in the Pacific Northwest, you know
It was a really was it was like we were just isolated from the rest of the world as far as like the cannabis culture
thing went
You know that you had your cannabis culture in California, which was kind of like the culture up here
But I don't know. We just had our own little bubble up here, you know
Yeah, it's very lucky indeed. So if we move forward a little bit what?
Stimulated you to do your first grow
Well, I'd grown herb, you know, like I said as a as a kid with my parents we just that's what we did
So I took care of the plants as they did we watered them kind of a bubble blah
But I didn't grow myself
You know because I I'd left home and wanted to just go be a person, you know
Go and did all that shit went to college grateful dad and all that shit and and just my fascination still lied in cannabis
You know, I wanted to be one of these guys I didn't realize it back then but I wanted to be one of these guys
The white lab coat and working in in a lab and taking tissue cultures and doing all this crazy shit
But I didn't realize back then that I was working for the wrong team if I was gonna continue down that path
You know what? I mean?
So I made a decision, you know after all several Grateful Dead shows
to
To freelance this and do it myself. You know what I mean?
So I started, you know, I started breeding probably Oh
93 just throwing pollen around making my own seeds just for environmental purposes
Because most of the stuff that we were getting out of the seed banks or a cut from your buddy or whatever your AF GUI cut
You got it didn't make it man
You know, we're up here
We're getting frosts in September. We want a crop that finishes
So that's what I started doing. I started breeding for crops that finished
so by 2000 I had types that
You know that would could withstand cellular damage of you know
minus whatever degrees and they would finish in you know early October and
You'd get a harvest
And what's one of the first creations you made where you were like really proud of it and you're like fuck
I could like sell this basically. Oh
I think it was uh, I got
What used to be called Eugene green and
I crossed it to an old Oregon blueberry and then I crossed it to the Alaskan Thunderfuck
When old Alaskan Thunderfuck from up here that was it had been around a long time probably 30 years
Guy grew at 7,000 feet and just a month, you know
Some of the phenotypes finished in July some of them finished in October. Some of them are two feet high
Some of them are 14 feet high
You know, but it was the real Alaskan Thunderfuck a nice red, you know dark plants that that Alaskan smell and everything
Said I knew that that's what I got to work with if I want to bring this modern
flower into this bag
You know and I did
Out of curiosity. I think I'm just probably a bit uneducated in this aspect. What do you think are the genetics behind the
ATF
Oh, it's a it's got a Russian in it for sure a ruderalis, but I don't think it was a tribal, you know
Like nowadays it wasn't a tribal drug type
It was just a fucking ruderalis
Nowadays you have tribal drug drug types that are auto flowers from as far north as 50 50 degrees
And I got a bunch of a man, you know, but auto flowers don't fascinate me I think that's just dumb, you know
It's boring breeding. It's boring
Do you think to a certain extent that
Autos are sort of always gonna be somewhat inferior to photo period or do you think there will come a day where they're a bit?
more equal playing field I
got a friend right now who
last year did nothing but breed autos and
The results were pretty neat man. He used a bunch of my stuff and I was like, wow
That looks just like the original
You know
So there's potential in it and there's use in it. Absolutely
You know, but I wouldn't say I'm like Jeff Lohan fellas and I'm gonna predict that's gonna be the way over the future
Yeah, I remember when he said that on the show
I'm sure he said in other places as well
But he when he said it on the show there was a few listeners who were like not sure that'll be the case
No, I gave him some other one by a Kazakhstan to to take up to Alaska. I
Don't know whatever happened to it, but I'm pretty sure you know, I did throw off those auto flower trades up there. Yeah
Yeah, nice. Nice. Nice. Nice
So I don't think I've asked you but I'd be interested to know do you consider yourself more of a concentrate or flower guy? I
Like flowers man. I don't smoke that shit
Hell yeah, you rip it you're a bong guy or joints
Yeah, man bong bong bong since I was like, you know 14 years old or some shit bong it up
You know some some period in my life somewhere in my 20s
I thought joints was cool while I was while I was driving concrete mixer or something, you know
But I can't even smoke a joint without hacking now, man, you know
Paper I can't stand that paper man, you know in the dabs, dude
I'm just I'm just I'm not into it man. I get so much more out of the flower
So much more so much more pleasure so much more effect than this just big glob of fucking
You know
Silly humans, you know always wanting more
Yeah, I think you just perfectly express my feelings on that as well like yeah
I just get so much more out of flowers and I never really vibe with the dabs
But I think it's probably related to tolerance and whatnot
And I think there's value to keeping your tolerance to dabs low
Yeah, I wouldn't I just why you know, like I said, I can take one hit of black Colombian and be
Keyed up, right, you know
function Todd be
You know
So we sort of touched on this a little bit earlier, but I'd love to just flesh it out slightly more
What was the last thing you smoked that left a really lasting?
Impactful memory for you. We were like wow, that was neat
Well Hawken by chocolate die
Yeah
Good good stuff man, like right there. That's that's what I'm after
That's that's it man. That's it, you know
And I don't want to say it too loud, but I guess I just did you know, because I don't got many seeds left
But you know once you say that people want them it's the truth it's really nice herb, dude
You know, it's like one hand. You're like wow, this is cool
Like you feel like a little kid again, you know, yeah, it sounds like it could be like very high ease esque
It's it's nice
Some of the phenotypes are maybe too potent, you know for functionality
But most of them were pretty good and if you find the right one
So so what I'm gonna do is I'm just gonna I'm just gonna do it
I'm gonna make a blueberry just because just because I can and because I have velvet rush
You know, you know what that is. I
Was gonna ask I got a question. Tell me about velvet rush
Okay
Bella rush is Afghani number one by Highland blue tie
And it's the brother of eternal loves Highland blue tie and it was imported from 76 to 77 for 15 months in
military cargo shipments via plane that landed in
29 Paul
Okay
Now when they distributed it it was the best thing going around
But it only lasted for 15 months because when the man got wind of it, they shut it down
so that's why that
Little amount of Highland blue tie was around so collectors, you know, Mel Frank DJ whoever
Obviously found out about it and got a hold of it
You know
Well, anyway, it was DJ who you crossed the Highland blue tie to the Afghani number one the Kabul
It was mailed from Kabul in 79 to Mel Frank, you know
That's what it is
Okay, so what happened was
DJ worked the line and
Somewhere back there in his workings gave some seed to Mel. Okay
Now when the Brotherhood had a barbecue in Eugene, Oregon in 1986 Mel Frank was there and so was to and
So we're other Brotherhood guys
So cute and Mel hit it off Mel gave
Back the Brotherhood the velvet rush the other half, you know
It was molested but the Highland blue tie got back to the Brotherhood
So coot gave it to the Brotherhood down San Clemente and they took it in the hills and they grew up for six or seven
years
and they said
It was amazing. They said every color in the rainbow was in the plants. They were nothing but bud. They look like Christmas trees
They're probably 20 feet tall
Just monsters and they did that for however many years five six years and then put the seed, you know, put the seed away
For however long that was from 91 till 2010 when I got it and
Opened them up and repopulated them. And yeah, I did give it back to DJ. Okay
Like pretty quickly to like here, man
You know, no, thanks no nothing, you know what I mean just whatever and I went I went on his page and I see mag and
Posted all velvet rush and blah blah blah. Look look, it's cool
Not a word
You know, they're just scared that I was gonna do what I did with it
Well after being just dissed I did I released it. Hell. Yeah, it's the Brotherhood line. It's not yours anymore
you know, so
That's what I did I just I just I just I BL it and keep it as original
so we have Afghani one by
Island blue tie and I have the Oaxacan by the chocolate tie
So I'm just gonna fuck it up put them together and make a blueberry. There's no fucking patent on that shit
You know
Can we expect to see that offering? Yeah, we'll do that this year
Cuz I'm halfway through it
That'll be neat for sure because I know a lot of people really want that like f1 blueberry not like the f5 or whatever
DJ's got it out. Well, it's not that I'm trying to copy the guy
I just have a fascination and how that happened and I want to see it for myself. I just want to experience
That for myself and through my own hands not that I'm gonna make a bunch of money
You know, it's not my trip man. Yeah
I just I'm more I'm more into just seeing I the fascination of the line
you know how these things work together the way the Oaxacan works with the chocolate and the way that the
Tie works with the Afghani in there and that Afghan shit dude. That's one of the shittiest Afghans
You know, oh really?
Yeah
See that that's really interesting for me because I think the thing that you consistently read about blueberry is that
People are like I want the early version which had like, you know
The blueberry muffin sort of smell the new one
It doesn't even smell blueberry and I always wondered like why did he like he says or you know
I read for the effect not the flavor and it's like yeah, but if you had blueberry muffin like why would you wait on the old?
Blueberry this morning. I smoked some old blueberry by velvet rush. Okay, but back cross to velvet rush. It's fucking dynamite
You know, whoa, I'm here
Yeah
potent shit
But there's not a lot of berry flavor in it. It's it's kind of just highland blue tie, you know
Yeah
Now the old Oregon blueberry, which I have had and have and worked with I
Didn't never get any mails out of the old pack I got so that's why I didn't do the line
but I did out cross to appropriate types and like I said, I did the back cross to velvet rush just because
And are they available at the moment?
Yeah
But there's intersex in the line. I'll tell you
But the good ones are good. You know, they're good. It's like one hit pow. This is this is what blueberries supposed to be
now somewhere in I
Don't know when DJ did it but he put another indicate in the blueberry and that's that's what the world knew as
Blueberry when it was released that nice glossy leather leaf. I'm saying it was an NL
I think it was an NL
in a one or in a five or something as
In like just to confirm like as in he had like a sort of blueberry clone and then he hit something to that and then
Those were sort of the seeds that you think went out the whole profile changed from sativa to indica like overnight and the people were like, huh?
Yeah, what happened? That's not the Oregon blueberry sativa. We know
Yeah, okay, that was awesome to hear about that everyone I recommend you go grab those seeds
I did want to just jump to a different cross of yours for a moment
because I had noticed that you released the the
Nigerian sunshine a while ago and that also used the the blue moon rocks
Was that the same mail that you crossed to the one? Yep
It was the same mail I used
on all the blue moon rocks crossings
Blue moon rocks crossings, so that's why all those look the same that big giant
Bob bubblegum flower top, you know
Yeah
Yeah, nice. And I mean, would you be able to give us any of the backstory on the Nigerian?
I think Nigerians are a strain that are always well received but hard to find info on
Okay, this Nigerian
Is a Brotherhood Nigerian
It was brought back from Nigeria in 1976 by a
Brotherhood couple who were fleeing persecution from the feds, you know and went to Africa to look for exotic
textiles and
That's what they brought back now. They grew it from seed and found that particular cut that I had and
a couple and another one so there were two cuts that they'd had since like
1978 or 79 kept as cuts and I was like what and
There was nothing on earth like this. Okay, nothing on earth like this. There's a Nigerian out in California
It's a big sir somewhere. That's the same one, but it's not the same one. It's busted up. It's outcrossed
Now I know I know I know the cat who has this who he also had the Brotherhood Karela
And he also had the sister the only other living sister of the one in Blue Orca which they call Mary Poppins
And at the time man, I was like god, I don't just want to take it all these guys as shit. Like I'm just greedy
So I didn't know no, it's cool, man. It's cool
You know
and now I'm just kicking myself in the ass about it because it could have had that Karela and Mary Poppins and
But the Nigerian was lost, okay, it was a 76 Nigerian it was beautiful one hit man
You're on a rocket ride like you never been on in your life
and when I outcrossed it to
And if a former employee lost the cut so I don't have it killed it lost it gone
So anything I have is the blooming rocks and and everything every time I get into that line
I'm always looking for that Nigerian, you know
Boy forget his name synergy genetics on Instagram
He is a nice expression of a Nigerian sunshine
With that Nigerian expression popping out nice and big if you want to if you want to see what you're looking at
There we go. We'll have to go suss that out
I mean if we quickly jump to another strength
I'd be really
Grateful to hear your thoughts on cherry bomb, you know
like the the infamous Maui Wow, he's sort of variety
It's it's not what you find a lot of info on but you hear it worth bit about it by the heads
Yeah, mister green jeans gave me the line you know, he gave me the permission to breed and sell it and
I don't know. Why what happened to the guy we seen dropped off the earth, man
Oh my god.2020
I don't know what what happened to the guy who seemed dropped off the earth man for a number of years and people thought he
Was dead or something? Well, he wasn't dead
We don't know what happened
But anyway, he said here the lion jaws. So I'm like, okay now there's always been intersex and cherry bomb. Okay, it's a real Maui
Wowie, it's a it's it's it's a no what it's a Wahakan by a Brotherhood Afghani
It's Brotherhood, Wahakan by Brotherhood Afghani. That's what it is. There's no tie in it
Um
What can I tell you about it it's mostly sativa and
The reason that they think all these Maui's, you know, most Maui's in fact all Maui's have intersex problems
Now they say it's because of the city lights when they were breeding it back in the 70 now
I just don't know, you know could be
But anyway, the lion carries intersex and since I got a hold of it, I've read it for 10 years
And every time I get in there, I try to get rid of that shit, man
You know, so now we're sitting pretty good. We're sitting pretty good with our cherry bomb. It's it's pretty clean
I like it, but it's but it's just cherry, but it's just cherry boys. Just um, it's just a Maui
It's not there's no tie in it. There's no
It's it's what I call medium duty herb, you know stuff
You'd give your mom or your dad and you know, not not wig them out
Novelty stuff here mom. Have some Maui wowie
That's that's so interesting because I think like I
I'd be interested to ask you earlier
you mentioned that you know, the brotherhood was sort of like a combo of like bikers and surfers and so
Do you feel like the genetics like the breeding itself was mostly done by sort of the more?
Surfer side of bowl or it was literally by a mixture
Yeah, it was it was straight-up hippies and these weren't just hippies man. These were freaks
You know, they're
They had some far-out philosophies. They're chowing on LSD and DMT and they were whoo
You know, but they were the biggest distributors of the hash and urban LSD on the coast
they had a pretty big organization and they were
They were doing it
But by 1971 they were all busted up CIA got in there and got him. That's why they all fled
You know, and the only reason that this stuff keeps popping up Oh 76 77 blah blah blah
It's because they would meet up later and say hey, let's do it again. Let's take one more run around the track
That's that's nice. I mean we're gonna loop back
But before we do you mentioned 76 77 and it just sprung a thought to mind
What's your thoughts on the whole uncle Fester skunk story I
Don't know man. The plant kinda looks like an RKS
But I don't believe that the lineage goes back to 68. I don't fucking believe it because
None of it adds up
Okay, the only thing that adds up is the leaf morphology and the fact that it may be from bikers
But it doesn't match with the rest of the stories and the skunk isn't the skunk that that it's the skunk
You know
Some people say oh, yeah, man, it's it's good
You know, but it's it's not and I'm not trying to diss it or anything, but I don't think it's real
That's just my opinion
Okay. Yeah, so
I do I remember now I wanted to add in that
Kudos to you with the cherry bomb because I I did find some posts from mr
Green jeans last night when I was reading over to it
And he quite emphatically says in all his posts that he feels you improve the line from when he gave it to you
And he sort of talks he didn't he didn't mention stability, which is interesting, but he just sort of generally says better
So I guess that's what he was talking about
Well when I got it, there was a lot of sativa expressions
And like I said when I when I breed I try to breed man
I'm not growing in a fucking shoe box in an apartment somewhere
I'm gonna go and we're gonna bust open a bunch of seed and we're gonna do a proper selection
So when I saw that there was all these sativa expressions, I was like, oh
What happened to the Indica expressions? I?
want to put that back in there I
Want to balance that out a little bit more, you know what I mean?
So luckily I found a nice-looking male fucking cherry bomb man
You know that had a nice fat Indica profile. I said, okay, here we go. Boom
So that you know, it brought the Indica back into the line and now and now we're now we're a little more resin, you know
Hell yeah, look while we're on the topic. I'd love to ask you are there any specific
Characteristics that you look for as a sign of a good male
Males are really deceptive, you know, because they're all they all look good
They all have a tendency to look good
You can't really tell until you really put it through the paces till you get it up and you beat it up a little bit
You know what? I mean damage it
Run into it smack it around, you know damage
It is what I do to see how how well that bigger continues if it's gonna lie to me. I'm gonna know right away
They're tricky and they're tricky. They'll do things. You would not believe
You'll be looking down here for all for six months pulling males
And then
Six months later look up. There's a male that somehow snuck around your your your sight and
Climbed up a fucking tree and put a big flower head above everybody went boom
That's pretty neat
It's it's white deceptive. It's like these things have minds of their own. I'm telling you, okay
But a good male is they're usually easy to find
You know because they like to express them. So like yeah, I'm a male. They're usually they usually look pretty good
So I usually have like 10 20 good males. I'm like, oh no, you know, which one do I use?
So I'll tell you what I
Often use two males on one female
Yeah, I think that can be an interesting breeding technique
And I think there's a lot of reasons for doing that for sure
I guess to ask specifically a lot of breeders commonly will say oh, you know
I feel like the most vigorous fastest growing males
That could be a more hemp trait than a drug trait. Do you sort of disagree with that?
Is there a standard process you go through of putting them through the gauntlet so to speak?
Yeah, it's it's that's just rumor man because just
You know, you could have a male that'll just boom boom boom and just blow big fat leaves all over the place
And he'd just be a monster
You know and everything he does and every female he touches no matter what it is is always good
That's like the nl5. Hey, you know you take any any nl5. Hey is good male and touch anything with it. It's fucking bomb
So it's about 50 50 on that. You know, yes and no
50 50 on that, you know, yes and no
so and
Just as a sort of one. I probably should have asked back when we were talking about grow mediums
But I think you'd have a great answer for this
Do you use the same general sort of soil mix slash approach to growing when you say grow like a land race variety?
Versus say something more a little more modern or do you find you have to factor in that sensitivity?
It's all the same
It's I use the same soil on everything
The traits that I recognize that that are different are like drought tolerance
You know like okay that one is from Sinai
That doesn't get water today
Because it's not gonna like it. Don't give it water
You know, those are the the growing the things that I see it's just environmental conditions
Not more trait driven stuff because they all they all behave the same as cannabis, you know
They flower they they grow the flower they die
Yeah, sure sure sure sure so I I took a look at the website and I noticed that the 2022 menu
Looked like it was a lot more tighter sort of more focused a little scaled back than say the 2021 menu
Which was a bit more comprehensive?
Was there any particular reason you decided you want to sort of focus on a smaller number of varieties?
I mean, it was still quite a few
I think it was like 10 or something, you know
Not not a small number by any means but was there a reason you wanted to scale things back and just focus on these specific
Lines a little more. No, just getting tired man, you know, I
figured well
Everybody's you know a couple years ago. I figured well everybody's doing this. I better get out there and bust some ass
I better get out there and
Just kick ass. So I did, you know, two three years in a row just kick ass
You know woke up micro dosed every day
They did good breakfast, you know drinking spring water run around half fucking naked. Yeah, we're gonna do yeah
Moving pots around soil just throwing around like there's no tomorrow, you know breeding this breeding that I mean, there's a there's a point where
Every day I'm going out and breeding and it's becoming a monotonous task where you're like, okay
I gotta go do this and you're out there and you're
You're rubbing stems. You're checking leaf morphology doing all this shit and under the Sun and it's just like it's a job, man
You know, yeah and and after a couple years of going on it on that scale like I did, you know, that's epic
That's like a world fucking record two years in a row
After two years after two years of that dude. I was like, oh my god
This year, you know, I have all these projects
I just need to calm down, you know
So I did I just I just scaled back for my own health really, you know, cuz I'm just running too hard man, you know
Totally understandable and I think a lot of people may not be aware. I certainly wasn't
That you you sort of do a lot of your work off-grid. Is that correct? Yeah, all of my work is off-grid now
Yeah, okay. That's really interesting. Just just yeah. Yeah, I got out probably five years ago
Just just said no I'm not doing this anymore got out on the land and you know
Now we're doing domes shit
How do you find that lifestyle you feel like it's really conducive to sort of what you're doing and how you want to live
That's the only lifestyle for me yeah, it's the only way for me man, I drink spring water every day, you know
I get my water from the spring, you know
beautiful
Breathe clean air and leave 25 25 other feet up on top of a mountain, you know, I mean I had no neighbors
Nobody around me. I
Neighbors, you know, but you can't see him. Yeah
Just forest a nice first forest that I'm in, you know
the dream
It's pretty nice a lot, you know, it's harder to come by nowadays. That's for sure
You know, it's a lot of people wanting it. It's a lot of work though, man
I wake up and I bust ass every day and that's another thing people don't understand man. I'm off-grid
You know, I got a work to live. I'm not sitting around on wine
Okay, I gotta answer this guy's question because he needs to know
You know
Priorities. Yeah
That's it. Yeah, you know what?
You made me just feel so lazy cuz it's like I could just sit here all day and like
Water's still gonna be there when I want it. We're like you gotta go get it
Well, yeah, you know and I'm pretty fit too, you know because of this
Yeah, I get out there and throw shit around fucking, you know
Pretty fit so it keeps me fit keeps me healthy. It keeps me active. It's everything, you know, it's a lifestyle
truly truly
And I know you know, the biggest thing is I never see a stoplight
Okay, I could drive miles and miles and miles and never see a stoplight
Yeah, you know
that's interesting I I
Was I was gonna say I I normally ask breeders whether they feel it's
necessary to
Be active on the Instagram scene in order to sort of be a breeder in the current market
So I'd really like to hear your opinions not just because you're obviously not as invested as others
But more importantly because you're off the grid like I'm sure that's an additional hurdle
It's the internet shit, you know, you don't get good bandwidth you can't load pictures
Sometimes your messages don't come through sometimes you don't get your emails until two days later, you know
I have an antenna booster and everything. It's just how it is out in the middle of nowhere. They don't have the signal strength, you know
so
Yeah
That's real
Do you feel like it?
Mentally affects your ability to interact with the market or you think like no I can still interact with the market
It's just you know once a week. No because because the way these apps are set up they have advertising priority of bandwidth
Okay
Instagram priority man, they got ads to run you're gonna get through
Now I may not be able to post pictures when I want but I can eventually do it
I just got to wait for the bandwidth to come rolling around again and
We'll do it
so but like you said
Do these guys have to be on here and at this point in the game?
Yes, and no if you don't make a presence, you're not gonna be seen
You're gonna get buried in them in the marketing. You're gonna get buried people. I'm gonna know you're there
You got you could be out here for 10 15 20 years man and get buried under all this stuff
Nobody even know you're there if you don't make a presence
So yeah, you gotta you gotta have a presence, you know, you have to have some kind of presence
Yeah, certainly. I guess the the follow-up to that
I wanted to ask is do you feel any level of how shall I say like disillusion with sort of the way?
The market trends are going, you know at the moment
We're very much in the thick of the the Mylar bag hype culture
Is there any part of the way that the trajectory of the scenes going that sort of has you a bit bummed or do you?
Think like no, it's it's fine. It's just doing its thing
well, you know a
Lot of the times I can predict what's gonna happen next but lately it's been really kind of chaotic with the marketing thing
It's really
Which way is anything gonna go
You know, it's it's a it's pretty loud out there with noise
With
Products and people pumping this and people pumping that it's like I feel sorry for the consumer man
Because they're getting hit with so much
Misinformation, they don't know what to do. I have more people now
Asking me what they want from me and I have to tell them what they want from me then what they come to me
I want I gotta tell them all you want you want the mouse our gear? Oh, oh you want the Hayes?
Oh you want you know, it's kind of weird
Yeah, you know what?
That's that's actually like a really unique perspective that I I think I'm gonna have to pay more thought to because yeah
I think I think it is hard as a newbie
Or someone who's just entering the market to know. Yeah, like what like what's true? What's false? Where do I what's correct?
They don't know
They don't know because there's so much noise. There's so much misinformation
There's so much marketing
They can see that people are just trying to sell a product and that they don't give a fuck about you, you know
Yeah, you know, it's it's interesting that you you mentioned that because I one of the criticisms I had heard of this show
in fact is that
You know people might listen to certain things and yet take it for gospel when really it's just one person's account of things and it's not
necessarily true and I I guess that's actually sort of one of the reasons why I started the show is that I
Never proclaim anything as a hundred percent truth
I'm just trying to share everyone's stories and then you can pick and choose what you think is sort of the real deal
But but it's interesting because yeah, a lot of people do
Take what they read online is like a hundred percent the truth and yeah
Maybe there's other aspects of the story which you know
Like like what we're talking about earlier when people maybe read a bad review online and they don't understand
exactly
Yep, they have no idea. They're missed there all the information that they're putting out there is false. They have no clue
nothing and in the
Reality is it there was a you know
If you if you're gonna get trolled by somebody that wants you not to succeed they're gonna do it
If they don't have nothing better to do that's what they're gonna do and I got I got these guys all over me
You know because I didn't give them ten thousand seed when they wanted it or whatever the fuck, you know
I'm some crazy demand or some crazy shit where I'm like, okay. Well, I'm just done with you, bro
You know and they get so but hurt they gotta go out there and talk mad shit
You know, it's mad shit, too
And I get I get on them fucking for it get on them forums forums and I get on those platforms man
I go in there and I chew their ass out. I give all the facts
I give all the information and they fucking ban me and fucking I'm out of there and nobody hears the fucking truth
You know fuck roll it up. Fuck. I see mag. Fuck all those douchebags. There's douchebags, dude
You know, they just the way they slander people and and let people treat people the way they do
Horrible
Yeah, look I've been thinking as a bit of a joke. We need a we need a breed some
Anti grudge weed and just hand it around I got
I don't want to keep these judges on people man
I just want to progress and move forward and do all this dumb shit, but here they come again
You know climbing up your coattails and you know trying to empty your pockets or something
You know why you're why you're giving water to your kid. I
Feel yeah, I feel yeah, okay. I
Had I had one question that it might be a little bit of a funny one
But I I found an old forum post and I'm not sure if it was tongue-in-cheek or what?
But I was hoping he could give us the backstory where you had said that
You were selling some seeds the blue orca haze cross the velvet rush and was listed as
$50,000 cash only I was like, oh that's got to be a funny story. What's the backstory behind that?
Oh, I just did that's what my competitors do
They'll get my shit cross it to what I have what I'm doing and then go sneak around on Instagram
It's just some auction and try to sell it for some
Ridiculous the high price, you know, so I'm like, oh
Ten million dollars and
Honestly, bro. I don't think any cut is worth more than five hundred dollars
nothing
never
Because I have so met so much genetic potential in my library I
Can do anything
Yeah, you've got you definitely got the base palette to mix the colors and
In effect turps everything
Everything it's just you know
every if what every breeder wants they just want to be turned loose and
And
To breed, you know, it's it's always the fantasy of every
Serious breeders just let me out of let me let me out there. Look put me to work
You know, I want to I want to move through a select. I want to select out of 10,000 parents, man
Yeah, nice
Look, I'll uh, I'll bring it up because I think this was actually one of the things which I saw recently
Stimulated me to message you was um, I think you put a post up relating to some of the comments
Todd McCormick had made about skunk and
For the listeners of the show, they would know we had Todd on recently. I just want to put it out there
I like Todd. I felt like I learned a lot during that chat
I would love to know you know
What was sort of some of the issues you took with some of the statements he made about the roadkill skunk. Oh
I'm not
I'm not recalling anything on roadkill skunk. I think most of the flack I'm getting from the Todd camp is the inno one stuff
Every time I post it Neville's inno one man. I get an army of fucking trolls from Todd's camp
And I'm like no, okay
Greg knew
That in l1 was sent to Amsterdam and Neville put an Afghan or a Hindu on it and send it back
Everybody knows that
For years we knew that Howard Marx knows that everybody knows it. You just can't come along and change the narrative
Oh that never happened
Every time I post inno one man, I get that shit, you know
So I'm just over it. So Dwight all these people that know the truth just keep saying the truth
over and over and in Greg even says so himself, man
He says it says it himself listen to the interview people
And I'm not making it I'm not making any claims about anything I'm just I'm just experiencing
Everything else everybody is
You know sure and just for clarification
When you say Greg's interview that is that the one he did with Matt, right? Oh
Yeah, I'm not sure which which one it was
But um, yeah, he says it he says it himself
Okay. Yeah, sure. Well for anyone who's keen to listen, I think that might have been the the breeders syndicate podcast with Greg
So check it out
Interesting. Okay, so I I guess it sounds like it's it's not so much that there's any sort of real beef
There's just a discrepancy and and you feel like there's more people from his camp coming to yours
Every time Dwight posts this information he gets trolled, too
You know, he's on LinkedIn right now he posts this information he gets trolled
Anytime we post this information about what Neville did we get trolled?
And would you just for anyone to save them sort of clicking around from different things?
Could you quickly recap that story for us about how it all went down?
Which one is that?
The NL one or what? I remember
I'm not on point because this isn't my shit man, but
Okay, this is what I know. Okay
Greg sent Neville in
cassette tapes the Pacific Northwest hash plant Northern Lights
LIT ES. Okay
Neville got it Neville bred it to his Afghan or Hindu
Afghan Hindu or Afghan hash plant one of the two
And sent it back. Okay
That's when Greg or whoever and they crossed it out to a bunch of shit
Yeah, okay, so it was like a back-and-forth sort of thing for a while
Just like we do nowadays man. Same shit
Same shit
Totally totally totally. Okay, cool. Cool. Cool. You know Neville did the work because Neville had the genetics
That's why Greg was working with him
Yeah, sure
We actually had a fan submitted question about
One of your NL 5 BX is
So I
Know if I pay so maybe a good time to bring it up
But um our listener basically wanted to know if you had any information on what they or you called the pine box
Release of the NL 5 back cross. Oh
That's just one of the parents that had a really nice piney smell
You know how the NL 5 had that pine lime kind of thing
It's just really really notable on that one
Nice okay, cool. I mean they they also had a follow-up question where they were wondering how potent is the NL 5 cross Hayes
F5. Oh, I don't know if we talked about the f5 only the f4 and f6. Yeah, I
Didn't release a lot of f5. It's kind of crazy
Yeah, only a few packs of those went out of the f5. I don't know why I just didn't do a big breeding of it
But um
It's an IBL. So you're gonna see the same traits of the NL high NL 5 Hayes line every time you're gonna have
Indica expressions that finish earlier and you're gonna have Hayes expressions that finish later and
We all know that the Hayes expressing expressions are the ones that we tend to favor
Because the Indica ones are more dull boring
You know ugly plants small buds
They get mold but the NL 5 Hayes line itself doesn't really get mold
In in any of the NL 5 Hayes's say across the different generations were there any of the generations where you felt like you were getting the
The incense or like the church sort of smell from it
Yeah, I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question
Incense or like the church sort of smell from it
Yeah, absolutely man all through it all through all of the lines, you know f1 f2 all the way through it the back crosses everything
you know, I've done a lot I pretty much chopped it up into little pieces and and
Took those expressions and isolated them and bred them out
This purple expression I bred out this liquor licorice expression. I bred out this expression not expression
You know
So you can individually you can access those expressions if that's what your favor in those lines, you know
Yeah, sure. Sure. Sure as a as a follow-up
How does the the blue orca Hayes compared to say the NL 5 Hayes just because they are sort of similar in some respects
The work of Hayes man. It's like best weed on earth
it's like it's like in L5 Hayes went to heaven and
Came back and said hey, we're all going to heaven now
Um, it cleans it up quite a bit it takes the teeth chattering out of it
It takes that the the harsh vibe off of it
It takes but one thing it does it really creates a pretty powerful introspective behavior
and this is really
Unique man, because most people that that get those phenotypes will say the same thing and I said said the same thing forever
You know you think Cali mist was good. You think this was good. You think that was good
Smoke this get on this and you're not gonna come off it for two years because nothing's better
Nothing. It's like there's nothing better no matter what
You know, I could yeah, it's the truth
There's other types out there that are that are that will give it a run for the money. I'll be like, yeah
I want to smoke that too
But you know, I know what it does and the people that
The people that grow and have those those cuts know what it does too, and they're out there
You can access these cuts that people have that they've kept
You know if you do the research on blue orca haze you will you will find the information I put this shit out for over 10 years
Nice I you know that brings us to the next question really nicely in that I noticed a lot of people
Sort of talking about their experiences of growing at the pure blue orca haze
And I think a lot of them sort of got the impression that it was going to be like a mostly haze sort of line
Is that how you would describe it? Like what should people expect if they're gonna grow that one out?
No, I just named it as a Dow we traditionally name
lineages, you know
this and that
There's a
There's a predominantly a large amount of haze in that in that breeding, you know
So we got blue orca. Hey anything every time anybody puts nl5 on anything. It's always a haze
You know what? I mean this haze that haze
But rump haze what you know
tomato haze
Okay, so people can sort of expect like a mixture of like some sativa some indica sort of stuff
Yep, same thing as in all five haze man really because blue orca is a can to hard a tie
So you're putting the same ingredients in but it kind of really enhances it
Like next level enhancement, you know
Yeah, nice
We've got a few more questions from our listeners before we sort of get on the tail end of things as we are getting there
But they wanted to know what's your experience with the lambs breath and do you think it's still around?
Yeah, man. Well
The lambs bread that I have was given
Vibes collective gave it to me. They had it for whatever time long. They said they had they got it from Bushman the reggae artist
As it was in their family since mid 60s or something like that
Anyway vibes collective. They got a hold of it. They got it in Spain. They lost it somehow
No
Somebody had a pack from them and they gave it to me and I grew him out I repopulate him
They're like wow cool. Thanks, man. Blah blah blah and
So I gave him that gave it back to him and they said just keep it just it's yours man
So
apparently it's a real lamb spread and
The 77 Jamaican I had have is far superior
If you've seen pictures of that
Which was taken out of the field in 77
by a friend
That's interesting and I guess one of the reasons I was curious about this was because I had seen your photo
It looks glorious and what I thought was interesting was whenever I talk to people about lambs breath lambs bread. They all say oh
You know, no the one you're looking at it's actually lambs bread sourdough hybrid that goes around but people call it lambs bread
Are you confident like yeah, that's that's probably not the case
Absolutely, man. I'm pretty confident that I have a hundred percent Jamaican pre 1980 hybrid man
So I crossed those two together and I called it behind stir bread
I I gave a 20% portion out of every pack to the behind stir movement of Rasta far
Which is Earl Chinna Smith who was reggae. He's one of the greatest reggae guitarists ever. He's Bob Marley's guitarist blah blah blah blah
Yeah, wow, that's that's a beautiful sentiment to get back to the community and the end
The land it's back on the island and they told me they've wildfired it across the island fuck. Yeah, that's awesome to hear
it's funny because
Yeah
Dwight told me that hit they went to Jamaica years ago to go check out the maroons
Back in the 80s or 90s or something and they say they didn't have nothing there
And that's that's the story too because I asked the Rastas man
Hey go to the maroons go check out what people have there's nothing out there
You know, it's gone
It's a real shame, isn't it?
Seeing art seeing greenhouse go there and like some kind of super safari mission. I'm sorry, man
But there's nothing there. I just put it back on the island
He's gonna go and find my stuff and pull it out of the bushes somewhere look what we found it
I
Did trade him a bunch of Easter eggs for it, you know
Well, it does make me wonder why cuz like I try to get over to like the States sort of once a year
maybe go to the Emerald Cup just to keep my finger on the pulse and I
Always see Ari in there and he's always welcome with smiles and handshakes and I'm like why?
It's just the name man. Like I said, it's marketing if you have a name or anything, you know what I mean?
Who was it? What was it? Uh, uh
What happened to Howard Marx man, didn't he pay like $60,000 just have whoever it was uses likeness until he died or some shit
Oh
Shanty Shanty barber with mr. Nice, you know, it's just
It's everything's for sale it seems
Sure for like a very sort of specific type of question. Do you think that for example, you know?
We already brought it up the greenhouse seed crew
Do you think that there is some onus on them for like the way they have arguably fucked various land races
I think it's fucked up. I
Think it's fucked up what they do. I think it's bad bad bad man going into these regions taking out land races and leaving shit
Behind that's fucked up, dude
You know, that's that's culturally that's like colonialism man. That's like Christopher Columbus shit, man
Totally
Get over it. Get out. Get out, you know, get the fuck out of here. It's not proper. It's a more I
Yeah, I was trying to explain it to a friend who's not really involved in cannabis
So they sort of didn't understand it and I was like look it's almost like they're they're
Trademarking it in a way like they go there they get the pure then they pollute it and then they're the only ones with the pure
It's like they've got a copyright on it or something
You're like they're the only ones who have got it and then on top of that
They're not it's not like they're releasing the lines
Like if they released pure stuff from greenhouse, you could be like, oh, well, you know, there's some merit but they're not even doing that
Well, the truth is man is when they left with when they when those guys all split off and got you know
With what they got from Neville. It wasn't as good as what it was
You know, we all know that I know it
Because my hate is better. My haze is better than their there's
Yeah
Yeah, interesting stuff. I we could probably riff on it forever
One of the the other questions we got from one of our listeners was
Yeah, would it give us any information in regards to like the turps or the yields on the Congo cut used in the Congo?
cross BP Congo
That was really an interesting plant
and I got it from
Through a trade from some guy in Africa who was there and collected it himself
Greasy
Super
It has a lot of haze features like it's the grease in the stem and the that that karellen Indian scent
That there's only one plant on the earth that smells like haze and it's a karellen Indian
Now some Africans have that scent too and this was one of them, you know
So when you come across that and any types out here on earth, you're on to something, you know
Yeah, that's neat. That's neat
I mean we sort of touched on it earlier, but I'd love to just get a definitive answer
What's your thoughts on how Greg's northern lights compares to your one do you think they're more similar than different
Look, I'm just gonna say it man. I think it's fake. I think it's a marketing play. I think it's not real. Okay
Here we go. Are you ready?
Long time ago. I had a conversation with kit with Kim dog. Okay, and he told me that
It's not a tie. It's not a Hawaiian. It was a Java
Indonesian and they called it and I've heard of this before too and other guys have come at me. Yep
They're saying yep, that's what it is. It's a job. It was it's supposed to be extinct now
It was called they called it the Java lime green and they described it as clay on sticks
And when I saw this stuff out of that back cross, I was like, holy shit
I ain't never seen nothing like this in my entire fucking life
It was like clay on sticks like clay you could smoosh it like clay
You know
So
With that armed with that information I began to dissect it
You know what? I mean? Once I figured that out that no, it's not a tie
It doesn't behave like a tie and nevel doubted that too because it didn't behave like a tie. Okay
So now we know that Herbie did nl5 and it was a Java lime green whether he admits it or not
Other people have okay
That's what separates that
Now what was back to the other part of your question Oh
Bragg's nl5. So what I think they did was that whatever the story was about the seeds being the sister's freezer or whatever
Hey, go
No one else. These are the original blah blah blah
I think they did have that but he pulled it out and they just crossed it to any tie to try in the hopes of
Having nl5 again
Didn't work. Okay. I got several pictures of these plants. I got a hold of Greg's five before other people did
Okay
through some trading
And they're pretty hey, they're pretty
It's either nl1 or it's hey, okay, cuz that's what they did. They used nl1 by a mysterious tie
You can't fool me. Okay
Yeah
Wow interesting stuff. That's that's really cool to hear that. Thanks. Thanks for the inside scoop. That's my opinion. I could be wrong
But I'm probably not. Yeah, sure. No, I get that
So, I mean while we're on the topic of nl5 Hayes, we had a viewer submit a question
I'm hoping it won't ruffle anyone's feathers. It's not gonna ruffle yours, but
Without so he says without throwing the guy under the bus I'd like to hear his experience on dealing with
Mob seeds. I understand that mob advertises as
That he has a pure acapulco gold, but it might actually be some nl5 hybrid. Okay, you ready for this?
You ready for this?
Okay, this was a guy we met online
Okay, and we said come on up here and we'll all go
I don't know if you know the story about can have you heard that name?
No, I haven't. Anyway, he was he was part of our group right and we told blue Jay. Hey, come on up and
Invest you will all grow a big garden together. It'll be just happy
Well, he got up here
He showed up with a u-haul some lights
and a box full of
weed in
baby jars
It was so old
It was like, you know, it looked yellow all of it
And he would he'd open up and say I don't smoke it but here
And I'm like what?
What are you doing carrying all the shit around and you don't even smoke weed?
He's like it was it was really puzzling to us because this guy kind of sold himself as somebody and then when he shows up
He's somebody else. Okay
now he's like
Well, I don't know I don't know if we have enough money to do this as a man don't worry about the money I can
Get the money. Okay
Look, we're just gonna do this. Don't worry about it. He starts copping out
Oh, no, no, and I think a lot of it he starts asking questions about so where's Coot live?
Coot, you know you could tell this guy's on a we start figuring out these just on a mission to get genetics
Because he didn't want to great halfway through the night. He's like, oh I don't want to do this
I don't think we got enough money and blah blah blah and he starts after to ask an information about how hey
How can we get these cuts?
Okay
Yeah, I told Coot say hey man, this guy's kind of weird
Anyway that night he takes off in the middle of the night. Okay, just split
gone
What?
Just like a weirdo, you know what I mean? And um
Well, like wow, I wonder what happened to him what do we do what we say was it our hair, you know
And that was that and what had what he done is in the middle of the night
He went into the grow room and stole cuts
Okay, but he didn't get the he didn't get the one or a blue orca because I I'm just on the ball man
I'll just fucker
Anybody?
I'm not know what you're up to
No, so
So he goes to Coot and
I'd pre warned it Coot
Hey, so Coot gives him BMR back cross one. I
Don't know if he gave it to him and seed or cut
Okay, I don't know where he got the acapulco from but that was my
My
F2 and l5 Hayes
Cut he stole
So this guy goes out after he fucks us and just
You know
markets himself as whatever and this and that
Starts taking my stuff crossing it up and selling it and all this other shit
I'm like, wow this guy and then he takes Coots
Information that he said don't don't go and do this. I'm just sharing this information with you
He took Coots enzyme tea recipe and went and fucking sold it
Just a douchebag dude guys a douchebag. I've ever seen that guy again, man. I'm appealing so hard
Just appealing
Yeah, look that that's uh, that's crazy, you know
You hear stories about cuttings getting stolen and stuff. And I mean, yes really frustrating stuff. I bet
Well, then over the next 10 years the guys releasing all your shit
Saying that he has the one and all this other shit
you know anytime anybody anybody confronts him, it's just
Ignore crickets and that's how a lot of these guys behave. It's like you confront him and there's no accountability
You know
Yeah, I know that Coot and him had had a falling out. So I guess that sort of lends itself to what you're saying
Yeah, that's the all these falling outs with Coots is it is it has a lot to do with Coot and his medical condition
Okay, okay
um, I
Remember one time rolling up there and he'd been laying
He had back surgery. Okay, if you broke his back and he could barely walk
And he laid there was fucking back rotting out for however long on fucking opiates before if any did you did anything about it?
I mean sometimes he'd be on the ball. Sometimes a guy be just like half dead
And like I said the last time I talked to him he had a heart attack and didn't know who know we were
Said we lost his lost his collection or whatever. We're like what what are you talking about? You know?
No clue. I
would like to get to his wife one day and tell her hey, you know, we
We don't know what's going on here, but we don't have really have any hard feelings here, you know
Yeah
Yeah, yeah, look, I mean it sounds like a medically complicated situation and you know, obviously we wish could all the best but yeah
It sounds like it would be hard for you with things sort of changing depending on his mood if that was how it was
We we actually had a really good question that I'm I'm a bit bummed. I didn't come up with it myself to be honest
From one of our listeners and they said do you have any secret inputs or advice for producing nice healthy seeds?
Grow organic
Use the soil food web, you know, that's that's it
Yeah, sure. And you reckon just you know, your standard organics repertoire is gonna give you some nice seeds
Well here let me give you a soil recipe. This is really easy and anybody can do it
Okay, one part peat one part perlite one part compost and earthworm castings in
Three equal portions. This is the Cornell University potting mix
That's always been around that they buried because of petrochemical industry back in the 30s
This is the secret behind all your potting mixes. Hell. Yeah, I
Definitely use that general combo. Okay add any food you want add any calcium you want add any whatever you want
That's the base mix. That's the mechanism. That's the battery you're building a battery
Okay
Yeah, I like that. That's a good analogy charging the seed
Well, it's it's the soil is like a battery
It has those those ionic charges in it and when we when we when we were the plant gets in there
It works with it through its exit exodus
They're they're ionic it wants what it wants. It's like, okay. I need calcium. Boom. It sends the signal and it happens
Yeah, it releases it from the it releases it from the negative attraction site and K out takes it
You know molecular get into that
What you learn about that all this gross shit just falls away man, and you're like just growing urban
That's some great food for thought. I like that
I hadn't heard that battery analogy, but it certainly actually makes sense. So that's really neat another question. We got from the listeners was
someone sitting on a pack of your
Cascadian frost cross UW hash plant
Any tips on that one what they might be able to expect. Oh, those are pretty good, man
They're nice and greasy and have nice big spears, you know, highly medical, you know good stoner stoner weed
Ain't nobody gonna complain about that. I
Love it. I love it. Well, there you go. Whoever sent that one in. I'm sorry
I don't have your name on hand right now, but crack those bad boys. They're sounding good
So nice, you know me and me and a buddy worked these
And we both did a good job
Lovely so second last question. Sorry last question before we get into our quickfire questions
Which is sort of the final five or so
But one of our listeners wanted to know if you had any sort of info about the Thunderfuck Hayes
What that is it's aka beans brains Matt newsca and farmers
Um shiburg and Afghani which from landrace
You know, I forget the damn name landrace collections or whatever ears egg now
Yeah, I'm in landrace exchange yes
Just crossed together I think aka did it send it back to Mike Mike sent him to me
I said, yeah, I just Bob just put him on top of my Alaskan by you know, hey
You know, you know get all those Alaskans in there together and see what they do. That's awesome
Did you get them all together and playing together?
so with a haze
And it's just a novelty. It wasn't a serious breed. It was a novelty just to put the Alaskans together
You know, I didn't really work it too much. It's just a novelty. But yeah, it's probably good
That's awesome to hear. I think novelty strains can be cool to be honest
But um, that's good. So we're on to our sort of final rundown of questions
So first one being out of all the plants you've ever grown. I know there's probably countless
Is there one specific one that you really miss that you think back on at night and think man?
If only I still had that one
That's 76 Nigerian, man
Yeah
Yeah, what a kick in the ass that was, you know, and what a kick in it as was lose it, too
Like I always think about that I always think about that plant man because it was so unique
You know, it was just absolutely unique nothing like it
beautiful
beautiful and
That's a great answer and the next question is sort of a bit similar but a little bit different at the same time
Do you have one specific?
Memory of cannabis that to you is the most memorable it might not necessarily be the strongest weed or anything
Yeah, doing five-year mandatory minimum for growing weed
That's a pretty good answer that's memorable shit right there five years in fucking prison man
Out of curiosity when you got really and and by the way, thank you for your time
When you got released, what was the first thing you smoked?
You must have been thinking about it like man. I'm gonna puff on this one as soon as I get out
um
Actually, I was really serious when I got out
So I didn't smoke, you know because I had to do drug testing I was on I got five or five
I buried a bus and fucking grew a bunch of weed in it and I got cracked, you know
Somebody narc on me because they got popped. Anyway, that's how it goes
But when I got out I was like, oh, I don't want to smoke weed or grow weed. I'm gonna be a good boy
Because I was getting drug tested, right?
Yeah, but then I moved I got a parole officer who had been working on me for a while
And he was like, hey, man, I'm not gonna drug test you just fucking smoke. I'm like, okay
So it was game on, you know started growing again right away went and got a loan from a friend
You know while on parole
So I started the seed company and it was growing on parole
Wow, bless that parole officer
Yeah, so five five fucking years
I just wanted to fucking murder, you know
gosh
I can imagine. All right. Well, let's go to the other end of the spectrum now
What was something that you were excited to try people had talked it up to you and then you finally tried it and you were like?
Oh, is that it?
Cuban black haze
You got a lot of people that are excited to try it
I'm not gonna lie. I'm not gonna lie. I'm not gonna lie. I'm not gonna lie. I'm not gonna lie
Black haze
You're gonna ruffle some feathers there
It's just it's not it's not what I expected. It's just it's just another variant of nl5. Haze
Because I have a million of them
You know
Yeah, look I can only imagine you you probably do in fact, it's neat. It's cool. I mean, I appreciated it. Sure. Certainly
I'm, not dissing it in any way. I'm just saying that it wasn't what I I expected
it's nice, it's pretty cool, but
you know
Like I said, I got all pockets full of that stuff
Sure, sure. Sure. Sure. So
Let's say i'm gonna go drop you off on a desert island and you can only take three strains with you to grow for the
Rest of time. What three are you gonna take they can be either clones or packs of seeds if you want to do some breeding
the one
Mazorbite gyro and nl5. Haze. Hell. Yeah, you feel like you could probably make most things from those
Yeah, it's all there. That's everything
You know, yeah nice
Okay, so on on the other end of the spectrum you're gonna drop someone off on this desert island and you're not a big fan
Of them, you know, maybe one of these people who's given you grief over the years. What are you gonna leave them with?
nl5. Haze
Just the one
And blue orca haze so they get to know themselves a little bit better
Oh, that's nice. I like that. You know the introspective angle. That's good
Yeah to help you, you know
Help your problem
So if there was one person and you could select alive or dead who you could have a in-depth conversation with about
Cannabis, who would you want to have a sit-down chat with?
Probably nevel man
You know
I can't really think of anybody else
I talk to his best friend every day and that's almost the same thing
But it'd be really interesting to pick his mind and and because I kind of have the same thought patterns
He did back in 1985 as far as hybridization goes
He was a breeder and he knew what he was doing and I know what the fuck i'm doing, too
With I have there's no method to this madness. So we're on the same path. We're doing the same thing
So in a way you could say i'm continuing his work and so is dwight
We're both continuing his legacy by selecting exactly how he did
And by using his cues and what the information that he left behind and the information i'm getting from dwight and the information that I have
You know, I I agree with you I think I would definitely pick nevel
Whenever whenever nl5 and haze is is mentioned
There's always money and emotion involved. It's been that way since the beginning
It's it's it's like a curse, you know
That's a good angle
I haven't heard that. Yeah
So on to our final question for the interview
If you had a time machine and you could go back anywhere in history any place to collect either seeds or clones
Where would you go? And what would you collect?
I'd probably show up in laguna beach and see what those guys had in their surfboards
In 1971
Yeah, that's a nice mixture because you could like get access to different things at the same time
Well, this was pre-soviet war stuff too, you know
Yum, I can only imagine the afghans they had
Well, they're different, you know, that's why i'm like the one
Yes
I don't know what to tell you smoke that shit, you know
That's incredible so
Look, I think with that being said where we're just about at the end of things were there any general comments or shoutouts?
You would like to make
Oh just anybody who supported me. Thank you very much, man
You know, we do this for you guys, you know what i'm doing i'm doing for other people so that you can experience
that as yourself
So you can take that that's something you can take to your life to your you can take that through life with you
You know
I'm, just i'm just just doing the rough work out here. I'm just putting
I'm putting the pieces together. It's up to you to find the goal
And there's lots of gold in there, okay
That's that's what I gotta say
And also I was here before that fucking swami select motherfucker, too
Those fuckers tried suing me for my own fucking logo twice and you cannot sue a religious icon
You can't sue jesus man
You know, it's funny I actually
That that came up last night when I was writing questions their page came up and it's like we've asked him to change his name
And I was like you haven't even provided me with proof that you were the first ones to have the name
I provided them with proof that I was first. It goes ignored. They're capitalists. They're fake
I'm the real fake swami man
Because swamis look listen man swamis were fake to begin with
Swamis were fake to begin with this was something that the western world put together
Okay
The swami figure, you know the mystical holding on to the crystal ball swami thing
You know, it's fake. It's not real
It never was
Not only that he pay he makes people pay to watch him talk to fucking plants to ask him if they can be harvested
I
Didn't know that
It's insane. Okay. It's just nutty california nutty stuff, you know
It's a it's a joke
Yeah, look I can imagine it's got to be frustrating but you know
Thank you so much gas canister for taking the time to come on the show today for sharing a whole bunch of knowledge and a bunch
Of information about your crosses. We're really grateful to have had you on
Yeah, man, thank you for the opportunity to let me say a few things that I kind of needed to say too
Because like you said man, there's like there's a there's a handful of people that follow me around
They're just disgruntled employees that like to to slander people like that, you know
And it comes from the forum days when we had to ban people that behaved poorly
From icy mag all the way up through all the forums that we had
It is just reverberations of of poor poor taste
So anyway, peace
There you have it my friends a huge thank you again to gas for taking the time to come on the show
Share some of his history thoughts and knowledge
Likewise huge. Thank you to you the listener for making it this far
I encourage you please go check out our sponsors
They are truly fantastic seeds here. Now number one seed bank in the industry. Check them out guys
They've got all the hottest jobs
Likewise keep your garden happy and healthy get copper biological systems. These guys kill it. They'll keep your garden pets and pathogen free
Shout out to ogs organic gardening solutions
The organic homies down under top shelf seed bank for all your genetic needs down under
And last but not least huge shout out to the patreon gang you guys are truly the lifeblood of the show
Without you episodes could not happen
If you're interested in helping support the show all while getting early access to episodes
Unheard additional content prizes and giveaways check out the patreon
I guess that's it for this one
I'll see you for the next one
So
You
