Hello, I am Jo Young Sung, CEO of JADAM, a company that promotes low-cost agriculture.
Today, I will explain about JADAM oil, a eco-friendly adhesive that I developed.
I do not only research natural pesticides, but I also grow more than 60 crops every year and do organic farming.
This is my office in Daejeon.
We are recording YouTube broadcasts in one corner of the office.
I will do my best. Please watch a lot.
JADAM, which I represent, started in 1991.
There are 70,000 members.
There are 15 employees working with us.
We hold natural pesticide-specific lectures regularly in Daejeon.
There are many members, but we aim for ultra-low-cost agriculture, so it was very difficult to operate the organization.
Fortunately, there are many people who support us regularly, so we have not failed so far.
Now, let me explain why adhesives are needed.
When a toxic substance is applied without mixing the adhesive, it breaks like this picture.
It is not applied well.
If you mix this adhesive, you can see that it spreads evenly like this picture.
In fact, if you spray a pesticide that does not mix the adhesive with the apple, it does not spread well.
Likewise, the leaves of the apple are also exposed to pesticide.
Then, after the pesticide is dried, it creates a weak soil on the leaves.
This weak soil can cause significant damage to the quality of the product.
This is a pepper field where I farm.
I always mix JADAM oil with the adhesive and spray it together.
The pesticide is applied well like this picture.
And even if you apply the pesticide more than 10 times, the leaves are not dirty.
So the flowers on the leaves are also produced cleanly.
If you mix JADAM oil, the pesticide is applied well enough to prevent the pesticide from being buried like the leaves of the soil.
As you can see in this table,
Without JADAM oil, which is an eco-friendly adhesive, natural pesticides are not completed.
It is much less effective.
So it is the most important ingredient in natural pesticides.
The eco-friendly adhesives sold in the market are very expensive.
So I thought a lot about how to make an adhesive that farmers can make themselves.
In fact, eco-friendly adhesives are the same as natural soap.
But as you can see on the left, the method of making natural soap has already been released.
But I realized something while I was under a lot of pressure.
I don't know if it's a sense I got from my major in chemistry.
In this previously released technology, there is a conspiracy.
It's not a conspiracy.
It can be easily disclosed, but it intentionally made the technology more difficult.
What's the point of making it difficult?
Many people will pay a lot of money to learn this.
After learning, I eventually gave up making natural detergents and bought a product.
This phenomenon is also common in agriculture.
It is a common practice that intentionally makes it difficult to make TAB,
and eventually makes TAB.
I have been through a lot of repetition.
I will make a technology that makes a groundbreakingly simple TAB.
It is a method that can be used in 4 days without heating,
and it is a technology that can be used in 10 minutes without aging.
This is a shocking technology for experts in natural detergents.
I released this technology without patent.
If you make your own eco-friendly adhesives,
you can make TAB for 570 won per liter.
So, by combining TAB oil, TAB sulfur, and herbal solution,
it is possible to make a super low-cost organic agriculture
that only costs 3,100 won per liter for the real pesticide,
and 3,450 won for the new powder.
I am sure that I am applying natural pesticides to various crops,
and I am sure that TAB is a complete replacement for chemical pesticides.
And it is a groundbreaking method that can save more than 95% of its own production.
When TAB oil is mixed with pesticides,
the soil is completely covered with pesticides.
So, for example, this phenomenon makes the soil unable to breathe,
and the effect of the soil itself is reduced.
This is a way to catch the soil with harmless substances.
This is a peach white powder.
As you can see, there are white particles and white powder,
so it is a very difficult species to penetrate pesticides.
However, if you mix TAB oil,
the pesticide penetrates the soil,
and after 3-4 hours,
100% of the pesticide is prevented.
Likewise, when TAB oil is mixed with TAB sulfur,
the effect of the pesticide is reduced.
This is the most difficult pesticide to prevent.
It is called a tobacco gossamina.
If you increase the amount of TAB oil and promote the penetration of pesticides,
this very difficult tobacco gossamina can be prevented by TAB oil.
Many farmers in Korea say that
it is very difficult to prevent the spread of pests.
However, in JADAM,
it is very easy to prevent the spread of pests.
If the pest control is good,
it is very difficult to prevent pests.
It is also difficult to prevent pests.
However, JADAM pesticide can completely control
the spread of pests and white powder.
It can also solve the pest problem.
In the case of pest control powder,
which is known as a very difficult pest,
it is very easy to prevent pests.
Now, let's take a look at the process of making JADAM oil.
I'll explain it again after watching the video.
Carola oil is used.
Then, the color of the oil is diluted.
The color of the oil is getting thicker and thicker.
It takes about 10 minutes to get to the thin mayonnaise.
Then, it continues.
After that, it is aged for 3 days.
It hardens like butter.
Add water to this and split it with a hand mixer.
It starts to melt in water.
After 24 hours, it is completed.
Of course, it may take more time depending on the temperature.
I have developed a lot of things besides JADAM oil.
The results are in my book.
You can see it on our website.
These books are now sold in Amazon.
The raw material for making natural oil is
sold at a low price.
It is introduced on our website abroad.
I've put a link in the description.
This is an analysis of JADAM oil in the book.
K2O is almost 2% of the powder.
It's not just a pesticide.
It is a nutrient that increases the growth of crops.
It also has a nutritional function that makes the color come out well.
JADAM oil is allowed to be used in organic farming.
It is also subject to the standards of the United States,
which is the standard of the world.
If you go to the National List,
you can move to the site.
EPA4 is allowed in natural agriculture.
JADAM oil is made with only the material.
Unlike chemical pesticides,
JADAM oil must be made with water.
The water must be perfectly purified.
Purified water is water with little calcium and magnesium.
It is a water with a high concentration of calcium and magnesium.
It is a water that is soft and well-washed.
How do you check if this water is purified?
When we deliver the raw material,
we put a sample of JADAM oil.
As shown in the picture,
the color does not change at all when JADAM oil is added to the water.
Only when JADAM oil is made with this water,
the effect of the pesticide is maximized.
Purified water is not rare.
The best way to get purified water is to get rainwater.
Rainwater is almost perfect.
It is very effective if you get rainwater after 30 minutes of rain.
If you can't get rainwater,
you can make a water purifier.
I made a video of how to make a water purifier.
You can make it by watching this video.
The first step is to make a water purifier.
This is the water that absorbs calcium and magnesium.
If this function is lost,
you can recycle 15 times through salt regeneration.
After 2-3 years, you can exchange the water.
If it is difficult to make, you can buy it through JADAM.
What if there is no JADAM oil that can be checked for purification and purification from the beginning?
In that case, there is a lot of water called purified water.
Purified water is 100% purified water.
There are also many machines that make purified water.
You can start making JADAM oil with this.
For your information, the water from the air conditioner is also 100% purified water.
I introduced how to make it with carola oil.
You can use various oils other than carola oil.
Carola oil is used because it has a lower adhesion effect.
I will show you the process of making JADAM oil in detail.
It takes about 32 minutes.
I will explain it again after watching it.
The important thing to make JADAM oil is water.
For example, if you use a strong water with a lot of calcium and magnesium,
JADAM oil will be very cloudy.
The adhesion effect will be very low.
So when you make JADAM oil,
If you buy the ingredients in a joint purchase,
This is a manual for making JADAM oil.
This is a sample of JADAM oil.
I put this in because
Don't use any water when making JADAM oil.
You have to test it.
If you drop this in the water, you can tell if it is strong or sweet.
I'll try it with two different waters.
I'll put a little bit in.
I'll mix the two waters.
How is it?
One side of the water has no change in JADAM oil.
Which water is better?
This water is the most perfect.
If you make cloudy water,
JADAM oil will be cloudy and the adhesion effect will be low.
I choose this water.
This water has a lot of bubbles.
This water has less bubbles.
This water has less bubbles.
If you shake it, the bubbles are different.
Bubbles are very important, but cloudy water has less bubbles.
So the adhesion effect is low.
You have to make JADAM oil with this water.
This clear water is the water that has been condensed.
This is the tap water we use.
Let's look at the bottom.
The bubbles are clear and the tap water is clear.
What do you do when you don't have this water?
I recommend using a clear water.
Or I recommend using condensed water.
It's been about 10 minutes since I made it.
There's a clear difference.
I'm going to make oil.
Usually, you use three bottles of oil in one container.
You're going to make oil for the first time.
But the important thing is that
You have to make sure there's no bubbles.
If there's a little mistake, the oil will fail.
If it's cloudy, it'll fall.
You have to use a drill.
You have to use a toothbrush to clean it up.
You have to use a drill without any foreign substances.
I told you about the water earlier.
The first water is 2.5 liters.
It's exactly 2.5 liters.
You have to make sure it's 2.5 liters.
You have to make sure it's 2.5 liters.
If it's hard, you can add water.
I added water by setting the zero point first.
I'm going to add 2.5 liters of water.
The reason why 2.5 liters of water is important is because
If you add more water than 2.5 liters,
It takes a lot of time.
If it's smaller than 2.5 liters, it's very hard.
You have to make sure there's no mistake.
I'll put 2.5 liters of water in.
Next, I'll add 3.2 kg of gasoline.
Next, I'll add 3.2 kg of gasoline.
I'll add 3.2 kg of gasoline.
If you add this much, it'll burn.
Close the lid.
You can use water and gasoline.
You have to heat it up to 100 degrees.
You have to heat it up to 100 degrees.
I'll open it.
If you open it, you can see that it's all melted.
If you open it, you can see that it's all melted.
You have to check that it's all melted.
You can't do it when there's a little left.
I'll add canola oil.
I think it's simple, but you have to do it slowly.
If you do it too fast, it'll break.
I'll open it.
Don't put pressure on it.
It's the same inside.
You have to do it slowly.
This is an air hole.
Slowly.
It's a canola oil.
If you look at it, there's a hole.
If you put it in a slanted hole, it's full of oil.
I'll do it vertically.
I'll do it until the oil runs out.
If you wait a little longer, it'll come out.
I'll drill it.
I told you earlier, right?
There's a short one and a long one.
Long ones are much more advantageous.
You can buy this drill at a hardware store.
There are electric drills and charging drills.
It's better not to use charging drills.
If you use a charging drill, you have to set a time limit of more than twice.
If you don't have a drill, you can use your hands.
If you use your hands, you have to wait 5 to 6 hours.
You have to use a drill.
The color is transparent.
I took a long video.
I took a long video.
Let's take a look at this.
It's made of grass.
It's made of water, mayonnaise, or makgeolli.
It takes about 5 to 7 minutes.
The difference is that each drill has a different RPM.
Electric drills and charging drills take less than 5 minutes.
You have to wait 10 to 20 minutes more.
If you drill less here,
It's going to harden later, but it's not going to harden.
You have to be accurate.
It should be like this thick makgeolli and thin mayonnaise.
It's good to drill a little longer in the summer.
It's good to drill a little longer in the summer.
It's good to drill a little longer in the summer.
I'm going to close the lid and let it mature for 3 days.
The temperature inside is 63 degrees.
The temperature goes up to 85 degrees.
It's going down.
It's going to react with soap.
It's going to react with soap.
It's hardened like butter.
If you have a mistake in the amount of water,
If you have a mistake in the amount of water,
It's not hardened and it's runny.
It's not hardened and it's runny.
You have to drill it again until it's hardened.
You have to drill it again until it's hardened.
You have to drill it again until it's hardened.
I'm not sensitive to the temperature of the oil.
I'm not sensitive to the temperature of the oil.
It's especially problematic in winter.
It's good to mature it in a greenhouse or a boiler.
I'll show you the second work next time.
I'll show you the second work next time.
I'll show you the result after 3 days of aging.
I'll show you the result after 3 days of aging.
It's hardened like butter.
I'll touch it with my hand.
It's hardened like butter.
It's hardened like butter.
It's hardened like butter.
I'm going to cut the oil into small pieces.
I'm going to cut the oil into small pieces.
I'm going to pour 60 liters of water.
I'm going to pour 60 liters of water.
This water must be transparent.
If the water is not good, the oil will not work.
If the water is not good, the oil will not work.
I'll take off one.
You can't put any foreign substances in here.
You can't put any foreign substances in here.
You don't have to melt it all.
You don't have to melt it all.
I'm going to cut it into small pieces.
There's a hole in the corner.
There's a hole in the corner.
It's almost all separated.
It's almost all separated.
Fill it up with 16 liters of water.
It's a lump spices.
It's a lump spices.
I think there are a lot of people who make mistakes when burning.
I think there are a lot of people who make mistakes when burning.
I think there are a lot of people who make mistakes when burning.
Fill the bottle with water.
At first, I put 20 liters of water.
Then I put 60 liters of water.
Then it will be exactly 100 liters.
Some people put less water because they are afraid of overflowing bubbles.
But it's not like that.
Then you have to fill it from the top to about 3 cm below.
I'll do it with this wooden stick from now on.
You can drill it in this state.
The problem is that the drill bit is small.
So if you drill it up to here,
If you press it, it will lock.
If you use a drill bit, you can have a problem.
So I brought a wooden stick slowly.
This wooden stick is also a new stick.
It's a separate new clean stick.
This is because foreign matter is always important.
So I'm going to do this and slowly spread it out.
The difference in the process of working in a year is that
In the case of cold winter, the lump inside tends to sink down.
So you have to put the wooden stick deep and pull it like this.
After doing this,
It's not a big deal at once.
If you leave it like this, it will melt in here.
After doing this, I wait for time.
It takes about 24 hours to melt completely and complete the JWA.
The manufacturing period is now 4 days.
You know that if you loosen it, it melts right away.
You drill a lot.
If you drill too much, it can turn into milk later.
But if you just put it in water, it will turn clear.
So you don't have to drill a lot.
If you slowly melt it with a stick, it will take about 24 hours.
Don't try to do it all at once.
I just gave you a stick.
And I'll close the lid.
If you close the lid and look at it once or twice, it will melt slowly.
That's how it's done.
I'll show you a little later.
The environment and temperature you make are different.
So the melting speed varies depending on the water.
If it's warm on a hot day, it melts better.
If you do this in a cold place, it melts slowly and takes more than 24 hours.
It's better to do this in a warm place.
And even if you do it correctly,
Sometimes JWA doesn't melt.
Because of various errors.
Then add 2 liters of water and stir it.
We stirred it once.
It's been an hour. I'll try again.
You have to check if there's any sinking.
Then you'll feel the sinking.
Stir it slowly again.
Especially on cold days, there's a lot of sinking.
If the weather is warm, it often floats on top.
Stir it like this.
If you have time, you can stir it slowly.
I'll do this once.
I'll put the lid back on.
I'll check it again after 2 hours and 30 minutes.
You can see a lot of bubbles.
I'll put the lid back on.
The color is still small.
There's nothing in the corner.
It's melted a lot.
I'll clean it up to the bottom.
It's melting a lot now.
The color came out.
It's been about 4 hours since we worked.
I'll open it and see.
It's melted a lot more than before.
There's not a lot of foam.
It's been 6 hours since we started.
I'll take a look.
There's a change.
It's melted a lot.
There's a little sinking on the bottom.
It's coming out while it's wet.
If there's nothing sinking on the floor,
It's good to use a drill.
If it's cold, the oil will sink.
If you use a drill, the bottom will be wet.
I don't think I can get the bottom.
I recommend using a stick to the bottom.
It's been about 12 hours since we started.
The color is coming out.
It's less melted.
I measured the temperature of the water.
It's about 22 degrees.
I'll check the water again.
Even if there's a slight error, it can be less melted.
It's not 3cm deep.
It's about 4cm deep.
I'll replenish the water.
I'll replenish the water slowly and go to 3cm.
I'll add 2 liters of water.
I'm exactly 3cm deep.
If there's a little water, it won't melt.
Because there's a saturation of the water.
If it's less melted, add more water.
The melting speed varies depending on the temperature.
It's been 24 hours since we started.
I've been wetting it four or five times.
I'll open the lid.
It's like this.
Can you see it's almost melted?
It's almost melted.
One thing to note here is that
It's not always 100 liters of water.
It melts better in summer depending on the temperature.
It gets colder in autumn.
If the temperature of the water drops, it may not melt.
And it takes longer to melt.
It's based on 24 hours, but it's not fixed.
It can be faster or delayed depending on the temperature.
In the case of very cold, it may melt less.
If it's less melted,
Use the upper water and fill it with water.
It's better to do it in a warm place in the house in winter.
I've been talking about what I've been working on today.
It's done when it's transparent and clear.
We spent about 50,000 won on this.
As a result, it can hold 100 bottles.
It doesn't have a storage period.
It can be used permanently.
When we measure 500 liters,
It doesn't go below 3 liters.
If it goes below 3 liters, it will have a slow-acting effect.
It is recommended to use up to 15 liters.
As the amount increases, the slow-acting effect increases.
It increases the salinity and salinity effect.
But it's not good to use it for a long time.
If the water quality is bad,
When you measure the amount,
It is recommended to use it twice.
And then I recommend using it again.
If the amount increases, the effect is very good.
If the water quality is bad, it can be a little bit of growth inhibition.
I have one here.
What is this? The color is different.
This is because this one I showed you here
It's been over two and a half years.
If it's over two and a half years,
As it is stored, it is matured.
The color is getting darker.
If the aging is getting darker,
The effect is better.
That's why we don't have a big difference in effect.
I recommend using it from the fourth day.
There is no big problem.
But the longer it is aged, the darker the color is.
The overall effect is improved a lot.
Next, I'm going to save this.
What I said in JADAM NUANG is
I sent this to a separate container.
Because if you just put it in this container,
There may be a difference in concentration.
But this is possible in a plastic container.
And another thing is that you can just put it in here
There is no big problem even if it floats after it is closed tightly.
You can do that.
Through this video,
I showed you how to make JADAM NUANG and JADAM oil in detail.
As a result, JADAM NUANG, which is a saline base,
and JADAM oil, which is a adhesive, were developed for JADAM.
If you buy it yourself, it will be very expensive.
If you buy the eco-friendly adhesives,
It costs 50,000 won.
But what if you make it yourself?
Each of these costs only 500 won.
So it is possible to have extreme concentration.
If you look at it, you will use JADAM NUANG and JADAM oil three times as much.
So these two are the basis of JADAM eco-friendly anti-pollution and ultra-concentration business.
If you add a toxic agent to this, it is completed in a JADAM-like anti-pollution method.
The raw material we make is
We are selling it at a joint purchase that is delivered by water every Monday.
We are selling it at a joint purchase at a factory or on the street at a very low price.
When we send raw materials, we send a template to make a shape.
If you look here, we summarize the latest research methods and the latest research methods.
And there is JADAM oil in it.
As I said in the lecture, we test the water with JADAM oil.
We emphasize that we have to make JADAM oil with clear and transparent water.
We help people to access it easily without paying anyone.
We also released the whole principle of agriculture on our website.
Anyone can see it.
You can download it from the JADAM website.
Just click and download it.
You can always carry it on your smartphone.
I hope you will continue to learn from the materials we have released.
The reason why we do not sell these methods and supply them is because
The only way to overcome the current agricultural crisis is to reduce the price.
We are working hard to reduce the price.
I hope you will be interested in our methods.
If you are okay, please let more people know.
The way to save our farmland in terms of revenue is to increase the competitive power of the producer and the price.
Thank you.
Did you see it well?
There are many ways to make JADAM oil.
This is a spicy pepper powder.
It is a spicy pepper powder.
It is fried in oil and makes a very spicy oil.
JADAM oil is made with that spicy oil.
The spicy taste of JADAM oil is added to maximize the effect of insecticide.
This is a strong-toxin oil.
It is a JADAM oil.
It is a JADAM oil.
It is a JADAM oil.
It is a JADAM oil.
It is a JADAM oil.
If you make JADAM oil with this oil,
You can make a variety of JADAM oil and natural pesticides.
This table shows the amount of JADAM oil.
Usually, 500 liters is used.
If the disease occurs, 8 liters is used.
If the situation is dangerous, 12 liters is used.
JADAM oil is a pesticide that does not cause pesticide disease.
Unlike the pesticide, it does not prevent the germination of JADAM oil.
I experimented with JADAM oil without mixing with pesticides.
If you increase the amount of JADAM oil to more than 20 liters,
You can control pesticides with JADAM oil.
When planting seedlings, the leaves are very weak.
I recommend using JADAM oil from 500 liters.
If you increase the amount of JADAM oil, the application is very good.
It's a little thick.
So, the effect of sterilization and sterilization increases.
I recommend using JADAM oil based on 500 liters.
If you use less than 500 liters, the pesticide will not be applied well.
So, the possibility of having a problem with the crop is increased.
Some people are worried about the burden of 5 liters.
As you can see from the manufacturing process,
4 liters of oil is equivalent to water.
The book also shows the ratio of oil to water.
JADAM oil is a great detergent.
It is a shampoo for kitchen detergent.
It is a great detergent for washing dishes.
It is a great detergent for washing dishes.
Even though the water in my farm is strong,
There is no problem using JADAM oil.
Why do I use JADAM oil?
JADAM oil is a natural decomposing agent.
It does not destroy the ecosystem.
So, it is allowed to grow organic.
On the other hand, synthetic detergents are used in pesticides.
It is a chemical that is not decomposed in nature.
It is a pest that pollutes the soil and pollutes the earth.
The reason why fish are disappearing rapidly in the world's rivers and seas
I think it's because of the use of synthetic detergents and adhesives.
There are many data that synthetic detergents have a bad effect on children's health.
I strongly recommend that you use JADAM oil as a pesticide for the health of the earth and your family.
I strongly recommend that you use JADAM oil as a pesticide for the health of the earth and your family.
JADAM oil is easy to make.
It costs only 5.7 billion won per liter.
It was difficult to choose a eco-friendly soap.
Because it is sold very expensive all over the world.
But if you use JADAM oil, you can make it very cheap with soap, liquid soap, detergent, and shampoo.
How do you make solid soap?
If you replace the synthetic soda with synthetic soda,
This is how solid soap is made.
You can make it using molds.
The process of making it is on my website.
I'll show you in the video.
If you use JADAM oil, you can easily make solid soap.
You can make it in various shapes using mold.
But it's not even 50 won to make a single soap.
Now, let me introduce you to the process of making solid soap.
This is JADAM's chief manager, Ju Sun-hwa.
I'm sorry, but the video is in English.
You can choose Korean subtitles.
Hello everyone, my name is Sunhwa from JADAM.
In the beginning of inventing JWA,
We found that adding sodium hydroxide instead of potassium hydroxide can make solid type of JWA.
And today, I'm going to show you how to make JWA into soap bar.
The tool you will need is a hand blender,
heat-resistant plastic container,
a small electronic scale,
measuring cup,
a mask,
gloves,
spoon,
plate,
and some mold.
If you don't have any soap mold, you can use paper cups.
For ingredients, please prepare sodium hydroxide, water, and any kind of oil.
If you want to make something good for skin, you can use herbal oil as well.
Let's begin.
Turn on the electronic scale and set it to zero.
Measure 125g of water and put it in a plastic container.
Next, set it to zero again.
Measure 160g of sodium hydroxide.
Wear a mask before you add it.
Close the lid and shake a little bit to make sure sodium hydroxide melts.
Then add 900ml of any oil.
And this is canola oil.
Then blend with mixer.
This is how it looks like after mixing.
Generally, viscosity increases after 2 minutes or 3.
Now it is done.
And then put it in the mold.
Please let it sit for 3 days.
I think it becomes softer as time passes.
Now this is the completed solid JWA soap.
Thank you for watching.
See you next time. Bye.
JWA soap is 160g of water and 120g of sodium hydroxide.
Coconut oil is special.
I reduced the amount of sodium hydroxide to 125g.
I think coconut oil is the best of all natural soap I've ever made.
Coconut oil is often solid at first.
You can use it by melting it in warm water or hot water.
Learn JWA natural oil and make it easier to make.
Please use natural soap, natural soap, shampoo.
Please use natural soap, natural soap, shampoo.
Thank you.
Please subscribe.
