hello everyone welcome to JADAM. for the past few years we have seen many people
made JADAM solution in small quantities for their home gardening and for small
farm and I have been receiving a lot of questions from them. so today I'm going
to show you how to make 10 liters of JADAM sulfur also known as JS. speaking
of JADAM sulfur it is liquefied sulfur made with organic certifiable substance
for agriculture use and I've invented this particular technology of melting
sulfur without any external heating for the first time and from now let me show
you how to make JADAM sulfur. for the ingredient 99.9% pure sulfur 98% pure
sodium hydroxide red clay powder phyllite powder and sea salt is needed to make
JADAM sulfur. for foreign audience red clay powder and phyllite powder and sea
salt is an optional ingredient for more mineral contents in the solution. you can
also replace those two ingredients with clay and rock powder. however these has
nothing to do with the melting procedure. for this time I'll be making JADAM
sulfur with just three ingredient which is sulfur sodium hydroxide and sea salt
to avoid 24-hour settling process. here I have prepared two polyethylene heat
resistant bucket one for JADAM sulfur and the other one for prepared water to
add during the process. now I'll set the scale into zero to weight the amount of
water and next I will add five liters of water which is equivalent to five kilo.
if you don't have a scale you can simply measure with the beaker. before starting
this please wear a protective gloves and glass for your own safety. first I will
add 2.5 kilo of sulfur and then next I'm adding 2 kilo of sodium hydroxide. in my
original recipe actually contains phyllite powder and red clay powder but
for this time I'm just going to add sea salt to avoid 24-hour settling process.
as for the sea salt I will add 250 grams. there is one thing to be cautious in
this process. the sequence of adding ingredients should be strictly followed
due to possibility of boiling over. do not change adding sequence. and for this
process I highly recommend using any wooden stick or wooden spatula. here I
have brought five liters of the water that I prepared just before the
ingredient. I'm not going to add the water little by little. you should add
this water all at once. now let me stir slowly. from now on you'll be able to see
the smoke due to temperature rising. as you can see the color of the ingredient
has changed. the temperature inside goes more than 108 Celsius degree. looks
pretty easy isn't it? right now it may look awful but when it is complete with
beautiful red colored liquefied sulfur can treat almost all disease such as
powdery mildew and anthracnose. and you can make this at home by yourself with
very low cost. this is how it looks after 10 minutes. and you can also use hand
blender to accelerate the procedure. but make sure that you are using a stainless
steel. using blender shortens the time but I do not recommend using this in the
early stage. so stick with the wooden stick in the initial process. now it is
almost liquefied. let's check if there's anything left underneath. use the
stainless steel ladle to flow down the leftover sulfur on the wall of the
bucket. now the first initial process of making JADAM sulfur is completed. this is
so far the best solution in the world to eliminate disease and viruses that
occurred during farming and small gardening. moreover any pest and disease
does not build up tolerance to JADAM sulfur. and when using JADAM sulfur, JADAM
wetting agent must be mixed to see synergistic effect. it is very easy to
make it isn't it? I have also made a long video about making 100 liters of JADAM
sulfur. I'll put a banner up here. it is comparably long video but in there
you can also hear a lot more detailed information about JADAM sulfur. once the
initial stage is completed I will add 3.2 liters of water to finish the whole
process. using a hand blender can save a lot of time after using the wooden stick.
here right now I'm adding the water. because I didn't add red clay powder and
phyllite powder the time of whole procedure has drastically lessened. I
will now wait for the JADAM sulfur to be a little bit cool so that I can store it
in a bottle. before storing into the bottle I would like to remind you that
ordinary plastic bottle is weak in heat so using heat resistant bottle is wise
option to store JADAM sulfur. you can also find a lot of options of bottles
online. now I have made 10 liters of 25% pure liquefied JADAM sulfur with 2.5
kilo of 99.9% pure sulfur 2 kilo of sodium hydroxide and 250 grams of sea
salt. the dosage of first use begins with 40 CC for 20 liters and 1 liter for 500
liters. there is no shelf life so you can use it for few years. it is the world
most ultimate natural disinfectant which can even treat anthrax that can be
made by yourself. thank you for watching and I will see you guys in the next
video
