hello everyone this is Youngsang Cho the founder of JADAM. in today's episode I
would like to elaborate you how to create the most successful organic
garden. as we all know that global food crisis is at our doorstep. therefore I
believe it is time to start our own life gardening to protect our own food, life
and our family from possible hunger. according to the global trend 2040 held
by the National Intelligence Service of the United States a food riot could
occur worldwide within 10 years due to the problems such as global warming and
food crisis. an IMF international monetary fund has declared a severe food
crisis in 48 countries around the world. furthermore President Biden hosted the
first food security conference in 50 years. in addition local counties are in
danger of low population due to aging. you might think growing couple of veggies
is enough but you have to consider that veggies are also very important food to
us. I strongly urge you to actively participate in sustainable organic
gardens to become a self-sufficient for upcoming future. just because I said this
doesn't mean farming will be suddenly become easy. in fact many people face
difficulties they never expected when they start organic gardening. firstly
there is a major problems of organic farming which is the weeding, pest and
disease control. then the next problem is the using machinery. and JADAM is here to
ease all of these problems. many people think if the soil is healthy crop will
be growing without any pest and disease problems. but the truth of organic
farming is far more difficult than what people usually thought of. because we are
not farming native and wild seeds. the seeds that you get from the store is
bred to suit the taste of human. our will and tongue made bananas strawberries to
be much sweeter softer and larger and easy to eat. and those planted first-gen
seeds have zero experience to defend itself. therefore organic gardening or
farming cannot be continued without any pest and disease solutions. JADAM is one
of the most well-known company in the field of self-making natural pesticides
and with the base of this information we have shared all our journey from soil to
fruit on YouTube which will upgrade your life of gardening. this is the website
that we have been running since 2003. if you have further more questions leave a
comment on the blue team board or you can leave a comment below for any
question on this video. and this is our first book that is translated into
English. it has about 700 reviews with close to 5 star ratings and it is now
distributed globally throughout amazon.com. this is another book that we
have published two years ago. it focuses on pest and disease control in detail.
apart from these we have been working hard to translate the books into 20
different languages and those books are going to be uploaded on Google playbook
store. so shall we now begin with the organic gardening. the picture you can
see is my farm. it is about 650 square meter size. you can start with 600 square
meter but it is not so mandatory. you can start small from 60 to 100 square
meter. the size of the land doesn't mean you are not capable. quality matters not
quantity. once you be able to control all the pests and disease you'll experience
happy farming. the size of the land in this picture is about 80 square meter
and there are about 40 to 50 different crops which means in this small size
of the land you can have tasteful organic vegetable for your family. after
harvest you can rather dry to make it powder shake or you can quench the
vegetable for the future food. it is one time harvest in a year but you can have
it for whole year. it is not very necessary to farm such diverse number of
crops. I farm a lot of kinds because I'd like to test my JADAM natural
pesticides on different kind of crops and because of my habit of researching
my family also loves to help me farm. this is a tiny house that we have built
with my friends. it is tiny but we have made beautiful surroundings. we built it
because we wanted to showcase how organic gardening could be peaceful and
lovable. one unique part of this house is that it has a compost toilet. many people
worries about the smell but if you mix 1% of the any starch into sawdust
there is barely no smell for weeks until it is disposed and later you can also
collect those human feces to make your own compost which means you don't have
to rely on purchasing the compost. collect all the feces in one place for
three months to make compost out of it and because of the starch there is
barely any smell. if you learn how to do all JADAM methods I believe you can
overcome the difficulties on different crops for organic farming not just
vegetables it also means fruit trees and more. and one of the most interesting
thing is the strawberries. we all know that strawberries are perennial plant
but in fact many farmers pull out once the harvest is completed. however with
JADAM methods the strawberries are producing for more than six years and
every year the yield has increased compared to the past years. the pest and
disease control on strawberries are not very difficult and it is our first crop
to be harvested in a year. not just strawberries we tested JADAM method on
lettuce cabbage and small radish for kimchi paprika for barbecue and broccoli
for salad. and the world most favorite plant consumed potato is also haven't
had any difficulties to produce. not just potatoes we can also farm sweet potatoes
and more. farming cucumber in an open field is known to be pretty hassle but
with JADAM method you can farm it all. and one of our favorite is the chili
pepper. it is most basic yet but most confusing plant to grow which we are the
best producer in South Korea. high yield comes when you be able to master the
JADAM technology. and JADAM technology is simple. so let me tell you how to solve
all the issues with JADAM methods. first the weeding. the problem of weeding comes
with the plastic mulching that lasts for a year. which means after harvest it is
mostly destroyed. and the other problems are the high temperature inside of the
mulching then the ventilation of the field. the purpose of mulching is simply
for weeding. but mulching causes problem due to heat. to solve this issue we have
chose to use landscape fabric which is breathable material and lowers the high
temperature. although the price is higher than the normal plastic mulching but you
can use it for more than 10 years. and some are even much more durable that can
last about 20 years. which is similar to the lifespan of the solar panel. it helps
the soil by creating the shade on the soil that leads higher expansion of
active microbes inside the soil. as a result the landscape fabric helps the
roots to reach even deeper and makes better soil quality which leads to the
high yield. so let me show you how to make the beds first. prepare some powder
which could indicate the line of the field. the width of the bed should be 1
meter 30 centimeters to 1 meter 60 centimeters. we will first create drainage on
each bed. to create the bed and drainage we will use the machine just once to
protect the softened soil. and this structure is going to be permanent. we
are not going to use rotary machine forever after this first construction.
many of us learned that tilling soil is necessary every after harvest and before
planting in order to mix the compost with the soil. but surface application of
the compost is good enough. you can simply scatter and spread the compost
then cover with the landscape fabric. when you have completed covering the bed
with landscape fabric now it is time to use the white marker to make indication
where you are going to make a hole for the crop. use the string then stretch it
up and mark the string with the 30 centimeters gap. then cut the fabric
along with the indication. but do not cut it cross because it will loosen all
fabric at the end. and before planting germinate your seedlings into leaf mold
soil mixed water. diversity of the microbes in the seedlings roots will
prevent the possible disease occur in the future. then use the narrow hole to
plant the seedlings. once you have completed planting then next step is the
watering. you can use the irrigation hose to do this but for the vegetables it is
much more convenient with sprinklers. sprinkle water about 15 minutes with one
to three days term depending on the weather. and sometimes you can also mix
the JMS along with it. as I just mentioned about the no-till and surface
application on the bed of the crops. let me show you how it usually done. after
harvest pull out the fabric then put it on the side. once the harvest is
completed your soil needs to be reorganized. after that scatter the
organic compost on the surface of the bed then spread firmly with the rag. many
people think the soil will harden if it is not tilled but by using JADAM microbes
and compost the soil stays soft enough. then later it should be performed once
every harvest and in Korea it happens only twice in a year. one in May and the
other one on September. we have uploaded other videos on how to make beds for the
fruiting crop so you can have a look on that too. apart from just lettuce and
other vegetables how are we going to deal with the root plants such as
radish or carrots. it will be quite hassle if we try to plant in between the
fabric. so to plant root plant we will just cover the fabric for about 15 to 20
days before planting. then the weed inside will not be able to get
photosynthesis. eventually the seeds won't be able to sprout. after 20 days when you
cover the fabric you could see the bed is clean from the weed. then organize the
bed with the rag then create a line with 30 centimeters interval to plant. you
might get worried what if the weed grows back again. but the root plant such as
small radish grows quicker than weeds as it is all eliminated which leaves no
space for weeds to grow because all nutrient were absorbed by the plant
itself. so in this way the crop will not going to have nutrient competition with
weed. and the next thing we want to talk about is the organic pest and disease
control. one of the most interesting part of JADAM's natural pesticide is that it
won't have negative effects on human. it is safe even if you inhale or
mistakenly spray on your face. moreover we know that people worry about the
spiders and bees but it won't heavily affect them. when you start farming
soon you will realize that there are a lot of circumstances with pest and
disease problems. however don't try to view the problem with microscope. just
simply focus on two things in farming aphid and powdery mildew. if you have
enough capability to control aphid means you can control almost all pests. and if
you have enough capability to control powdery mildew you can be confident
controlling diseases as well. aphid is the one of the major problems to farmers
but to us it is just piece of cake. by utilizing simple JADAM method on aphid
and powdery mildew you can control almost all problems. and we have uploaded
all the detailed videos on drips, anthracnose, and aphids on YouTube. all
the methods of mixing ratio is also published in our book. we are having
seminar after three years due to COVID-19. in the seminar we are going to
release our new recipe that does not need a water softener. also we will now
prepare for the world tour as well for the next year. thank you for watching and
I will see you guys in the next video
