Hello everyone, my name is Youngsang Cho and welcome to JADAM.
In this video, we are going to talk about controlling wasp and ornate.
The main ingredient that I will be using is JADAM Sulphur, JADAM Wedding Agent and Red
Clay Powder.
If you don't have red clay powder, don't worry, you can replace that with finely powdered
soil.
This solution is not an ultimate solution.
There are also many other ways to control them, and if you know any, please let me know
in the comment down below.
This test was performed with using 800ml of JWA, 800ml of JS and 60g of red clay powder
in 20L of soft water.
Please don't forget to use soft water when using JADAM solution.
I'll put up the link for how to make JADAM ingredient, and if you haven't watched it
yet, please click the link for more information.
The ratio which now I'm going to show you is not for crop production.
So please do not spray this ratio on crop because it will cause side effects due to
the large dosage of JS.
These particular wasps are called paper wasps, which form its nest in the shape of umbrella.
Their characteristic is focused on protecting its nest from any danger.
So instead of attacking the threat object, it tends to protect its nest when they encounter
any threat.
On the other hand, if you see ball-faced hornet nest, please be careful.
Their nest is shaped like a ball and they are different from the paper wasp.
They are bigger in size and they will attack you even if they are dying from the pest repellent.
And there is another wasp called yellow jacket.
You should be careful with this too because they live underground and you don't know where
exactly they are located.
By any chance, if you mistakenly step on their nest, they fly from below to attack you and
you don't know where it comes from.
But one thing for sure, this ratio can eliminate all of them.
You just need to be little more careful with ball-faced hornet and yellow jacket.
That being said, now let's come back to the major topic.
Once you have completed mixing all the ingredients, choose the nozzle which spread further so
that you won't hurt yourself being attacked by the wasp.
As I spray the mixture, they are spreading all over and expressing the panic.
The large dosage of JWA seems to become the obstacle to their wings making them unable
to fly.
After couple of minutes, they are dead.
As I just mentioned about the characteristics of paper wasp, they supposed to gather on
the nest to protect their hive.
But seems the smell of JS is causing them confusion.
And I only see them suffering the pain individually.
Next, I brought the nest to check the status of the pupa.
At first, they weren't moving but after 10 minutes, they have stopped moving.
So I took out the pupa if they were dead or alive but it seems like the pet solution has
worked properly.
The result was successful.
Now you can also make the organic wasp and hornet solution by yourself at home to protect
you from harm.
But please always be careful when you are going to spray on top of them.
I have recently released a video about treating drips and aphid and andragnos.
So if you are interested, please click the link above to watch more information.
Thank you for watching and I will see you guys on the next video for more interesting
topic.
