hi my name is Young Sang Cho, the founder of JADAM and inventor of JADAM
ultra low-cost agriculture technology. we are the most well-known organic
agriculture solution provider in South Korea including many other countries in
the world. before beginning of this introduction of JADAM, I would like to
introduce who have influenced me the most. first my father Han Kyu Cho who
found Korean natural farming in 1967. he is the man who tried very hard to put
organic farming into mainstream during at that time. I've learned all the
techniques of natural farming, poetry, and figure from him and later I decided to
carry our family treasure to make my own path of JADAM's ultra low-cost
agriculture in early 1991. now my children are involved in this work. we
are doing organic farming for three generation. my son and daughter does
translation of my work and the person narrating right now is Sung Woo Cho, son
of Young Sang Cho. in the 1960s the goal of Green Revolution was to end poverty
and hunger of the world. but as a result in present more and more chemical
pesticide and chemical fertilizers has become mandatory object to do farming
which have led us to this disaster of present. our beautiful mother earth is
now contaminated with all the leftover chemicals and we are living in the world
eating food that has left chemical pesticide residue in our body. so people
came up with organic farming as solution. but there's few challenges that we have
faced. even now farmers are struggling with given organic agriculture
technology and the technology that we learned so far is usually the research
funded by the big corporation who benefit from the farmers. this had led
farmers to be more dependent on expensive corporation products which
makes farmers to be consumer of corporation and lose their initiative of
farming. realistically speaking farmers need easy and simple technology that is
less dependent on expensive corporation farming inputs. being independent from
the finished product, farmers can be self-reliant to lead their own farming
and still be able to earn more than what they have invested to produce. just with
philosophy and concept alone cannot make all the farmers to be attracted to
organic farming. because it is adventure with high risk for them. and to promote
organic farming I believe that we have to be armed with perfect technology that
can solve all of these issues mentioned above. so I decided to invent organic
agriculture technology that can benefit both farmers and consumer and that is
JADAM's ultra locus agriculture. our JADAM technology is very simple,
affordable, and in the same time it is very effective. it can be learned within
a day. we teach farmers each and everything from soil management to
natural pesticide. all of our methods and ingredients comply with the regulation
of USDA organic. so with our JADAM technology every farmers in the world
can get organic certification. moreover this technology is not limited to just
organic farmers. our method is combinable with chemical pesticide as well which
makes easier for other conventional farmers to shift towards organic farming.
before going into detail I would like to mention that our JADAM technology do
not promote the use of sugar, molasses, vinegar, alcohol, and air bubbler to make
our inputs. and the cost of input will be $100 per acre which is 150 of the cost
compared to conventional farming. it is easy and very effective technology.
JADAM method can be applied in larger scale as well also it offers high
quality and high yield when it is well applied.
moreover we do not patent our agriculture technology for farmers greater good.
so from now on let me introduce you our core technologies that can change the
agriculture of the world. first I'll begin with soil management. before doing
farming first thing we consider is the health of the soil. because what is
visible represents what is invisible. this means the health of the plant is
first determined by the condition of the soil and its roots. but usual condition
of our farmlands are like hard rock due to excessive use of heavy machineries
which creates compacted layer of the soil and accumulation of chemical
compost. key to make soil fertile is by avoiding using heavy machines or limit
the spots where heavy machine works and diversify the species of microbes in the
soil. so to solve both of these problems I have invented JMS the JADAM
microbial solution. we explain soil management protocol should follow the
same soil condition as leaf mold soil in the nearest mountain or the forest and
JMS can do it all to make that happen. this solution can be made very easily
within one to two days period depending on the climate and cost of manufacturing
is nearly zero but the effect is fascinating. just irrigating or sprinkling
on the surface of the soil at least four times before transplanting will show
great results on soil and for the crop. all you need is large container of
plastic bucket, sea salt for minerals, potato as feed and leaf mold soil the
microbes container from the nearest forest or the mountain and lastly you
will need water. you will need an air bubbler to make this solution and you do
not need to fix certain temperature because five centimeters beneath the
soil there is no air therefore you'd want to cultivate microorganisms in
anaerobic environment and also we do not recommend to set specific temperature
for cultivation. for example if you fix the temperature to 32 Celsius degree
then you're only going to cultivate microbes that only likes 32 Celsius
degree. so if we really want to cultivate microbes that is optimized for the crop
then do we need to set it to 30 Celsius degree or match the temperature which
crops are experiencing. microbial cultivation should be done at room
temperature. so if you want microorganism that is optimized for the greenhouse
environment then it should be cultivated inside the greenhouse that matches the
temperature where crops are experiencing and for an open field it should be done
in an open field. if you do then you get the microorganism optimized for the crop
in this simple way. so let me show you briefly how it's done. when temperature
drops I would recommend using electric heater to maintain more than 18 Celsius
degree because microbes cannot be cultivated under that temperature. you
can also make your own customized JMS with leftover produce from your farm.
using same crop would be much more beneficial than using potato. reason why
we use potato is because it simply works faster and has advantage of maintaining
pH levels to 6.5. however if you use sugar or molasses then pH will drop
3.5 so I wouldn't recommend to use it. when bubbles are at the peak it is wise
to use it right away. there are many methods of making input for soil
preparation but those method required presence of machines expensive
ingredient like sugar and molasses and a lot of effort and time. therefore
preparing organic input was one of the difficulties that we had. but with JMS
soil management can be solved very easily. now let's talk about JADAM's
natural pesticide. when it comes to pesticide people often don't like the
concept of it. but if farmer wants to produce fruit that is high value with
good shape to sell it to customer. they need to protect their produce from the
pest. because fruit tree will make its own fruit to be colorful and sweet to
attract more pest and animals to spread their seed far away. therefore in order
to obtain commercial fruit we need to embrace the concept of pesticide.
technical difficulties of organic farming we found were the pest control
and among many reason pest control is one big reason why farmers give up their
organic farming. organic pesticide that are sold in a market usually shows very
insignificant result. organic certified farmers had nowhere to rely on when it
comes to pest problems. and the price of the organic pesticide were usually way
too expensive. JADAM's natural pesticide comes with three different solution.
JS, JWA, and JHS. with these three combination JADAM natural pesticide can
become powerful enough to replace chemical pesticide. moreover it is also
very safe for humans so you don't need to wear a mask when you're spraying
pesticide. so let's first begin with JS the JADAM sulfur. utilizing sulfur in
agriculture is known to be very common to treat diseases and viruses that can
occur during farming because it has good fungicide properties. melting sulfur to
make water soluble to use it in agriculture was biggest challenge with
only few tools and ingredients. and to do that the people usually needed big
equipment with fire. with many trials and fails I was able to invent a new method
to melt sulfur without external heating for the first time in the world. and to
make ultra low-cost agriculture go viral I disclosed this technology without
patenting it. so what you will need is 99.9% pure sulfur, caustic soda, sea salt,
phyllite powder, and red clay powder. and by combining all the ingredients with
water can melt sulfur without using fire. the cost of making one liter is only a
dollar which is very affordable price compared to ordinary finished product. one
liter can be diluted in 500 liters of water for natural pesticide or as
fungicide. so now let's take a quick look at the manufacturing process. the
heat generated by the caustic soda melts the sulfur 100%. in this way you can
easily make natural disinfectant by yourself. we recommend farmers to make
their own inputs because it is actually very easy to make one. once you make your
own pesticide and other farming inputs you can save more than 95% of input cost.
and JADAM natural pesticide and fungicide is powerful enough to replace synthetic
chemical products. I personally advise farmers to be freed themselves from
expensive farming that relies on purchasing. by making own microvial
solution to liquid fertilizers and pesticide I believe that farmers can be
self-reliant and become a leader of their own farming with given ultra low
cost technology for the upcoming future agriculture. the purity of complete JS is
about 25% which is very high concentrated sulfur contents compared
to the marketed products. another feature is that it doesn't build resistant even
it's sprayed often. unique part of all is that it can also be mixed with chemical
pesticide. it also means all the fungicide that you have used until now
can be replaced with JS. and it does not rust steel pipe or damage the plastic
mulching or the plastic used in greenhouse which makes JADAM sulfur even
more special. with JADAM sulfur leaf fungus on tomato is also known to be
difficult but it can be controlled easily including leaf blight. furthermore
it can also treat rice bacchanal disease which is common problem for rice farming
and drug nose cause on pepper is not a big deal as well. it's also very
effective against pear black red and bacteria shothole. next I'll move on to
JWA the JADAM wetting agent. when we spray any sort of pesticide to prevent
or to control pest there is one most important thing should be present to
make synergistic effect of pesticide and that is wetting agent also known as
surfactant. if you don't mix surfactant with any sort of pesticide that solution
will be useless meaning it won't coat the plant. spraying pesticide without
wetting agent is like spraying water on taro leaves. the role of surfactant is
very significant for both organic and conventional farming. we usually mix
JADAM harvest solution to amplify the natural pesticide properties but JWA
alone can control mite and aphid. before making JWA there is one important thing
to keep in mind. the quality of the water plays significant role that can affect
final result of finished JWA. the quality of water is not just important for
organic farmers. using hard water can leave a mark on the plant's leave in any
circumstances for conventional farmers as well. and this leftover mark can block
photosynthesis of the plant over time and that will affect the growth of the
plant. so to make JWA it is very important to check the water quality.
making JWA is very easy. what you will need is 18 liters of canola oil, 3.2
kilograms of potassium hydroxide and 82.5 liters of water. so now let me show
you how to make JWA. cost of JWA per liter is $1 which is nothing compared to
the products in the market. you can also use toxic herb extracted oil to make
your own customized JWA. for example if you use the oil that fried hot chili
that JWA will be spicy for you and for the pest as well. what is even more
fascinating is that it can be decomposed in nature within five days. which
synthetic wetting agents takes ages to decompose. the utilization of JWA
doesn't stop here. properties of JWA is like a soap. with this instead of buying
expensive natural soap you can make your own liquid or solid bar type of soap.
plus by making own natural soap we all can reduce the contamination of our
earth. next let me introduce JHS the JADAM herbal solution. many of organic
farmers enjoy using herbal pesticide. so we try to find most suitable and
powerful herbs that can be useful for pest control. the extraction method of
herbs are very simple. we just simply boil the herb. let me show you how. make
this herbal solution in advance so that you can use it right away when you need
it. in case of South Korea we have lots of ginkgo tree all around the country
and there was one amazing fact that we've never seen any pest on ginkgo
trees. so we decided to make pesticide out of it and by combining with JWA it
worked perfectly. there are many other herbs that are also very effective to
use as pest solution. for example there Jerusalem artichoke, brocken and
Orlander. with the combination of JWA, JS and JHS you can make your own ultimate
powerful all-in-one solution that can treat most of diseases and viruses
including pest without harming the plant and human. these can be sprayed right
after planting and extend the intervals depending on the situation. and here are
the recipes for each and every outcome that can be treated with JADAM method.
pest treatment recipes for aphid is the most destructive pest in temperate region.
it is difficult subject among organic farmers. however beside this fact you can
control 100% with the solution that we offer. having confidence in controlling
aphid means that we have achieved the complete basic solution of natural
pesticide. in my book JADAM organic farming I have specified three separate
stages. prevention levels, infestation levels and emergency levels. you can
choose your step depending on your situation. all you need is the JADAM
wetting agent and the JADAM herbal solution. for JHS you can use herbal
extracts such as ginkgo, brocken, fern to mix with the solution. moving on to the
next problem is the mite. the size of the mite is extremely small. because of its
size it is hard to recognize. their reproduction systems are very fast. it
will destroy the crop within very short time once it occurs. but surprisingly
solution is not much different. and the next pest is the moth. this powdery
flying pest are well known for its destructive role of damaging pepper
tomato, paprika and many other crops including the fruit trees. although we
have very simple single solution to all kinds of moths. this is also not much
different from the other solution mentioned above. the combination of JWA
and JHS. next is the scale insect. by increasing the ratio of JWA and by
adding sodium hydroxide you can easily control scale insects. and if you add
fine soil the effect becomes even more powerful. you can check their dead bodies
within three to four days after spraying the solution. next pest is the millebug.
the most common pest in tropical region. the body of the pest is covered with the
white fur and powder which makes pesticide penetration difficult into the
pest. and that is the reason why the fine soil takes important role in case of
furry pest. it helps the pesticide to penetrate deeper and enable solution to
last longer after spraying while increasing its control rate. next is the
greenhouse whitefly solution. difficulties of this pest is that it
builds up tolerance of the pesticide so quick causing farmers to lose their
billions of dollars profit. until now there isn't any official pesticide that
is recorded as treatment for this. however simple JADAM solution can offer
the best result for the greenhouse whitefly. as I mentioned before JADAM
natural pesticide do not build resistant on any pest which enables
farmers to use constantly without worrying about the pest getting
tolerance to the pest solution. key point of dealing with this pest is simply
increasing the ratio of JWA. and next I'll move on to the slug and snail.
they are intelligent when you spray pesticide it will cover its skin with
mucus to protect himself from any harm. but with JWA and sodium hydroxide can
disable the mucus of the slug and snail. the small one dies within few seconds
and the bigger one dies slowly after crawling around a bit. and next is the
nuclear bomb of coffee tree. all the solution that coffee farmer had was just
cutting off the tree when it occurs. but with the recipe that I invented to treat
CBB were very simple. all we needed was JS, JWA, sodium hydroxide, and fine soil.
treating most difficult pest with such simple solution feels something
ridiculously fantastic. with this exact recipe you can also control fire ant and
white ant as well. next I want to talk about all-purpose pesticide. as you can
hear from the name this is all-purpose natural pesticide that can control both
pest and viruses in the same time. this is based on mixture of JS, JWA, and
Ginkgo JHS. you may add fine soil and sodium hydroxide during emergency. this
recipe can be used throughout the whole year. it will never build up any
tolerance to any pest. and next is fungicide for powdery mildew. the disease
shows small white powder spot on variety of crops all over the world and it is
usually appeared on the surface of the leaves. these disease are among many
reason why farmers give up organic farming because there is not a proper
organic fungicide available to treat powdery mildew. but don't feel lonely
because it is also same problem to conventional farmers as well. combination
of JWA and JS alone can perfectly control powdery mildew. now let's move on
to the downy mildew. this is a disease that causes leaves to turn yellow. this
is also well known as difficult problem to treat even with chemical solutions.
downy mildew solution is also not much different from powdery mildew solution
ratio. all you need is to increase a little bit of JS. next is fungicide for
gray mold. this disease cause serious damage on greenhouse cultivated crops.
gray molds are usually formed with thick layer of fungus on the surface of the
fruit which makes solution to be harder to penetrate. but just by increasing the
amount of JWA, the penetration ability of the solution will increase. next one
is the anthracnose. there is not a single fungicide that can treat or stop this
disease. it is known to cause by the rain splashing on the crop. once it occurs
spreading the radius is about 4.5 meters a day. anthracnose is known as
unstoppable virus carrying train. however JADAM method can be great solution to
this problem. here's a thing that has to be done carefully. it is mandatory to
apply solution within 10 hours after rain and during emergency it is required
to spray with one day interval maximum of three days to avoid any serious
damage. only other experts would recommend to trim off the disease fruit
to prevent further infection. but with JADAM natural pesticide it is not so
necessary. it is possible because it works even without trimming the damaged
ones. the virus will stop spreading once it is sprayed a couple of times. next is
the wilt disease. I believe this disease are caused because of lack of root
promotion. and believe it or not most of crops that attacked by the wilt disease
have a weaker roots. once you pull the plant out from the ground you can
definitely check it. you might find the answer difficult but solution is rather
very simple. just irrigate or sprinkle JMS before transplanting. it is important
to irrigate thoroughly deep enough to wet the ground to one meter below at least
four times before planting. once you start to make your own input you can
reduce 150 of the cost compared to conventional farming. after all these
invention I have published JADAM organic farming book which elaborated our
technologies in much more detail. it is translated in Mandarin for both
traditional and simplified, Spanish, Japanese, English, which all of them are
now most top-selling book in amazon.com. and here is the book hundred herbs which
introduced hundred different kind of wild herbs which can be used as natural
pesticide. we spent over the past 30 years to establish this methodology. tens
of thousands of Korean member farmers are practicing this method. and we can
run this organization for this long time is because we had their support and
donation. you can cultivate your own microbial input which is extremely
important in organic farming. you can go self-sufficient in liquid fertilizer
with no cost just by using water and leaf mold soil. organic farming cannot be
spreaded through campaigns and education. solution is simple. only when farmers
realize that organic farming is less costly and easier, only then organic
farming can spread faster. current system of expensive organic farming present no
future for farmers. and JADAM made big breakthrough to overcome that obstacle
in natural pesticide. we must try to become independent from agricultural
monopoly that large corporation has created. and all the farmers must take
the initiative in agriculture technology. so let's make a revolutionary change in
agriculture with JADAM. organic farming for farmers and by farmers will save the
planet and humans. let's go all together to open up the new world of organic
agriculture. thank you
