hi this is Youngsang Cho the founder of JADAM. in this video I'm going to talk
about calcium boron and sulfur which is known to be essential for farming.
while farming we often hear about essential elements to be added in our farm.
substance like nitrogen, phosphoric acid, potassium, calcium, sulfur, magnesium,
boron, cobalt, manganese, molybdenum, germanium and selenium. you can also find
a topic and advertisement regarding this in many YouTube channels as well. so
today I'm going to elaborate in detail how to solve this complicated method and
what could be the alternative solution. before getting into this there are a
couple of basic things that people need to know for plant growth. there are
several different kind of nutrient need to be present for healthy growth of crop.
the crop will grow healthy when all the nutrients are well balanced. if there is
a lack of nutrient it can cause problem directly connects to the growth but it
can also be a problem when certain nutrients are overload. and this is the
part where people find most difficulty of balancing all nutrients that are
needed for crop. if you look at this chart there are optimal nutrient ratio
for the crop. 1.5 of nitrogen and 0.5 potassium, 0.2 phosphorus and 0.1 of
sulfur. and when all these elements is balanced only then the crop will grow
healthy. but can we really balance all these things element by element for
healthy growth of the plant? let me tell you that it is actually very difficult
and even an expert also struggle to do this. before elaborating in detail let me
show you how I farm. every year I farm about 60 different kinds of organic
vegetables and I have never added calcium and boron and sulfur separately.
even without that I'm able to produce most high quality vegetable throughout
the year. moreover as time passes I am able to produce two to three times more
than conventional farming. and many experts tell people to foliar spray
calcium at the second half of the harvest and that is essential for the
crop. however I have never done what they have been telling me. am I the only
one weirdo that telling people about nonsense ideas? no. in JADAM website there
are 60,000 members just in Korea who are practicing JADAM method. and many of us
here are not obsessed with foliar spraying with calcium and boron. one out
of many claims from farming YouTube channels and expert seminar is that
calcium and boron is an immobile element inside plant tissue and because of it
these two particular elements should be foliar sprayed. however I can tell you
that is wrong. this is the picture taken from my farm and is the evidence that it
works even without it. so did any farmers ever do calcium and boron foliar spray
at the second end of cultivation before green revolution like 40 and 50 years
ago? not at all. some of the experts claim that it is
essential in farming but here I am telling you that it's not really
necessary. and I bet you must be so confused by now. and when people are
confused I often tell them to observe the nature. look at the deep forest and
look at the robust tree and look at the trees on the top of the mountain. if
calcium and boron is an immobile element inside plant tissue can this beautiful
nature exist in the first place? there is no way trees can survive if that too
only is an immobile element. so those claims are proven to be wrong and we
have the answer right front of us. however there are a few things that we
all have to know the difference between human farming and nature farming. as we
sell or consume whatever it is produced there are some minerals and nutrients
are missing in soil. and yes we do need to fill it up the missing nutrient. so
how can we do it? there are many options but above all there is a great solution
for this problem. and that is utilizing our main household item which is a salt
or utilize the seawater. and inside a sea salt or seawater there are about 83
different kinds of minerals included. if you look at closely to the chart you can
see magnesium, calcium, potassium, boron, even sulfur is included. what's even more
amazing is the nutritional balance of minerals in this seawater is very
similar with amniotic fluid in the mother's womb. and fluid of the plants
even blood plasma of human is almost identical to this mineral. so many
experts claims that plants and animals originally evolved from sea. so now we
know the salt can be the best and perfect solution for the missing
nutrient. however many of farmers are actually afraid to use this. and do you
know why is that? it's because a lot of experts has been telling people not to
use salt or seawater. and I believe this has led to another confusion in your
mind. just right now I told you to absorb the nature and now it's the time to
absorb again. this is the satellite view of Korean Peninsula. and three side of
this peninsula is covered with ocean. and the seawater sprinkles about three
kilometers radius from the ocean side towards inner land. and it continues to
drop 24 hours for millennia. and it's not surprised that Oceanside farm produces
most high quality with great taste. and this is not just about Korean Peninsula.
anywhere in the world have their best fruits and vegetables near the ocean.
utilizing sea salt or seawater for agriculture is actually proven by
history. this is not an individual opinion. but benefits of utilizing salt
for agriculture is also stated in archive in a Rural Development
Administration of Korea. if you google the research, there is a plenty of
research conducted with scientific base. and this salt is proven to improve taste
and has a function of preventing pest and disease. so in this video what I want
to tell you is that you can go for a complicated method purchasing all the
ingredients from outside and not be able to find perfect ratio. instead you can
follow the same way of our ancestor farming method by just simply using the
sea salt or seawater for lack of minerals in your soil. and I guarantee
you that it works even without purchased calcium, boron, and sulfur product. but
here's one thing that we all have to keep in mind that using excessive amount
of salt can actually cause toxic in your soil. so for that I have a calculated
numbers of safe amount. and the calculation is simple. just multiply 1%
of your harvest then you'll be able to get the numbers of the salt that you'll
be needing. and there can be many ways to apply salt in your farm such as you can
irrigate the small quantity through the pipe once a week when you irrigate
or you can just scatter on the surface. if this calculation is difficult for you
just think simple 500 grams of sea salt is equivalent to 20 liters of seawater
just dilute this sea salt about thousand times to irrigate with one to two weeks
interval for normal crops and scatter 20 kilo of sea salt about four times a year
on the surface of the soil for fruit trees. and this amount is recommended per
thousand square meter. once you try to utilize the sea salt you'll realize how
powerful the effect is. the color of the crops gets much clearer and sugar
contents increases furthermore it helps to prevent diseases. and yeah that's
about it. with this simple method you can save the extra cost for your input. it
will be helpful in your farm just by replacing salt as an alternative
solution for calcium and boron. and if you want to use the sulfur then make
your own. I have invented a method to melt sulfur within short time without
external heating and with just simple tool. this is world first and easiest
method to liquefying sulfur and we call it JADAM sulfur also known as JS. the
complete solution contains about 25% of a high concentration of sulfur and one
liter of this solution only cost you lesser than 60 cents.
