so ladies and gentlemen, please repeat after me.
soil is the history of my farm.
most of farmers all does soil testing every year.
right?
and because of these reason,
you can't escape from using chemical fertilizers.
The problems of the soil testing is as you can see,
there are different layers of the soil where all the roots reaches.
Right?
and to do the soil testing,
you have to collect bunch of amount of the soil to mix all together
and take the small portion out of it as a soil sample.
But are we really following that exact instruction?
Most of farmers just collect roughly without any care.
Even if you know collected carelessly,
people still believe in that result and data.
Is this a joke or what?
If you just submitted the sample that has not followed the instruction,
then will there be lots of error?
Obviously, there are going to be tons of error
and you know there is an error in the result.
Even if the sample testing is done carefully,
the small portion can't really tell the condition of the whole area.
So then can we trust that result?
No, but ironically people all trust on that result.
The results will show like lack of nitrogen,
phosphoric acid, etc.
Then what will people from the lab say to you?
There's not much to explain actually.
At the end, it all leads to purchasing customized compost and fertilizers.
What is this?
You've done soil testing for what?
To purchase one more of their product?
There can be accurate diagnostic in this way.
So my point is you can do soil testing,
but keep that as reference material
because it is not 100% accurate information
and because of that reason,
those informations are useless.
So now we know there is a lot of problems in the soil
and to solve that issue,
we have to start calculation, right?
Since the test informations are not usable.
If you follow the way I do irrigating JMS frequently
before transplanting and following base
and additional fertilizer method,
then eventually the soil will become fertile.
But if you keep on following the test results,
you'll mess up your soil and never be able to solve those issue
even until your day of death.
And furthermore,
don't be tempted by our government's free input giveaway.
I don't even use limestone powder in my farm.
Do you know why?
Because I don't see any changes in the soil
and not even in a deeper death.
It won't stabilize the pH in my soil.
Just irrigating JMS alone can do enough job to fertilize the soil.
And you have to be aware that you can add anything in the soil,
but you can't take it out again.
This is the reason why I also never ever used oyster shell and crab shell
because I know I can't take it out again.
Like I said before,
성속이려, the good and bad are one.
Everything has to be in balance
and every nutrient also should be in balance
in order to achieve the soil fertility.
Raise your hand and repeat after me.
Before transplanting, irrigate JMS.
JAK, JAK, JAK, JAK, at least four times.
Believe it or not,
after irrigation, the soil will be even softer in a deeper death
and the crop will deeper its roots
like the video that I showed you in the past hours.
When the roots are well spreaded,
then you are ready to go.
Raise your hand and repeat after me.
What is visible represents what is invisible.
Make sure initial rooting as your first goal of farming
then step up for the next concern.
Please repeat after me.
Soil is like our body.
The disease will occur when nutritional balance is broken.
