this time I'm going to talk about no-till farming.
I did no-till farming mainly with chili pepper,
but this method is not limited to just chili
and the benefits that I have absorbed is that it does greatly improve the growth
and the amount every year and to prevent the heat damage.
I do not use normal plastic mulch instead.
I use landscape fabric and wider beds compared to conventional method.
What is commonly known and taught is planting 10 to 12 lines of chili crops in every 3 square meter,
but I only plant five lines and people talk about impossibility of organic chili production in an open field,
but I believe that is not true.
You can do chili farming in an open field without hassle with JADAM method and that too even organic.
Pest and disease are not a problem for us.
And this method also includes a surface compost application.
Let me show the picture.
The width of the crop bedding is 1.6 meter,
which is quite big,
but this is because we have tall chili plants.
The crop won't be stable if the bedding is too small
and spraying natural pesticide is also going to be hard due to lack of space.
The size of the bedding is a lot more bigger compared to the conventional method.
This picture is six years old when I moved from Hadong to Daejeon.
When I was doing this,
many people made fun of me because I was not using big heavy machines to save time,
but I knew that it will cause compaction in the soil.
The current farm that we have was sprayed with chemicals for over 40 years before I got there.
The conditions were terrifying,
but I choose to test my method in a harsh condition like that.
Right side is me and left is JADAM staff.
So I made the bedding with that width and after that I never touch it.
Buying a rotor machine is not so necessary because it will be used only once in a lifetime just to make the beds.
That's it.
This structure will be maintained forever.
And instead of using rotor machine for composting,
I did surface compost application.
Using rotor machine is known to essential and convenient for farming,
but it is okay without it.
And next is utilizing landscape fabric because the bedding is 1.6 meter wide.
It is better to use 2 meter wider one.
You can get the diameter from our website in detail.
Then after that,
I've used secondhand 1.5 to 1.8 meter long steel pipe instead of Chile supporting fixture.
The normal cost of Chile supporting fixture is about 70 cents per pipe.
But this steel pipe is cheaper and stable compared to the Chile pipe
because this will be installed with 2.5 meters intervals.
Once it is installed,
it will be permanently be like that and convenient part of this is reduced labor.
And I'll talk about this part later in the detail.
This method is also applicable for every crop like cucumber,
chili, eggplant, capsicum, and many more.
Later on,
I'm going to show you the video about this so that you know how it's all done.
And by cutting the line horizontally for planting the crop,
the landscape fabric won't lose its durability.
By using the tool,
planting will be much easier.
And again,
this is not ordinary plastic mulch.
It's called landscape plastic fabric.
Ordinary plastic mulch will only last for a season or year,
but the domestic landscape fabric lasts about seven years
and German or United States one guarantees 10 to 20 years.
And we buy our seedling from Sungjun Lim,
who is well known for his quality seedlings.
It is unfortunate that we don't have much time to self-sustain all the seedlings.
So we buy from him.
It may be small in size,
but after a few months,
it grows tremendously when it is grown in good care.
After assembly,
we plant about 50 centimeters distance in between each crop.
It feels there's nothing after planting,
but when it grows,
you'll see how the change will be.
As you can see,
there are several pipes installed.
It is the support fixture for any tall annual crop.
Generally,
people use V, X, or Y type fixture for chili plant to shape the chili wider at the upper part.
But our method is not suitable for that design
since we unfold and cover back the fabric at the beginning of the season
and the size wise it is not suitable.
Also,
the plastic string and PVC pipes are the guidelines for chili to grow wider at the top.
This method is so far most suitable with our method of doing chili farming.
The PVC pipe is smaller at the lower part of the steel pipe.
And as the plant grows,
the PVC pipe is also getting longer.
This pipe is used only at the end of each line.
So you'll need two sets of it.
And furthermore,
this PVC pipe is easily available and durable even under sunlight.
So you can use it for longer time as well.
As you can see from the picture,
the pipe will be much longer at the top compared to the bottom.
And again,
these will be installed only at each end of every line.
And the middle should be tightened with plastic string in triangular shape.
And you have to tie twice one in upper and one in lower.
This tying method is not just for the supporting fixture,
but also for high wind and bad weather condition.
Tying twice upper and lower will prevent the crops to fall on the one side.
We have tested many other methods,
but so far,
this is the greatest and most affordable.
We already had cyclone three times in this summer,
and still it was able to stabilize the plant.
And the diameter of the PVC pipes are really depends on the size of your crop.
So there is no specific diameter for it.
I have seen how other people were doing,
but so far,
I believe this is the great alternative solution.
And apart from diameter,
I will talk about a little bit on basic secret techniques of high yield of chili.
Generally, people do not prune the flower of the crop in the beginning stage,
but that will only produce lower amount.
Instead, I prune till third level flower,
which is total of seven of chili,
so that the nutrition can be focused on increasing the amount even more and grow more.
It is common to harvest average of 60 to 70 chilies,
but with this simple techniques,
the chili can produce at least 120 per crop,
which is considered to be twice more than professional farmers.
As you can see from the picture,
take this flower out in early stage after planting,
not later when it is to mature.
And this is the case of chili plants.
So after this procedure,
we start to harvest from fourth layer.
With this simple method,
you can harvest average of 120 per crop or even more.
In our case, we harvest 190 per crop.
And this is the common breed that we grow in South Korea.
And the size of the pepper is also not that small.
10 of these chili weights about 320 grams.
Let's take a look at video.
Now I am inside my greenhouse,
and this is the same breed from last year.
The first harvest was completed,
and now we are ready to begin second harvest.
As you can see with your own eyes,
there are lots of it per tree.
It's been three years after starting from the most contaminated plot in the town.
This land was not suitable for organic farming at all.
But within the time,
I was able to achieve high yield organically,
even in this harsh environment.
It was possible because I use huge amount of JMS in the beginning
for preparing this land.
Every year I see huge improvement.
As I told you before,
I buy organic compost from market because of busy work.
These are the compost that I'm using,
which is also listed on PLS.
It is the most preferred organic compost in JADAM.
These have passed 350 chemical pesticide residue detection test,
and the cost per bag is about $5.
It contains 35% of chicken manure,
and the rest is sawdust and coffee waste.
The blue one is the phyllite powder,
also known as rock powder for minerals.
You'll need about 60 bags of yellow ones
and 10 bags of blue ones in 1000 square meter for one season.
Overall, it will cost $1 per 3 square meter,
which is not really much.
So before composting,
as I mentioned before,
all the residue will going back to the soil.
Doesn't matter what kind,
just put back any disease or abnormal residue.
There are going to be no issue at all.
You may be suspicious,
but you also have to be brave enough to get rid of the conventional thoughts.
And I will tell you again,
these residue are the extract nutrient for the crop.
It contains the most optimal balance of the nutrient for its crop.
And most importantly,
we plant exactly on the same spot where we have planted last time.
It includes all the crops,
not just chili pepper.
Fold the fabric in the middle and put the residue in between the beddings.
And this process will be repeating every year.
As you can see,
all the compost that had been scattered last year is still visible there.
But believe it or not,
even with surface application,
soil is very soft and in good condition.
And because of the good soil condition,
you'd have to install the pipe deep enough to make it stable.
After the process,
we scatter the organic compost and phyllite powder,
then use the rag to spread well,
then cover the fabric back again.
Residue will be also covered along with the fabric.
You can shred the residue with the machine,
but that is also another extra work.
So it is just easier to walk on it without cutting.
And as time passes,
the branches will be decomposed.
So you don't have to worry about that.
At first,
it may look messy,
but paths will be formed in between the beddings soon
after walking on top of it.
So raise your hand and repeat after me.
Fold,
scatter,
and cover.
That's it.
This is what all of you gotta do in the beginning of the season.
You don't have to use rotary machine and take out the pipes.
The structure will be there permanently.
This is what makes JADAM method so different from other farmers.
We are pretty slow compared to the others
because we have less work.
And all we do is drink some shots
and secure the pipe couple of times.
That's it.
After elaborating this infrastructure in detail,
then I'll talk about the pest control
that considered to be the most difficult and hot issue in farming.
Raise your hand and repeat after me.
JWA,
JS,
and JHS.
With this simple three,
you can have full control of all the pest disease and viruses.
This video was narrated by Seong Woo Cho.
