so okay once again please repeat after me.
what is visible represents what is invisible.
say at present the soil pollution in your farm is very severe.
then how can you make this soil recover again?
should we look at the book or go and ask questions to an expert?
so as i said before that don't read a lot of books to confuse your head.
and believe me you can figure out this problem without getting an education.
just like this picture you can find an answer from the nature.
mountain or the forest is where you want to seek the answer for your soil fertility.
and we do not explain soil management in complex language.
instead we explain soil management protocol should follow the same soil condition as leaf mold soil in the nearest mountain or the forest.
how simple is that?
and the only way to deal with contaminated soil is through utilizing active microorganism.
so there are no alternative solution but to utilize microorganisms.
so how can we utilize microorganism?
and where can we get it from?
don't confuse your head with a complete solution like EM.
just simply borrow leaf mold soil that are nearest to your area like mountains or the forest.
make your own microorganism in the soil identical to microorganism that are living in the mountains.
and to enrich the pure organic matter that feeds the microorganism.
then diversify the minerals in the soil.
and i strongly recommend these three methods to recover your soil.
so let me ask you.
how much do you think soil microbiologists know the number of the existence?
at this time whole microbiologists know lesser than 1% and world of microorganism is full of unknown.
and this fact is not just from me but it is stated in the book of microbiology from the first page.
but experts who teaches utilization of microorganism in front of farmers.
they teach as they know almost all of the soil microorganisms.
even if they don't know 99% of the soil microorganisms.
they always recommend farmers to use certain microorganism.
but if you keep on adding certain microorganism to the soil.
a lot of certain microorganisms will be concentrated.
and this means the excretion of the microorganism which is the nutrition for the crop will be concentrated.
and this means it will break the nutritional balance of the soil.
and this is how you will easily begin to ruin your farm.
please repeat after me.
choosing certain microorganisms makes microbes to be concentrated.
and my farm soil nutritional balance will be broken.
and ending up screwing the farm for the whole season.
and what I'm trying to say that is.
please do not pick out these specific microorganisms like photosynthetic fungus nitrogen fixation bacteria and bacillus.
but if you do the balance of soil nutrient will be broken which will interfere with the crop growth.
in that sense the companies who are selling microorganisms in Korea don't even have a moral sense.
70% of our country is covered with the mountains.
they could have just tell people to get better microorganisms from the mountains.
but instead they're selling out all these things that are always around us.
this kind of modernization is ridiculous.
am I the only one getting upset on this?
as I have previously explained about Sungsogiriya.
overuse of certain beneficial bacteria also can be poisonous for the soil.
so it's very wrong to say selectively put only certain bacteria into the soil.
now please repeat after me.
the balance of the microorganisms creates the balance of nutrient.
diversified microorganisms create the nutritional diversity.
honestly I do not hate agricultural product sellers.
there are a lot of good people too.
but my point is that the seller must help farmers to make money while also increasing their sales.
but in my judgment farmers in Korea seem to lose money and power every time.
what is this picture?
something amazing and funny thing happened in the United States.
medical industry is proceeding to buy a human feces of healthy people and put them in a freezer.
and believe it or not this is legal.
selling shit is legal in medical community.
and it sounds like unhealthy people bought certain microorganisms to ease their digestion.
and obviously it didn't work.
but some provocative person mixed up the human feces of healthy person with water.
and maybe the person accidentally found the effects were amazing.
as the effectiveness of the drinking human feces has been proven.
the American medical community recognizes that drinking shit also can be alternative.
since it is quite disgusting to drink shit diluted water.
there are even traders who try and sell shit from healthy people.
maybe in the future every farmer who are organic certified will not only sell their produce.
but also sell their organic human shit too.
so my point here is why is feces of healthy person has got spotlight in the medical science?
until now eating only specific microbial drug were not that effective.
having diversified indigenous microorganisms have proven to work better than having just few.
if you don't want to drink your own shit.
then try the diluted leaf mold soil or capsule leaf mold soil.
it may be uncomfortable in the first time.
but after few times you'll realize how beneficial it is.
and it has a great effect.
microbiota diversity determines the health of your intestine.
this research tells that until now medical community has thought that
certain nutrient bacteria or microorganism is good for human health.
but it has proven that it was not a correct answer.
so as a joke I tell people get organic certified in the future.
and be prepared to sell your organic shit too.
let's move on to the next one.
this is what my father Hangyu Cho, the founder of KNF has been doing to collect IMOs for past decades.
it was a one of the fun and great activities during my learning from him.
with the base on this I came up with better and simpler microbial cultivation method.
let me elaborate this in detail.
so where can we find the best microorganism that is optimized to my farm environment?
will that be in front of the mountain or back of the mountain?
it's in front of the mountain which is the nearest to your farm.
and it is foolish to purchase microbial solution from the market
when you have a whole bunch of great resource in front of you.
so there are no microorganisms in the world that are better than the nearest resource
that are optimized for the environment.
do you agree?
and to utilize the microbes nearby like this picture.
you can bring the leaf mold soil under the fallen leaves.
then pour water to make it bit muddy.
and submerge your seedlings for about two to three minutes before transplanting.
and 20 to 30 minutes for tree seedlings.
by doing this before transplanting makes seedling full pack of variety of different microbes bacteria and viruses.
so even if the seedling have a pathogen the disease does not occur due to microbial diversity.
rather suppress certain pathogen which makes it easy to disinfect the seeds and seedlings.
see it is very simple isn't it?
please repeat after me.
wow so easy.
and this slushy muddy water acts as rooting promoter allowing roots to grow well.
so now you know this fact right?
so don't buy that expensive root promoting product in the future.
use the leaf mold soil to sterilize the soil and seedlings.
okay?
and second,
I have developed the easiest microbial cultivation method in the world.
and it's by using boiled potato and leaf mold soil.
all you need to do is to prepare leaf mold soil and boiled potato and sea salt.
how easy and simple is that?
but this simple method of using this microbial solution makes the soil extremely good.
most of microbiologists recommend aerobic cultivation that injects air into microbial solution.
except me.
most of experts will recommend aerobic cultivation.
then we need to see the how deep oxygen is there in the soil.
just under 2.5 centimeter into the soil has significantly less amount of oxygen.
don't you feel strange when I say this?
the environment where roots are growing is like this.
the soil is like this from the first place.
it all grows in an aerobic environment.
then why do you have to put air for microbial solution where it is going to be used in an aerobic environment?
soil is originally free of oxygen at deeper depth.
and the plant grows in that environment.
soil microorganisms live in an aerobic environment.
but does microbiologist and researchers experts know about this fact?
of course they know.
information of an aerobic in the soil is open to the public.
however, microbiologists and experts always recommend to put air bubbler.
and they recommend to set specific temperature.
then what happens if you accept these two recommendations?
you may start to wonder whether to buy microbial incubator.
telling farmers to set specific temperature and add air injector doesn't mean that it is an effective technology.
it is just an incubator promoting strategy.
and all they want is to sell one more.
in this way, a lot of microbial incubators are sold to farmers.
now, farmers don't have money.
so they sell large microbial cultivator to agriculture technology centers.
however, here in JADAM, we do not recommend aerobic cultivation or any specific temperature.
but they will tell you to fix certain temperature like 32 Celsius degree.
but if you do, you are going to cultivate microbes that only likes 32 Celsius degree.
so if we really want to cultivate microbes optimized for the crop,
then do we need to set it to 32 Celsius degree?
or match the temperature which crops are experiencing?
microbial cultivation should be done at room temperature.
so if you want microorganisms that are optimized for greenhouse environment,
then it should be cultivated inside the greenhouse that matches the temperature where crops are experiencing.
and for open field, it should be done in the open field.
if you do, then you get microorganisms optimized for the crop in this simple way.
so all you need is the leaf mold soil, the microbes,
boiled potato for their feed, and sea salt for additional minerals.
and for foreign audience, it is not mandatory to cultivate with potato.
but you can also use boiled sweet potato to banana or rice,
any fruits and roots or leaves that contains high carbohydrate.
depending on what is cheap and easily available to your location.
the reason behind using potato here in South Korea is because it is easily available
and cheap and faster cultivation.
so cultivating your own microbes are not a difficult technique.
and you can use the plastic bucket as a microbes incubator.
and we call this technology the JADAM microorganism solutions also known as JMS.
and believe it or not,
the use of this JMS will change your agriculture completely.
furthermore, the manufacturing process of variety technologies
are uploaded on our JADAM website and our YouTube channel.
and many people ask me if they can incubate microorganisms with molasses.
the process will be faster like potato and you'll be fine.
but there are some fatal drawback.
the pH drops to 3.5.
if you see these days,
the use of chemical fertilizers and chemical pesticide on the soil causing serious soil acidification.
since soil is acidified,
the experts recommend to spray limestone powder before planting crops.
but in such a situation,
would it be appropriate to add molasses into the soil?
the amazing part of using boiled potato as a medium for microbial cultivation
is that the pH of the solution is maintained at about 6.5.
using potatoes as a feed is a great choice of cultivating microbes.
it's a simple but really amazing and very effective technology.
furthermore, we can apply the exact same technology to cultivate custom functional microbes.
for example,
adding tomatoes with potato will cultivate functional customized microorganism
that is optimized for tomatoes.
putting apples will cultivate apple-like functional microorganisms.
in this way,
you can directly incubate expensive functional microorganisms that worth $200 per bottle.
please repeat after me.
wow so easy.
you can also use the blender to make the process even faster.
and this is a microbial cultivation curve graph.
to know whether it is available to use is by absorbing the bubbles.
there is a little bubble during the initial stage of incubation
and it gradually increases as time passes.
like this picture,
there are many bubbles when the foam reaches its peak.
that is the time when you want to use the solution right away.
because if you miss the timing,
the bubble will decrease and it will lose its function.
when there is no crop in the soil,
you can spray the pure without dilution.
but when there is a crop,
you want to dilute about 10 to 100 times in the water for use.
again,
when bubbles disappears,
the solution has no function as microbe solution.
in that case,
you can use the solution as liquid fertilizers after diluting about 10 times.
and when temperature is below 20 degrees,
you can use the heater to cultivate.
and the reason why we are using the heater during the winter
is because microbes cannot grow under 18 Celsius degree.
so let me show you the video that how it's all done.
so normally it takes about two to three days to reach the peak.
and use the heater during the colder weather.
but whole timing can be different depending on the temperature.
so do you see this bubble well in the picture?
when bubble is at the peak,
that means there is larger number of microorganisms are active in the solution.
this is the right timing that you want to use.
utilization of microorganism is the most important part of today's lecture.
raise your hand and repeat after me.
big plastic bucket.
fill the water.
grind boiled potatoes.
and put the potatoes in the net.
put some leaf mold soil.
add sea salt.
and shake it.
after that,
just close the lid of the bucket.
that's it.
it's simple.
only when it is cold,
use a heater to incubate.
and during spring, summer, autumn,
do it in the room temperature.
you should do your best to utilize potato microbial cultivation.
by using these microorganisms,
you'll see that the soil has improved tremendously within a year.
the secret of high yield is very simple.
when the roots of the crops are wide and deep,
the crops can easily produce high yield.
also I'm going to remind you again,
do not use an air injector to cultivate microorganisms.
if you use air injector,
then you will never know when is the peak.
quite honestly,
it is idiotic behavior.
microorganisms are all about game of number.
the more microbes in the solution,
the more effective it is.
and lots of bubble means,
the more effective the solution is.
when the form reaches its peak,
1cc of the solution contains about 100 millions of microorganisms.
100 times dilution of 500 liters of microbial solution is equivalent to 50,000 liters.
and that is 50 tons.
but if you purchase microbial product from the market,
usually the product contains about 1 million microbes in 1cc.
that means if you use the technology that we provided,
then it's like putting 50,000 bottles of commercial microbes.
even if you use only once,
you will realize that how powerful the effect is.
in general,
conventional method doesn't recommend solution to be added before planting
due to hardening of the soil when it is mixed or sprayed with water.
but this JMS won't harden the soil.
repeating the JMS irrigation several times makes the soil very soft like sponge.
so when is the most appropriate time to apply JMS?
for fruit trees,
it is very important to apply at the beginning of the spring
and during autumn after the leaf has fallen.
and for annual crops and season vegetables,
it is best to apply before transplanting.
you can utilize JMS throughout the whole year,
but it is very important to apply before transplanting.
you can use all kind of ways like through irrigation or with the sprinkler.
you can also mix with the drinking water of your livestock.
and please repeat after me.
the plant heart is like my heart.
this is the reason why you don't need to learn agriculture from book.
farming technology is not that complicated.
so when you know your physical body,
then you know how agriculture works.
just look at the farming techniques based on common sense.
say you're planning to build 10-story building.
then what do you have to plan first?
first, we have to plan the foundation of the ground to make building steady.
right?
then don't you think plants are also thinking the same?
plants also have intelligence like human.
the moment crop seedlings are planted in the soil,
the crops lower the roots and diagnose before how far the upper stem of their body can grow.
keep this in mind when you're farming.
the yield is determined by the initial rooting.
it is same with fruit trees.
the tree's yield already gets determined before flowering.
this is the reason why the first initial rooting is the most important farming skill
that we all need to realize.
raise your hand and repeat after me.
what is visible represents what is invisible.
my crops are like fish.
this means it can only go down to where the water can smear.
because it has fish-like characteristics,
will it be better to apply before raining or after raining?
and the answer is that it is better to apply before it rains.
so it goes deep with rainwater.
then what about inside the greenhouse where there is no rain at all?
in that case, you'll have to irrigate large number of water at least for 19 minutes before planting.
and 20 minutes after planting.
it is very important to repeat the process in the ground deeply before planting and flowering.
the use of microorganisms before planting and before flowering
determines the yield of whole year and season.
