when the soil is improved through the use of JMS,
the roots of the crop extend deeply
and the crops grow very largely even in an open field.
and there is no great secret to my farming techniques.
There are many people who have learned pepper cultivation from me
and they told me that the price of chili powder in entire country has dropped
because of my simple techniques.
and I guess that is maybe true.
look at this picture on the left is my wife and she's sitting next to the chili plants
and the pepper grows in an open field has grown very big.
when I was having drink with people I taught chili farming,
one of them said,
hey youngsang, I know your technology is very effective,
but I don't think I've learned anything special because it is just way too easy.
and that is true.
There is nothing special in this method.
As you can see the red pepper grows tremendously even in an open field.
anyway repeat after me.
important part to keep in mind before planting is that
you'd want to repeat this irrigation so that the JMS wet entire ground
even in between the roots before transplanting.
and to do that you have to irrigate for more than 90 minutes to make whole ground to be wet.
then irrigate again with 4 to 5 days intervals.
repeat this process at least 4 times before transplanting.
raise your hand and repeat after me.
before planting irrigate JMS at least 4 times.
JAK JAK JAK JAK
so that JMS can make the soil very soft before transplanting the seedlings.
repetitive use of JMS before planting is the key technology for high yields.
as I mentioned before this is the most important part of today's lecture.
even if you try for the first time you will see the difference from the size of the plant at the end.
believe it or not everyone in the village will come to see it.
and they really came to me and asked that what kind of special growth enhancer did I spray?
even if I haven't sprayed anything.
please repeat after me.
success of initial rooting brings high yield.
so you have irrigated JMS before planting and before flowering.
after that something really amazing thing happens that you never realized but also never expected.
due to the repeated use of JMS the number of various microorganisms in the soil increases.
in the meantime the surprising thing is that the soil disease that are frequently caused by pathogens are disappeared.
while farming we all are scared of disease on soil.
because if it happens the farm can be completely destroyed.
however the increase in microbial diversity prevents from disease spreading on the soil and on the crop.
and this includes not just annual crops but also for the fruit trees.
instead of using highly toxic pesticide to kill certain pathogens.
just frequently use JMS to fill the empty space with full pack of different kind of bacteria and viruses.
so that certain virus cannot outbreak in the soil or the crop.
please repeat after me.
anthracnose on the plant is similar with athlete's foot.
when you walk on a barefoot various fungi inhabits the soil on your feet.
so the more you walk on barefoot the faster you will heal from it.
this technology is same principle with the treating athlete's foot.
when there is anthrax driving on the crops that also means that it has conquered other bacterias and been able to obtain food for the virus.
isn't it?
this may sound a little bit ignorant but the principle of prevention is that
when you diversify the bacteria and viruses on the crop and soil then certain pathogen won't occur.
when competition for food intensifies then advantage of anthrax naturally become impossible.
moreover when the JMS is cultivated with seawater or sea salt 83 kinds of minerals are already present in the JMS.
so there is no mineral deficiency in the crops.
frequent use of JMS before planting improves initial rooting improves soil and no pathogens are formed.
also enrich the minerals in the soil.
all you need is just to help the roots to go deep and wide.
when the roots are deep and wide absorption of the minerals will increase and it will automatically improve the yield.
done.
it's simple.
so there is nothing to teach here.
actually this applies to the same with corn onion and garlic farm.
just spray or irrigate JMS occasionally to improve the quality as well.
increasing various microorganisms makes soil become rich in minerals.
so farming goes well just by itself.
there are nothing special with this skill.
the only important skill in farming is to put this into practice with recognition of the importance of rooting.
frequent use of JMS in orchard also increases the number of microorganisms causing soil temperatures to rise.
that means there is no winter frost damage on the tree.
repeat after me.
the tree is taking lower body bath.
because it heats up the soil.
people who are using JMS in the colder climate will never have winter frost damage on trees.
you can't literally compare the effects with the commercial micro products.
this JMS is the game changer.
the soil will be completely improved by this microbes.
as you can see in the picture.
when anything is planted the roots are dancing in the soil.
and moreover you won't have a problem of soil nematodes.
it has never been a problem for us at all from the first place.
so will there be any larva or onion maggot when soil is rich in microbes?
no.
when we are about to farm we have too many worries just for the soil.
because of onion maggot, larva, maw, nematode, slug and many more.
and these worries make our head blow in the beginning.
but when you just think about irrigating JMS things become easier.
almost all problems in your head will be gone without even realizing it.
so after I started to spread this knowledge.
experts started to spread rumors that I am very ignorant and people are stupid enough to listen to me.
but whatever they say the method works better than anything.
even without rocket science to complicate technology things can be easier.
and this is not random voodoo science.
this results truly based on true science.
that when you increase the diversity of microbes will prevent certain virus to attack on the plants or the soil.
so how can we deal with bacterial shorthaul?
what about wilt disease?
complicated isn't it?
just raise your hand and repeat after me.
what is visible represents what is invisible.
we shouldn't look at certain virus have caused the disease.
diagnosis is simple.
the whole problem comes from the roots and soil condition.
trust me when you have those in your farm then just pull it out and check.
do you think any plant will have any disease when the root has spreaded well?
it is quite impossible.
when you realize that it is the problem of the root and the soil then answer is simple.
just irrigate JMS before planting and occasionally during when plant is growing.
trust me you don't have to leave the farm because of the contamination and disease and the virus.
think about it.
we all are so anxious because of this virus might attack our farm.
and when it attacks we're all like shit whole season and year is gone without any income.
that's how farmers go through another unsuccessful gloomy year.
and i'm not here to teach you some nonsense to get extra from your pocket.
trust me i guarantee you that all the considered disease and viruses won't likely to spread on the farm compared to before.
and even if it does you can control it with some other easy and simple technology that i'm going to teach you.
so when you utilize the JMS then your farming becomes convenient without worry.
the video that i'm going to show you is about how plant grows when soil is in great condition.
and this video is from youtube and the channel is called g face.
so let's get started.
again this is the most important part in today's lecture.
raise your hand and repeat after me.
irrigate JMS before planting.
you can use all kind of way to apply it through irrigation or with sprinkler or any sprayer.
for orchard it is highly recommend with the sprinkler.
for annual crop and seasonal crop apply it before planting.
and for trees apply before flowering and after harvest during the autumn when leaf has fallen.
500 liters of JMS can cover up to 8 acres within 10 to 100 times dilution.
you will see the amazing effects right away.
and cultivating JMS barely cost anything so it is worth to try.
the most important knowledge in farming is not some complicated technology.
it is all about what you have known for basic.
raise your hand and repeat after me.
what is visible represents what is invisible.
this is the first thing that you want to focus on.
and after that if you have some other problems then focus on that later.
