so what is the principle of organic farming technology?
I often encourage people not to read agriculture books and not to even get a
lot of education on this.
then how can we learn about agriculture technology?
don't worry about it.
I'll give you a very simple solution.
I often say that agriculture technology is like gum in our mouth.
if your gums are weak your teeth will sway freely.
if the perception of agriculture technology is weak
an objective evaluation of various technologies cannot be made.
so the more agriculture technology education you get,
the more complex and difficult the agriculture feels.
so if you keep on applying technologies without self-subjectivity on technology,
using variety of technology will always bring failure and confusion at the end.
so after 40 to 50 years of farming,
say on the eve of the farmer's death and son asked the farmers how to farm,
but in farmer's head there's nothing like an answer but only confusion about farming
after applying various technology without knowing what he was doing.
then what good farmer would answer before his death?
son, just live hard.
this is because he has been a farmer for his whole life
but he has been deceived by these professionals and experts for his entire life.
if you don't have an awareness of strong foundation about agriculture technology,
you'll be confused until the day of death.
so from now on, I'll tell you how to learn agriculture technology so easily.
first, this is a word said by Confucius 2500 years ago.
도법자연.
what does it mean?
it means learn life through nature.
and to farmers, it means if you get confused while farming,
then simply ask nature.
nature has already been farming for tens of millions of years before us.
so what is the difference between nature way of farming and human farming?
and the difference is that we only farm which is profitable for us.
am I right?
do not try to seek answers from the experts or from the books.
but ask all the question of agriculture directly from nature.
and call nature like this.
hey! hey!
and this is how you call nature like a friend.
then ask nature one by one.
ask nature about monocropping failure.
since only one crop is planted in the soil,
crops will gradually produce less and farming becomes a struggle.
so you will approach an expert to ask why is this occurring in your field.
and they will mostly come up with crop rotation as a solution.
but we have no choice but to plant the same crops.
however, let's ask nature directly.
ask the question of monocropping failure.
repeat after me.
hey! nature! don't you have a monocropping failure?
and nature answers me that there is no monocropping failure.
so I asked again.
hey nature! then are you doing crop rotation?
when I asked, nature replies that they do not rotate but does monocropping.
and I was shocked by nature's answer.
yes there is no crop rotation in nature.
surprisingly there is also no monocropping failure in the nature.
this is the technology that we all need to learn.
so ladies and gentlemen, what is the principle of this nature's farming?
this picture that I'm going to describe is very important.
in nature, will the roots of the crop selectively absorb the nutrient or absorb anything unconditionally?
just like how dogs and cats have different dietary preference,
each plant also has different diet.
like that, crops selectively suck up the nutrient they need from the soil.
so like I said, the top layer of the soil is nutrient extract that is optimized for crops need.
isn't it?
so in nature, all these leaves that are nutrient extract pile up on the soil in the fall.
one year, five years, ten years, 30 years, 50 years.
so what kind of change does monocropping make in the soil?
so over time, the nutritional balance in the soil and the neath is optimized for the crops.
do you agree?
so as the nutritional balance of the soil is optimized for the crop,
something amazing happens.
if the tree that exists in nature does not move,
and if there is no war and fire,
the tree will have its eternal life.
however, almost all agriculture experts teach farmers to remove all the leaves.
and they taught farmers to treat these nutrient extract as failure, virus, and disease.
right?
so what choice should you make?
you have to erase all the skills that you've learned so far.
just farm alone with nature and its wisdom.
so in order to follow nature,
it is mandatory to put all the leaves and stems back into the soil.
putting the residue back into the soil allows to build good nutritional base for the high yield of the crop.
so why should we burn and destroy the crop residue that is nutrient extracts?
if you remove the residue, then crop will grow weak.
you would need more fertilizers to support the nutrient and more pesticide for pest control.
stop thinking about other technologies.
just take the bold path of natural farming.
believe in nature and put the crop residue back into the soil.
on top of that, if you think there is nutritional deficient,
then add some other minerals and nutrient.
let's talk through this confusion with nature for true agriculture.
secondly, now i'm going to ask nature about microorganisms.
nowadays, they teach that farmer have to use microorganisms to make soil fertile after farming.
even an agriculture technology center may give out some free microbes.
and experts recommend EM.
doctors and professors from some other companies recommend their own microbes.
again, it becomes another confusion in your head.
just like i said, when you are confused about which microbes to use,
simply ask nature about these problems.
call him out loud.
hey! hey!
nature, do you use microbes?
i asked and nature answered.
just take it.
and i said, what?
then i asked nature again.
what should i take from nature?
so let's look at the soil in the mountains or the forest that are nearest to your farm.
in autumn, the leaves fall and microbes break it down leaving soft soil beneath the leaves.
nature says, take this leaf mold soil below.
ladies and gentlemen, organic farming is nothing new concept to this world.
since the time of Joseon dynasty,
the Korean peninsula has a 5,000 years of history doing organic farming.
organic farming is not new at all.
for 5,000 years, microbiologists have never sold microbes.
everyone relied on this.
nature whispers, take it and use it.
please repeat after me.
take it and use it.
i'll teach you in the next hour how to utilize the leaf mold soil to cultivate microorganisms.
the utilization of the leaf mold soil is the key technology for high yield.
next, i will ask nature about fertility.
farming skills are not complicated.
it is simple.
so how does base fertilizers and additional fertilizer work together to balance crops
with optimized nutrient?
and this must be everyone's lifelong unsolved question.
raise your hand if you know about fertility.
fertility is the most important part of agriculture techniques.
how do you approach to this issue?
as rumor spreads that rice bran works well,
so we continue to put rice bran every year into the soil where tomato grows.
and this idea has become one of the most common trends in between farmers.
increasing the amount of rice bran into the soil gradually leads to the failure in farming.
and you might wonder that why can we farm successfully when we have already added good
quality rice bran.
and let me tell you it's because the nutritional balance of tomato soil has changed to suit rice
farming.
this is an absurd.
and also about perilla oil cake.
if you put too much in a cucumber field,
the fertility of the cucumber soil will optimize for perilla.
in this way, farmers are more into confusion by temptation of the experts.
because of these reasons, the whole technology gets messed up.
ladies and gentlemen,
please don't leave agricultural skills to the experts.
just walk the path of agriculture simply by asking direct to nature.
please repeat after me.
do-bop-ja-yeon.
when you ask nature about the answer of fertility,
nature explains to you very easily and simply.
and to absorb how the soil fertility is formed,
just wait under the tree and see how nature process it.
the leaves fall in autumn and the grass grows and falls on the ground.
we've only learned how to get compost from outside to put it in the soil.
but we can observe that nature is 100% self-sufficient
without depending on any compost bought from store.
if you see the principle of formation of nature's fertility,
crop residues,
grasses,
soil minerals break down into microorganisms replenishing minerals.
these three simple steps are repeated to complete soil fertility optimized for the tree every year.
is this clear enough to you all?
then nature asks,
why are you so interested in soil fertility?
so I answer,
I am interested in high yield and high sugar content.
then nature talks back to me saying,
then don't read too much books.
don't try to learn agricultural skills through books.
please follow the way of how I farm before asking to someone.
my way is the best technique for high yield and sweetness.
so why don't you do it on that foundation?
is this sound absurd to you all?
what I felt doing organic farming for 31 years.
that the farming skills are easily understandable with simple common sense even for a child.
farming is really nothing to learn.
rather what you have learned is causing your problem.
please repeat after me.
take it and use it.
follow me.
wow so easy.
so now let's take a look at fertilization method.
all the correct answers were in the nature.
leaves fall in autumn.
the leaves are broken down by microorganisms and turned into soft soil.
through observation you get the right answer.
natural fertilization happens in autumn.
natural fertilization is surface application.
and natural fertilization is row fertilizer.
what do you think?
but now we are into completely different method compared to traditional natural farming
that our ancestors have been practicing for more than 5,000 years.
so when did our ancestors make microbial fermentation beforehand?
they simply piled it up and sprinkled it up here and there in the fall.
when it was scattered on the surface of the soil,
ingredients were fermented by soil moisture and microorganisms.
why did this convenient technology disappear?
it is simple.
if you don't deeply fertilize, the machine won't sell.
the compost won't sell.
the input traders have reversed the traditional organic farming skills and technology to benefit themselves.
the application of autumn fertilization to spring fertilization,
surface fertilization to deep fertilization,
then raw fertilization to fermentation.
most of farming techniques you learn are strictly tied up to interest of these corporations.
there may be some objection,
but we must seriously pay attention to this reality of current agriculture technology.
if you follow the agriculture technology created by these corporations,
you will spend a lot of money and you will keep on failing.
and because of this reason,
the suicide rate of the farmers are increasing worldwide.
every case is related to economic bankruptcy.
so we must ask nature all the questions that remain in your heart.
it may feel a little bit awkward to talk first,
but if you have a couple of drinks,
then the conversation will be smoother.
and that's why it is better to enjoy alcohol in order to grow well.
so what are these leaves under the tree?
this is a nutrient extract needed for this tree from the soil.
that also means apple tree leaves are nutritious extract optimized for apple trees.
so these leaves should never be considered as the origin of the disease.
it's the most perfect base fertilizers for farming.
and all the leaves should need to be put in the soil for the crop.
and next is,
성속이려.
this means that what is sacred and what is unsacred are the same.
if you break it down,
then it means that heaven and hell are not divided.
and this word is against the current religion.
but we already know what this means.
an excessive amount of medicine can be poison.
if a poison is adequate, it becomes a medicine.
people often use a lot of rice bran, perilla oil cake, and castor pomace
because they think it is good for the crop.
but if you use it too much,
the soil nutritional balance will be optimized for castor, rice, and perilla.
this is an easy way to ruin your farming.
furthermore, castor pomace is highly toxic and has been avoided worldwide.
but local traders are bringing just to sell for wrong trend.
the meaning of 성속이려 is that if anything is too much,
then it can be also poisonous.
just like when you have too much oxygen, you die.
when you drink too much water,
you are going to be over hydrated and that can lead to seizure or possibly death.
at one time, germanium became popular as agricultural material.
after that, selenium and silicon became popular.
and nowadays, sulfur became a trend.
it seems these days, using sulfur became mandatory in order to succeed in farming.
but if you keep the mindset of 성속이려,
you'll start to think that sulfur will be needed.
but an excessive amount can cause problems.
farmers should always live with this fact.
because there are no good and bad in the world of matter.
the success of agriculture depends on what substance are put into the crops planted field.
and people often ignore the fact about an excessive amount of good substance
that can actually harm the crop and affect the whole season.
and they are doing it because they've been told by the traders.
but again, there are no good and bad in the law of matter.
too good can be poisonous.
but people would add a lot of photosynthetic bacteria because they think more good is better.
nitrogen fixation bacteria is added more and a lot of bacillus too.
furthermore, companies are spreading technology to select specific type of bacteria to apply.
only three kinds of microorganisms are distributed in agriculture technology institute.
but in fact, there are actually tens of millions of different kinds of microorganisms living in the soil.
ladies and gentlemen, if only certain microorganisms are put into the soil,
then the balance of the soil nutrient will be broken.
in the 1980s, it was already discovered that excessive use of certain microorganisms results a problem.
it is very important to utilize a variety of soil microorganisms.
but today, microbial farming methods are against this fact.
this is a very important part for farmers dealing with matter of nature.
balance is the key part of agriculture technology.
just like how our body works.
the disease comes when my body's nutrient is out of balance.
am i right?
this is health common sense we all know already.
and this balance is the same for agriculture technology.
nutritional balance of the soil determines the health of the crop.
so farmers should not think of what certain nutrients should be added for the crop or the soil.
instead, we need to think about how to restore the nutritional balance that is optimized for the crops.
if you start thinking that good and bad are one,
then you'll have a great concern about overdosing certain substances.
all nutrients must be well balanced in the soil.
also, you need a balance of microorganisms that makes nutrients.
am i right?
we know that nutritional balance is important.
but we overlook the fact that every solution is directly connected to certain things.
microbial balance creates nutritional balance.
another important thing is the balance of fertilization.
the balance of nutrient and fertilization creates perfect soil management.
it seems vague to solve the balance of nutrient and fertilization perfectly.
but i have already explained the solution to learn from nature.
so how do you balance microbes?
simple.
take a leaf mold soil from nature.
then how do you balance fertilization?
and the answer is follow the natural fertilization method.
please repeat after me.
take it and use it.
follow me.
wow.
so easy.
can't you see the answer about how you can prepare base fertilizer for your fruit crops?
if you learn from nature?
it is easy to learn from nature.
when you've achieved the balance of your soil,
then greed for some other farming techniques on the base of natural farming way.
and talking about greed,
i say we have to admit that farming is all about human greed.
but it is not bad to be greedy in this way.
stay away from people who say that human greed is bad.
it is wrong to fundamentally sin against human greed.
farming is desire to get more crops per unit area.
farming is world of greed.
but this reasonable greed is not bad at all.
isn't it?
we should use this greed to make agriculture sustainable with nature's wisdom.
the greedy technology that can be sustainable is what agriculture is for.
now let's organize.
what is an agriculture?
it is a great companionship with nature.
it is a total awareness of yin and yang.
this also means not being obsessed with object or matter.
it is the pathway of total control of oneself without disturbance in your mind.
and this path is called the middle way mentioned by Confucius.
so the path of true farmer is the path of the saint.
the way of the saint is not being obsessed with objective physical matter.
in this way you won't increase your expenses because you won't have an obsession.
and that is how money remains and the farmers become rich.
ladies and gentlemen,
imagine how much money have you spent over the past 20 years because of some obsession.
if you have lived with this truth in your heart,
you are all rich by now.
but nowadays farmers are keep spending on nonsense and ending up bankrupt or owns huge debts.
isn't it?
in ancient time,
it is called the pathway of the farmer is the pathway of the saint.
when you are walking on a path of the farmer and the saint at the same time,
then the path will bring you wealth.
and also farmer is the only job that doesn't get fired until the death.
only if farmer lives with the mind of saint.
furthermore,
the current global environment is a very serious state.
wildfire is occurring more and more and glaciers continue to melt.
and the land desertification area is getting larger.
do you think food will be stable in the future?
according to the UN future report,
a massive famine within 15 years will drop 30% of population just in central asia.
agriculture will be very important profession in the future.
and i also believe that it is very important to maintain farming as a second job
to escape the crisis of chronic unemployment caused by AI and robots.
let's be independent from the technology that corporation has made
before we lose the initiative of technology.
and move on to ultra low cost agriculture.
let nature be our guide of farming.
from the next hour,
i will teach you how ultra low cost agriculture is possible on this philosophical foundation.
and please repeat after me.
thank you.
