please raise your hand and repeat after me.
soil management, base fertilizers, additional fertilizer, and natural pesticide.
so what we eat determine our health.
do you all agree with this fact?
so what we use as base fertilizer determines the quality and the growth of the crop.
which is very important thing to keep in mind.
but this is what the most people get confused about.
that we all should add a lot of good material.
but it is quite confusing because there are a lot of material so-called good material.
however, don't get confused with various information.
just ask nature first what should be the greatest base fertilizer.
then things get much easier and simpler than before.
until now, what we have seen and hearing from so-called successful expert that using
rice bran, perilla oil cake, and wheat bran is good for farming.
but as I mentioned before that this will break the nutritional balance of the soil.
and do you know why most of organic farmers aren't successful?
because they have been using too much of these material including any pressed oil cake.
the major problem here is that most of farmers think any organic farming inputs are good
elements because it's for organic farming.
but we all know the basics that what we eat determines our health.
so the most important part of organic farming is not all about putting a lot of good organic
matter and good base fertilizers.
it is all about the nutritional balance of the soil and crop.
this is what we all should focus on.
so where can we get the perfect solution?
simple.
you can ask nature.
as we all can observe that nature does not rely on base fertilizer material from outside.
it is 100% self-sufficient.
these leaves that you can see from the picture are the nutrient extract that repeatedly added
every year as leaves are falling during the autumn.
and during this period, the nutrient extract will be pile up on the surface of the soil
and the roots of the tree will go deeper and deeper to selectively obtain its most optimal
nutrient from the soil.
and as time passes, the soil nutrient beneath the tree will be optimized for the tree.
so without any natural disaster and wars, the tree can have its eternal life.
like this in the picture, without moving an inch, and without doing crop rotation, and
even without any nutrient from outside, the tree have lived more than 1400 years.
some are even older, 5000 years and 7200 years.
believe me, you can see many trees like this in Japan.
this is what we call the eternal life.
and surprisingly, if you ask the tree experts that how long these old trees will be alive,
and the answer is, they also don't know.
if this was a human, it is like having a new young healthy skin every morning.
when your skin is healthy, that is a sign that your internal organ is also healthy.
and there is even a tree that is alive more than 9500 years.
and age of this forest is estimated to 80,000 to 110,000 years old.
and moreover, those trees were able to achieve this result with monocropping.
none of the trees did crop rotation.
where in the world can we find this greatest principle and evidence of base fertilization?
come on.
this is fascinating evidence.
as you guys listen, those who have an orchard already got an answer how to figure base fertilizers
for the tree.
try not to rely on inputs from outside, just use the grass as the base fertilizers.
and I know there is so much so-called good information in your head about various organic
material.
but I'm sorry to tell you, it is never organized and recognized as what is truly good.
everybody is like humping on different materials to solve the problem of balance without any
certainty.
if you are confused, then just follow the nature.
the person in this picture is Gwanghae Kim who has a 100 years old pear tree.
and this one grape tree that has 4,500 of grapes owned by Mr. Deokhyun Do who is famously
known for his amount and the quality of the grapes.
and the similarity of these two farmers are that their base fertilization methods are
close to the way of nature.
please repeat after me.
nature self-sustains the base fertilizers.
so does crop rotation exist in nature?
no.
there is no monocropping in the nature.
and if you see in this current world, there is not a single person talking about the benefits
of monocropping.
just me.
but if you can absorb the nature, you know how the system works.
the trees put their leaves on the surface to make its soil fertile and optimized for
its own.
and that is the reason why in JADAM method, we don't recommend crop rotation.
we grow tomato exactly on the same spot and put the tomato residue back into the soil.
that is how we are able to grow healthy and quality products.
it is same with the chili pepper.
and the key point here is that no matter what, we are going to put back the normal rotten
disease residue back into the surface of the soil.
as this process continues, the nutrient of the soil will be optimized for its crop.
trust me.
this is how I get these results for the past years.
however, there is a difference between human way of farming and nature way of farming.
and the difference is that we sell the end result, but our consumer never gave us back
their shit.
which is the nutrient.
that means that minerals in the soil is missing.
isn't it?
profitable farming is impossible without refilling the missing nutrients.
so we have to fill the emptied mineral back into the soil.
and the solution is to mimic what nature have been doing.
do farming on this basis first.
as you can see, some orchard farmers use cover crop like rye as base fertilizer.
and also our south korean government provides seeds for free.
if you calculate the amount, you can produce about 20 tons out of 1000 square meter.
it may be a little bit inconvenient, but you can utilize fallen leaves and cover crop as
a great alternative base fertilizer.
once it's planted as it grows, cut the cover crop maybe twice during the spring to prepare.
and some farm plants rye in advance because in this way, he won't lose his precious nutrient
extract which is the fallen leaves when wind blows.
the secret of high yield and high quality of the fruit is all about this.
all these farmers are using fallen leaves as their base fertilizer because they know
it's the best for the crop or the tree.
you can use things like perilla oil cake later after when you are doing farming on these
basis.
what I want to make a point here is that those material never should be the main ingredient
for farming input when we are specially talking about the base fertilizers.
and by the way, many of fruit tree farmers prefer the mushroom medium which is famously
known to enhance the quality and the sweetness of the fruit.
and apart from this, you can use herrvich, and chinese milkvich, canola, and sudangrass
as base fertilizers.
there is reason why successful farmers prefer these methods.
because it works better.
this method also plays significant role in the greenhouse field.
when it comes to greenhouse, choosing compost is very important.
but most conventional and organic farmers leaves the greenhouse after 5 years because
of wrong composting.
however, if you use the cover crop method, then you don't have to leave but also can
continue in the same greenhouse.
and to do that, you just need to grow the cover crop and use the rotary machine 3 times
to till the soil.
on the other hand, you can simply get the compost that is animal manure base.
but what is the manure ratio of the compost mostly used?
generally, people use 30% of the chicken manure and 40% of pig manure.
however, we don't use such compost with that ratio because we know that will be horrible
for my farm.
but cow, horse, goat manures are good compost that do specifically for grass fed ones.
so back to topic.
as the cover crop will deepen the roots, the soil will become rich in organic matter.
and you can't really make the soil fertile just with surface application and with rotary
machine like this in orchard.
and what we get from this action is high yield and high quality.
trust me, conventional farming products can't compete with the taste of these results.
raise your hand and repeat after me.
soil management, base fertilizer, additional fertilizer, and natural pesticide.
so make sure that you are going to provide 80-90% of input by using cover crop or by
residue of your crop.
and if you need more later than add grass fed cow manure.
those people who are successful farmers all uses cow manure.
but if you don't have an access to cow manure then add a compost that contains lesser than
35% of animal manure.
which what I'm using every year.
the compost that I'm using is organic compost that contains 35% of chicken manure mixed
with sawdust.
and I believe another secret to my success in farming is also because of using right
compost and specifically this compost that I'm using.
so as we know what we eat determines our health and we will do exactly as what we know.
and for those who have come from Chungju mostly have their orchards.
so keep cover crop method in mind.
I'm moving on to the next.
this is quite serious problem.
so we have to balance all the MPK, CA, MG, B in order to achieve the health of the crop
and success of yield.
am I right?
but is it really easy to balance all that?
difficult right?
then what about people who taught you?
is this easy for them?
not at all.
and do you know why?
yes, it is right to balance all the MPK, CA is the key to success in farming.
but when balancing specifically artificially element by element then things become way
more complicated and easy to end up failing.
so what can we do here?
for those who have an orchard.
look at this picture.
there is just normal healthy looking grass on the ground.
don't you think this plant has achieved the balance of MPK, CA?
it did.
that's why it is healthy.
because it has achieved the balance of these elements.
so cut this once or twice and just leave it.
then by adding this well-balanced remedy you no longer need to complicate your head.
and this method won't even cost a penny.
after using this method you can't make any mistake on balancing MPK, CA.
the thing that we are currently learning is one of the most difficult technology out there.
the person who teaches you that can't even perfectly demonstrate by himself.
and furthermore, why do you guys keep on making compost in advance?
it is just inconvenient to prepare by adding microbes that is from outside then using shovel
to keep on turning up the input and waiting for the fermentation.
it is just ridiculous amount of work.
so what is compost?
compost is what you just pile up and scatter during the autumn.
there is not much of work to do.
after scattering let the input by itself get fermented during autumn winter spring.
please repeat after me.
wow so easy.
don't get teaching from a person who tells you to make compost in advance.
at the end they will come up to you and sell their finished products when you give up making
your input.
raise your hand and repeat after me.
soil management.
base fertilizer.
additional fertilizer.
natural pesticide.
so now you all understand the principle of base fertilizers right?
it's all about mimicking the nature's way of farming.
make sure you do farming on these basis by being 80-90% self-sufficient with the input.
in this way you can provide the most optimal nutritional balance that your crop wants.
and next one.
I'm going to talk about additional fertilizers.
so how can we refill the missing minerals?
as I mentioned before that all our end results are sold to customers and they never gave
us their shit back right?
then where can we find our nutrient that got out of from our consumer's body?
don't think too hard because at the end it all goes to the ocean.
so we bring the nutrient back from the ocean.
it may sound absurd but when scientists researched the sea water then they found something remarkable.
there are 83 kinds of different minerals were included in the sea water.
if you see closely there is magnesium, calcium, potassium and your favorite sulfur is already
present.
and furthermore minerals in the sea water is very identical to our blood plasma, liquid
of the crop and amniotic fluid in mother's womb.
quite surprising isn't it?
so now raise your hand and repeat after me.
use the sea water or sea salt for refilling the missing minerals in farming.
this is the most scientific and easy method that we already have.
but is there any single person teaches you to utilize sea water and sea salt for missing
nutrient?
none.
I am the only person who is telling people to use sea water as a solution.
you may be wondering why sea salt?
but let me tell you that our entire history of farming have been proving this fact.
because farms that are near to the ocean produces most high quality products worldwide.
if you can go to website of agriculture department of south korea then you can see how they have
been greatly elaborating the benefits of sea salt for farm.
there is about 20 papers wrote about this fact.
all those papers talks about promote colors, taste and quality by using sea salt.
even with this fact, I don't understand why so-called experts are keep telling people
not to use sea salt.
if they were honest then they could have just advised farmers to use at least little bit
but they will never tell you that.
of course we can't use it too much of this as well.
we have certain rule for this as we talked about Seong-Sok-I-Ryeo the good and bad are
one.
so how can we calculate the amount?
just multiply 1% out of total yield.
say you have harvested 3000kg of fruit then you will need 30kg for the next season or
the year.
100kg of sea salt for 10,000kg of produce.
if this calculation is difficult for you then add 500g of sea salt in 1000 square meter
with 1-2 weeks in turvers for annual crops.
and 20kg of sea salt for fruit trees at least 4 times a year.
and by the way 20kg of sea salt is equivalent to 500g of sea salt.
so keep this in mind.
when we are making JMS we have already included 500g of sea salt.
so if you have a larger areas to cover then calculate little more according to your land
size.
you can use various application method like irrigation, sprinkler, and scattering.
this is the way how you can continuously refill the missing minerals in your soil.
raise your hand and repeat after me.
use the sea salt or sea water to refill the missing nutrient in the soil.
trust me this method is proven by the history.
also I recommend people to use phyllite powder which is rock powder for minerals.
we use it once a year and the cost of this is about 9$ per 20kg.
you can also dilute this in the water to use as liquid fertilizer as well.
but this is not mandatory.
the use of phyllite powder is totally up to you.
so conclusion is that I use sea salt and phyllite powder for missing minerals in the soil.
and apart from this, I saw many Korean farming youtube creators are talking about using sulfur
is mandatory.
they represent using sulfur as all cure remedy in farming.
which is ridiculous solution to me.
if you see the irony of this farming trend for long time, you can see some weird nonsense.
back in the time people fantasize about germanium, selenium, silicon, and now what?
sulfur?
they talk about using sulfur as mandatory element to be successful in farming.
but I told you just right now sea water itself contains sulfur right?
so should you use lot of sulfur in farming?
if you see the study chart, to achieve optimum balance of the crop, you will need 1.5% of
nitrogen, 1% of potassium, 0.5% of calcium, 0.2% of magnesium and phosphorus, 0.1% of
silicon in order to grow healthy crop.
but is it possible to artificially balance the sulfur for the crop?
it is impossible.
you will end up ruining your farm by accidentally putting excessive amount of this.
your soil will become like a rock and all microbes will be dead in the soil.
yes it is right that we need sulfur to get optimum balance of the soil.
but this action should be taken by replacing material as what nature has provided us.
and another hoax in farming is that immobility of silicon, calcium, and sulfur inside the
plant tissue.
so they teach you it all should be done with foliar spray at the end stage of farming.
remember the old times?
when not a single farmer did foliar spray and knew about foliar spray and still been
able to harvest chili until the frost.
there was nothing even called as foliar spray.
none of our ancestors did that in their entire time of life.
and for myself, I never ever have done foliar spray calcium in my farm.
not even boron.
and why?
because I have sea water and sea salt.
so why should I use it?
the talk about immobility of calcium and boron inside the plant tissue is total hoax.
because if they were right, then whole earth will be doomed in the first place.
and yes it is right that all cells need calcium.
but if this is an immobile element, then it will cause narcosis on every matter on
earth.
so don't watch korean farming youtube channel that talks about these things without common
sense.
as I just told you, if they were right, then there is no nature.
I'm just sick and tired of this nonsense.
just please repeat after me.
if you use too much sulfur, you will screw your farm.
and ladies and gentlemen, please keep sungso gire good and bad are one in mind.
too much good can be poisonous.
