hello everyone this is Youngsang Cho the founder of JADAM. if you are into
drinking coffee you have probably seen the news that pointed the endangered
plant due to climate change and one of them is the coffee. climate change has
brought us the new pest and disease problems on coffee plant which have been
leading cause of extinction of coffee and one of the main cause is the CBB
also known as coffee berry borer. so in this video I'm going to talk about how
to solve the problem of CBB. coffee is produced in 70 different countries and
it has the second largest trade volume after petroleum. there is one another
reason which is causing the problem apart from CBB and that is because of
coffee leaf rust. the leaf of the coffee tree will turn yellowish just like the
rust on metal. and due to climate change the coffee plantation has moved to
northern side from the south. according to the Climate Institute within 80 years
the coffee plant will face an extinction due to 8 degrees hotter climate. and the
recent news has mentioned that the production of the coffee has reduced by
40%. then there is another report that talks about the danger of CBB. they have
stated the CBB as the most devastating pest for coffee plant. and in this
article they're expressing their worries of the coffee in the future. there are
many chemical pesticides that are available for the coffee plant but the
effects were not very effective. so let's look into the life cycle of CBB. the
maturation of the insect is about 24 to 45 days from an egg to an adult. once it
becomes an adult within two days it will dig into coffee bean then it spawns
about 35 to 50 eggs at once. reproduces about three to five generation on coffee
tree in its lifetime. therefore controlling CBB in certain period is
very crucial part which means if a farmer fails to control CBB the result
would be catastrophic. they may look cute and big in the picture but their action
on coffee is brutal and the size is smaller than one millimeter. the female
insects lays its egg inside the coffee berry and during the incubation period
the hatched nymph begins to consume the berries from the inside leaving only the
shell of the berry. which means once the female enters the berry there is no way
to control them because the shell is protecting the pest. but as we all
expected JADAM team has figured out how to control CBB and it is written on the
paper which we submitted to Hawaiian government also on our book JADAM
organic farming. I've recorded the result and the solution for each and every
outcome that could occur during farming. with JADAM solution coffee farmers can
control about 99% of CBB. if you have been watching our YouTube videos you
might have noticed that we love to use ginkgo extract for pest control. however
treatment for CBB does not include ginkgo. we only use JWA, JS, caustic soda
and red clay powder. I have published three books about organic farming and
there are the ratio charts you can read from infestation to emergency. also you
can just follow my solution from this video itself. the book includes not just
CBB recipe it includes all possible outcome from anthracnose to mouth. it is
now sold in Amazon and Google Play bookstore for an e-book. also you can
always watch our old and latest video from our YouTube channel. so in early
2018 we were urgently contacted by the Hawaiian state government for treating
CBB. we didn't know how severe the problem was. the person in the middle is
the secretary of Agriculture Department of Hawaiian government during the time
and the person on your right is the mr. David Wong who requested the local
government to reach out to us for these issues. we have also taken pictures with
the mayor of the Hawaiian government after the successful result. once you got
the call after an official contract we packed ourself with the solution which
we could test and offer to coffee farmers in Hawaii. before the contract we
have shown our result in the flask first to get the confirmation and after the
short result they were able to approve us for this mission. so let me show you
the clip from 2018. there are about 30 to 40 CBB on the flask and when we sprayed
for the first time they were stunned. then after two minutes we've seen small
movement. then after five minutes seemed like all the movement of the pest has
stopped. and this is after 11 hours. it seemed only one or two is still alive
but the rest is thankfully passed away. and this is the footage after 22 hours.
even if we have added small ratio we could see that our solution has worked
perfectly. if it wasn't effective they would have gone outside of the flask
already. and all this result were performed with USDA approved substance
for organic farming. and this is the contract paper that we received from the
Hawaiian state government. they told us that we are the last hope because they
have been spending thousands of dollars to break free from these problems which
big corporation were not been able to figure it out. this is the coffee field
where the test has taken place. it is located in Big Island Hilo. we didn't
test just one or two trees. we have divided the section from A to D and each
section had about 250 to 300 coffee trees. from A site to C site we have
tested with different ratio of JADAM solution and we left the D site as it is
for the comparison analysis. because Hawaii had no ginkgo trees around we had
to solve the problems only with JWA, JS, caustic soda, and red clay powder. to see
the effect clearly we sprayed the solution once in 14 days. and because of
my busy schedule in Korea my wife and daughter have been staying in Hawaii to
absorb the result. during this research the local government and we wanted co-op
research with other local organization but surprisingly everyone has refused to
work with us. so I have called my dear friend Dr. Chun-woo Nam who is the
research scientist from the Agriculture Department of Korea and former chairman
of CJNF Hawaii Ms. Kim Chang who had passed away during pandemic helped us
with this research project when she was alive. and the result of the project was
very successful. then after the CBB we thought maybe we could solve the issue
of the coffee leaf rust as well. so we bought another power sprayer machine and
mixed all the ratio with different amount to spray once in 14 days when
there was no rain. to be honest we were not expecting to solve the problem of
CBB which others couldn't figure it out. but at least we wanted to try something
new so we took our step forward and turns out the result was very surprising.
there are certain rules to do research on coffee which local coffee research
authorities have given us. we followed the local authorities regulation form
and made a chart according to the rules. and with those basis we were able to
write a paper to submit to Hawaiian government. and from there we knew that
JADAM solution could offer 99% control rate on CBB. this is how we could be able
to release all the solution for the coffee. but unfortunately the secretary
of Agriculture Department of Hawaiian government couldn't serve consecutive
terms after our project. and what I heard that government had an issue with the
local researchers and corporation who are distributing and researching for the
marketing purposes. it seemed like people who are into agribusiness didn't
like the government working with ultra low-cost agriculture. in the contract it
also mentioned about the treating papaya mealybug which we also have been very
successful controlled with the same recipe that treated coffee barrel boar
including the fire ant. although the ant was not very pleasing but we got much
more confident with JADAM methods that it could also work on tropical climate
not just limited to Korean Peninsula. for the whole time in the project I felt
very pleasing staying in Hawaii. I saw flower blooming from the plant and
beautiful landscape of mother nature healed me from inside. during the project
we were not just there to research but also did a lot of lectures and
communicated with the local farmers which was one of the greatest experience
I ever had. if you are watching our video for the first time we are group of
people trying very hard to liberate the agriculture technology from the
domination of the big corporation. your attention and support to our channel
will empower us to create more videos like this. so please subscribe to our
channel and like this video and I will see you guys again with more interesting
videos in the near future. thank you for watching
