until now we have been mainly using sugar molasses, alcohol and vinegar for making liquid fertilizers.
but in JADAM method, we don't use such thing or even recommend it.
all you need is just water to make it.
please do not use sugar and all other ingredient mentioned just right now
because this will acidify your land.
one day people were recommending me some lecture to watch on YouTube.
so I went to that channel.
so he was basically talking about making 400 liters of microbes solution.
and in the beginning he started by adding 40 liters of molasses.
and as for the next period, he is teaching people to add 160 liters of molasses.
and what is this nonsense?
that is not a solution.
this is just molasses diluted super sweet water.
ladies and gentlemen, our ancestors never ever used these sugar, alcohol, vinegar molasses
for 5,000 years of history in this peninsula.
because there were no problems even if they didn't use it.
but here is one problem.
so I'll ask a question which many people are very misunderstood.
so is fermentation is good or putrefaction is good?
and everybody says fermentation is good and putrefaction is bad.
and this is the biggest problem that we have.
the talk about fermentation is good but putrefaction is bad is total hoax.
they have been using all the rotten liquid fertilizer for their entire life.
and because of the smell there were no wild animal coming to their farm too.
in the old time when there was no chemical fertilizer,
farmers were so happy when their liquid fertilizer stinks badly because of putrefaction.
and there was nothing wrong about it.
scientifically, putrefaction is just all about protein decomposition.
fermentation is just carbohydrate decomposition.
people shouldn't divide these two as good and bad.
if you look at the book of microbiology, there is nothing mentioned about these two as angel
and evil.
fermentation is just fermentation.
and putrefaction is just putrefaction.
and do you know what will happen when all putrefaction stops?
every dead body, the waste of our food, garbage will never be decomposed in this earth.
putrefaction is just one of the most important procedure of circulation of matter in nature.
and say the person who have taught you the fantasy of fermentation is dead one day,
then what happens to that person's body?
the body will be putrefacted.
and i wonder how can they demonize a putrefaction when their own body will be putrefacted in
the nature.
it is against their word.
and is there any special word from my talk on these?
none right?
because it is just common sense.
so i will teach you an answer.
please repeat after me.
fermentation is good.
and putrefaction is way better.
and do you know why they keep on talking about fermentation is good but putrefaction is bad?
because by thinking in such way, you will be very sensitive to bad smell and obsessed
with the sweet aroma smell.
and when you keep on hating the bad smell, then you will keep on failing making your
own liquid fertilizers and microbes solutions.
and eventually you will end up losing self-confidence on making your own inputs.
then what will be the outcome?
ending up purchasing all those inputs.
and the cost of these are now even higher than ordinary pesticide.
this is the current situation that we are facing in south korea.
which is absolutely ridiculous.
and moreover why people are keep talking bad about anaerobic fermentation.
when our whole digestive system is anaerobic fermentation system.
not just human.
it includes all living beings have anaerobic fermentation organ.
when they say anaerobic fermentation is good, then why don't we have anaerobic digestive
system?
when even all our ancient food like kimchi is made with anaerobic fermentation.
and there is reason behind this why our ancestors didn't go for anaerobic fermentation.
because anaerobic fermentation destroys the vitamins and essential amino acid in the food.
and when we have this fact, why are they keep on telling people to add air bubbler and set
specific temperature?
do you think they really think of farmers greater good?
these mandatory instructions exist to promote their own products.
that's it.
and ladies and gentlemen, in the beginning of this lecture,
I told you not to get too much education on farming.
I told you because of these reasons.
they are there to trick you not to help you.
after getting the knowledge, everyone is just way too much fantasize about fermentation
and becomes too much obsessed with the smell.
and remember old times?
old Korean people used to say, are you afraid to make a soy sauce because of maggots?
also did you throw the whole fermented side dish because of maggots?
no! we just removed the maggots and ate them.
we have been living our old times like this without having any problems.
and what happens when you die?
the maggots will decompose your body.
we should be thankful to maggots.
please repeat after me.
maggots not hate maggot.
please don't hate maggots.
why do you hate maggots when you like earthworms?
both of these are beneficial for us.
so where can we find the best liquid fertilizers?
most of people research about these and end up spending too much money.
nowadays liquid fertilizers on PLS listed products have similar price tag with the pesticide.
anyway back to the topic.
look at the eggs in this picture.
and by observing this egg, we can realize something really remarkable.
that there is perfect nutrition enough to make chick to hatch from the egg.
am I right?
then what about fruits?
look at this kiwi in the picture.
the peel and the seed of the kiwi contains the most perfect nutrient for kiwi.
right?
so what do you think?
so these nutrients are the gift from the parents to their children.
so my point is there is no liquid fertilizers better than made with its own fruit and residue
of the plant.
and this is the reason why you can't purchase the liquid fertilizers from the vendors.
because you have the best one in your hand.
and it also includes the microbe solutions.
because there is nothing better than microbes that you have in the nearest area.
do you all agree?
the best liquid fertilizers is in our own farm.
if so, then what kind of fruit should we choose?
the process shouldn't be complicated.
just add any kind of fruit, any rotten disease or low value doesn't matter just put them
in the bucket.
and how can we make it with?
just with water.
please repeat after me.
fill the water, handful of leaf mold soil, and close the lid.
that's it.
and one more time repeat after me.
fill the water, handful of leaf mold soil, and close the lid.
so what is the best liquid fertilizer for spinach?
it's spinach.
then what about onion?
of course it's onion.
and garlic for garlic.
and potato for potato.
see you all know it.
and when it stinks badly, then you know this liquid fertilizer contains high nitrogen and
protein.
what about maggots?
that means the liquid fertilizer is not toxic.
maggots are there because the environment for maggot is not toxic.
what if you don't have any of these things?
then use the well-grown grass.
what is well-grown grass?
well-grown means that it has achieved the balance of MPKCA.
and by that means you have MPK balanced liquid fertilizers.
same thing again.
add leaf mold soil and close the lid.
and please repeat after me.
wow.
so easy.
this purslane decomposed within 5 days to be usable as liquid fertilizers.
and we can also make liquid fertilizer out of food waste too.
so this plant residue also fruit and grass I showed you should play the main role of
additional fertilizers.
that is how you can balance MPKCA.
and even if that if your crop is lack of growth, then you'll need nitrogen for that.
then add a fertilizer that is rich in nitrogen, not some elements like sulfur and boron.
and one of the most fertilizer rich in nitrogen is food waste fertilizer.
raise your hand and repeat after me.
big plastic bucket.
add half bucket of food waste.
and fill the water full.
and handful of leaf mold soil.
then close the lid.
doesn't matter what kind.
just any food waste is good enough.
then add leaf mold soil and close the lid.
this should be ready within 3 months.
so will it smell bad or good?
bad right?
but why does it create bad smell?
bad smell doesn't mean the fertilizer is bad.
the bad smell is there because it putrefacts the protein.
putrefaction is just late stage after fermentation.
it is just one of the process.
then will there be any maggots?
a lot.
because it putrefacts.
once this procedure is done.
it has orange juice like color when you fill it up in a bottle.
if you drink this by mistake, you'll see huge improvement on your wrinkles
because of high nitrogen content.
so my point is, please do not throw out your food waste.
use this precious resource as your all-in-one nutritional fertilizer.
you can see the red color letter written almost 3% high nitrogen.
I have all the evidence in my book so that you can see.
and next is your piss.
urine is also rich in nitrogen and also rich in phosphoric acid.
in old times in Korea, it was widely known to promote sweetness of the fruit.
this urine was avoided by people because it's disgusting.
but I'm sorry to tell you that this is allowed for organic crop production by law in South
Korea.
but there is also a rule for this.
that it can be used right after collecting but after fermenting for 6 months.
the PLS listed products will cost you $30 to $50 per 500cc bottle.
so don't throw away your precious urine.
just collect it in 25 liter size bucket.
then just sit on it when you are taking a piss.
don't worry.
you won't fall because your butt is big enough to tuck in between the edge.
and the distance between the butt and urine are quite long.
so your ass won't get dirty.
imagine how much you can collect your own urine.
and here's something that you can't deny the fact.
the nitrogen content in this urine fertilizer is almost 4%.
I know this can be dirty.
but come on.
there is nothing to lose here.
at least you can try.
and do you know what is the history of farming that has been practiced by our ancestors?
repeat after me.
agriculture is all about cherishing precious material that is easily available and around
you.
this is our history of agriculture in this peninsula.
how great is that?
but now we are so much educated by the experts and that have made us to hate bad smell and
hate maggots.
and that fake belief made us to treat our own feces and food waste as a toxic substance
to our farm.
this belief has made us to lose our self-esteem and led us to purchase their goods.
current farmers will bankrupt if this belief continues.
so here I represent the luxury RCCT, the most reasonable compost collecting toilet technology
that do not smell.
and secret behind this is just mixing any starch in the sawdust.
most problems in conventional compost toilet was the odor from the urine.
and because of that, the toilet had to be far or outside of the house.
but by mixing 1-2% of any starch, the smell will be disappear.
these are the compost toilet that I made next to the kitchen and my room.
you can even collect your guest ones too so that you don't need to prepare the compost
in advance.
if you have a lot of visitors in your farm, then it would be much better.
this is something really what we have to consider just in case if we can get enough compost
supply.
think about it, our feces that we can collect throughout the whole year is a lot.
urinating twice, you can produce 3 liters of it.
and if you make fertilizers with this, this will have similar fertilizer function that
worth $50 per bottle in the market.
that means for whole day, we can produce almost $300 worth of liquid fertilizers per person.
which is unbelievable amount you can imagine.
please raise your hand and repeat after me.
our body is organic liquid fertilizer manufacturing machine that can produce worth of $300 per
day.
nowadays, we have many problems with animal manure that contains chemicals due to antibiotics
and many more.
please get rid of chicken and pig manure compost that you don't know where it originated from.
so let me show you about the compost toilet that I mentioned before we talk about next
thing.
happy birthday to you.
happy birthday to you.
happy birthday dear Jong-seok.
happy birthday to you.
so I dig deeper with the calculation about the amount that how much we can produce.
average 4% one family can produce 1 ton of feces and 2 tons of urine and 2 tons of food
waste.
this means one family can prepare 100 bags of 20 liter compost and fertilizers.
huge amount isn't it?
you can't even finish this during this whole season.
but we are throwing away this precious inputs instead we buy everything from the market.
farming without chemical fertilizer is even better.
trust me it can be done way better than conventional farming.
also you can get higher nitrogen percentage handful of leaf mold soil then close the lid.
from fish fertilizers.
raise your hand and repeat after me.
big bucket fill half with the fish.
fill the water full handful of leaf mold soil then close the lid.
don't touch it.
don't have to stir it.
just keep it still.
then use it after 3 months.
you don't have to add sugar or molasses.
and see this is how it gets decomposed.
and nitrogen content is about 7.5%.
ladies and gentlemen.
please repeat after me.
farming is same like architecture.
it is right we need a cement for the structure.
but we can't build a building just with cement.
it is same with farming.
yes we need nitrogen in farming.
but we know nitrogen just alone can be perfect.
so we need other nutrition too.
when you feel like to add sulfur and other elements.
think again.
and replace those thoughts by reutilizing rich natural nitrogen fertilizer like this.
this will reduce the risk of your farming.
next one is oil cake liquid fertilizers.
this method shares same 1 to 10 ratio including bone powder and wheat powder.
any powder form ingredient.
it means 1 is the ingredient and the rest of 10 is water.
bone powder is also same like oil cake liquid fertilizers including calcium liquid fertilizers.
speaking about calcium fertilizers.
just before I told you that I don't do calcium foliar spray.
because there is nothing special about foliar spray.
here is my reference to that.
say you are hungry.
but you are not eating through your mouth.
instead putting nutritional cream on your skin for that hunger.
you can do foliar spray but it is not so desirable.
things work well even without it.
and later I'm going to describe about JADAM natural pesticide.
but those natural pesticide itself is like nutritional liquid fertilizers.
please repeat after me.
liquid fertilizer is soy sauce.
the older the fertilizer gets the better it becomes.
you should never ever empty or clean the bucket.
just keep on adding it till the next generation.
please repeat after me.
wow so easy.
and here is the dilution ratio and percentage of the nitrogen in each fertilizer mentioned
in the book.
so take a look.
use the grass fertilizer first then add these liquid fertilizers.
and next is one of the most discussed MPK technology among farmers.
basic theory sounds simple.
add nitrogen during spring and next phosphoric acid then calcium later on at the end.
this theory is most trusted worldwide.
but MPK balancing method is known to be one of the most difficult technology so far.
if you are willing to try this, please don't.
because if you do, it will be very easy to fail.
also, the person who teaches you can't even master this method by himself.
and moreover, does nature do fertilization like this?
no.
then who do you think have made this technology?
the chemical fertilizer company made this.
you can't deny chemical fertilizers if you keep on focus on this theory.
mixing everything and melting this and that and etc.
but what did I just tell you right now?
like JADAM, if you just replace base and additional fertilizer with natural resources, then the
MPK will be automatically balanced without any difficulties.
when you are obsessed with these theory, you will mess up your soil and moreover, those
unknown material will be compacted in the soil.
and that would cause a huge contamination.
so please repeat after me.
the principle of fertilization is endlessly adding things that are similar to nature.
this is the principle of the fertilization and utilization of residue of the crop and
grass or grass fed manure.
this is the easiest and most effective way to reduce the risk of failure and path that
leads to high yield and high quality.
you don't need a specific storage for this.
you can just organize a bucket outside where is similar to a crops environment.
