hello everyone nice to meet you all.
thank you so much for coming to my seminar.
my name is Yang Sang Cho, the founder of JADAM.
today my course is about natural pesticides regardless of crops and cultivation method.
I'll talk about natural pesticides that can replace all conventional farming inputs including chemical pesticides and fertilizer for agriculture.
and if you have a question in the middle of the lecture, then please raise your hand and I'll answer as far as I know.
so before the beginning of the lecture, I just want to tell you that I have been working in organic agriculture sector for about 31 years and have been doing organic farming along with this period.
currently there are about 75,000 members who are using JADAM methods.
because we spread the knowledge of ultra low-cost agriculture, the financial side of the organization was very weak.
but lucky for us, many people have been supporting us with donations for decades so we were able to sustain this business over the past year.
for those who have completed my course today, I'll frame a certificate with the design that is more famous than Harvard diploma.
and the cost of the frame is only $4.
we don't have a big farmland, but we are currently farming in 1.2 acres of land to grow 60 kinds of crops to conduct various research and experiment.
the JADAM method that I'm going to talk about is very simple and easy and is demonstrated in the field many times.
if you tried yourself, you can see the effects immediately.
these are the crops that we have tried and we are very confident in this field.
we are technically good at increasing the yield and the high quality with organic farming.
in general, organic farming is known to produce less and produce lower quality.
however, that is very misleading information.
and misleading organic farming techniques.
if you do organic farming with JADAM method, you will be much better than your neighbors from the first year.
the high yield techniques are actually very simple and I'll explain that in detail for an hour in the fourth session.
but if you follow the majority of the techniques that I described, then soon you will realize that this technology is not so special and you may be disappointed.
this is a small laboratory that we have at JADAM farm.
I do a lot of research here and we also have a discussion forum with some other organizations.
and this is our JADAM family who have been working with us for about 15 years.
I couldn't afford a high salary for them, but they never left me because I never delayed the salary.
there are now 14 employees with us and there are no doctors or professors in it.
but we have been in this field for a long time.
that's why we were able to do most of research on natural pesticides.
furthermore, after invention and the results were shared with farmers without patenting.
our findings and the inventions are published in our book.
these natural pesticides were developed in temperate region of Korea.
but it is also very effective in tropical areas.
for example, this is a coffee variable, a very powerful pest originating from coffee trees around the world.
and we have signed a formal agreement with the Hawaiian government for a CBB control program in 2018.
we have succeeded in developing powerful natural pesticide solution that can control over 99.9% of CBB.
I have also submitted the paper regarding this.
while experimenting on coffee trees in Hawaii, we have also studied pests on various crops that are in tropical climate.
as a result, it was confirmed that JADAM natural pesticide is also effective for crops growing in a tropical climate.
this is the official site of JADAM.
and through this site, you can see vividly how ultra low-cost organic farming is applied in farming.
this farming method of JADAM is not a technology that just popped up from nowhere.
it's already quite popular.
as I told you before, there are about 75,000 members at JADAM.
and that means 5% of Korean farmers are actually our members.
if you are curious about practicing organic farming, please do not hesitate to ask a question through this site's blue team board.
and let me be clear that we don't sell any finished agricultural products.
instead, we teach 100% each and everything how to produce by yourself.
and this is the YouTube channel that we currently have.
please raise your hand if you have watched our YouTube channel.
we have described our technology in very great detail on YouTube.
so even if you have financial difficulties and can't buy a book,
we'll try to provide a knowledge so that everyone can learn from anywhere.
currently, there are five languages and subtitles are available in 30 different languages.
we will try our best to provide full of knowledgeable contents on this channel.
before the beginning, let me briefly tell you the history of JADAM.
before JADAM's ultra low-cost agriculture, my father, Han Kyu-chul, has been doing Korean natural farming movement since 1967.
when I was a kid, I've been observing my father's students.
and when I became an adult, I learned all the agricultural techniques and livestock such as piggery and pottery from my father.
and I've started creating ultra low-cost agriculture technology based on this.
now even my children are farming with me.
because I am good at farming.
and this motivated my children to actively participate in agriculture.
so this is how we are able to do organic farming for third generation.
well, my father is healthy now.
and I often go abroad with my father and my children for seminars.
so let's take a quick look at current status of our agriculture.
so South Korean government has signed free trade agreement with 52 countries around the world.
that means import traffic on agricultural products becomes zero as time passes.
so what will happen when traffic-free agricultural products are imported to Korea?
in the near future, 5 out of 4 of our market will be filled with the imported product.
as a result, many farmers will extinct or bankrupt because they can't win the price competition.
so what's even more is these farm products are now in flight.
so that means fresh products from distant countries come into domestic market within few days.
apple consumption was number one in South Korea.
but now it became bananas.
which are imported fruits are now number one.
and why do you think so?
because it's cheap. because it's delicious.
the next best-selling fruit is cherry.
and the fresh asparagus is also imported because the product is transported by plane.
only a year ago, domestic asparagus occupied 100% of domestic market.
but today, Australian and Peruvian asparagus dominates the domestic market.
how about our traditional kimchi?
as Chinese kimchi is imported, Chinese kimchi occupies more than 50% of the kimchi market.
and now almost all restaurants are using Chinese kimchi.
and do you know why? because it's cheap.
Chinese kimchi costs about $10 per 10 kilo.
however, our domestic kimchi is about three times more expensive than made in China.
our agriculture situation is very bad right now.
but what does our government do to save agriculture from this difficult situation?
the responsible term of the Minister of Agriculture Department of Korea is for less than one year.
and it's insane.
I personally believe that we have to prepare with thinking that we are the only one who can save this current agriculture.
so how can we begin? and what can we do?
we need to plan our strategy by calmly acknowledging the reality of agriculture.
rather than trying too hard to get higher price,
instead sell those products at the idea based on the market price.
even then you should still be able to earn your profits.
apart from that, the cost of farming is getting very expensive.
and the biggest burden is the cost of purchasing chemical pesticide.
the current conversion of highly toxic pesticide to less toxic pesticide also reduced effectiveness.
now you have to spray often and the amount is also increased.
adding a bottle of fungicide to pesticide and the wedding age cost more than 100 bucks to manufacture 500 liters.
so while I was doing organic farming for 31 years, around 15 years ago.
so I imagined that farmers would not be able to buy pesticides because they had no money in the future.
and I recently feel that I was right.
since after that I decided to develop a technique that can enable farmers to make their own pesticides.
sounds ridiculous isn't it?
but I majored in chemistry.
so I was able to develop most of the DIY natural pesticide technology that can replace chemicals.
and all of those technology was disclosed without patenting it.
if I had patented and sold the finished product, then I would have become a rich man.
for the last two hours of today's lecture, I will teach you how to make DIY natural pesticides.
and with this invention and development, we were able to open a new era of ultra low-cost organic farming.
if you choose to make your own natural pesticides, then you can save your pesticide cost up to 98%.
and these inventions are suitable for most of the crops and enables your farming to be successful.
yet organic apple is the most difficult because it has so much disease.
in that case, I would like you to approach it with combination of JADAM method and chemical pesticides.
if you make your own natural pesticide in the same way as I did,
you can lower the cost of the pesticide that cost $10,000 to $200.
the aim of JADAM is to lower the farming input cost up to 98%.
and I believe it is very powerful technology supporting ultra low-cost agriculture.
there is no difficulty in making pesticide yourself because it is very simple and easy to make one.
and apart from this, the time has changed a lot.
the whole world is enthusiastic about Korean culture.
at the same time, our food and cosmetics and clothing are big hit.
there are global markets such as Amazon and AliExpress which can help us to sell our goods all around the world.
the same goes for the farmers.
why are we struggling just to sell our products only in the local region?
this accessible market means individual farmers can easily sell their products all around the world.
the book that I wrote is sold well in Korea.
so I made an English version and put it on Amazon.
I also advertised on Facebook and YouTube.
and those advertisements will only appear to people using the word organic farming.
if you search organic farming on Amazon now, you will have 3,000 books.
and my book is ranked second or third over there.
it's not a huge sale.
but as comments on the book's ratings are shared with everyone, the sale continues to grow.
as you can see, the Korean dramas, music, TV, and electronics home appliance are sold all around the world through this channel.
now I am preparing myself to sell my all farm products all over the world.
there are books that can help you how to sell your products on Amazon.
please buy one and read it.
the book contains whole information about how to upload and ship items on Amazon.
when someone has placed an order, you will receive an email from Amazon.
you can go to the nearest post office to send it.
it's simple as that.
then the goods will be arriving at that destination within three to four days.
depending on service you choose.
at Amazon, payment comes in every 15 days.
if you go into the Amazon, you can see someone is selling kimchi.
there is also red pepper powder.
and there's also sesame oil and perilla oil.
Amazon is huge.
and the lower price doesn't mean to always have a successful sale.
quality and uniqueness seem to be more important than the price competition.
some people sell dried Jerusalem artichoke.
and the reason why I'm saying this is because the population is decreasing.
and school meals order deliveries are also decreasing.
the market sales are decreasing too.
so do not limit yourself in this small nation.
try to sell globally.
there's nothing to lose.
