so what time would be appropriate to spray natural pesticide?
early morning or late evening?
it has to be sprayed in the early morning.
all the pesticide including chemicals are effective when it has high humidity levels.
during the morning, the humidity levels are almost 100% and sometimes 200.
so I wake up between 430 to 5am to spray solution for 1 and a half hours.
even in the past, farmer used to wake up at 4 to prepare.
if you have a habit of waking up too late in the morning, you'd better give up farming.
and another point I want to make it clear is that quality of the water.
nowadays most of people have laundry machine in all houses.
but when we used to hand launder our clothes in the past years, we knew that the quality
of the water is important to create enough foams.
so to do it well, we needed soft water for laundry.
and we need exact same water quality as well for the pesticide while spraying.
and we can identify the quality of the water by just using couple of drops of JWA into
the water.
the clear water with enough foam in the bottle on your left is the perfect soft water that
can be used for the pesticide.
however, if the color of the water is blurry, then the water is not suitable for the solution.
the quality of the water is the most important thing for pesticide use.
if you don't have one, there is several ways you can collect soft water.
one is collecting rainwater after 30 minutes of rain.
and the other option is making or purchasing your own water softener.
we also make one with stainless steel which is bit expensive.
so we have uploaded youtube video how to make one with very affordable price.
with the information in the videos, you can also customize the size of the water softener
depending on your needs.
the material that I use for filter is the ion exchange resin which is very common as
filtration material in the water filters.
you can use it repeatedly and then recyclable after many times by using salt for cleaning.
this soft water thing is not just for organic farming.
it also includes conventional farmers for their chemical pesticide.
and this is the picture of irrigation system in my farm.
the characteristic of JADAM is open source and sharing knowledge with others as I mentioned
in the previous hour.
if you have a question, you can always leave a question on the facebook group and youtube
comment.
so the next most important thing is the equipment.
bullet cannot be fired if you don't have a proper gun.
meaning, it is very important to have a right equipment for the right solution.
I have total 6 different sprayer with different nozzle size.
unique part of this particular spray stick is that the hose can be rotatable.
it is not commonly used as ordinary annual crop farming.
but it is very convenient.
you can easily find this at local equipment shop.
so let me try to explain how it works.
this yellow pipe is 8mm thick that is installed in each beds of my farm.
and in the middle of this rubber pipe, I have installed a brass T-joint pipe with female
brass hose.
then I have attached another pipe with the male brass nozzle.
and with the second rubber pipe, I will connect the spray stick to spray pesticide.
but here is one thing that I have modified a bit.
the yellow part beneath works as a volume control and handle.
but since we move around a lot, I have locked the yellow handle and installed a valve for
controlling the amount of the solution.
this infrastructure may cost more than heavy sprayer but it will save time and ease the
struggling.
as you can see from the picture, this is how it is installed everywhere in the farm so
that we can just connect the hose to spray.
the problem of ordinary sprayer nozzle is inefficient when it comes to the used amount.
so to spray efficiently, we use nozzle from Yamaho which is made in Japan.
there are various size available so that we can change anytime depending on its needs.
so using Yamaho is not necessary.
this nozzle enables spraying evenly with fine mist.
so the amount of the solution will waste less with high efficiency.
in case of pepper plant, it is important to spray fine mist since the pests are usually
located beneath the leaves and inside flower.
it is always best to spray solution without making the plant moving and also make sure
to spray from bottom to top so that it can penetrate deeper even in between the leaves
and the branches.
try to spray a little bit tilted from the straight angle.
again, pests are mostly gathered under the leaves and inside the flowers.
so bottom to top is important to keep in mind.
and another problem that I mentioned is the quality of the water.
when hard water is sprayed, the water will not coat well and when it's mixed with the
solution it will make solution to entangle.
moreover, the whole thing will leave a mark on the plant.
it may not look like a big problem, but this will lower the quality of the product and
ending up getting darker leaves.
this is the common mistake that most of people who have failed while doing organic farming.
however, if you use the proper water, then it will spread firmly and this will not leave
a mark on the leaves and the fruit.
so repeat after me.
my natural pesticide is well coated on the plant.
are you getting my point?
this is not just for organic farmer.
it also includes conventional farmer who uses chemical pesticide.
and I want to tell you that all pesticide whether that is organic or chemical has a
side effect.
so make sure you do the ratio test before using it.
and secondly, these are the substance that you want to avoid mixing with and those are
vinegar, sugar, molasses, seawater.
these will entangle your solution.
so now let's start talk more about natural pesticide.
what is the most important thing in pesticide?
most important thing is adhesive or wetting agent, emulsifying agent, or surfactant.
I have invented all-in-one solution called JADAM wetting agent also known as JWA.
the reason why this is important is that without these agents, the pesticide won't stick
or coat the plant.
is it clear?
next most important thing is disinfectant and fungicide.
and I have invented JADAM sulfur for this also known as JS.
third most important thing is pesticide or insecticide which can be replaced with herbal
extract liquid also known as JADAM herbal solution.
the JHS.
all you need to prepare is these three.
simple isn't it?
it may sound ridiculous but these three powerful combination is surprisingly effective.
and now let's talk about the recipe.
first making 100 liters of JWA.
I'll be using 18 liters of canola oil and 3.2 kilo of potassium hydroxide also known
as lye and commonly referred as caustic potash.
and 82.5 liters of water.
as I mentioned before, using soft water is very important here.
you can use various oil including animal and sesame oil if you are financially stable.
this procedure used to be very difficult but I tried to make it very simple as possible.
so let me show you how.
it is very easy to make one so I believe this video is enough to make people understand
how it's made.
however, do wear a mask and safety goggles before you make this.
the blue barrel is a heat resistant since the temperature of the solution will get very
hot when you add caustic potash.
first 2.5 liters of water.
then 3.2 kilo of caustic potash.
then close the lid so that you can make sure to prevent gas coming out from the bucket
caused by caustic potash.
then swing the barrel to melt caustic potash evenly.
then add the canola oil and drill it with blender about 10 minutes until it's thick
like thin mayo.
after that age it for 3 days.
then you can feel soft surface like a butter in 30 celsius degree weather.
after aging, first add 20 liters of water to break down the oil with the drill.
so you don't have to drill longer just drill enough to make smaller particle of JWA.
this will help the solution to melt even faster.
then secondly add 60 liters of water and stir it evenly and occasionally with clean wooden stick.
easy isn't it?
this is how it looks after 4 hours.
all of these will cost you 50 cents per liter.
however, if you purchase one of these from the market, it will cost about 60 dollars
per liter.
this is how it looks like after 6 hours.
and 24 hours.
the time consumption of the process may different depending on the climate.
it may take bit longer during the winter.
please repeat after me.
wow so easy.
I'm not forcing you to make this for my own good.
I'm telling you because it is very easy to make one.
as I told you the importance of the water right?
if you don't have soft water or softener to collect it then tap water is also fine
to use it.
but best way is always test your water before using it.
soft water is not just available from the softener.
quality soft water can also be collected from the rain and underground.
it is actually can be found easily.
but depending on the location and situation of the area the quality may different.
so always do testing before using it.
it can also be found in the mountains.
the difference between hard water and soft water is determined by the amount of calcium
and magnesium in the water.
of course the soft water contains less of this.
by using ion exchange resin to filter the hard water also can be soft too.
this resin is reusable and can be stored very long time.
even usable during winter time after melting it.
and here is the JWA recipe chart for smaller amount as well.
and the method of making JWA is not only limited for specific ingredients.
you can also fry chili to make chili oil as an ingredient of JWA.
then this chili JWA becomes spicy enough to kill mite.
you can also fry toxic olander leaves to make JWA.
one thing to keep in mind is that this way of making JWA the oil has to be fried before
putting as an ingredient.
you are not going to fry JWA.
fry chili or any other herbs before using as an ingredient of JWA.
apart from using JWA as a wetting agent.
it can also be liquid soft for dish, clothes, and for body.
what's even more fascinating is that this JWA gets decomposed in nature within 5 days.
on the other hand, the chemical surfactant takes forever to get decomposed in nature
and causing serious contamination in earth.
what I'm trying to elaborate here is that our JADAM method is not just for farming but
also for cleaner healthier environment.
when you finish make JWA as soon as you pour those into separate container,
it becomes your environmentally friendly soap and shampoo.
and furthermore, when you use sodium hydroxide instead of caustic potash,
it can also become solid soap.
we found this result during our invention of JWA.
these natural soap cost at least 10 to 20 dollars in the market.
but with JADAM technology and by making yourself,
it will only cost you 50 cents per one.
surprising isn't it?
hi guys thank you for watching the video this far.
if you are interested in making your own solid soap,
please click on your right for more information.
or if you are interested for JWA click on your left.
if you like this video, please click thumbs up.
and for more about us and our farming videos,
then click subscribe to get more updates.
see you in the next one.
bye
