Raise your hand and repeat after me.
JWA, JS, Ginkgo JHS, RD Panacea for everything.
And this is really true.
Imagine how much we struggle to find this ultimate result and solution.
What you gotta do is just move forward with accumulated knowledge of ours.
Things will be much easier than before.
But important part of all is utilizing JMS.
Use the leaf mold soil, potato, and sea salt to cultivate your own perfect JMS.
Cultivate those microbes in room temperature where crops are growing.
When the bubbles are at the peak, use all of them at once with dilution ratio of 100
times to 1000 times.
If you have missed the peak period, use JMS as fertilizer for your crop.
It is important to use at least 4 times before transplanting.
And do it occasionally for whole year when it's needed.
And with the basis of that, go for next step, the pesticide.
From now on, let me explain the solution that can solve various diseases and pest problem.
So far, most of products sold as natural pesticide around the world have been unable to keep
up with the functionality of chemical ones.
So it was too difficult to succeed in organic cultivation.
But the natural pesticide that I developed is completely different.
The effect is strong enough to replace chemical pesticide.
And the cost of pesticide can be reduced by up to 1 to 50th if it is self-manufactured.
By using JNP, soon you will realize that organic farming is easier, better, and can be done
at ultra-low cost.
Moreover, JNP complies with the organic regulation of USDA.
Therefore, people are able to get organic certification in the US and most of other
countries that follows the similar rules of USDA.
Since it is manufactured with the safe substance mentioned in National list 4A and 4B, which
is recognized by the EPA, the US Environmental Protection Agency.
It is almost harmless to human body and fruit can be harvested immediately after spraying
and eaten right after it is washed without peeling it off.
Meaning of making your own natural pesticide is that you are becoming liberated from commercial
monopoly capital.
I hope the liberation of agriculture technology and ultra-low cost organic farming can bring
you new hope for safer and cleaner agriculture.
Some of you may think this technology is suited for large medium-sized farm.
But in fact, JADAM method can be used broadly and effectively for organic gardening or urban farming.
Therefore, I represent JADAM agriculture method as a breakthrough solution for the environment
crisis, unemployment crisis, and food crisis to secure yourself and for your family's
worry less joy.
Before getting into the detail of DIY natural pesticide, there is few mandatory instruction
that you must follow.
First, all the solution introduced in this lecture, JADAM, JWA, and the JHS must be manufactured
with soft water.
Second, all the solution need to be used with soft water apart from JMS.
You can find soft water from nature itself.
To identify the soft water, you need to use a couple of drops of JWA.
If the water is clear with foams, then you're good to go.
However, if you are not in a situation to collect one, then it is required to use water softener.
The best and easiest soft water you can collect is from the air condition, which is most perfect
soft water you can get.
Also, tap water sometimes can be soft water, but always do check yourself with JWA.
And third, when you are applying natural pesticide for the first time, do the side effect test
on the plant two to three days in advance.
And you have to make sure if the solution is not leaving any marks on the leaves.
Now let me explain the best solution for world most common pest, the aphid.
Aphid is most destructive pest in temperate region.
During cultivation, aphid is the most common pest that we encounter every day.
Therefore, once you fail to control aphid, you are most likely to fail farming.
It is common problem, but in the same time, it is difficult subject among organic farmer.
One generation of them can produce next generation within 20 days.
And a single female aphid can produce 40 times a year.
That means theoretically, one single female aphid can produce couple of billion.
However, beside this fact, you can control 100% with the solution that we offer.
Having confidence in controlling aphid means that we have achieved a complete basic solution
of natural pesticide.
In my book, JADAM organic farming, I have specified three separate stages, prevention
levels, infestation level, and emergency level.
You can choose your step depending on your situation.
All you need is the wetting agent, the JWA, and insecticide, the JADAM herbal solution.
For JHS, you can use herbal extracts such as Ginkgo, Bracken, Fern to mix with the solution.
The most of pest and aphid's favorite habitat is back of the leaves.
Therefore, spray gentle and firmly.
You can also spray with one hour interval if you find that your crops are excessively
exposed to aphid.
And then moving on to the next problem is the mite.
The size of the mite is extremely small.
Its size is smaller than 1mm.
Because of its size, it is hard to recognize when your farm is stained with the mites.
There are overall 48,000 species of mite, which makes farmers to struggle more than
aphid.
Their reproduction systems are very fast.
Therefore, it will destroy the crops within very short time once it occurs.
It is terrifying.
But surprisingly, solution is not much different from the aphid's prescription when it comes
to the recipe.
All you need is to increase the ratio of JWA and JHS.
During emergency level, you may add fine soil to make even powerful solution.
Add the fine soil into the water on the separate beaker, then shake it.
After a minute, you will be able to see the soil is separating its layer.
The fine soil will enhance the penetration effect of pesticide, which increases the control
rate of the mites.
Adding fine soil is not just for mites.
It works on almost all pest problems.
There are many farmers who uses JADAM natural pesticide never had problem of dealing these
two pests mentioned above.
And this fact is something surprising to the most of conventional farmers as well.
And the next pest is the moth.
There are about 160,000 recorded species in the world.
These powdery flying pests are well known for its destructive role of damaging pepper,
tomato, paprika, and many other crops, including the fruit trees.
Although we have very simple single solution to all kinds of moth.
This is also not much different from the other solution that mentioned above.
The combination of JWA and JHS.
As you can feel by now, combination of these simple two are very effective.
I have researched for three years on 60 different kinds of crops to make flawless solution to
major pest issues during farming.
By utilizing Ginkgo extracted water, you will be able to eliminate most of moth species
flawlessly.
Also, it has really amazing repellent effect itself, which will reduce any outcome drastically.
Plus, the solution mentioned above will not create any resistance on the pest.
You can add optional fine soil to increase its controlling rate.
And other herbal extracts like bracken fern and olander is other great alternative solution
to Ginkgo.
Besides these three herbal remedy, there are also plenty of herbs that can be used as pesticide
and those are listed on my other book called 100 herbs.
You can purchase this book from Amazon.
Next is the scale insects.
There are about 8,000 species of this insect.
The characteristics of scale insects is that its body is like pierced within the tree,
which makes very hard to eliminate from the target.
Therefore, until now, killing them physically by hand was preferred among organic farmer.
However, by increasing JWA ratio and adding sodium hydroxide, you can easily control scale
insect and if you add fine soil, the effects becomes even more powerful.
You can check their dead body within three to four days after spraying the solution.
The sodium hydroxide is the other great option that you can add when there is an emergency.
But it is not required often as additional substance for the solution.
First put it in a separate beaker with water in advance.
Stir to melt evenly then add it to pesticide.
Sodium hydroxide contact might irritate your skin but not as harmful as chemical pesticide.
Therefore, make sure to wear some safety gear when it's added.
Next pest is billy bug.
The most common pest in tropical region.
The body of the pest is covered with white fur and powder, which makes pesticide penetration
difficult into the pest.
And that is reason why the fine soil takes important role in case of furry pest.
It helps the pesticide to penetrate deeper and enable solution to last longer after spraying
while increasing its control rate.
This is how powerful and efficient JWA methods are.
Next is the greenhouse whitefly solution.
The difficulties of this pest is that it builds up tolerance of the pesticide so quick
causing farmer to lose their billions of dollars profit.
Until now, there isn't any official pesticide that is recorded as treatment for this.
However, simple JADAM solution can offer the best result for the greenhouse whiteflies.
As I mentioned before, JADAM natural pesticide do not build resistance to any pest which
enables farmers to use constantly without worrying about pest getting tolerance to the
pest solution.
Key point of dealing with this pest is increasing the ratio of JWA.
Once you are able to wet its body and wings with JWA, the pest will die without hope.
The greenhouse whiteflies are never been a problematic to JADAM family.
This exact same solution can be used for mosquito, drips, mole, and stink bug.
And now the slug and sale.
These are the pest that succeed drawing attention to farmer.
Many farmers are big fan of this little creature.
They are intelligent.
When you spray pesticide, it will cover its skin with mucus to protect themselves from
any harm.
When I go seminar out abroad, the most common question I get is about how to control slug
and snail.
I believed myself as a natural pesticide expert.
So I did many research on this but failed many times.
I couldn't forgive myself on failing on this animal.
I was very disappointed by myself.
There was no way that I could control this with natural pesticide.
Until I found the perfect recipe.
The victory was on my side.
The JWA and presence of sodium hydroxide disabled the mucus of the slug and snail.
The small one dies within few seconds and the bigger ones die slowly after crawling
around a bit.
This simple discovery was game changer to most difficult problem of organic farming.
And next is the nuclear bomb of coffee tree.
The coffee barrier bore.
What it does is first it will make a hole in the tree and produce their baby inside.
These kind of characteristics disables any kind of pesticide even with the poisonous
chemicals.
All the solution that coffee farmers had was just cutting off the tree and plant another
one.
During 2018, we got official contract offer from Hawaiian state government to take charge
of CBB control project for one year.
I wasn't sure about the pest at first, but I wasn't afraid to do research either.
So after first experiment with couple of different recipe, we found the ultimate solution that
can kill the pest within 15 seconds.
Then we embarked on the proper experiment in Hilo, Hawaii.
We divided the farm in the four section and each section had 150 trees.
With whole year research, we could confirm that JADAM method worked.
The JADAM natural pesticide solution could control 99.7% of CBB.
The recipe were simple.
All we needed was JS, JWA, sodium hydroxide, and fine soil.
Treating most difficult pest with such simple solution is something ridiculously fantastic.
With this exact recipe, you can also control fire ant and white ant.
This recipe can bring whole new paradigm to many difficult pest problems.
For one year, we have tested on different pest and disease in tropical region, which
gave us confident that JADAM method shows great effect even on a tropical climate.
Next is solution for plant hopper.
This solution that I'm going to teach you can treat any form of plant hopper family.
This pest lay their eggs inside the tree.
Therefore, once you fail in the early stage, the results can be disaster.
Very well-known destructive foreign plant hopper in Korea is citrus-flatted plant hopper.
It started to appear in South Korea under the influence of climate change.
These are the public enemy to both organic and conventional farmer.
Just mixture of JWA and JHS was not showing any good result to this.
But just like before I mentioned, by adding fine soil would show powerful result on the pest.
The small particle of fine soil enables the solution to penetrate deeper and longer.
The characteristic of this moth is that it flies away when any solution is sprayed.
Therefore, it is important to spray continuously for about 2-3 days.
Next I want to talk about all-purpose pesticide.
As you can hear from the name, this is all-purpose natural pesticide that can control both pest
and viruses in the same time.
This is based on mixture of JS, JWA, and Ginkgo JHS.
You may add fine soil and sodium hydroxide during emergency.
But if you are not in a location where you can get ginkgo, then you can use bracken fern
and oleander as an alternative to ginkgo.
This recipe can be used throughout the whole year.
It will never build up any tolerance to any pest.
Half liter of JS for 500 liter is minimum for sulfur-sensitive crops.
To increase its effect, raise the amount of JHS and JWA and increase the amount of
JS from 0.6 liter to 1.5 liter depending on the crop situation.
And the fungicide for powdery mildew.
The disease shows small white powder spot on the variety of the crop all over the world.
And it is usually appeared on the surface of the leaves.
This disease are among many reasons why farmers give up organic farming.
Because there is not a proper organic fungicide available to treat powdery mildew.
Many people just wash it away with the hose.
But don't feel lonely.
It is same problem to conventional farmers as well.
Many of the disease and the pest build up their tolerance on every solution is given.
Which makes people to spend a lot more money to try different kind of fungicide and pesticide
but still unable to control.
However, combination of JWA and JS alone can perfectly control powdery mildew.
And let me remind you again, it does not build any resistance on the pest.
Powdery mildew is very common disease.
And this is the reason why people farm their crops inside the greenhouse.
However, with JADAM method, you can grow most of crops in an open field that too even during
monsoon season.
And there is reason why I'm keep claiming that JADAM method is the ultimate solution
for agriculture.
Because it simply performs better on wide range of crop than any other methods.
Now let's move on to the downy mildew.
The disease that causes leaves to turn yellow.
This is also well known as difficult problem to treat even with chemical solutions.
Downy mildew is commonly occur when there is high humidity in the environment.
And this is very common case in cucumber.
Therefore it is difficult to cultivate cucumber in an open field.
Downy mildew solution is not much different from powdery mildew solution ratio.
All you need is to increase little bit of JS.
The application method is also very simple.
Just spray underneath of the leaves.
Try JADAM method.
You will see what I'm talking about.
And the next is fungicide for gray mold.
This disease cause serious damage on greenhouse cultivated crops.
It is commonly occur on the chickpeas, lettuce, broccoli, grapes, strawberry, and on the other
crops.
Gray molds are usually formed with thick layer of fungus on the surface of the fruit.
Which makes solution to be harder to penetrate.
But just by increasing the amount of JWA, the penetration ability of the solution will
increase.
With combination of JWA and JS, there is nothing to feel difficult.
And the next one is the anthracnose.
There is not a single fungicide that can treat or stop this disease.
It is known to cause by the rain splashing on the crops.
Once it occurs, the spreading radius is about 4.5 meters a day.
Anthracnose is known as unstoppable virus carrying train.
However, JADAM method can be great solution to this problem.
But here is the thing that has to be done carefully.
It is mandatory to apply solution within 10 hours after rain.
And during emergency, it is required to spray with 1 day interval maximum of 3 days to avoid
any serious damage.
Generally, other experts would recommend to trim off the diseased fruit to prevent further
infection.
But with JADAM natural pesticide, it is not so necessary.
It is possible because it works even without trimming the damaged ones.
The virus will stop spreading once it is sprayed couple of times.
The cost of making 1 liter of JS is about $1.
And this amount can be diluted with 500 liters of water.
It is extremely cheaper than what you purchase from the market.
And the next is the wilt disease solution.
There is various type of wilt disease exists in the world.
And its cause are also very different from one another.
In JADAM, we do not approach to fix specific virus to offer as a solution.
And I believe this disease are caused because of lack of root promotion.
And believe it or not, most of crops that attacked by wilt disease have a weaker roots.
Once you pull the plant out from the ground, you can definitely check out what I'm trying
to say.
And my personal opinion on main cause is the excessive amount of chemical pesticide fertilizer
and contamination caused by this too.
It may seem serious and complicated, but solution is rather very simple.
Just irrigating or sprinkle JMS before transplanting.
It is important to irrigate truly deep enough to wet the ground till 1 meter below.
I highly recommend irrigating JMS at least 4 times before planting.
JMS is truly groundbreaking solution.
Utilizing JMS will help crops to deepen its roots and makes the soil fertile like ever
before.
By irrigating JMS, you are enabling variety of microbes to live in the soil.
Diversity of microbes underneath of the ground can prevent and reduce disease from soil drastically.
This is what I would say saving money from your pocket.
Because manufacturing JMS barely cost nothing.
All you need is potato, sea salt, and just water.
Our view of farming is very simple.
Farming becomes successful when crops are succeeding in initial rooting.
Using JMS alone will show you new paradigm of what is true agriculture.
I have introduced the website where you can purchase all those ingredients on our JADAM
website.
Most of people who are new to farming believes that healthy crop won't attract or get attacked
by the pest or any form of disease.
But until now, us, the human, had been modifying the crops for our comfort and pleasurable
eating experience.
So the modern agriculture's crops and seeds are like a newborn second-generation breed,
which barely have any accumulated experience and intelligence to avoid those outcomes.
Therefore, it is foolish to expect that these young generation species to be pest and disease-proof.
Even the crop is healthy.
Once you hands-on experience real farming, even from a small gardening, you will soon
realize how weak the crops are.
Pest control and disease control knowledge is the must in order to successfully yield
your precious vegetable.
The knowledge that we offer to you is comparably easier than anyone else in the world.
It is simple but very powerful solution enough to replace chemical pesticide.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's liberate our soul from commercially monopolized expensive technology
made by giant corporation.
We will have to fool ourselves and become a slave of knowledge that we aren't even close
to the truth once we fall into the tricks they made.
All those false ideology will destroy our environment, our body, and our children.
Take the initiative of agriculture technology to escape from false reality.
We have all the solution right here for you.
So let's make the world a better place.
Finally, we finished the total of 18 lectures.
This lecture was taken end of 2019 during winter.
Our last lecture before COVID-19.
We wanted to share this lecture so we all can continue learning even if there is pandemic storm.
We hope it was helpful to you all.
And thank you for watching the long video.
All of this lecture was recorded by Sungwoo Cho which is me, the son of Youngsang Cho.
And the next video will be detail information of JWA, JS, and JMS.
See you all on the next video.
Bye.
