raise your hand and repeat after me.
soil management, base fertilizer, additional fertilizer,
and finally the most wanted natural pesticide.
all you need to know is these four things in farming.
most of experienced farmers criticize when it comes to organic pesticide
due to its functionality and effectiveness
because it can't even control aphids and powdery mildew.
and this was the most well-known facts on organic pesticide
until I developed JADAM natural pesticide.
the JADAM solution can enough to replace chemical pesticide
and moreover in JADAM natural pesticide
there are not even a single chemical pesticide residue detected.
furthermore, it won't cost much to make one.
until now we've been known organic farming is possible
only in a small scale farming,
but I can prove that is wrong.
this is the place called Bonghwa village
where it is famously known as a home of our former president of South Korea
Mu-hyun Roh who had passed away.
the whole 132 hectare rice farm in the village
practices 100% JADAM method over more than 10 years now.
and there is even bigger than Bonghwa.
Taehee is another village where every farmer practice JADAM method
in 214 hectare rice farm.
this evidence is enough to prove that organic farming
can be done in larger scale.
rice farming can be easily done with organically
and most surprisingly the cost of four times applying JADAM natural pesticide
is only six cents per three square meter.
it is possible because all natural pesticides are self-manufactured.
in real with JADAM technology organic farming costs much lesser than conventional.
furthermore, our JADAM natural pesticide comply with USDA organic regulation
because we follow the rule of USDA organic
you can get organic certified anywhere in the world.
even in our local South Korean law follows the same.
if you see in the book,
there are three major chemical substance used in the process of making WA and JS
potassium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, and sulfur,
which is listed in 4A and 4B USDA organic national list.
chemical substance in national list are the one that is harmless for human in low amount.
but irony is that people who sell finished sulfur products
continue to criticizing me for using sodium and potassium hydroxide,
which is an absurd to me because these two are used in many other industry
like cosmetics and even in a fruit businesses.
there are written record and evidence.
they can search to start debate with me instead of spreading false rumor.
what is even more manufacturer labeled it as food additives,
which many fruit and food companies use it for.
this is not highly toxic like chemical pesticide.
It is safe enough to use it as ingredient for many things.
That is why these substances are usable for organic natural pesticide and more.
the effect of JWA and JS are not a question marks anymore.
the agriculture department of South Korean government have tested the effect
and now they even recognize the effects of these.
even this is archived in the record of Department of Agriculture.
it is written that controlling disease and pest is possible with JS.
in Korea, we have system called PLS, which is the positive pesticide management system.
JADAM solutions are all listed in there.
also when we have tested 320 chemical pesticide residue,
none of our solution failed the test.
moreover, it is safe to eat and sell right away even after spraying the solutions,
which is the most conventional farmers concern after harvest.
what is more attractive is that you don't have to wear any protective clothing.
as you can see from the picture,
I myself, my children and my JADAM staff never had worn one because it is safe.
There's no problem if you mistakenly ingest the solution.
if it was not, I wouldn't be able to lecture front of you guys.
and the characteristics of JADAM natural pesticide is that it can be nutrient for the crop
and repeated use does not create any tolerance towards pest,
meaning you can spray the similar amount throughout whole year and season without worry.
it is possible because the sulfur is known to not create resistance on pest
and ginkgo is one of the stinkiest plant that dinosaur even avoided it.
have any of you seen pest on ginkgo tree?
none, right?
we even tried our method on mushrooms and it works well.
while inventing JWA,
we have come across many different oils to make JWA like neem and many more.
but the best one so far is the canola oil,
which is at least most affordable oil in Korea.
with the invention of JWA, JS and JHS,
the effects were not only studied and practiced in one place.
instead,
we have sent these solutions to many farmers in Korea to study data of the effects
and the results that we have come across is not just done by me.
it became possible with collaboration with farmers.
so before getting into this,
I have some serious question for you all.
so if the healthy crop had successful initial rooting with perfect fertilization and perfect growth,
will the crop be able to be free from the pest?
what do you all think?
many people think crop will be free from pest when it has achieved the health.
but that is the most common stupid idea that people have.
most of farmer and people think the crop can protect itself from the pest without natural or chemical pesticide.
and farmers who thinks in such way feel bad about himself spraying the pesticide for the crop.
so let me tell you the fact.
agriculture without natural or chemical pesticide is impossible.
period.
imagine you are a tree with fruits on your branch.
will you be wanting to protect your fruit?
or will you try to spread the seeds inside the fruit far away to increase the number of your own species?
the tree wants to spread their seeds just like nature of animal.
if so, can this tree throw their seeds itself?
no, right?
so there has to be some context with other existence to spread their seeds.
and to do that tree starts to make their own fruit to be colorful.
and during this process,
the tree will create the sweet fragrance of the fruit to attract more pest, birds, and animals.
to use them as their seed delivery agents.
in this way, the tree can spread their seeds far away.
then the tree will reach its state of pleasure.
so when we are talking about fruit as our selling product,
you cannot farm without any form of pesticide.
for long term research,
consumers are first not interested on ugly product even that is an organic.
therefore, if you want to be successful,
you have to have professional knowledge on pesticide.
but whether that is chemical or organic pesticide,
both of these are too expensive to rely on and less effective.
moreover, chemical pesticide causes soil contamination.
so we all have to shift towards making our own natural pesticides.
but can you trust a word from someone who call young sangcho
who is telling people not to follow conventional way
and who does not have a PhD and furthermore not even a professor.
can you bet your farm life on someone who you never thought of and met?
so let me try to make you guys trust on my word.
if you see the virus and pest,
the only difference in between two is one of them is bigger in size.
but what do we commonly do to treat this two?
there are millions of different remedy ready for each different outcomes.
virus, disease for specific remedy and pest for different kind of pesticide.
and if we dig deeper,
all the virus and pest have different habitat and characteristics.
and because of that,
currently there are 466 chemical solutions registered in agriculture database
for each different outcomes.
but JADAM's idea on this is quite different.
when you spray solution which can treat virus,
then that also can be used for the pest when you increase the dosage.
it may be hard to understand.
so think simple in this way.
when you can control powdery mildew and aphid with that application ratio of JWA,
JS and JHS,
you can control almost all pest and disease that occurred during your farming.
and this is true.
It may sound ridiculous,
but with similar application,
you can control almost all problems.
first try this on aphid and powdery mildew.
then with that recipe,
you have your farm under your control.
please repeat after me.
wow.
it seems easy.
the reason why I'm keep telling you farming without the help of any pesticide is impossible
is because the pesticide companies now own seed companies as well.
it means they will create seed that needs a pesticide.
and I'm keep telling people to be professional natural pesticides expert
is because it's not very difficult to be one.
so am I the only special enough to be expert of natural pesticide?
no.
researching pesticide is super easy.
you don't need a high-tech laboratory to test the effects.
anyone can start testing.
do you know how to begin with?
first gotta drink well to be patient enough
because sometimes it takes a bit longer to see the effects.
and just purchase a couple of sprayers and flask to test.
that's it.
believe me.
I'm the one internationally recognized as natural pesticide experts.
but all I have is this few gear for testing.
all you gotta do is the controlling pest problems
in order to be an expert of natural pesticide.
there's nothing special with that.
it will cost only 200 bucks to have natural pesticide lab.
the sprayer is bit expensive from Germany $30.
3 sprayers, 3 flask, 1 small scope,
and some empty syringes for dosing right amount of DADAM solution.
doesn't it sounds like a lab?
when you can find effect of the pesticide,
then that place becomes your research lab.
am I wrong?
to recognize the effects,
just spray the solution then decide if that is effective
by looking at dead bodies of the pest.
if it's not dead, increase the dosage.
so let me show you the basics.
this pest is called tobacco cutworm or cotton leafworm
known to be one of the hardest pest to treat.
to know the effects,
just spray the solution.
you'll be able to see the worm start to twist their body.
if not, then that means the solution is not effective enough.
all this happens within 15 seconds after spraying it.
and next one is the cabbage butterfly worm.
one of the bastard that disturbs the growth.
see? twisting their body after spraying.
as you saw the world of natural pesticide is nothing about philosophy and concept.
the one who have killed the most pest without harming the environment is the winner.
it's all about practicality and the effects.
okay?
as you can see,
we are open to everyone.
and because we share,
we also had a lot of struggles in the past.
but since we start from this experience,
we are very confident of this effect and this recipes.
and if you have question,
you can always just leave a comment down below or just leave message on Facebook.
how great is that?
the best part of JADAM is all you need to learn is just one day
and build your own experience for two to three months to master it.
that's all you need.
you don't have to come to seminar again and again after this one.
it is that simple technology.
and I made it that simple.
and when you become a master of JADAM technology,
the pest will just line up their dead body front of you.
for real,
they do.
test the method at home.
try on different kind of moth and many other pests like tobacco cutworm,
cotton leafworm, drips,
and also on aphid.
collect them and try it on them.
speaking of aphid,
I can guarantee the effects on aphid.
seriously.
see?
after three to four hours,
they are all dead.
let's look at another one.
the coffee berry borer on coffee trees from Hawaii.
this one is really weird and ugly looking pest.
as expected,
it live up to its looks.
this pest has succeeded failing many scientists and huge corporation trying to have control on the pest.
a really strong one.
and few fails and loss.
later,
the government of Hawaii came up to me with an $150,000 contract deal for controlling or killing this pest.
during the time,
I was actually worried about my abilities on this pest.
but with no struggle,
when I sprayed,
it died within 15 seconds.
it was just way too easy.
and there was another request in the deal.
and that was fire ant.
this one was just nothing for me.
I could do it like Thanos with one pull of finger.
in case of fire ant,
it really dies instantly.
so there's no room for Avengers.
seriously.
what is most considered to be difficult is the drips.
there is two most common difficult pest in the world.
and one is slug and snail,
which is not a big deal for me.
and the other one is drips.
so what makes controlling drips so difficult?
when I spray,
it passes out.
but after a few hours,
it comes back alive again,
which is irritating.
then this testing becomes a waiting game in between human and drips.
just sit along with drips and place your alcoholic beverage or natural alternatives to make you less boring for the wait.
so my point is that I wasn't able to achieve this result and solution because I'm professional on this topic.
I just chose the right path.
that's it.
that means anyone can begin the research now.
with this simple tools,
all you need is a maximum of 200 bucks to begin with.
small tools and your business card.
write your title as natural pesticide experts.
Okay,
be confident of what you are going to do.
you don't need years of professional experience or PhD degree to do this.
what this means is that we the farmer are the one in the real fields,
not them.
so just have confidence and do not leave your research to them.
we can do it all by ourselves.
and we know better because we are always always in the field working hard.
if you leave this job to experts,
you'll end up losing time and money.
Okay,
take control of what you are going to do.
Thank you for watching.
If you have made this far of the video,
if you like the video,
please click thumbs up and we will be back again with much more detail farming videos soon.
So be sure to subscribe to get more information about JADAM technology.
