Before going into natural pesticide,
I would like to mention a little bit about keeping health with JADAM SESE.
I jokingly say to people not to talk about this outside of this lecture
because it will lower the profits of the hospitals in Korea.
What I'm trying to tell you is carrying your own body is also not so difficult like farming.
So don't rely your health to someone else.
Just solve common issue in your body by yourself just like nature.
So what happens when we get old?
Our spine will slowly get bent over because of muscular debilitation.
Then our internal organ will have lack of space when our body becomes narrower
and that will accelerate aging in our body.
So because of that reason,
we have to work out to maintain our muscle before entering our 50s.
Since we all are farmer,
we all have aches somewhere in our bodies because of hard labor,
which is very common problem for all.
And to solve that problem,
I have most simple and effective solution for you all.
Like this, just hang any pull-up bar or on the door.
This simple move will cure many of our daily aches.
Raise your hand and just hang your body.
One more time.
You don't have to force yourself to hang on longer.
Just do it without trying at least five times for 15 days.
After that something remarkable thing happens.
All the muscle pain from the lumbar to cervical areas muscle will be relieved,
including scapular and the back spine.
And do you know what is most serious problem of all?
The neck muscle stiffness.
Does anyone know how much bloods are circulated through the brain in a day?
2,000 liters.
When our neck is stiff,
that means it is stiff on aorta.
Then there will be less blood circulation in the brain.
What caused an Alzheimer's and cerebral infarction?
It is caused because your body was incapable of providing enough nutrient to the farm called brain.
So to provide enough blood circulation,
you'll need to correct your posture first.
This exercise that I told you will almost correct your posture and heal the pain on your back.
Please try this at home.
You'll see the huge improvement within a month.
And the next thing that I would like to mention is the rice, the white rice.
I have been telling people not to eat just the white rice,
but people are not listening to me at all.
Not so long ago,
the doctor from United States came on a TV in Korea telling people that he was shocked by people eating a lot of white rice in Asian countries.
According to the doctor,
comparison of eating rice is equivalent to eating same amount of sugar for humans,
which also increases the chance of inflammation levels in body.
He told people about this to alert the danger of cancer.
And according to him,
the inflammation that occurred surface level of the skin is known as just acne.
But when it occurs internally,
that is the cancer.
And that is the reason why the doctor told people to avoid eating white rice and white sugar.
So what is white rice?
White rice is basically the rice without husk,
which is form of unbalanced nutrient.
And this is the reason why you want to have rice mixed with brown rice and many other grains.
And I do seminar for six or more hours,
three days a week,
even with drinking heavily every day.
But even with this work and habit,
how am I still be able to keep it up with this schedule?
It is possible because I eat brown rice mixed with grains every day.
This eating habit is something that everyone have to consider for their health.
The taste and texture might not be pleasant to consume like usual white rice,
but by mixing little bit of glutinous rice can improve the taste.
And one more thing about the health.
Is there anyone with healthy gum?
Not much, right?
Most of people don't have healthy gum as they get older.
And that is because of using too much of toothpaste.
And that allows many pharmaceutical companies to advertise their gum treatment pills.
Brushing teeth three times a day is like soaking your mouth into toxic chemicals.
If we compare this to agriculture,
it is like foliar spraying three times every day.
Ingredients of ordinary toothpaste are used in a range of products
from industrial cleaner to our household items,
which is also known to be toxic.
And this behavior will end up making you to visit dental clinic often
and causing other form of disease.
Therefore, we should try to get rid of using toothpaste.
And how?
Just replace that with fine salt or sea salt.
It won't cost much.
Just paste the salt on the brush then use it.
You'll see huge improvement after replacing it.
It can even help with the worst condition as people get older.
My father, who is well known as Master Cho,
and my uncle teeth were almost falling off.
But after using salt, their problems got solved.
I'm not saying without evidence.
This is at least broadly known in East Asian countries.
Our history have taught us the benefits of using salt for brushing teeth.
Most of all folks in Korea know the fact.
And believe it or not,
most of hot springs in Korea place salt for brushing teeth.
Keeping your health is not very difficult.
Hang your body on the pole a little bit and try not to eat just white rice.
Mix some grains and brown rice and replace your toothpaste with the fine salt.
And another one is the water.
Drink enough water until your urine doesn't look like bright yellow Simpson character.
Just calculate the amount of water that you are going to drink
by absorbing the color of the urine.
Average so-called balance amount is 2 liters every day.
And lastly, the synthetic fragrance products like soap, shampoo, and many more.
Manufacturer of these products will tell you it is safe,
but smelling good could come with the cost to health.
It has shown in many research that in long-term use,
it could cause from reproductive malformation to liver and breast cancer.
So try to avoid synthetic good smell products for your health.
Thank you for watching this video.
If you like this video,
please click thumbs up and subscribe to our channel for more information about easy organic farming.
