first I have added potassium hydroxide into the water and added canola oil.
next I used electric drill to stir.
during the process the solution will turn a little bit thicker like a thin mayonnaise.
this initial process will take about 10 minutes.
then you have to let it aged for three days which will make the solution turn into like a butter.
after aging use the drill to break down all the solution after adding water to melt properly.
and by stirring slowly and occasionally the whole process will be complete within 24 hours.
one thing to note that there can be a little time difference depending on the
temperature where you proceed this operation.
hello everyone welcome to JADAM ultra low cost agriculture.
in this video we are going to show you the detailed procedure of making your own JADAM
wetting agent. manufacturing own JWA and other mentioned inputs of farming is legal
for almost every country in the world that follows the regulation of USDA organic including
South Korea. if you are not aware of farming, wetting agent also known as emulsifying agent
is mandatory input when it comes to pest control. for example when any pesticide is sprayed without
mixing with wetting agent breakage will occur and won't even coat the surface of the leaves
like in this picture and this phenomena will leave a mark on the plant.
the trace of pesticide can affect the final result and eventually lower the quality of the
produce. but if you mix any sort of pesticide with wetting agent you can see it spread firmly
and clearly like in this picture. this is my pepper farm because we always mix JWA when
spraying natural pesticide. as you can see from the picture it firmly coated the plant and its
leaves. even if you apply more than 10 times the leaves rarely get dirty and do not leave
any trace of wetting agent afterwards. so the fruits are clean until the end of the season.
we all know that taro plant has its waterproof function but with JWA you can't even wet taro
leaves. as you can see from here whatever farming method you are applying to control pest you always
need wetting agent whether it's conventional or organic farming. to make your pesticide worth
money wetting agent is mandatory ingredient to see its best synergistic effect with other pesticide.
there was one reason I came across inventing wetting agent for farming. because commercially
available eco-friendly wetting agent costs 20 dollars per liter which is ridiculously expensive
when we are talking about applying pesticide in medium-sized farm. many of us might not know that
wetting agent are same as liquid soap that we use daily basis. but we think it's different product
because we think it's used on different circumstances. if you see on the left this is the
way of making ordinary soap which is already open to the public. I majored in chemistry so I thought
I could follow exact method to create my own. but soon after it made me think that there is some
conspiracy in the technology. it seems like this simple method of making soap is intentionally
made difficult to follow. so what are the benefits of introducing method that is difficult?
many people will pay to learn for longer time and at the end people will get tired of learning with
many failure giving up on making their own soap eventually end up buying their product which can
be made by themselves. this is also very common truth in agriculture sector. some creators and
instructors will intentionally teach you the method that is difficult and if not they will come
up with special ingredient which you have to purchase every time from them even if they know
the truth of how to make a compost or any input. and that lead other learners to purchase their
finished product. this is sort of their way of sales gimmick. for many years I have witnessed
situations like this. so I decided to invent a technology of an eco-friendly wetting agent that
is dramatically simple to make with very affordable price. this method can be made within 10 minutes
of stirring without external heating and can be used within four days without long aging period.
after invention of JWA, I met couple of natural soap experts and they were shocked by the tech
that I showed them. because it was way easier and simpler than what they have learned for many years.
so I decided not to patent this invention instead I disclosed to public for good use.
self-made natural detergent will only cost you about one dollar per liter which is nothing
compared to what we purchase from the market. and to make this natural detergent to use it
for natural pesticide you must mix with JADAM herbal solution and JADAM sulfur to see its effect.
overall cost of diluting in 500 liters would only cost you four dollars. and treatment for powdery
mildew will cost you 4.5 dollars which enables farmers to practice ultra low cost agriculture.
this is not just a claim that I made up after invention. I have tested JWA and JS on the field
in my farm many times and I can confidently say that it works. so do many farmers around the world
knows the effect of JWA. JADAM natural pesticide can definitely replace chemical pesticide.
as you heard from the beginning about the cost with us you can reduce up to 95 percent of the
input cost. can you see the picture right here? when you use anything mixed with JWA it covers
the surface of the insect's body which blocks the air making aphid unable to breathe. this also means
JWA alone can show you amazing effects. I can tell this is the most harmless way of getting rid of
aphid. this is Worley aphid. as you can see the white powder makes it hard for any solution to
penetrate deeper into their body. this is the kind that what most farmers are struggling with.
however with JADAM wetting agent penetrating into their body will be much easier than before.
you'll be able to see it can be controlled after few hours of spraying the solution.
as I mentioned before JWA alone can solve common problems like aphid but with combination of JHS
and JS the effect of pesticide would become much more powerful. this pest right here is called
tobacco cotton worm. it is known to be hardest pest control but by increasing the ratio of JWA
it can be controlled easily. I have asked many farmers what is their common and most irritating
problem when it comes to pest and the most of them said controlling aphid is one of the big
problem they have and that is not just for organic farmers. conventional farmers are also struggling
with the same problem. the mite is also known to be one of the big struggle which needs mixture of
several pesticide to treat because it builds up its tolerance on pest. however with JADAM anything
mentioned above is not a big deal including powdery mildew and greenhouse whitefly. so from now on
let me show you the short process of making JWA. first I have added potassium hydroxide into the
water and added canola oil. next I used electric drill to stir. during the process the solution
will turn little bit thicker like a thin mayonnaise. this initial process will take about 10 minutes
then you have to let it aged for three days which will make the solution turn into like a butter.
after aging use the drill to break down all the solution after adding water to melt properly
and by stirring slowly and occasionally the whole process will be complete within 24 hours.
one thing to note that there can be a little time difference depending on the temperature where you
proceed this operation. I have invented many other solutions apart from JS and JWA and I have listed
all of my invention on our website and my book JADAM organic farming. it is translated into
five different languages including English and now it is sold in amazon.com. also we have listed
all the ingredients supplier all over the world so that you can purchase your own ingredient
directly from the supplier. this is the analytic table of JWA as you can see there is about two
percent of potassium oxide present in the solution. so it is not just a pesticide it can also be
nutrient for the crop and moreover it has a function of promoting color of your produce.
use of JWA is allowed in south korea under environmentally friendly agriculture act.
moreover the ingredient of JWA follows the regulation of USDA organic and those substances
are on USDA organic national list EPA 4 and EPA 3 which is allowed for organic production and crop
management. JWA and JS are made only from the corresponding natural substance. therefore farmers
can get organic certified all over the globe. unlike chemical pesticide there is one thing that
should be strictly followed and that is using soft water for making JWA. even when mixing with other
solution for use you must use soft water to make and use. speaking about the soft water it is not
special water that you need to add. it is a water which contains less magnesium and calcium also
known as distilled water. during the old times in asian countries to wash your clothes properly
people needed soft water to clean and to identify the quality you simply need to mix natural
detergent into the water. the picture of the water on your left is a transparent without any blurry
color. this is the kind of water that you'd want to make JWA and use it for pesticide. with this
kind of water the effect of pesticide will increase its functionality. there are also some ground water
that is soft enough to utilize for pesticide as well. however you must check before using it. if
you're not in a place where you can get soft water then you can also collect rainwater after 30 minutes
of raining for use. there is another option which is not limited to any location is using water
softener. we have also uploaded video on how to make your own water softener with very affordable
price just in case if you are situated in a place where you can purchase one for yourself. so please
take time to watch our videos on our youtube channel and also on our website. basically what
you will need is iron exchange resin for filtering high calcium and magnesium in the water. this
substance is very commonly used on any water filtration household items such as Brita filter.
you can even reuse the iron exchange resin for about 15 times by cleaning with salt. but after
two to three years of using it you must replace the resin. there are even distilled water machine
is sold in the market. so if you are not sure about DIY water softener then you can also purchase
one of those to test yourself to make JWA. oh and by the way the water that coming out from the air
conditioner is also soft water. so you can utilize that leftover water just in case if you have an
air conditioner in your house. in this video I introduce making JWA with canola oil but you can
also make solution with other oils as well. however among many other oil I do not recommend using any
bean oil because the finished solution has less surfactant effect. so from now on let me show you
the whole procedure of making JADAM wetting agent. I'll continue with further explanation later after
this video. so enjoy. hi this is Youngsang Cho the founder of JADAM. here I'm going to show you how to
make JWA. the function of JWA is not just limited to surfactant but it also have a good pesticide
effect as well. before making JWA using soft water is extremely important because presence of
high calcium and magnesium in hard water will drop its surfactant properties and have less
penetration effect. therefore check the quality with natural detergent or with any leftover JWA
that you have made in the past. let me show you how to determine the quality of the water with
the leftover JWA by dropping some. so if you shake a little bit what you will see is water on your left
will soon become like blurry color and the other one is transparent. and which one do you think
is suited for making JWA? the transparent one is most suitable water to make JWA. however the JWA
will be very blurry if you make with the other one. the characteristics of clear water is that
it creates lots of foam when I shake it. but apart from that the other one is not really.
so now you can see there's a huge difference in the foam. so blurry one usually have a lesser foam.
the water on your left is just ordinary tap water and the other water is filtered with water
softener. so if you don't have soft water then I recommend to use rain water or distilled water.
now 10 minutes has passed you can see the clear difference between these two water.
when people are making JWA they often use the same batter which they made JS with.
please use two batter for each solution because end result of JWA will become blurry
if there is any foreign matter present. and you will be needing a lot of JWA compared to JS.
so make sure to clean it every time after using it. so for this procedure unlike JS I'm going to
use electric drill to begin with. make sure to clean all your tools before using it.
so let's begin. first you will need 2.5 liters of water. measure it with beaker. if not weight
2.5 kilo. weight accurately otherwise you will have to stir longer if you add more than 2.5 liters.
and lesser will harden the JWA.
then next I will add 3.2 kilo of potassium hydroxide.
make sure to close the lid and shake a little bit until the caustic potash is
dissolved completely. during this procedure temperature will rise rapidly and there are
going to be some gas created by the chemical reaction with water. so make sure to wear a mask
or hold your breath for the moment. now it's completely dissolved right now.
and now I will add 18 liters of canola oil. then next I will use the drill to whisk.
as I mentioned before please use the clean drill or clean it before using it.
there's a two type of drill that you can purchase from the store.
one is with the wire and the other one is wireless. wireless one will take longer time
compared to the one with the wire. by the way some people try to whisk by hand or with the wooden stick.
let me tell you that it is impossible. moreover you will burn your skin badly if you use your hand.
so let me show you how.
now five minutes have passed. now you can see it turned into like a thin mayo. it took me about
five to ten minutes to do this. wireless drill will take about 10 to 15 minutes.
because of due to difference in rpm. so do it with observation.
make sure to drill it enough with highest rpm. otherwise it won't become like a butter after aging.
instead it will stay thin even after aging.
the solution should be like a thin mayo after enough drilling. during summer you may need to drill
tiny bit longer due to its weather. and after first initial drilling age it for about three days.
during this aging period internal temperature will rise from 63 Celsius degree to 80 Celsius degree.
then it will slowly cool down with saponification.
then it will turn into like a butter. so this is how it looks like.
there is some cases that people say it stayed murky. in that case there is a possibility of
water amount miscalculation and not enough whisk during the first initial procedure.
if it doesn't turn like a butter after three days of aging that doesn't mean that you have failed.
whisk once more until it will turn into thicker mayo then age it another three days.
and in case of JADAM sulfur the weather maybe wasn't a big obstacle. but with JWA during winter
you may want to do this procedure inside greenhouse then age it somewhere warmer.
so three days have passed let me check how it ended up.
as you can see it turned into like a butter or margarine if you like that one better.
let me show you how it exactly it feels like when I touch it. it looks hard like a butter
but when you touch it it is much softer like a block of cheese melted halfway.
by adding more water to dissolve all of these will be completion of making JWA.
but I'm not going to add all the water at once. first I will begin with 20 liters of water.
then I will use the drill to break down the hardened JWA into small pieces to ease the process of melting.
and make sure to take off the particles on the corner as well.
and now you can barely see that most of particles are all separated.
so second stage process is all clear now.
and I'll add 60 liters of water to fill up the whole bucket to make 100 liters.
and from here I'm going to use the wooden stick instead of drill because of the shorter length of the drill.
you can still use the drill if you have a longer one.
and again please do not use the wooden stick that you have made JWA with.
and during the winter the particles inside might sink due to temperature.
so make sure to stir evenly towards on the corners as well.
once this initial process is done let it sit about 24 hours with stirring maybe once in an hour.
by end of the 24 hours it will be completely melted and will become in good condition to use it.
you can use the drill to fast forward the melting process but I wouldn't recommend it.
because it will turn JWA blurry if you whisk too much.
however if your water is good enough it won't happen.
now I'll close the lid for 24 hours.
and by the way there might be a time difference depending on the climate as I mentioned before.
for example country like Philippines or India their climate is usually hotter than where we are.
so the process will be a little more faster.
JWA melting time could be shortened but place with winter where the temperature drops under 10 Celsius degree.
I recommend to make this JWA inside greenhouse or much warmer place.
so this is how it looks like after an hour of melting.
so I'm just going to stir a little bit.
so this is how it looks like after two and a half hour passed.
you can see there's a little bit of particle left.
let me stir a little more.
and this is how it looks like after four hours of melting.
and this is after six hours of the process.
you can see there's a still a little bit of particle left.
let me stir a little bit.
don't worry it will melt eventually so be patient with the process.
there's nothing wrong about it.
and now 12 hours have passed since after adding water.
as you can see there are a few particles left.
so let me continue whisking slowly.
the current temperature of the water is about 22 Celsius degree.
let me check with the amount of water.
it may have evaporated a little bit.
so less amount of water can slow down the melting process.
so I will add a little more water.
and let me check with the amount of water.
it may have evaporated a little bit.
so less amount of water can slow down the melting process.
so I will add a little more water to it.
so this is how it looks like after 24 hours.
as I continuously mentioned before that melting time could differ depending on the temperature.
if it's warmer it could melt faster.
but if not it will melt bit slower during the cold or weather.
so the meaning of 24 hours is just average time for both circumstances.
during winter I recommend making this inside greenhouse.
or somewhere much warmer than outside.
so the whole procedure is now complete.
and this is the JWA that collected from today.
as you can see it looks transparent with mild yellowish urine color.
and overall cost of making 100 liters of JWA is $50.
but with this small amount of money.
now you have got 100 bottles of JWA.
the average dosage of JWA is 3 liters for 500 liters.
using lesser than 3 liters would have lower surfactant function.
therefore I would recommend to use this from 3 liters to 15 liters depending on your situation.
however using too much amount at once will not be great for plants growth.
as I kept mentioning in the previous lecture videos.
balance is everything when it comes to farming.
so you may use maximum twice of same larger amount during emergency.
and slowly lower the dosage.
and here I have two bottles of JWA.
right one is made just right now.
and the other one is made 2 years before.
there is difference in its function.
the longer it get fermented the better the function it gets.
but it doesn't mean that you have to age it longer every time.
we have tested our JWA.
and we came to conclusion that using JWA right after melting is also good enough.
and for those people who have watched our JADAM sulfur video from our YouTube channel.
in there I mentioned that you have to store JADAM sulfur in separate container.
because of the concentration difference.
however you don't have to do that extra work with JADAM wetting agent.
you can just store it in the same container where you have made your JWA.
just close the lid when you are not using it.
I hope you have enjoyed watching tutorial of making JWA.
it is simple and easy isn't it?
there are a lot of possibilities to make JWA with.
you can also use the oil that fried Vietnamese chili.
by extracting the spice into your oil.
the pesticide effect of solution will be much stronger.
and the next ingredient that can be fried is the Olander.
just by extracting the toxic of Olander.
you can make various kind of complete JWA.
this is the table that shows different amount of JWA you can use in each and every situation.
first I would recommend using from 5 liters for prevention.
then when pest attack begins.
you can increase the ratio from 8 liters to 12 liters in 500 liters during emergency.
best part of JWA is that it doesn't show any side effect.
and moreover it can be nutrition when it is sprayed.
there are some claim that spraying JWA will block the pore of the crops leaves.
which will affect the growth.
however such claim is very false.
if you have seen our video.
80% of JWA is water.
that means it evaporates as time passes.
apart from mixing JWA solution to use as pesticide.
just by increasing the amount of JWA to 20 liters for 500 liters.
we have seen that JWA agent alone can treat several pests.
so this can be another option for people who are not willing to use JWA solution or JWA sulfur.
during early stage of farming.
the seedlings are very weak.
therefore I would recommend using JWA from 4 liters to 5 liters.
the surfactant effect will get lower if you use lesser than 4 liters.
as you can see from here that 3 liters have barely wet the leaves.
in this case it might show some side effects.
so using from 4 to 5 liters is important.
people might think that 5 liters is too much for seedling or for the crop.
but it's not true.
as you saw from the tutorial.
4 liters out of 5 liters is just water.
so you don't need to worry about the pores of the leaves get blocked or something like that.
apart from making 100 liters.
I've also listed all of different ratio for different amount of JWA in the detail on my book.
so if you are interested you can purchase from Amazon.
there is one more thing that I want to share with you.
as I mentioned in the beginning part of the video that it is liquid soap.
if you make your own it is not only surfactant.
but also it can be great alternative natural detergent that you can use daily basis in your house.
and there is couple of reason why you must replace ordinary detergent to JWA.
as you can see from this graph.
JWA is decomposed within 5 minutes.
so it's not a good idea to use JWA.
so I recommend you to use JWA.
and if you are interested in JWA.
as you can see from this graph.
JWA is decomposed within 5 days.
which do not harm our environment.
and this is another reason why it is allowed for organic farming.
the other hand ordinary synthetic surfactant and detergent never gets decomposed in the nature.
which is the leading cause of destroying our mother earth.
this have led to contamination of our oceans and rivers.
there are also lot of research says that these are the main cause of extinction of animals in the water.
moreover many research shows synthetic detergent affects the health of young children.
I hope people can utilize JWA not just as pesticide.
but also use it for health of their family and for this planet.
I know there is a lot of movement to avoid synthetic detergent.
but the truth is that to proceed such act was difficult.
because usual cost of natural detergent is way more expensive in every region of the globe.
and the cost of 1 liter of JWA is 50 cents.
which is nothing compared to ordinary detergent.
amazing part of this is that JWA is not just limited to liquid form.
you can also make solid type of soap bar with little change in the ingredient.
and the best part of all is that cost of making one soap bar will only cost you 5 cents.
in the next video I will be introducing how to make your own natural soap with JWA recipes.
if you have found this video informative please click thumbs up.
and you can click subscribe button to see more useful farming input videos.
as usual thank you for watching and I will see you in the next one.
