I got it. Cheers. Okay, Nicole
Introduce your fantastic self now that everybody can hear you loud and clear
Thank you so much for the warm welcome hi everyone, I am Nicole Hines
I am a cannabis chef an educator and founder of a company called faded living out here in Vancouver, BC
I started my company about a year ago last January
initially to help you know
Normalize adult cannabis use break the stigmas
But now that it's a year later. I am shifting a little bit still to
Play homage to my favorite herb, which is cannabis
but to also introduce other herbs and their benefits and the idea is to
kind of
Show people that there are benefits in herbs and hopefully they can
you know connect cannabis as a herb and
Embrace the fact that cannabis is has a lot of benefits too because the stigma is still there
Especially being in Canada and although we are legal since 2018
As a cannabis entrepreneur, I can see the stigma is still there
so I'm introducing other herbs to cook with as well and kind of
Showing people how to cook with fresh herbs and decarboxylated herbs and kind of playing on that
But yeah, that's kind of me
I'm I've got a weekly podcast called faded living and friends where I chat London was a guest on my show for season one
where we chat about
Cannabis and all sorts of things and then I also have an apparel line
And I'm really excited because not only do I have an apparel line, but I've added
Some kitchen accessories. So I just released a glass
Faded living cutting board, which I'm really excited about
and
I'm hoping that infused dining experiences can come back now that we are opening up, but that's pretty much me in a nutshell
I'm pretty happy to be here
With regards to cooking with cannabis. My approach is more of a low THC approach
because I want to normalize the use of the plant, but I
Have come up with a calculation that works for me
there's so many calculations online and I found one that just kind of like made sense to me and I use it to
show people how to
Do the calculation for like a low THC cultivar and then for the experienced folks?
All you have to do is just change the values and you're good to go
Well, there was a bit there was a big thing
So we've been talking about kind of how do I do we diversify the show?
We have a little bit more fun and how do we bring in all sorts of aspects to the into the area?
And as you know, I'm like a passionate like plant guy, but also a chef
But I've been really like stuck in the plants lately
So I think just naturally kind of rolled in the head that direction after well
so we've decided to step it back a little bit and enjoy and enjoy this first of our episodes and
One of the things that always comes up and it always drives me a little bit nuts is being a chef and someone who's passionately
Involved in the food industry for his entire life and just like yourself there are
all sorts of sweets and there's always this lead on all this different stuff and and you've explored and and
Really get into a lot more of the savory stuff
So I thought you would be the perfect first guest
To bring in and kind of showcase as well because I mean you do some awesome stuff
Do you want to talk a little bit about your?
History of food and how you developed a relationship over time because I think it's really a beautiful story
I know we've we've shared it before but I'm sure that lovely people here would like to show
Absolutely. So I have been a food entrepreneur since about
2013 and I used to live in Calgary, Alberta and I ran a business called wings and ting
So when I started that business, my background is Jamaican and at the time when I started that business
I was playing off of my Jamaican heritage and Canadian heritage and
Fusing the flavors together. So I was in the wing business
so I had a lot of different jerk wing flavors from honey jerk to
Hickory smoke jerk maple syrup jerk all of those things. I
Operated in a year-round indoor farmers market and I did a lot of festivals including, you know, the Calgary Reggae Fest
So I was kind of doing a lot of stuff within the Calgary community
did things like taste of Calgary like these big things and then also did a lot of stuff within the Caribbean community and
Basically, you know, it's not just my background. But really it's my mom where that instilled the love of
Jamaican flavors because as a kid I was
Introduced to everything and growing up in Toronto, which is kind of like Little Jamaica
The Canadian side I had access to all Jamaican food within literally blocks away from me
so I was really lucky that way and kind of incorporated into the farmer business now I
Had a car accident which kind of changed the trajectory of that
Business and also the car accident happened at the time of the oil crash in Calgary
Around there in Alberta and stuff like that. So it caused me to shift and
Round that, you know crash
was the talk about
legalization in Canada and
That's when I started to think okay. Well, that is an industry that I wanted to get into
I really didn't think I was gonna do food anymore
I kind of thought the accident was like one of the catalysts of like that is at the end of that career
so to speak but
It really wasn't I ended up moving to Vancouver and I bumped into a lot of people because a lot of Calgarians live in
The city I bumped into a lot of people who knew me as wings and tanks. So they knew me with that former food
career and kept asking me when I was gonna do food in the city and that's kind of how I
Decided to marry the two so for the type of cuisine that I do
It still is Jamaican fusion and I do a lot of I find that with the oil infusions that I make
Cannabis like it just tastes really good with a lot of the spices and that I use in
Caribbean cooking so I find that a lot of people I found with
Cooking with cannabis. I mean many people are known to do more the sweet side of things
I'm
I'm not well versed on that end. I usually work with pastry chefs. I don't actually do it
I'm the savory girl. So I create dishes
like infused jerk chicken and
infused jerk chicken chili infused Jamaican patties that type of thing so
The flavors I find of the oil infusions work really well with like
All spice and nutmeg and cinnamon and time and all of those flavors that I'm using in
Jamaican cooking so so yeah, that's how how that kind of came to be and now
before legal, you know before
Legalization I was doing a few dinner parties and at that time. I mean, I'm in Vancouver
There was a gray market for like what two decades or something like that
So I wasn't really focused on low THC
cooking at all at that point, but
Once legalization came on board and then with the pandemic and kind of having to shift towards doing things virtually
That's when I was like, okay
Well, let me try to add more education to it and kind of turn my company into an edutainment company
And I felt like I love
By kind of just bringing the
THC levels down a little bit but then giving
everybody the
Equation to scale up if you are well versed or want to even use more of your carrier or something like that
So so yeah
So before I want to get into some of your more recent successes because I've been keeping track of you Nicole
I'm not going to lie. I know
Like you've done some really fucking amazing things in that are like just so fucking awesome
I'm so excited for this conversation
but I there's there's there's there's this epic catalyst moment that drives people to really sometimes take that initial step into
Either whether it's just the plants raw draw for them into the industry or if it or if it's a major moment
and I know
listening to your story and
Talking with some of the other people on the panel like Anita that there might be some sort of you know
commonality there or
relationship in the way that
there's some similarities in life and I wonder Anita if you're available to ask like if there's if there's some sort of question or
Comment because I know there's some some likenesses there with your story as well
Sorry, I was what was it was I me ask a question?
Yeah
Second I was listening. I was like, I was like she's from Toronto and I go she moved like cuz I'm in that end. So
So I was kind of stuck on that part and I didn't hear what you said, I'm sorry, can you repeat that please?
Well, Nicole Nicole mentioned how like there was like an epic catalyst
Towards going from just doing food to doing food with or doing cannabis and entering into the cannabis space
And that was actually cued by by an accident of our accident
Yeah
spoke of and I know that writes a lot with you and I'm wondering if there's some sort of question or comment that that you
Might be interested in asking the bullet this one
Well, I actually find that that's a lot of people's experience that
Especially right now in this industry as it is because it is really kind of a wild west at times it seems
and so you kind of have to have a little bit of like a little bit of a stroke of like, you know,
like it like I don't know inspiration or whatnot to come into this industry in some capacity and
I really love
that
It does bond us as a community
Kind of like how we came came into it
But it does like give us the opportunity to share all our different experiences of like what we did before which is amazing
and I really do think that and I've said this to you before like I really do think that cooking and
And
Cannabis and gardening and and growing cannabis all have this kind of like relationship and like where
You know when you're growing like a strain or whatnot
it's it really is the chef or the grower that's choosing the the Fino like the
expression and and what it is that they want to cultivate and and nurture in in that and
And in the same way as like with food as well right when you're a chef
That that's what you do. You can create a dish you can make a
Western omelet
and it can be totally different in different places and and and it's it's really your touch into it and in
Combining those two things is is really interesting to me
And I I think that a lot more of us need to find it what it is that we're passionate about and combine it
Because we need that in this industry, especially in Canada
Because we have a lot of the same right now and we need more of the difference
so we can learn from one another and build this better industry that's stronger and
More diverse and better geared toward everybody's tastes in in in like, you know all sorts of different ways, especially this
With the savory I've been asking for I'm like, why doesn't anybody make any pretzels?
Or crackers or something, you know, like because like Candace is an err. It's like, you know, like yes. Yes, you can
People hide the taste when it's in a sweet, right, but you can enhance the flavors when it's as a savory
So I'm so like glad that you said that so but I'm really sad that you're not in Toronto anymore. So that's my only comment
Let me know then we'll have some you know above year whatnot
I may come back in June and possibly even August so we will see but I'll keep you guys posted for sure
But yeah, totally. I totally agree that when it comes to this savory you can blend the flavors
beautifully
And sometimes it is a bit overpowering when it comes to this the sweet so I I sort of get that
But I love playing with the flavors rather than using
Distillate which can be a little like less flavor. I I love working with
Cultivars and and and the flavors of that cultivar like right now. Okay, so this whole blood orange
Concept is because like I'm working on a
Flavor, right? And so I wanted to really get connected with blood orange because I don't eat it as often in terms of oranges
It's not the one that I always pick
So I wanted to kind of get accustomed to the flavor and that was kind of the inspiration of this dish
And so so that those that are new to the room to the dish you can click on and sign into like click the Instagram
And if you go to go to the page, we have chef
Nicole's blood orange vinaigrette infused salad and orange and blackberry salad. I I
Actually love the fact that you lose blood orange. It brings me back tales of the time
I was a kid and I was like, oh, I'm gonna have a blood orange
I
Actually love the fact that you lose blood orange
It brings me back tales of italy and those commonalities, but I have a question for you and you actually gave me one of these
You know, holy fuck moments, you know, like what the fuck moments and it was it was that point in time
We were over and we were cooking our one of our dinners with um
Mark mark reader and we were having like we were going through the first courses and there we did a dish and and
the the flavor of the cannabis really came through but it came through in this brilliant way and as as a chef of
You know like 15 years. It was kind of like
What the fuck like how have I not been looking at it in this concept and in this idealism?
Was there a point in time like that that you did?
Probably prior prior to meeting me that that you obviously have continued to pass this
This what the fuck moment on to people that go. Oh my god. This is this extra edition of thought
Um, was there was there a specific moment in time that you you can remember that goes
Oh, I threw that in there and wow that really was more than I ever expected
My first time ever cooking savory was in calgary
Somebody gave me some butter and I decided to make fettuccine with it
and it was a beautiful fettuccine with
mushrooms and parsley and some um
parm and
This beautiful butter and I it was that it was delicious and at that time like
Everybody was just sweet sweet sweet sweet sweet, right? And that was yeah, that was my first time actually cooking savory
And it was from then
And I was like, oh my god
I can do because i'm not a baker. I i'm an intuitive cook. Um chef, right? Like i'm
self-taught intuitive chef and it's based on the fact that um
The way I was taught cooking is that a lot of caribbeans
my jamaican mother included
Didn't use a recipe much unless she was baking something
everything like if I watched her cook it was like
You put a dollop of this a dash of that a pinch of this there were no measurements
and her cookbooks were like
Pages were like all over the place. Like it was very it was very me very gemini very you know
Chaos, um, so that's that's how I just
Trained myself to cook right and it's kind of similar into the way that i've approached
Like playing an instrument so I used to play piano for many many years and when I played it
I played by ear right which my piano teacher hated but like I wasn't really the greatest sight reader
So I played by ear and I think that it was just the
intuitive
Intuition within me that that um
Caused me to to play the piano that way and it's the same approach that I took with cooking
So but it was that time in calgary. I'll never forget
Cat cat was the one who gave it to me
But yeah, that's where it happened. And then when I moved here to vancouver, um, I
Got into the culture pretty I think probably about six months after working here
Uh, sorry living here and then um once I got into the culture
uh, there were like so many events and things like that and then when people like kept bumping into me and I started to do
Like food professionally again, like I had clients that would order
um jamaican food for me and things of that nature and then it just kind of
like
I just decided to marry the two and I had a birthday party probably about four years ago, I guess
Um where I invited some co-workers and they were all kind of folks right like we used to work at aurora and they
Came over and I this is when I was thinking of putting on. Um
Events, maybe dinner parties that type of thing, but I wanted to kind of test the waters
so I did an infused brunch and invited some really diehard folks over about nine folks came over and
It was their resounding support
And praise that kind of pushed me forward
Those first leaps are shocking and hard to do and and very challenging and I and I bet you're like
Every moment every time you do it. It's always shocking always challenging
It's never that all that much easier, but you you always bless
It's always feels blessed afterwards when you've actually done it. Anita
You look like you wanted to jump in and add a comment there
I have no idea what I was gonna say. I wanted to ask something and now I can't
But I'm sure I'll remember soon. But um
Yeah, i'll come back
So while we talk about kind of things from our past and and things that that
We enjoy and and and find passion and then that draws forward and specifically we were talking about
You know the ingredients academus plant
I would love to know a little bit more about some of the ingredients that you find hard to find that really
Bring you joy when you get them in the kitchen and that aren't as commonly found and that might
interest a few people to try out here today because that's always one of those things you see these ingredients and components that are just
Like on the shelf and you're like that looks good, but I have no idea what to do with it
Uh, if there's something that's like you really love that should be shared on a more regular basis
What do you think? Okay, i'm gonna say it for all the bc folks scotch bonnet peppers
Why is it so difficult to find it in this process?
Or at least in the lower mainland, I just don't understand it
Because as a person who lived for 13 years in calgary, I found it so easily when I had
Um a jamaican business right a food business. So I find that to be really difficult because
I make a lot of um, jamaican jerk
uh dishes right using
My own jamaican jerk marinade. Um
I used to do it in my former life where it's obviously non-infused and I do it infused now, which is really exciting but
One of the major ingredients, uh is scotch bonnet peppers. So what I do use as a replacement is habanero, but
Like I wish I could just really get scotch bonnet
So I find that to be probably one of the hardest things aside from that. Um
I have been able to get a lot of the other
Spices and things of that nature, um that I use for um doing my fusion dishes, but
uh the scotch bonnet peppers if I could
Have that um in these parts that would be fantastic. So I think i'm gonna grow it myself to be honest with you
Because um
No, I fucked up man, I like I hunted down habanero like old school like the nice like the traditional ones
Yeah, and i'm like these are the ones nicole wanted and now it's fucking scotch bonnets and choked i'm like
I know
I use that as a replacement. Yeah. No, it is scotch bonnet that I require but that is the only I would say
Yeah, no it is scotch bonnet that I require but that is the only I would say probably one of the um
Like harder things because at least I mean there's like i'm still not doing the truest
quote-unquote jerk because
You know the truest way to do it is like open fire, you know, you've got your you know
all of it pimento wood and all this stuff right like i'm not doing it in that way, but
Even to like at least for the marinade
It would be more authentic if I was using scotch bonnet peppers, but i'll make it happen
I'll just like when I travel to ontario i'll bring it back and anytime i'm in calgary i'll bring it back
But it's just weird that that's the thing I have to like import in
There's no comparison between habanero and scotch bonnet scotch bonnet are the hottest peppers i've ever had
See this is the thing and now i'm just so depressed because I know that and i'm just spent i've got like i've got a big
Plant now and I don't even need it. I'm just disappointed
One of my best friends from college, uh is from trinidad and his dad
So he you know grew up in long island and his dad would grow scotch bonnets in the yard and make his own hot sauce
and
and
We would cook with it and you'd put like a you know pea-sized drop
in
a soup and the entire soup would be just like beyond hot and
we would mess with people by
Having them try it and people would be like curled up in a fetal position after
having clive's hot sauce
So
The evil to it all but nicole has a jamaican patty workshop coming up
And I would love to know a little bit about that
And if you could talk about it as well and how important it is to have scotch bonnets in there because I think that's critical
Because when you're making a jamaican patty, it's got to be the right pepper
Yeah, okay. I'm really excited about this workshop. It's happening. Uh, it's it's over zoom. So open to all the peeps and
It's on april 14th to kind of be precursor to the 420 vibes
And i'll be teaching people how to make
Handmade jamaican patties with a vegetable filling and also one with a beef filling and i'll show you how I season
And kind of what I do for either. Um
then uh as part of
uh
I'm, really excited about this but for people who do uh purchase a spot in the workshop. You also get
A that glass cutting board that I mentioned earlier. So you get a faded living glass cutting board
um as well and then you'll get a
Supplies list a shopping list giving you tips as to where to get the ingredients
and it'll be standard because i'll use like
The beauty is like a lot of the things that i've been able to get have been in. Um
Grocery stores like a safeway and co-op and you know, blah blah that type of thing, right?
So you don't have to kind of be hunting things down. I've tried to
To just get something that is kind of common across the board. But uh, yeah, it's going to be from 6 to 7 30 pst
um, uh, everybody who
Does sign up also gets a digital download afterwards and then of course you're going to get a copy of the recipe, too
So yeah, i'm really excited about that. I will be giving tips on how to infuse it as well
And then the fresh herd that I will be using for this recipe will be time so i'll be talking a lot about time
And growing time and things like that
I love time and there's so many interesting varieties that are like not as commonly played with
Yeah, which is really really good. I actually pulled up the photo of that that cutting board because it looks really badass. Yeah
So adorable, I love it
I gotta learn I gotta meet your merch person because these are sick. This is really beautiful. This is really really good
I absolutely love it. So let's chat a little bit
about our fantastic recipe and and kind of your
How how do you go about selecting some of these ingredients? Is there?
a choice choice ingredient that you would like to use and if you're in the audience you'd like to follow around with the recipe if
You click the link you can go through go through the recipe with us as well
But I like to like just right off the bat start off with the blood orange vinaigrette
and kind of how you would choose like
You know what type of apple cider vinegar using I adapted mine a little bit because of the components that I have
Is there a nut is there a non-infused oil that you typically lean in towards this one?
Can you tell me a little bit about how you prepared it and and the highlights of it?
Because I know as a chef and as a fellow chef that you we are always like super scrutinous of what we do
So it's like I love hearing about these little self reviews of these things. I think
absolutely, so, um, okay, so what's the
The oil that I used. Um, I have some lovely friends, uh, the Stolby sisters
I know you've chatted with them before but they um have
gifted me this
beautiful
extra virgin olive oil from Sicily
So I actually have been working with that and have been using it to make infusions and also
Creating dishes that are not infused. So that is the delicious oil that I was using
When it comes to apple cider vinegar, I used very like, um as you see a tablespoon
I probably even used a little bit less than that because I didn't want it to overpower
um
I didn't want it to overpower the vinaigrette
Uh because I noticed that and again like I didn't I wasn't very familiar with blood orange
But I noticed that the juice of the blood orange was I probably didn't even have to add the apple cider vinegar
I just did a touch really but I probably could have gotten away with it
Without that and then I found that like they're pretty sour by the time they get over here. I find so this is don't know
Well
Do you know like I I got mine from the local grocery store?
So i'm assuming australian but like your traditional blood orange is commonly from like sicily
It's kind of a beautiful place that they're from but they're harvested all over the world now and they're quite an awesome
Awesome, awesome fruit, but you can substitute pretty much any orange
Would there be an orange that you would suggest substituting for this one if you didn't have it in your local grocery?
Yeah, there is. Um
It's not a mandarin I saw it yesterday
It is it's just a little bit sweeter and it kind of looks like a blood orange and i'm i'll
When it comes to me, I will definitely pop it
Um over to you, but there that's what I was gonna get just in case I didn't find the blood orange
So for me, it was the olive oil that is from sicily, but the blood oranges I got them at um,
Uh our farmer's market one time at gramble island and then I also just got it at safeway
Um, no, it wasn't safe. It was like a um urban fair or whatever
So it was like a market and it was pretty easy to find
Um, and for me like i'm not familiar with it
I was chatting with some folks out of florida who are very familiar with blood orange
And so I was trying to see like what because I know as you mentioned like we're getting you know
Through travel and stuff like that. It's not tasting exactly the way it was if I were to be at the source
So I kind of had to figure out what is this flavor sort of like and that's really
What got me drawn to this whole recipe?
um, and I felt that yeah
You didn't really need the apple cider vinegar, but a touch was enough
But like I mean it is also based on this tartness of your blood orange
Right because some can be quite sweeter and then the apple cider will kind of help
as well
so
Nice. Oh, I love that to say about this is that I found
That that all spice that I added to it it cut
The tartness a little bit too and it kind of gave it a nice flavor and all spice can be probably
the more difficult flavor to like spice to find um that
when it comes to caribbean cooking
Um because it's easy to find nutmeg and cinnamon and that but I find that with
All spice it can be a little bit difficult, but it's worth it
And like do you do you have a law of like whole all spice or ground?
All spice. Oh pimento. I have the pimento seeds as well. Um, and I use that too. I mean I have a grinder so
I I hate pre-ground herbs. So do you do you advise toasting?
Uh your spice before you use it or do you usually uh, just use it straight? I just use it straight
Awesome I absolutely love this. It's got a nice balance to it. It's
Like I said, i'm the worst person for taking photos of things because I end up eating them so fast
But I have enough to do a second recipe
Over the next couple days. Oh, that's I am going to be doing
What we shouldn't be doing is this life
Sorry
no, i'm saying that I took some photos of mine too before I got into it because I
I do that i'll eat right away and then i'll be like, oh my god, damn
I should have taken a photo
Every single time now we've done some wacky things with with cannabis and cooking and such
Uh, we we've we've had cocktails. We've smoked with cannabis and I got asked dr. Mark like
so
Because this is this is probably the most crazy thing i've ever done and we did it together and it was awesome
So I I don't know if you know what it uh, what what a chala it I can never say it, right?
He always said it right chala is but it's like a sweetened. Um
Sweetened jewish bread. It's typically like a brioche. But anyways, we we did like this smoked stone fruit
Um, and we infused like this sugar but the big thing that we did is we smoked
It with wood chips, but we also smoked the fruit with
you know like with cannabis so like
And I mean the flavor was brilliant. It actually worked out really really really well. Okay, and it is
Remember that remember how good that was?
So delicious
It was like mind numbing it was it was it like it had this kind of
Delicious stank to it. So my question dr. Mark is that isn't gonna get you high at all, right?
That's just imparting flavors and what might we be imparting?
I have no idea
You're gonna get some fucking hard questions sometimes
I mean
Like are you asking is there some sort of entourage effect or some type of
Ensemble effect. I you know
Is that what you're asking
Kind of like what would what would be there?
I know there I know there might not be a lot of like effect like it might not be able to give you an effect
From like maybe well the sugar is in all the infusion that we did on the otherwise
But specifically the act of like using smoke to smoke these fruit like would there is there a process of smoking?
Something that would infuse it in any way other than maybe some flavanol
I I don't I don't I don't think so
I don't know. I I don't know. I mean like so if if in the infusion itself
You're building up cannabinoid content
Is that is that what you're thinking?
Yeah, yeah
Yeah, I mean certainly in the extraction process, I mean i'm sitting here on a completely different tangent than where you're going with this
but you know
Yeah
Well, what tend to would you go and dr
I'm just trying to rationalize
you know
All this based on what we know and defining what we don't know because what we don't know might be something
Worth looking at right and that would be is there a um
Is there an entourage effect in in anything that we we eat or consume?
Right, and so in a way
like cooking itself
Is kind of like
Doing the work of the shaman and so like to make ayahuasca
You know nature didn't do this it needed
It needed the shaman to bring the ayahuasca together, right?
and so so cooking is is just sort of like an extension of that and so
So that as i'm listening to this discussion in this room tonight
i'm thinking like like that i'm thinking like the shaman like
if in order to put any dish together where you're putting ingredients that
you know is um
You know, we all have the same. Well, I guess we don't I guess that was the point of the discussion
We don't have all the same ingredients or access to that
but you like to think that in
You know nature's bounty
there's plenty of um starting materials and and and flavorful foods out there
To create, you know unique
Combinations of those that could
Have some type of synergistic effect, right? Like if cannabis teaches us anything
it teaches us that
the effect that
Things can have on our body is sometimes there's that
You know gestalt, you know
Everything is greater than the sum of the parts somehow
That you can't really explain because on the end on the individual, you know, if you take all the spices
And you eat them individually nothing happens, but when you put them together in a certain way
You know in a certain material
And operate like a shaman. So yeah, so I was kind of stuck
there
Kind of like a drunkard at the bottom of a bottle of wine trying to figure his way out, you know
I was
You know just thinking that again the way that humans can approach
this
is almost
like
with alchemy, but certainly
Thinking about bringing unique
Things together and i'll just end by saying, you know
That's just such a great thing to circle back around and the popularity
of psychedelics today
Along with you know, the re-emergence of cannabis
Out of the shadows of prohibition from
Last century, which is the cannabis deficient century
Right into this century, which will not be the cannabis deficient century
And you know what what new things will we learn?
And what new minds can be inspired to you know again do unique?
new things
So yeah
Buckle up. It's going to be a good ride
Dr. Mark, thanks
So that that was a different interpretation of the question that
I was thinking about but that was a really interesting answer
um, dr mark, um, but I was thinking london that you were asking like if you
If you infuse something with this smoke
Instead of the actual plant material. Are you actually going to get anything?
um
And I had a couple of different thoughts and one was
So miyabi shields is doing a lot of research figuring out. Um
how
the cannabinoids change and what is
in the smoke in terms of um
What are the new things that are formed once they're?
Ignited and turned into smoke
And I feel like when you smoke something like that with with with cannabis
You are going to put some
New cannabinoids into
Those, you know if you're smoking sugar, for example
um
But then I was thinking but you and when you smoke you're inhaling smoke, right?
So that's going down into your lungs. So there's definitely something in there
But then what are you doing?
Like when you're smoking if you were like smoke sugar like you know, you don't actually smoke sugar
You smoke like a whole bunch of things that get created through right?
Right, right, right
But you could you could I mean you could smoke like a cocktail like put it under glass and then put the smoke in there
And then the cocktail like sucks up some of the smoke, but then I was thinking like but you're not going to inhale
that
smoked
You know
You're gonna eat it from burnt cannabis when you guys are saying smoke. Is that what you mean?
Smoke from yeah cannabis. Yeah. Yeah
That's not good that's no no that's good
It's one thing if it's vaporized like in a rig if you're consuming concentrates and you've now
vaporized, you know a super concentrated form
of of clean
Can that decarboxylated cannabinoids but with smoke?
A lot of what you see in smoke is actually particulate and it's not you know, particularly pleasant and something
No, you don't want to it's kind of be kind of like
It's a common
But it's a common thing to do with food is that you like burn wood
And that you use that smoke to like smoke brisket or something
And and they're talking about doing that with cannabis smoke and you're imparting that smoke
into the the food
Yeah, so so what I would say they're like the components of things like liquid smoke and all the flavors that are used
That they basically get from you know, some of the most cancer-causing compounds that are known
um
It's it's yeah, so there's there's a classic
um chemical reaction in cooking
Called the browning reaction right browning reaction basically is the is the selective well not selective actually non-selective
Oxidation of just about everything in your food and so most of the caramelization
that happens like when you when you saute vegetables or if you saute meat or anything like that is mostly
um thermal degradation of
of sugars and so
um if you were to actually
Scrape the black stripes off of a burger king made burger
You'd probably find polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in there that are known
cancer causing agents so part of the
You know again glorification of the meat diet is you know cooking meat where it's seared and when it's seared
Um, there is a certain degradation reaction that's happening there
That's basically leading to the flavor that we love but unfortunately also generating toxic compounds along the way
I I don't know how I got off on that tangent, but it's cool to think about it in a cooking room
so so dr
bark, we actually took like a very low level of of like just a little bit of
Of d car guitar b carboxylate and we have I have a smoker
And we just took the the stone fruit we smoked it at a very low temperature. It was like 180
uh 180 degrees
Celsius no, I have to double check it off
But no what 180 degrees fahrenheit?
um
And just to like for a quick couple of minutes and it was the idea to impart some of those more unique flavors
And to try it a little bit differently and I think you met you hit it hit it hit a key point actually in your first
statement, which was like the experimentation and that shamanism of of exploring the world of of
Cannabis in this way can be really a lot of fun and there's actually this there's like typically not really a lot of wrong answers
And I fucking love the things that make you make you die. I'm just gonna say that right now
I eat so much fucking bacon and I love charring the shit out of my meat because it's absolutely
Absolutely delicious, but without getting any further on task nicole you have done some amazing things over the last year
I'd love a little bit of a catch-up on kind of what's been happening
I know you've gotten some amazing things from the canadian government for for your business stuff like that
I would love to know about kind of some of the stuff that you've been pulling together over last year
And and how that's gone because there's been some cool things
Yeah, so I think probably one of the coolest things is i'm getting a ten thousand dollar grant, uh through the
American express canada initiative that they had last year. It was for bipoc businesses. So they gave out um, I think they um
Had a million dollar
A grant type of thing and they gave they um awarded 100 businesses
So I was one of them, but that isn't really what I was super super excited about
It was the fact that I was the only cannabis business out of the hundred
and so that's really what excited me the fact that they
Were willing to give money to a cannabis business, which doesn't fall in the traditional
you know
dispensary retailer or
Um micro grower, etc, right? So I thought that that was really cool. Um, I did get another grant. Um,
A hiring grant which was done through innovate bc. So it was more like a provincial grant and that was cool because again
um, you know, they have given me money to hire, um a digital marketing intern for uh,
A few months which has been really great to help
Um spread more awareness about my brand and give me the opportunity to actually like work
and do the things that um,
I like to do which is the creativity side of things rather than doing all those crazy behind the scenes social media stuff
so i've been really um
Grateful and thankful for that and uh, there's a bunch of pitch competitions that i'll be um that i've gotten a spot in
um this month, so i'll be
pitching for a really cool initiative. Um
To kind of get into the canna tourism space
uh, and uh, yeah, i've just had a lot of fun. I mean i've been able to chat with a lot of amazing folks
um like yourself and I mean as you mentioned when you first started the
The show is that um, we've done some really amazing work together
And there is a video series that will be coming out soon where london and I went around
The vancouver streets and chatted with some amazing folks in the food scene that are we're
Like really comfortable in creating some infused
Dishes, which was super exciting. So I can't wait for that to kind of roll out and um,
and there's a bunch of things like I mean, I think that
Uh, I was looking in the room. I see. Oh the butter chef is in the room
Uh, the butter chef and I are gonna do some fun things around 420 and we've worked together in the past
Hopefully we'll do something soon
I mean, uh, i'm hoping i'm not putting him on the spot, but we've worked together in the past
So i'm pretty sure we will but uh, yeah, there's just been a lot of really fun amazing
Things that have gone on this past year. It's it's wild but I will I will say the cannabis industry is a little
I don't know. It's kind of weird like sometimes I feel like i'm like, you know
Doing so many things and it's so amazing and then other times I feel like
Um, it's at a standstill so
Uh, i'm just grateful for many of the opportunities that i've had already
Um, oh, yeah, I was like even in new orleans in november
I was like at the black cannabis conference speaking on some panels there
Which was really really awesome the first time i've ever been to new orleans. So that was great
Um, so yeah, it's been it's been a really awesome year. I'm not gonna lie
i'm not gonna lie
It
Has been and it's going to be continue to be I hope and you know
What I peter peter has been like harassing me like non-stop to get like some culinary stuff done
And i'm just i'm I gotta do it and i'm gonna do it
This will be good venue for that, but I wanted to reach out and say johnny. Do you have any questions?
I'm or comments for chef. Nicole and i'll just give you a moment to think
Before you have to jump into it because I know it can be a little shocking getting thrown into a question
after uh
After after not being in it for a little bit
So i'll give you a moment and just reset the room and say if you want to check out the recipe you can go ahead
And check the link at the top click that you can check out. Nicole's amazing recipes that she's provided for us
And I I hope you share and post a picture and show what you're going to be doing there
If you're on youtube, I have been placing that photo
repeatedly throughout
Um the things you can actually read the recipe and have it available to you
Um, even if you wanted to make it right now during the show out a matter of fact
If you make it right now during the show and post it up i'd love to see it and dagger dot academy
Also, if you are in the room and you haven't already like followed and subscribed to all these amazing people
Or the networks make sure to do so now we are in our last 30 minutes of the show
So i'd like to invite anybody in the audience or over in the youtube to come over ask a question
And a query or or come up and ask
And and talk with chef to coins if there's anything in particular that you want to eat
And i'm going to ask ashley a question too in a moment there, but donny, are you available for me? Do you have a question?
Yeah, I guess I got a question i'm just uh
just curious and it's it's
It's yeah just for my own curiosity. Really. Um, nicole. Have you
Uh, have you made any like infusions and edible, uh,
edible meals using uh, high cbd strains and or like high cbg strains
Um, have you have you messed around with that at all? Um, I have just gotten some
cbd string from it was hailey's comment. So it's kind of like a
a bit of a
Balance, I guess 8.5 of cbd and 6.5 of thc. So that's going to be like my first
Kind of real introductory to that. Um, I haven't done anything with cbg only cbn
um
That i've done as well. So I will have more to say after i've like worked with
Cbd, I just find that it's it can be so expensive. So I would really like to connect. I can send you some
I'll send you some cbd. I will i'll send you I have a bunch left for my last gross. I'll send you some flour
Yeah, and it's uh, it was two percent thc and about ten percent cbd. So it's more too. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, I would oh that would be okay. Well, we'll we'll yeah, we'll swap afterwards. Okay
Awesome well, there you go. There's the answer I will be soon
I
Very cool. I'm happy I asked that question so that that link was just made
Right much appreciated
Absolutely, I love cbd and I love having it infused in food like and it just adds an extra layer of like
relaxation that my brain just loves and so like
Any opportunity that I have to get out
And share the love of the cbd flour i'm all for it. So and I have some to share. So absolutely you're welcome to it
Thank you
I saw peter open up for a second there
Yeah, it was a basic question like I I always love exploring
Herbs spices ingredients that i'm not familiar with like, you know, I remember when I
Did like a deep dive into you know, chinese like fermented black beans and szechuan peppercorns
and
uh black vinegar and so is there
Something outside your comfort zone
That you're you've been exploring recently that you're into
So, uh, what the national, um
dish of jamaica is aki and saltfish and aki kind of looks like
Scrambled eggs to some people just by looking at it, but it's an actual fruit
and um what i'm going to be doing is making some
vegetable aki tarts and
I'm going to be making a
Vegetable aki tacos. I don't cook with aki a lot the last time I made it was um, actually
when london and I did uh, when we went to the kitts farmer's market and
um, I was able to get some callaloo from clippers farmers market from clippers farm and use that to kind of do
uh
Kind of like a homage to that traditional dish
A kind of like a homage to that traditional dish and so i'd like to kind of take that
Filling I would say that i've made. Um, and I kind of did it in a stir fry manner
And add that to sort of a tacos
And turn it into tacos dish. So it is a vegetarian
Meal, so it's something that i'm going to be trying it's not like completely out of my comfort zone because it still
lies within you know the jamaican cuisine, but it's a
A menu item like I haven't i'm not very familiar with aki. So i'm still learning
as well same thing with like
oxtail, which is
Really one of my favorite things to eat as a jamaican dish
It's not something that i'm well versed in cooking. And so that's my goal to master it
by summertime
That's a hard goal when mastering dishes it's like super challenging
I know but i'm going to do it because i've eaten it so much as a kid
You need I can I can come help you
Do that if you would just want to feed me oxtail soup until you nail it. I'm just down to eat
No, it won't be a soup. It'll be like a stew though
Either way you could just cook and i'll eat it. It doesn't matter what it is. Yeah
It'll be like a stew. But yeah, no i'm gonna the only thing that will prevent me from mastering it is
The pricing so we'll just see how pricey
oxtail is here
It's it's usually pretty cheap depending on but you're right. It's so hard to just
I know
I saw a video the other day and it was in canada and it was 75 dollars
So that's what I mean like if it's going to be like that, um, no i'm not going to master it I will
Glory of the broken canadian food system in all of its glory
Yeah, well we'll see you know, but uh, yeah that and the reason why is because
One of the dishes that people really tend to resonate with jamaican cuisine is oxtail and rice and peas
And um, it's something that I get asked if I make all the time
um
and so that's one of the reasons why
And i've eaten it so much and I buy it here a lot of like caribbean, um restaurants here make it
So I know the taste really well and I know the texture and I know like what it
Like how I would want it to come out, but it's just a matter of like practicing
Doing it over and over again. Well scott. Welcome to the stage. Did you have a question for nicole?
Oh, I thank you so much. I really appreciate the time. I um wanted to come up because you were talking about
doing infusions with the cbd and if you're doing a
Meal with multiple courses. It's a great idea to have some cbd infused. Um
courses and then some with your thc and then maybe one that's
Uninfused and then another one with the thc to keep people from getting uh to
medicated during the event so
It's a good idea to start working with some of those cbd infusions
Absolutely. Um when I used to do uh dinner parties before covet
Um, that is what I would like do I would uh either
Do like an educational session before we ate so that people I would have like these cbd stations around
uh the room type of thing with not only cbd, but um
Black pepper because I know that that has helped some people
Uh, and also things like citrus water
Like I would do these sort of like cut your high kind of little stations
But also would do like beverages and stuff. Um, the only thing is that like I mean the beauty of
Canada canada being legal is that I
Like when it comes to cbd, I would just go into a dispensary and then purchase a cbd oil and then work with that
As opposed to like actually infusing it myself
Um, but yeah totally agree with you
You dig into that a little bit more like because I think I think you're on a really interesting path because each chef kind of
Usually has a philosophy on dosing
During a meal and it's like you hit hard and early or you go like throughout like what's your?
Like record like we I know you're using the canadian legal product. It's just a lot safer more consistent at this point in time
But like what's your?
Process in that a little bit more if you don't mind. Yeah, so when I um, um,
If i'm quoting someone for like an infused dinner type thing
I will give them an option for like a 10 milligram meal and a 20 milligram type of meal
So i'm not really going much between that and then in between whatever they've selected. I also include
cbd
infused options as well
So it could be like we start off with a cbd cocktail and then maybe your appy
Um has like a really, you know a two percent kind of two million
Two milligram thc to start with your appy and then i'll flip
With cbd again because the idea that i'll be honest like with the dinner parties that i've done
We've also smoked in between so that's one of the reasons why I keep the thc levels low. Um, just because that's
Happened in the vancouver scene like the culture is like really different here. So that that's one of the reasons why
My thc is lower and then on top of that too
I find that um having a bit of education beforehand does help to set the stage of the room
i've been to dinner parties where um
the chef didn't come out or
Um, you just pick your level and like that's your only connection like nobody kind of tells you anything and I think that um
part of
Get greening out and things of that nature can also be your um atmosphere
and if you're not feeling
very comfortable then
Your anxiety can start to go to town if you give it a little bit of that
You know if you crack open that door a little bit
So I really try to set my intention let people know what my intention is for the meal that we are about to eat
And I always say that the intention is for people to feel that they're being wrapped in a cozy blanket
As opposed to like being annihilated because I want them to leave
At the end of the day, you know what I mean? We're not gonna get the fuck out of me
You know, so uh, and I and I found that by setting the stage
um showing people like if especially if i've
Infused the oil myself i'll show them what I have done and how I did it because I do use
Like back in the day. I was using. Um
Some of the infusion machines like the level oil machine and things of that nature and now
I got this cool
System, which is more like a sous vide system
so that would be something that I would bring so that people saw how their oil was being infused right and I
Honestly, I believe that the more people know the less anxiety, um
There's less room for anxiety is is what i'm saying the more that people know. So, um, yeah education and starting with low
low dosing
Is is the way that I go and always including cbd
And I think you hit it best and what a lot of chefs do like especially when you have these fancy chefs
I love fancy chefs that think they're fancy and they do these beautiful foods and it's like they just drizzle some fucking
infused oil on top afterwards
And it's just like or they they try and hide the flavor and it's like you don't need to make things strong
If you make them taste
You know what?
I mean like if that's the goal
Of the meal is for them to taste and understand cannabis in a deeper methodology
I invite people to think a little bit separately that it's not about like
Getting them high in some of these situations, although that is definitely what we're about at certain points of time
but it's it's it's also a lot more about
um experiencing cannabis for exactly what it's called a
Herb, um and in that way ben welcome to this stage. Did you have a question or a comment for?
our special guest nicole
Your your your mic is muted as a heads up
I did mute it so that when you came on stage just to allow the speaker to have clean, uh clean
All right, we will move on dacta your turn how's it going brother and do you have a question or comment for uh,
Yes, I have uh both a question and a comment, uh wonderful show
Um, my comment was your infusion techniques. Um using different oils
uh
coconut butter
normal butter
We have that here in new zealand grass-fed
Dairy butter. Mm-hmm the real deal. Um, just with you know, how much that caught just a second doctor
Do you know how much that costs here?
So just so you're aware and I just want everyone everyone here to know okay, because it's it's really fucked up
So what me and what we would have to pay in canada for one pound of good butter like that high quality butter
Is roughly around 26 to 28 dollars right now here in bc canada
I just sorry to segue but I that pisses me off and get to point out. Thank you. Jack. I appreciate
No, no, that's that's honest. Thanks for your input there london and I appreciate your feedback
Um, it's roughly about the same price here
Um our butter gets exported back to our homeland of england where they get butter at the uh, you know
Three pounds for the block anyway, let's not get into international trading
Um, I was wanting to get a better understanding of onset of cannabinoids
With each different infusion if you've found that cooking. I know obviously you can um
use different oils and different butters instead of um,
Is there any maximum butter for maximum cannabinoid and terpene pull?
or onset differences does the I know
Mct oil when I have that in my coffee that dissipates the caffeine longer in my system. So I get that
Coffee hit all day long as opposed to that
One hour blast and then free fall. So yeah any words on that? Thank you very much for your show
God bless and one love from artero
So for me in in um some of the research that I have done, uh
I found that coconut oil would be like it's the highest in saturated fats then
the olive avocado, um
Etc. And butter I do use but I don't use it as often because of the fact that
I'm doing savory cooking and therefore like a lot of my dishes don't require butter
so that is kind of the reason why oils are more my thing, but i've read that coconut oil is um,
the most potent, um
You know if anybody knows otherwise i'd love to hear I do like coconut oil because
of the fact that you know
I like to use it topically as well as cooking with it. So it kind of gives me
like multifunction
um
But yeah, I if anybody else kind of knows of a different oil that is even more potent i'd love to hear
And thank you for that what length of time would you be infusing your herbs
would you be going for a uh
Six hour or a six week long infusion
Please and thank you
For me, I like to do between like three and six
um, and and and I have to like preface that sometimes my techniques
Are
Because I have access to product
Right. And so when I have access to product like I do just a lot of things differently
Sometimes it's not so much to get like all of the cannabinoids out of it. Um
But if if I didn't have access to a lot of it, I would I still would do it between three to six
It depends and I do like a lot of different methods I still use the old school method with the slow cooker
And oven but I also like my sous vide i'm not gonna lie
So these are super precise I love those in the kitchen. Yeah, they're pretty awesome because you can yeah you can totally like
um be so precise with with the temperature
and and ovens the one thing about ovens is like not every oven is the same right like somebody
Who has the electric oven is going to have a different heat. Um
Intensity than somebody's using, you know gas so that's why this is pretty awesome
Well, yeah, I think I've mentioned oh go ahead doc
No, I was just gonna ask what what do you do in the oven? Nicole? Do you?
Do you um?
Are you uh decarboxylating?
The material or before you're extracting i'm just curious. Yeah, I do decar I'd like to decarb beforehand
So sometimes i'll use my oven but sometimes i'll use my levo oil machine just for the decarb process
Because the second version has like a decarb process
So i'll just use the chamber for that and then and then infuse using the sous vide
method
Yeah, I would think that you know if so a couple items to consider
um
So whenever you're extracting whether you're using a a fat or an oil
Or if you're using a solvent
um
As soon as the cannabinoids
Are soluble you're done, you know, you don't have to
You know doing it hours and hours, yeah, I guess again to get complete
extraction from plant material, but it's kind of like
It's kind of like I guess. Um
If you're going to be using like either some kind of strainer coffee filter or something like that to filter out the plant material
Um, you're always going to get a little bit of hang up
of the of the oil
On on the plant material kind of like the coffee grounds in your drip coffee maker, you know
You can probably squeeze another cup
Of coffee from that those used coffee grounds. It'll probably taste a little bitter and certainly be a little gritty
but um
like so for
uh
Multiple for long long periods of time
So I guess my point is is that as soon as the cannabinoids are soluble you're done
Right, and if you ever get cannabis sticky on your hand, you'll know that if you put a few drops of olive oil
It immediately dissolves the sticky
So there's no match for the polarity of these solvents your cannabinoids are soluble
immediately
My infusions are done
Quickly. Well, I can't say that because I don't test the plant material, but I I just assume they're done quickly
and based on the activity
I'm certain that i'm getting a fair amount of the cannabinoids and
I was just going to ask nicole, you know, this is sort of like my
Rule of thumb so if you're making an infused meal
For like a group of like four people. So like, you know, two two couples or something like that like an evening like that
I would use
In that meal for those four people like no more
herb
than you would
Smoke in that those four people that exactly right. I I don't know if that's like and again
That's what I did talking to london earlier about this because it's always whenever you're in the kitchen
You don't really know, you know, like what your concentration no one's got an hplc in their kitchen
You can't measure what your cannabinoid content is, but if you figure that well
if i'm making like some
Uh, you know casserole or something like that and that's going to be the medicated thing
Well if I put like I don't know maybe somewhere between an eighth and a quarter of weed
And if those four people were sitting down to smoke weed
That would be like maybe like I don't know two maybe three joints at the most
I don't know maybe four how big your joints are right, but that would be not an overwhelming
amount of intoxicating
cannabinoids for four individuals and that's assuming again that you're getting most of the
cannabinoids
That you're extracting. So yeah, so just to summarize
When you're extracting as soon as they're soluble you're done
Now it's a question of getting the oil or whatever it is that you just dissolve
Those cannabinoids if you're doing an alcohol infusion
You know, like as soon as you get cannabis sticky stuff on your hands you get that alcohol on your hand it immediately dissolves it
Right. So the cannabinoids are no match for the polarity of the alcohol alcohol immediately dissolves them
So now the real thing is trying to get it
completely and quantitatively
Away from the plant material so you can take that infusion and reduce it or you know do
Whatever you're going to do in terms of making the dish
but um
I wanted to say, um, dr. Mark that I actually work with just um, 3.5 grams when i'm
Doing like the dinners and stuff like that and i'll just do it with a ratio of like to one cup of oil
So that's that infusion is what i'm using. Okay. So what was that ratio again? Can you say that again?
I didn't want to make sure I get that. What was that for sure?
I used 3.5 grams one for one cup of oil for one cup of oil. Yeah. Okay. Okay
Yeah, and that and the reason I do that and that's why it's even lower is because I mentioned like
The dinners that i've done people have smoked in between
So i'm not trying, you know, i'm really trying to create like a really chill vibe
You know what I mean, I want people and it's not even that it was a chill vibe is that it becomes a really kind
of like
Actually happy energetic vibe. But when what all the response was that the next day people just woke up so refreshed
Completely refreshed so i've just stuck with that. It's worked for me just working with one cup of oil and 3.5
Okay
Let me do a little bit of math in the background here and i'll take that one cup of oil which is
236 milliliters
Yeah, and i'll calculate some potencies
Yeah
And get back to hold on. I just wanted to let you know. Dr
Mark, what I do is like i'll just do it and divide
16 tablespoons
And use like 16 as the divider so that I know how much is in per tablespoon
Okay, so so what's so so I should be doing this on 16 tablespoons
There's 16 tablespoons in a cup. So cup cooking wise it makes it easier for me to kind of
Do the calculation that way
So well marks while dr
Mark's doing his calculations in the background. We are limited down to our last six or so minutes kate
Kate welcome to the stage. Did you have a question or a comment for our special guest?
nicole
Um, yeah, I joined a little bit late so I apologize if this is repetitive but um
Thank you. This is this is really fun to sit in on and then to also have people who have a
Scientific background as well fascinating. Um
My youngest loves to cook and hearing all of the comments about the sous vide
He's been asking me for one. So now I think I have to get one
but um
to that point
Where?
Do you any of you have any good resources of like where to start if I were to want to?
Start making my own
uh infused oils or I mean you can hear i'm
I'm
A little under the weather. I would love to be able to make my own infused bone broth or something like that
just guidelines for
temperature storage
Can you freeze it? Can you reheat things like that?
Well funny that you ask I actually teach that
So, um, yeah, I actually teach um
Last year I was doing more uh intro to cooking with cannabis workshops and this
Year i'm doing more um
Uh workshops that feature a recipe but then during that
That class i'll be teaching infusion my infusion methods. I'll include information on
the calculation that I use so that you can
Determine how much is in a tablespoon of infused oil that you make i'll kind of talk about
The benefits of some of the oils that I like to use
Um, so yeah, I definitely you know connect with me faded living.com
um, or at faded living online and uh
I can hook you up
Awesome. I followed you on instagram
And then I saw you had some info in your bio. So I followed you here, too
Um, is there do you have anything?
like a schedule or a calendar that I should pop into or um, yeah, if you um,
Uh either message me your email I can send you a link and then uh, we can have like a a little
30 minute free session to chat and then you know, see how I can support you amazing. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah, no worries
Awesome we got a minute and the butter chef did come up and join in adam. Are you in vancouver?
Are you are you canadian?
Yeah
I'm canadian. Yeah, i'm in vancouver. Yeah
Oh shit, and you you used to be a chef or are a chef. Yes, I am a chef
Um
Right now i'm at uh, just a cafe in poco my friend owns and i've been
Helping her get that business rolling a little bit more because uh, covid kind of did a number on these small businesses
So i'm helping her out. But yeah, i've been a chef for
Forever, I don't even know what 20 years how old am I something like that?
20 years
Very very cool. Do you want to tell us a little bit about what you do too before we end the show and we will
Finish up for the day if maybe dr america has a calculation for us before the end
Um, yeah, um
I'm a chef. I've been a chef for a long time. I'm
Classically trained, you know culinary school all that type of stuff worked a lot of fine dining restaurants and whatnot
uh, i've been a or was
A heavy stoner in my younger years
which naturally led to
you know looking for ways to get more high which was cooking with weed and making brownies and stuff and
and
um, I guess I won't give you the full story because this is not even my show but
but uh, anyways long story short i've just been cooking with weed for a long time and
um, yeah, just as soon as
The
announcement of legalization coming kind of just tried to ramp it up and get the name out there and start doing
more stuff out in the open and
That's what we're doing
Well, i'm excited because I shot you a follow and I think me you and nicole should get together and and blast them and
And have a good cook along
Um, and we are at oh, dr. Mark
Okay, so if that weed
Is 10 in thc and she adds 3.5 grams of it
Into that cup of oil and gets a quantitative extraction
Of all the cannabinoids into that oil
That'll be approximately a dose of 1.5
Milligrams of thc per gram of oil or about 1.56
Milligrams thc per mil of oil
So in a in a in a 30 milliliter bottle you'd have um
So let's do this number times 30, hold on a second this number times 30
Uh, and that'll tell you how many milligrams would be in that infused oil bottle
So that would be like close to 50 milligrams in that bottle
So you're not getting a lot you could add a lot more if you were adding
Distillate or or uh some extract like a full spectrum oil
But yeah when you're when you're extracting
um
in the in the oil itself
You have to assume that you're getting everything out of there
That that'll be the maximum dose that you can get out of that
Awesome well i'm looking forward to uh next week's episode we're going to be talking about uh
Cannabis in the cannabis industry a little bit more of like moving trends forward and how to like work together against big corporate america
I think it'll be very interesting
Each we have a guy called coming from the bc cannabis co-op to talk about kind of what they're doing here to
You know pursue
Making sure that legalization goes the way that we want it even though it hadn't for the last couple years
So trying to dig into that a little bit further
So i'm really excited to talk about that and they're actually part of a craft summit that I
I don't know if nicole's gonna be up but i'm gonna be and if she's there i'm gonna feature her i'll be there
Yes, excellent
So we will be definitely featuring her and I we we have to talk in the back because I think
We should do a show together. That's like actual cooking and people can watch us. I think that'd be fucking awesome
um other than the one that we have coming up the the the thumb before but i'm thinking more like a live casual thing that
We don't have to edit and it can just get like yeah, you know
Easy peasy stuff. Uh, but anyway, we will chat on the back
I look forward to seeing each of you again and and nicole
Last but not least before we go because I'd love to hear it at the end
Where can people find you? How do they get a hold of you?
Tell us where to get
Absolutely, you can reach me at faded living.com and i'm literally
At faded living on all social media platforms so you can find me facebook instagram
Pinterest all the places and my email is info at faded living.com
If you do want to chat send me an email and i'll send you a link and we'll have some 30 minutes of free time
And chatting and i'll try to hook you up with more info
And thanks so much for having me thanks so much for having me
Thanks everyone see you later. Thanks for having me too. Bye
Bye
Have a great night. Everybody. Ciao. I'm gonna end the room
Thank you
Thanks london
Take it easy everyone
Hello, hello, can you hear me? Can you hear me?
Um, I hope you are all doing well and have had a wonderful
Enjoyed our wonderful show. Um again that recipe is featured in the link, but you can also check it out in the show
Um, try it. It's absolutely delicious. I'm gonna be doing it again the next couple days
Photos i'm the touristy after that if you want to see
More cooking or culinary related content get me off my butt put it in the comments below and let us know about it
Okay, because I want to I if i'm gonna do the time to make sure to put up some more food related content
I want to make sure y'all are enjoying and enjoying it
Anyways, we appreciate each and every one of you and keep growing
