How's it going good evening future cannabis project community
Popster fam farms here and today. I'm going to be going through a little bit of canopy management
I'm gonna be showing my techniques
two of them pretty much are going to be
Very diverse so we got this one is going to be very straightforward. This is a mono cropped garden bed
That's all the same genetic. They're all about the same height. It's going to be very easy to trellis and figure out
This plot over here. You can see is multiple genetics multiple heights multiple container sizes
so that one's not going to be quite as straightforward and
You have to try to figure it out as we go
So supplies that I got the way that I used to the way that I like to hang my trellis
I do a simple, you know poor man's post you put a little bit of cement into a five gallon bucket
little one by three
Baring deep enough. They're heavy so they stay put they don't pull apart, you know
I see like it wants to sit there very cost-effective way
It's easy when you clean up the gardens in between two because you could actually scoot them around
Sometimes when you have them fixed in the room where they are where they are
It's good because the canopy is always where you want it
But when it's time to clean you got a sweep and like spray and do all the weird stuff around all these posts
So I've grown to really enjoy
The this poor man's technique
So that's how I'm going to be stabilizing my trellis
Then you need a trellis net multiple ways to
Manage your canopy whether it be bamboo stakes
trellis netting
You know tomato cages wire cages how they do chicken wire and kind of just build them around big big outdoor plants
Multiple ways to manage your canopy, but I think the general concept is to
tame the plant and
Have it do a little bit more of what we would desire than what it would just do on its natural path through life
Now whether that be supporting the branches to try to increase yield
Stretching the branches apart to try to increase the light penetration
And just managing some that are just generally wild some like kind of like I dig that they need to be tamed and
Something like this for example like I since my first indoor grow. I've always liked canopy management. I like the challenge of it
I like that. It's an art much more than the science
I feel like we all have our unique unique ways of doing it and kind of all get into the same end goal
Which is high quality
high amount
Healthy happy plants that aren't just sitting in the mud
so I
Guess I'll get to it if anyone wants to hop on and talk about their experience or their insight or feel free in chat
Hey, it's Tom Peter
So I just posted the link in the chat so yeah any anybody who trellises or
Puts in support if you want to
Is being wanting to move?
I'd love to hear anyone that has a scientific approach as well like what's going on
Hormonally when you take the top of the plant dip it below, you know and get it below that point kind of
Airflow just any like, you know
Approach to what's actually going on. So what I'm doing besides me just noticing the results
Yeah, you see what
Advantages to I think with fresh frozen to the steaks have a good place
And yours purely just for support right like you're not trying to train your plants or anything
Oh, absolutely. Like these are gonna end up going out like this
I'm gonna try to pretty much widen and flatten as much as I can and then as these jump up
They should be higher than this when they finish but I'm gonna try to flatten them down and spread them out
And this will be the first level
And if all goes well, and they keep moving and grouping they'll need a second trellis
about ten days
So I like to drop the end of the trellis in the back
Walk it forward lightly over the canopy
And figure out where the ends are usually get in the corner
The lamest part as soon as you find a quarter game on
So I like to use the full width of the trellis. They usually come five by fifteen
I like the five foot width. I usually only use them for about ten feet long
Sometimes on the smaller gardens. I'll just double back for the second net like let's say I'll run this one one
And then just run the other half of it back over when I need another one
So I'll start with these tight
Try to keep everything above the canopy to start my preferred technique
And as long as I get them on to start
Always adjust and get them where is ideal
That's one advantage to have a movable post as well.
I feel like anyone out there. That's aspiring to be a cannabis person. We need more canopy management.
I don't know what it would be
consulting
Conversation starters
Need more canopy management
So I got my grid set up. I
Got the plants are all generally about there, and now I'm going to start working around from one corner to the other
I go low I drop it real low
In perspective that's about knee height
Now from there, I'm gonna be able to widen and I've said this multiple times
I think trying to keep your canopy within the frame of the garden bed. I
Don't think that's a good strategy. I think it really wants to be
Maybe
20% bigger hanging around maybe even more maybe more like 40% 25 to 40%
More canopy than than garden bed size. That's what I say. I've seen
Just from the little bit. I've done it so far
So now you can see it's starting to take shape already a couple of
Pre-things that I wanted to say as well
I sprayed heavier with a foliar of amino acids before I started training the plants
Very heavy amount more so focusing on the branches than the leaves
Just really trying to soften the plants up and keep them. So they're not brittle when
This process is going on. I also did some
Lollipopping and pruning this morning in preparation. So this is the time where I like to do those things as well
I like to do a good prune and a lollipop
So when I actually set my net I kind of can see ahead of how it's gonna end up
And I was gonna do this on stream as well, but I figured it'd take too much time
So that's the result of our so of lollipop and pruning this morning
And then I can see quite clearly what branches I want to keep up in the canopy. What's gone
Just make it a little easier for me
Let's start from the corner
This one's going down next just about as low again about knee height
This plant spreading out real nice already I could already tell the the tops are all just gonna shoot right back up
and
What what is this plant?
This bed is the second garden bed
inspired by future cannabis project mines and
You know just all the concepts. This is the honey banana Wilson zero, which is fast
I've got it
Yeah
Fastly becoming one of my favorite plants to where this is only the third round and flower and it's already earned itself
Enough to have half the real estate in this garden. So it's proven itself to me very fast. I really like it and
I'm already liking how it looks in this this net. I really think that it's all gonna fill out fast once it gets this little spread
And scoot around
And I'll get this one on the side not all the way down not down to knee height
But down a stretch just so I can keep working my way along
and just quickly is this normally the time when you would do this process in the
Plants life cycle, so it depends genetic
Ideally, no, I think these are about eight nights into flower, which is a little behind
I like to do my first trellis set. I'd say date night zero
Third night one to like night four. I like to do it a little bit early in the flip so they could really stretch through it
These genetics from what I've seen the last couple runs are very
Stretchy and fast so I think this might actually work well, but it wasn't by choice
I've just been so busy and haven't got around to managing
This room or this bed enough, so it's a little bit behind schedule
But I think that it might work
Genetic wise and a lot of these ones over here as well are kind of tall and stretchy
So it might work well for them to where they won't
Have too much more time to keep jumping up like they only have like another 20 days, maybe so if I get them nice and flat
Might work out to my advantage, but in a perfect world. I would do it first couple days of flower
And that's just what I've noticed works well for me I
Also like doing a pretty good prune then and then I'll do another prune
And another level of trellis usually about like day 18 night 18
To like night 22 and flower
That was gonna be my next question so eventually you'll have another trellis like two feet three feet above this one
Yep, I try to keep my canopy about like I'd say maybe 18 inches two feet and
For my intensity of lighting it seems like that's the sweet spot where it's just a carpet of bud
and
These ones I think these are gonna jump up quick, so I think if all goes well
They'll get a second nap, but I think these ones are gonna are gonna need it
But you never know I could do something wrong or the bed could be grumpy or
Something could always happen, but like this one already is so tall this one in the back, which is funny
It's like getting the not best situation, but that one and even stretch down could almost use a second one already, so I
Bet they will
Multiple techniques to like a lot of these you can see I'm simply laying behind
Some of them you could just tuck under some if you want to get aggressive like this one wouldn't sit here on its own
Just do a little quick wrap your app, and you can kind of put it where you want
that's one thing I love about canopy management is
it's an art as much as the science where you can get the same results like so many different ways and I
Feel like it really really helps I
Was preaching in one of the last ones transplanting and training, and I feel like especially with all the information with living soil
And kind of the plant feeding itself through that
The plant can essentially do everything else if you have a nice environment set up for it
It has a nutrition source
I feel like the only things it's not gonna know when to do and how to do is to transplant itself on a timely manner and
To train itself to maximize its flower production and not just like try to be seated and tall and weird so
From my experience the two Ts are paramount to a happy garden and again, especially if everything else is taken care of
Let's just assume that you have good lighting you got a D here you got a
Temperature controlled air you got a nutrition source in your bed
It's like to me those are the other those are the things that are gonna make and break the garden
It's like when did you transplant how to transplant? How'd you train? How'd they respond to it? When you prune?
You can see it's already starting to flatten out where I've been hitting it
Pretty aggressive
And add some
mood music
Okay, I
Have a tune I've been writing recently it's called regenerative thugs
I'm gonna try to reach out to some of the other
Hip-hopping soil bed growers and see if they want to get busy
And get a blues recording studio
Yeah, blue Tommy Tricones be kicking rhymes. I feel like it's a cool idea, too
Not only how like the soil gets built but like how the plant in the soil build us
It's like that Dan Pomerantz. I think he's in Vermont. Oh, yeah
And then I feel like that could be a cool concept for hip-hop it's like not only about the plants
It's like about what the plants have like done for some hooligans
All right, so I'm pretty much happy with that for now
Which didn't take too long at all
And I'm fairly happy with it
Over the next couple days. It'll fill out and I'll start to see where the gaps are or where the high points are
and then from there I can readjust and
Hopefully maximize like you can see there's definitely a bare space there, but I'm confident it'll fill in all these little jammies
Once they get pulled in they're gonna pop right up. I think it's gonna fill in nicely
Next is this whole pile of mess over here
So
I've got some that are in 20 gallons that are containing three plants in there
They're huge. They're like big bushes. You know, it's the same as if you did a little 20 gallon bush. They're gigantic. I
Have one of the Guerrero blasters in here. This is the the sister that I really liked
I like the smoke of this one very much
So this one got a lot taller than it did when it was a you know
Medium-sized plant small medium-sized plant. So this one's tall as could be
I've got two el Cubano's over here, which don't look barely related. This one's very tall a little stretchier a
little more narrow leaf
This one's a little darker green still has a serration like, you know sharp knife edge on the leaf
But this was my favorite of this whole hunt. This was through 50 seeds. This one was my favorite
I'm really digging it, but this one was fun enough to keep it, but you could see the difference in height
There's probably about two feet. I have one white white runs back here. I
Like that smoke and then I got two more of these monster 20 gallons
with three plants in them
So I think my strategy now that I'm in here is gonna be putting these two
Long ways and then seeing how much canopy room is left
And
I'm remembering that you're like messy with your feet when they touch pot
Yes, I shouldn't have shown that tech
But let it be no you save a lot of energy man. You know, it's like me the soft touch nature moves smoothly
So
Yes, so someone said I think you need a bigger house if you had a bigger house
Would you just fill it up with more plants?
Well, I'm just about finally pushing my limit of how much you know square footage. I'm like allowed to have
So I'd have to have a bigger permit to go with it and there's only so many hours in the day
I'm pretty much like, you know, I've been live working for about you know, most of today same as every day
There's only like, you know, you can't work more than 18 hours every day
So no more space wouldn't be like the best like I pretty much have maxed out on
Available time to work in permit limit
So with all the plants on this side that you're gonna trellis
in terms of like getting in there to water stuff once it's like
Start because the other one is bed
So you can water one part of the bed and the water will kind of yes sponge out to the other parts
But what about hitting like the back corner pot?
I just saw the room. I just
Okay. Yep. I'm generally a belly crawler
Pretty nimble same with the feet
So I just scoot around I like going underneath too because
You get a whole different vantage point of what the plant is up to from under there
Sometimes you see shit. You don't want to but at least it's quicker
To see it that way than like not notice it for a while. So I like being underneath I
Feel like sometimes I could tell when they're hungry from underneath to
All right, this is starting to look somewhat manageable
I
Want in a little
Now this will be the first time I've ever had 20 gallons in this room
Usually I have a pretty smooth like pathway, but I might need to do a little bit more maneuvering than usual
But there's only one way to learn like I really want to see if I can maximize
The 20 gallons to produce high quality at a good amount and it's just less watering
You know, I could fill these up with a fair amount of water similar to the beds
And I just have more life or do like other types of work. So
It's kind of gonna mess up the flow, but I can't stop tinkering
I got three of them in here this round and I just I really want to see what they could do
But we'll see it we'll see if the technique lasts or not
Yeah, I was talking to someone today up in Humboldt who
He's kind of planning out the 2023 season and it's a lot of like 13 week
Long flowering
Love here and we're
Trying to
Figure out how to make that work for him economically
Because like the you know, the issue is the rec market
like
You're at the mercy of a distributor. He's at the mercy of
retail shops and
It's like it costs more to produce that stuff
Yeah, but just but does the rec market consumer value that to put a price premium on it?
To pay you I'd say at least even if they buy it. It's like the markets competitive now
It's like maybe you'll have to work a little harder
Invest a little bit more resources whether it be labor or time or nutrients and
But at least it'll sell, you know, it's like that's I mean
Everything can't be so easy. You know, it's like people aren't gonna respect it unless it's like
Rare, it doesn't mean they're gonna pay more but at least they'll want it like to me. That's almost enough like right
well, what I wanted to do is to start to document the grow and build like
Kind of
Excitement over this limited release of interesting genetics. Oh, yeah
rare long flowering fun. Yeah, I
Think that's cool people that are taking the time to do stuff like that, too. I feel like
Yeah, they deserve positive attention at least people can give them a chance see if you like something like that something different I
Feel like the trellises are a great tool for this too just to literally manage a
canopy that doesn't want to
You know be symmetric or doesn't lend itself to being uniform. It's like with a little tinkering
You can make it want to do that
So I got this one is the tallest one
In this corner back here
So I'm gonna start damn this thing is as this thing is as it all is me
It's it's at the same point in this life cycle as all the other ones
Yeah, Wow
Who it's got some interesting
Variegation on this leaf. Yeah, this is the the Skywalker space cheese
I feel like it's growing fast and tall like the
Skywalker but it was all funk like the smoke was not OG ish and it finished quick and
I really liked it
You can see this one's already setting in a lot more than the other ones like this one's already got
Little flowers. I'll probably give it like one more foliar
And and she good
And all five Hayes just getting going
In terms of the types of bugs you're you're like dealing with indoors what uh
In a room like this goddamn fungus gnats downstairs where I got my first living soil bed
Fungus gnats are extreme. I haven't seen it like that like in a long time and usually they're pretty easy to fight back
But uh, I've been noticing tons of those downstairs
I
Saw some orbital mites that were moving around the soil
I reached out to toad right away because I was scared as hell, but I knew they were moving fast
So I even though I wasn't super nervous. I was still scared. He assured me that those were good for the soil
Yeah, um, I
Don't know. I don't really deal with bugs. I don't know how to put it like yeah, you just keep happy plants
I don't know bugs. I don't know. I
Don't know. I don't yeah bugs don't fuck with me
So this one is really tall it's like kind of already throwing off the
Net shit. I'll see what we can do
Yeah, this one I might have to just cut down up that made the decision for me she broke
Yeah, this girl's real tall stems are strong on this one too, which is kind of like a cool sign in general for the plant
But uh, not the best for training she's like really really strong branches
Yeah, they never get to as tall as me this is rare
Lay down
Get down
What else
Tony asked what's wrong with the tall one?
It's uh, it's bone yard
The stems are too strong and then this lady grows too fast is what's wrong with her
This is that dank Skywalker space shoes as far as you mean if something's wrong with it, you tell me
I don't see shit wrong with her. I
See dark green leaf
Happy little new growth
There was a little very variegation on one of the leaves that look cool
I don't know where the fuck that top is now, but that one looked kind of cool
There we go
Now I can start working these ones down and I'm glad I did a heavy foliar these ones these branches are still very strong
Even though they were soaking wet just ten minutes ago
So that's something good to know for the future that this one needs to be trained early
If it's something I keep running with what I think I will I already have a bunch of cuts to do at least like one
more solid round of it
She's impressed to me. I love the smoke. No one else has really seen it. I don't think even any of my friends
I got to share it with I smoked it so quick
So no one else really knows what I'm talking about with my circle when I'm talking about it
But I can't wait to show it to everyone
This PC 3 is a very interesting train
I think this is my seventh round with it now and
This one more than training them underneath
You want to start pulling them up and above so they could already start resting on it
Yeah, they're leaners they're not really trying to push the net up they're just trying to fall down themselves
So maybe at this point you give them a little bit of knockdown, but in no time flat
They're gonna need like support the opposite way that usually I train most, you know, 90 plus percent of genetics
Get trained kind of a similar way, but this one is just different
You almost have to pull them all to the middle to start and then in the second net kind of give them the weave
Or else they all just flap and get low like they want to just sit in the dirt
Instead of jump up
So I'll kind of bring these ones towards the middle and they'll still stretch but
They're just different
Right, I'm gonna scoot the Guerrero blaster in a little bit
Get that more full in the middle
Now you can see that the heights are gonna be very different at least for now
I would speculate that the honey banana bed is gonna jump up
This isn't quite as extreme as the downstairs bed
But anyone who's been watching the bed overtook the container plants in no time
So this will be another cool one to watch. It's about a foot and a half lower now
we'll see if these girls with the big container and
Access to nutrition are gonna jump higher
But these ones got a nice head start and even though the canopy won't be perfect at least each row will be symmetric enough
We're hopefully the lights
Falling down a little bit evener
Okay, I'm back with a
Steamy fresh poo for my four-year-old ready to go inside of the trash can compost
Throw that shit in your garden bed Peter someone told me that grows the dank the baby poo turps
This one branches are strong, too
This one is the El Cubano
Which is the Cuban black haze crossed into the Wilson?
And there's two of those in here like I was showing earlier they grow very very different
It's hard to believe that they're sisters, but you know
genetics is a
kind of crazy
Mother Nature and man are both mad scientists
Never know what you're gonna get. Yeah
All right, so I'm digging it so far. We're pretty flat relatively
This
Is about as far down as it's gonna go with such plant mass pushing up, so I'm gonna switch over to the other corners
Start dragging down slowly
Are you on knees and elbows?
and
shoulders knees and toes knees and toes
Eyes and ears and mouth and nose
Yeah
Anyone saying anything interesting in chat any insight anything cool
THC garage is saying that's the reason I flip mine a foot tall it'll grow another two feet by the fourth week in the flower
No, yeah
DP is working hard on a
On a
Grinder design cool
Sending me iterations you're better than the one I did
You want to cut my hair well we got to do it with the other
Do you want me to get the one from upstairs, okay?
All right Gemma wants to buzz my hair I'll be back
Okay, I think I'm just about getting ready to
To call it. No. I think the can of no you can't shave my chest hair
But Gemma you can bring this fresh poo out to the trash can be a good sister
So what is that
Yeah, this
Does look good do you approve
It's a plant this is how I play and work I
Know no no not yet. Not not with that one because we need to put the
What do you call like the different clip-ons to an electric razor like the
Half inch quarter inch eighth inch
He may have been up since 3 in the morning, but he's finally ready for a nap
I
Hope everyone who watched and hung out got a little bit of entertainment value
Enjoyed hanging out
This canopy is definitely looking cockamamie for now
Hopefully by the time the second net is on I can get it evened out
It looks like it's gonna be a tall one though. It's probably gonna be to the
the top of my supports
But I'm fairly confident that by the second net certain ones will stretch and certain ones will stop
That a Guerrero blaster in the back is towering. I might have to hack some branches down
She is soaring. I got a couple sidekicker plants. I usually run just in this little extra side space
This
One is hanging over
Which has never happened before so I'm gonna have to use some bamboo stakes or something from this one
But I think it's the only way that I'm gonna be able to manage these big plants in here
Especially because this one's already in flower. It's not like I could just move it into a different spot
But
I'm happy with it. I think this bed is gonna jump up. I'm gonna give them a little food tomorrow
I'm gonna brew up a little organic mix
Get it bubbling overnight and give it to them tomorrow night will be their morning. So it'll give it like a 20-hour brew
Probably give them one more foliar probably the chitosan. I think they'll be good after that should be smooth sailing
To me after this
this is where like a lot of the work is done and kind of like any of the work you did prior to this is
Gonna show through the rest of flower assuming the environmental and everything else is good
Feel like if you can get them in the first couple weeks of flower where they're moving and grooving
It's like there's not too much more work to do till harvest just feeding them
They're kind of on autopilot another net which is mellow another prune session train session, which is mellow
So I'm happy with how this gardens doing I can go on to the next chores
Which include harvesting?
At Guerrero is poking up what I think I might do pull that one out
Put that over here as a sidekicker plant, which is good because it's so tall it'll catch this light that's coming
And then I think I'm just gonna scoot this one
With a little craftiness. I'll be able to fit this foot and a half. That's outside the net
I'll be able to scoot all these down a little bit and I think it's gonna be a lot more even in fall and
I think this Guerrero blaster will appreciate being able to just stand tall. It seems like the type of plant that
She don't want to lay down so I'd rather let her stand up where she's happy over here
I don't think I'm gonna do that on stream because I've been going at it since pre-dawn as usual
pretty pooped
Yeah, I guess that's about it I love cannabis Thank You Peter I
Truly do I thank you for having I hadn't said it yet. I love cannabis. I love weed. I just love it so much
I
Appreciate Peter for having a community where I could nerd out like so many growers. I'm just up here doing this all day
You know living the life and it's cool to be able to share and interact
Even when you know
Praises shit-talking. It's all appreciated just interaction while I'm up here working all day, you know, it's a it's a cool thing. Yeah
And so everyone why I mean the concept of this is just one person's showing how they personally do it not saying
This is how you need to do it or I'm the expert or anything like that
So it's just a from a peek into someone
Over someone's shoulder like a fly on the wall. Yep, which hopefully other people can
chime in and
talk about how they do whatever the topic is and
People can learn from each other
Yeah, I do think that whatever
Canopy management you do as far as getting the most, you know
Usable bud sites getting the best light having them supported really makes a big difference in the end yield
You know like yeah
I found that it's it's a very important variable and I feel like it doesn't get discussed
Often enough and it doesn't seem like there's anyone that you can call a canopy management expert
So I really hoping to open the conversation like a whole bunch more because it's like how much how many?
Conversations are about this that aren't just with your homies or the people you're working with like and there's so many techniques that work
So well, you know for all different sized plants, I'd love
To like see other people hop on and show their training and like or just talk about it
Like I don't know we need to talk more about it. I
Love cannabis
Gemma who's that?
So just quickly this is a
DP is sketching stuff out. I think this is an improvement over my
version, right
That's pretty dope
And for everybody who's like, what are you talking about it's a
Design that would go on the flower mill
So Tony, I don't know this was to you but Tony said have you ever added
10
K metal halide to the room and seeing the difference in growth
Um are the ceramic metal halides?
3100 and
4300 I'm not sure I'm not too familiar with that cool. I'm not too familiar
with those metrics for light
But if it's how it equates to the CMH is I don't think I've run one that high
I've run the old school just you know, a typical 600 400 thousand watt metal halide from the
Old-school ballast to the you know all-in-one fixtures
Mostly nowadays, I'm using the ceramics for metal halide, but I'd love to try something new
if you have a suggestion for a certain type of light that could make a big difference because I
Certainly like the results from the mixed light and if I can improve that somehow I would very much so like to
Took Sapo's advice. Everything's got new bulbs this this round
So we'll see if it improves probably not gonna be a big deal
So we'll see if it improves probably not the best time to do it is this canopies already like kind of overgrown
So maybe it would have been better with some old Bootsy bulbs
but I think this beds gonna appreciate it big time and I'll get to see a
fairly good expression of what the honeybee can do with some fresh bulbs and a
Little garden bed
And yeah as far as like statistics so I got the HPS I'll usually run at 750
When they're full flower, the ceramics are 630. So that's about what's that?
1400 watts on each side that's
2800 watts I'll typically get about five or six pounds from this room on
Super high rounds on one. We stopped counting it like nine and a half
I think it was just we couldn't believe it that one round
We mono crops the dirty 30 which is a GMO derivative across to the cookies and cream in that round
it was this same room with some old cruddy bulbs and you know, just a little dehu and
little AC and a lot of hand watering and from
2800 watts we cranked out 10 pounds plus and
I'd say typically it's more like
Five and a half six, especially when it's kind of a mixed genetic like this
I think if I was just doing two beds of the honeybee I
Could get I could really crank it out or two beds of something
that's like heavy and quick like that, but
You can do a lot with a little I would attribute a lot to a lot of that to the canopy management
From the rounds that really when the yields go up because it's usually the same nutrition program depending on the genetic, you know
I'm trying to do my crude slurry tests and like feed a little more a little less
I'm not really dialing in what exactly the plants may need
But I'm adjusting my feedings to like if they're underfed or overfed so that's usually fairly a constant
I feel like what really makes the difference is when I train right and when I prune right and when the canopy is just on
Point that's when those crazy yield numbers come in where it's like, you know, it's just
Well, I think we lost here so so on yep, there you go phone died there
And
Mike check can you hear me? I
can't get
And I feel like the the quality comes
I feel like you're almost if you focus on the quality first and foremost the yield comes with it from my experience
It seems like if you're trying to implement techniques
to increase the weight
Aggressively, it usually doesn't work in your favor
From my experience when you just focus on the quality
That's when you get the quality which is usually associated with a very heavy yield and nice bud structure easy trim
So it's like the scale goes crazy
You can have a run where you kind of messed up and you get a very low amount of very hard to trim
Products and if you're actually moving it or trying to other people are wanting it. It's like harder to get rid of so
It's way better just to grow bigger
It's way better just to grow big strong happy plants and get a good yield and I feel like the way to do that is
Just to focus on the quality never like the yield it just happens with it
James James, I noticed I noticed that too
Here let me
Let me let me
There we go. The echo cancellation is now on for you
Because I was hearing myself through your speakers. Oh
Yeah, that happens to my headphones
So, how do I do that when I'm on here like starting and my headphones are all tripping out like you go to
While your headphones plugged into the computer right now. They're in the phone. I was using that
Do you go to the three dots
Sorry and what I
What what are you trying to do? So you said the noise cancellation makes it so it doesn't echo in your own headphones, correct?
I I already checked the box for you. So I I had unchecked the noise cancellation
When you were talking way far away and I put myself on mute and it made your audio sound better
But then when I talk I then hear myself through your speakers
So it goes through your speakers back in your microphone
Sometimes when I start these I hear the echo in my headphones so much where I have to hold them like this
It's like I know the audio will be better but I can't hear anything because it's just like double time in my head
So to fix that you go to like the three the three dots
You go
Yeah, edit mic settings and then echo cancellation there's the echo cancellation there's the automatically adjust mic volume
cool and
I
Have Gemma who's waiting excitedly to cut my hair
Gemma you want to bring the electric razor in here and
Sure
No, not that one the other the big one yes, but first Gemma's gonna show us
You just Gemma you just need like
One one you don't need to bring all of them. You're not doing it in here right now
You're just bringing the razor that
You're gonna
Delicately shave so this is Gemma's tool. No, not that one
And then she's gonna put the little clips on this so by tomorrow you're gonna see an exceptional haircut on me and everyone's gonna be like
Who did his hair?
I
Do not disagree with that statement, but I'm gonna let you do it anyway because it always grows out
Okay
That was awesome
Yeah, appreciate you Peter. I appreciate the cannabis community. I really enjoy doing these things
I feel like in the old days. It was just people working with cannabis that talked about all these things
I feel like it's it's almost like culture shock to me now having everyone always talking about it in an academic sense and
Like it makes me comfortable to be able to get these conversations going and for me to learn more
To kind of have it like in a working conversation
Because that's the only way we ever talked about it
Like does this work when you do this and how it actually works in the field?
So I really enjoy doing I'm gonna keep as long as Peter keeps letting me
I'm just gonna keep showing how I know it's not the right way, but it's how I do it
It's like that's how we used to talk about stuff. It's like not you should do this
You need to do this to your soil bed. You need to do this when you do this
It's like we would always just be like, this is how I do it. Let's start a conversation like let's learn, you know
So I'm gonna keep doing it. I love cannabis. I love the cannabis community. Peace pop micro doc
