We are now live, and we have actually been rapping here for a little while, and we did this the other day too.
It's going to be a fun conversation, it's going to be an easy conversation.
I definitely appreciate you making time tonight, AKB Brains, because I know you're not a very social media person,
and I'm a little envious of that, so thank you for making time.
Another thing is, the only time I do shit on Friday nights is, summertime I'll be in the boat,
and we'll be out in Prince William, and super social.
We all hook up and get around and do our shit out there.
Even if you want to get online, now they've got 4G or 5G out there in the ocean,
so you can watch live videos, and we could actually probably do this in the ocean.
Yeah, Friday night, I'm not the kind of guy that goes out and does shit late night,
or want to go out drinking or partying, shit, I'm such a homebody man.
But Friday night's a good thing at home, right?
So now you're still out doing stuff on Friday.
The real net.
Yeah, I'm looking forward to summer.
I could drive 50, 55 miles to get in here.
I live right near the ocean, but it's a not fishable, not boatable thing.
It's 40 foot of tide coming up and down every six hours.
That's a quarter inch per hour, quarter inch per minute of fucking rise.
It's one of the second biggest tidal movements in the world.
If they have Fundy, it's the only other place that has this kind of...
So we don't go boating here, short story.
Yeah, you drop anchor and all of a sudden you're on the bottom.
It is. We've got a lot of sandy.
It's a fact. Look it up.
There's more tidal energy, free fucking hydropower there
than almost anywhere in the world.
This will come about.
We've got to pump the oil first.
They need that fucking oil.
They're not dropping them 9,900 year leases.
They paid fucking money. They're pulling the oil out.
I don't care who's at war, what country, where this and that.
Green banks won't give you a dollar to pump more.
It's happening because they bought it.
So when that's played out, we're going to move on.
To solar, wind, hydro.
Maybe 100 year leases or something.
I'm sure that there probably can't be more than 50, 70 years.
They started in the 70s real big time.
The government will continue to let leases out and stuff.
The NPR, the National Petroleum Reserve, they're still doing leases out of that thing.
No development really because banks have shied on loan and money.
All the big banks have backed out on doing any development for the North Slope in the future.
Oil extraction.
We've got to get smart some fucking time.
We do.
The tidal factor there is really interesting that you mentioned that.
That's impressive because it's the biggest, second biggest thing.
We always think it's biggest because we're looking at it.
But it's impressive.
You see 40 feet of water drop in six hours.
And the thing's miles wide.
Fucking hundreds of feet deep.
It's big water.
I've been killed over multiple times.
You don't fucking play out there.
You lose a motor or something out there.
There's rip currents and whirlpools.
It is crazy.
Dangerous.
Blackwater trench death.
Yeah.
Nobody's surfing out there.
I'll tell you that much.
But on a good day in the black tide, hell, you can go swimming around where the water's being rebored and whatever.
It's glacial silt water so it's mostly fresh.
On the inlet, it's water coming up from the ocean.
So it's very nasty or salty or dry.
Don't get me started on just weird shit.
Weird shit.
Well, no.
I like that you guys are able to get together on a Friday night and do that.
And that's kind of one of the things that I got from our conversation is nature has always been a big part of your life.
And you get to take advantage of that.
I've been blessed like that.
I'm at the heart of it.
Seems like I always have more nature than I need.
How many bears have you seen so far this year?
Nothing.
We still have two months of winter.
We have a thaw right now.
It's 20 to 25 degrees above normal.
It's a very, very, very abnormal thaw right now.
I know we broke records maybe by 20 degrees.
Maybe broke the record by 10 degrees.
But it's 25 above normal.
We're normally 20 degrees right now.
We're 45 today.
Then it wake bears up because their dens flood out.
They wake up early and they're confused and grumpy.
They'll wander around the neighborhood and there's nothing for them to eat.
Then it'll re-freeze and they'll go back in their den.
Because it's going to re-freeze.
We're still going to have minimum of...
I don't doubt we have some more zero weather coming.
At least a little bit.
Makes it hard.
I've definitely gone camping and woken up without digging trenches before around my tent.
You don't wake up happy when you're in a puddle.
Wow.
Yeah, that's not good fun camping.
No, well, you hopefully only learn that lesson once.
But I've done that.
I was actually watching a special the other night about the permafrost.
And how that's affecting a lot of the pilings for a lot of the houses.
This house is just going on 30 degree tilt right now.
Because they built them on solid permafrost.
And there's not much I need to do about it.
They might end up moving.
Bear makes a laugh.
They might fucking fall down.
Those places are looking like they're losing power people already.
So, I don't know what the hell you're going to do.
You can't live in a bog.
When it thaws, you're in a bog.
No.
Like true stardust fucking heat bog.
And a lot of this, too, is talking about just kind of the methane.
You know, the methane that's being released.
It's during the thaw.
My God.
It is crazy.
Because go out to...
There's a lot of methane.
The lakes up here in the winter will have huge ice bubbles underneath it.
When I was a kid, my mom would tell me that they were alligator eggs.
Like, oh.
Alligators in Alaska.
I fell for that shit, too.
So, yeah.
You crack open and pop just one little, like, ice pick hole through it.
You can light it.
It'll flame up.
It'll flare for five, ten minutes.
Or you can put a barrel.
It'll, like, blow up all at once when it ignites.
There's a lot of methane released.
But that's thawing and natural.
Yeah.
That would be crazy.
A million years of compost.
A million years of compost.
The regenerative earth, basically, you know?
Yeah, it's all in a cycle.
I always kind of joke, you know, if people are taking it too seriously, I'm like,
Look, the earth is fine.
The humans are fucked.
Earth will be fine.
Earth will readjust.
Earth will wipe us off and come back to its own.
Who knows what will be next, right?
Yeah.
Or as George Carlin says, it'll be earth plus plastic.
That'll be the next cycle of earth.
Because we have a fucking major problem with microplastics.
I live with it.
The fish are now being tested for every chemical that's in those plastics.
The fish are eating it in micro doses.
And then bigger fish eats that.
It builds up.
It's just like mercury.
It is a fucking, I don't even know what to think in the future.
Very anti-plastic or landfill disposal.
It has to be recycled.
If we're going to fucking make it once, we better use it five times.
Yeah.
I see that here, too, being on the beach.
I was walking on the beach earlier with my wife.
It is.
And then you see the nightmare situations of a beach in Brazil or Central America.
You're just like, holy shit.
The Pacific garbage gyre, it's the size of Texas.
That fucking thing is a big, gigantic problem.
It takes days and days to get across that garbage gyre.
I know there was, the last I heard on that, there was a teenage whiz kid coming up with some solution to try to clean that up.
Quite a few great little things coming up with skimmers.
If they can get a skimmer that can recycle, reprocess right on the water, they've got it made.
They're turning it into a plastic resource.
There's good in that.
Yeah, there you go.
I know, it's kind of one of those unfortunate things.
It's like, once there's a profit, the problem will get solved.
So it's just a matter of figuring out how to make the profit.
That's a real deal.
You put money in front of people, they'll come up with ideas.
If it's independent research, it's just a good heart doing a lot of work.
And it doesn't go fast.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, geez, just the microplastics again.
We were talking, I live, I can go collect kelp if I want to.
I've got a lot of calcium bicarbonate sitting on the beach and shells.
I just learned that sand dollars are calcium bicarbonate the other day too, which was really exciting.
You know, I found a beach up here.
Only one, one little beach has black sand in Prince William Sound.
It's on Story Island.
I shouldn't tell people, but I found sand dollars out there on this one single beach.
It's not more than 150 feet wide.
I've never seen no other sand dollar up here, period, on all the beaches.
Our beaches up here in Prince William are kind of like rocky basalt bottom beach.
And others are granite.
And it's not pretty, sandy, nice, good beaches.
It's broken down rock and crumbled granite.
That's a sand beach that has even picked up, on August 15th we went a little bit of deer hunting.
The last halibut trip.
And I went and picked seven sand dollars off the beach.
They're not big like you guys get some really nice big ones and different ones.
But it's unique.
I'm saying that's, it's funny because I found them about eight or ten years ago.
And I went back, I only went back like twice.
Every time I'm going back I found them there.
There's a population of them little critters living right in front of this island.
It might be just...
Not on the storm side, but on the leeward side.
Because the storm side I imagine, I don't know, maybe they turn.
So I don't know, maybe they do live there too.
I don't know, we just don't go on the storm side that much.
It's got this window, we got about 50 mile an hour winds and it's fucking cold.
Oh wow.
Yeah.
I was going to smoke a little bit in the office here.
Make sure that window's open.
It's going to go to 20, 25 degrees tonight.
It's starting right now.
So I'm going to have that window open.
Yeah, no.
Crack it a little bit.
Well, I think...
Her family photos.
Because normally she has her Zoom meetings and all that bullshit.
This is her office.
So behind me on that wall, I put up a couple of things of my own because I didn't want to have her bullshit.
She has all her crafts and family shit.
Good woman.
Really good woman.
I was going to say, it's well decorated.
It's got nice leaves up there.
Are those actual leaves that you've pulled off plants?
No, no.
They're exact representations of that leaf though.
They're the same size and everything.
Carnival Cannabis.
He's in Oklahoma.
I've thrown some of my Sunrise Thai Chocolo.
And those are actually leaves from the plant.
Two separate leaves that he really liked the morphology of.
Nowadays, you can just get anything printed up.
Right.
Any form.
So he went to the Mountain Central for me, which I'm really appreciative.
It's super cool.
You know, Canon, duration, art.
It's art now.
Yeah.
You press a bunch of cool leaves and a bunch of nails and shit.
You can print and it is art.
Yeah, I just actually amazingly did this.
I grew out some of the Freak Show strain.
And I loved just the leaf morphology on it.
So I'm like, you know what?
I'm just going to pluck a couple off and I'll put them over here in a little frame.
Those are pressed?
Yep.
Yep.
Yep.
My friends, one of the coolest things that there is, is Candor Herbarium.
They are in Sevastopol or Santa Rosa, California.
But they're the only cannabis herbarium in the world.
They're also the head of Appalachian for California.
So when people are doing all the sourcing, genetic sourcing and original tracing and all that shit.
For wine and all that, it's a major thing.
Appalachian is huge.
Huge.
It's huge.
You're bucking money.
It's your golden ticket.
And cannabis, I don't know if it will ever really apply to cannabis.
But they have also got green.
It's called Leafworks DNA, which is male-female testing, genome sequencing.
They have a ton of shit going on.
And there's brilliant women that run this company.
Awesome.
She sent me her very first press, herbarium press, out of her barn.
They're in California, Georgia.
Family raised in Georgia.
They have a heart pine barn that they took down.
And heart pine is old-growth pine and very rare wood.
So she made these herbarium presses.
The very first one she made is basically 0001, one serial number.
And she gave it to me and lent it to me now for five years.
I've got to get it back because it's going to be in our whole library and everything.
It's going to be the main one.
I've been using it.
I get that cotton wicking paper for herbarium pressing.
And I have done probably hundreds of them now for her, basically,
and their research and documentation and all that.
But it's really interesting to press shit.
Some old, old, old stuff comes out.
You'd believe somebody was saying some old naturalist was recently,
they were going through their old library and stuff,
and there was cannabis pressed in the books,
which nobody would have ever imagined that person would have saved it.
Right.
It's almost like my grandma, when she passed away,
she had a habit of putting things in old books and magazines.
Find all the money, huh?
Yeah.
We were finding little statues here and there.
I'm just like, oh, my goodness, Grandma.
Glad you didn't find a whole drawer full of properly preserved fucking feed, huh?
Yeah.
You can find some old shit that there's not much hope of getting it germinated
unless you maybe could do embryo rescue or something.
I was talking today, and it's a crazy story,
but William's Wonder, SSSC's William's Wonder,
Carl at the SSSC produced it and released it,
but they got it out of New York.
The originator of William's Wonder comes out of Williams, Oregon,
and his name's David Stanley.
Nobody really knows his story or anything about him.
His kid owns Ziploc seeds, and he's a kid, not a kid.
He's probably 40.
Shiloh, he tells people,
it might be in a conversation on the Internet or IG,
might involve William's Wonder or something in that category.
He'll type in, my dad created William's Wonder.
That's all you get out of it.
No second conversations or lines or nothing.
I met him, and I don't know how I met him,
but I talked to him today, and we got to talking about,
because he's 70s, and I think this is his last year of growing.
He grew the William's Wonder I sent back to him.
He hadn't had it in 20 years.
Mice got into his feedstock in the 80s when he was on vacation in Hawaii.
A lot of stories out of this guy.
You guys could do a podcast on him,
because he's also documented his stories kind of in a list,
so he can go right back to them.
Very good information.
He hung out with Willie Nelson every winter in Hawaii, on Maui.
Oh, wow.
They both bring a few pastries, and share a bit.
After X amount of years,
Willie's come back with what he called Willie's feed.
It was directly from feed that David had given him the year before.
Some crazy shit, but he's best friends with Willie's guitarist.
I asked him today, the last time he talked,
he said he called Willie all the time.
His phone rings and rings, but never gets a hold of him.
He was telling me about his old buddy in Florida
still had some of his original seed in a shed out there.
We've got some good stories.
They're going across the border.
His old lady had been smoking in the car,
and they ran him through the ringer because of the smell of the smoke.
There's nothing illegal.
They both got arrested over there.
He's not a smoker.
He was pissed as shit, so he really hates weed.
David's like, did you ever get a hold of him,
see if those seeds are in the shed?
Maybe we could still get the original shit,
go to Tissue Culture someday, or Embryo Rescue, or something.
He's like, yeah.
I asked him about it.
He was real pissed.
He just don't want nothing to do with me.
He's pissed about getting busted from that one joint.
These are old timers, too.
We're talking about 75, fucking real, dude.
They know how to carry a grudge.
He's still a tough guy,
because he was talking about how he split like six cords of wood.
He was a splitter, but he's still old and snowy.
He was talking about it today.
The snow just went away.
It's pretty awesome to talk to those old guys,
because you find out some shit.
He was talking about all the import days from San Francisco,
Santa Cruz in 18,
the outlaw Santa Cruz days from 1968.
I'd seen some pictures.
He was like a weed pirate from Santa Cruz.
Those guys were pretty hip.
Were there a lot of strains that were coming out of that area at that time?
I don't know shit about it.
It was all import going through there.
You don't grow a ton there.
It's just a fog machine.
But a ton of import went through there.
Then when he moved to Williams, he took what he had with him.
Here's the story.
Williams Wonders, O'Hawkins, and a guy from Williams had an Afghan he called.
It's just called Afghan.
Or a guy from Wonders, excuse me.
They became buddies.
They met each other, introduced each other, smoked together,
and just let's just read our shit together.
That's what they came up with, is Williams Wonders.
And it's mostly O'Hawkins and Afghans.
O'Hawkins originally took an 18 weekish.
People have told me that's a bullshit story,
because there's no way he just crossed one fucking thing
and then made Williams Wonders nine, ten weeks from an O'Hawkins.
Right.
But when I asked him today, did you grow the seed?
Yeah, I did.
It was good, too.
It even turned blue.
My daughter really loves it.
But I couldn't tell you.
He just straight up, I didn't ask him.
I couldn't tell you if it was any different or the same as the other stuff.
At one point, if you don't get the information out,
ten years ago, I could have fucking got a fresh, clean memory.
You need to hit that shit and go, fuck, yes, this is this, this is that.
But at one time, at 75-ish to 80,
you just hit blowers together.
You're going to lose the information if you don't get it recorded and distributed.
So I was trying to talk him into, I was going,
dude, you need to go on a fucking podcast and just give these stories.
Honestly, if Caggiel the other day,
and Peter and fucking Gene and Tony are on there,
if this guy was in the fourth slot,
the best fucking show that I could imagine.
I don't do a lot of these shows,
so I don't know what the best,
but that would have been fucking great information.
Both of those guys from Santa Cruz, both the same age.
And it was a small town with very few people.
I guarantee they ran in the same circles and never even knew it.
Yeah.
It's amazing how that happens.
There's a person I'm going to be talking to next month,
exact same thing.
We even worked for the same company,
just different times.
Yeah.
It's crazy, because he was just another guy.
He was just another case of that.
As he just told me, his son goes,
let's do the genealogy, you and me 23 or whatever the fuck it is.
He's like, no, I don't want to do that.
Why would I do that?
And he's like, we could do it.
I did it.
Of course, his dad did it for him.
Comes back and traced an uncle living maybe 30, 40 miles,
an uncle that they didn't even fucking know of living 30 to 40 miles.
And then they didn't get a contact before he died.
But that tells you how small of a world this truly is.
I'm regretting that he didn't do that genealogy,
or if it wasn't available earlier,
he could have spent the last 20 years with his uncle
that lived right down the fucking road.
Yeah.
And they're busting people left and right.
He just had a huge murder, a 25-year-old murder thing.
Somebody sent really sad information.
They backtraced the genes.
This motherfucker's cooked now.
He just got convicted for killing a poor young college girl
in a terrible fucking way.
Yeah.
And I'm totally fine with that.
That's great.
But it is.
It's like if my sister did it and she got tested,
I'm similarly so close to her that if something came up close to her
and they were looking for me or something,
they could be like, yeah, that's the guy right there.
The bad thing is they force take your DNA up here by law.
They take it whether you're convicted, guilty or not.
You go to jail, you're guilty.
Now that shit can be used against you later.
And who knows where the database goes.
It could be medically used against you later.
What if somebody gets a hold of it and they break your sequence down and go,
this guy's family has a line of this and now we want to.
It could go to this.
We want to exclude him from insurance because of this.
Yeah.
Oh, my God, it's a hairball.
Because they can look at DNA, unknown DNA.
They don't know who the suspect is, but they can do a composite of that fucker,
get it down to freckles on his ass.
Eye color, strength, length of hair, color of hair, the kinkiness of the hair,
freckles, skin color, tone, eyes, everything about them through the chromosome sequencing.
So it's scary shit.
It's good that that could be very scary shit because computers just now sequence it,
zip through it, and it couldn't have been done before.
Humanly impossible.
Now who knows what evil forces could be lurking.
Yeah.
When I lived in Seattle, there was a science festival,
and this is while Stephen Hawking was still alive.
He was doing a speech.
So I'm like, all right, cool, go see Stephen Hawking.
And it was one of those nights where there's three speakers.
Obviously, he's the closer, but the opener for him was a guy talking about this.
It was genetic sequencing and at birth looking at the genetic sequence and say,
well, by 30, you're going to get cancer.
So as an insurance agent, I'm not going to do this.
And I sat there listening fascinated, but at the same time, I'm like,
I kind of feel like I should go punch this guy in the face because this is fucked up.
People have problems with bigotry and racism.
That right there is the worst discrimination in the world.
It's fucking not letting a person have a fucking decent life.
It's the way you're born, man.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that is.
That's crazy.
I thought the concept was kind of cool,
but then I thought about the negative uses and I'm just like, I don't like it.
I was, I've been, I'm not super active now,
but I was a big American Bulldog breeder from 87 on.
It got pretty big.
I was selling $10,000 dogs.
People wanted my shit.
And I did a lot of cleanup, hips, skin, eyes, and just tons of shit.
But there's breed suitability testing,
titling and making sure the dogs are breed worthy.
And I got so into it about breed testing and breed suitability.
And, um, and I'm not a eugenicist at all,
but I actually at one point saw the world population go to the 7 billion.
And, um, now what going to the eight and we'll be nine maybe by 2050.
And I was thinking maybe they should have breed suitability test for new ones.
That's so fucking wrong.
And it's the worst thing in the world, right?
That's what fucking Nazis did.
Yeah.
Oh my God.
It's it's yeah.
It's scary.
Humans.
And I saw the good side of it in the dog.
We called, I did a lot of fucking calling because I knew what to look for.
And then through testing and, uh,
you can really change the program and do a lot for the better.
American Bulldogs were a sick breed in the eighties.
They were like a hodgepodge of bullshit.
Bad hips and eyes and fighting the fuck out of the wrong people.
And yeah, I did.
I did a lot.
I did an awful lot.
Now, what,
what is it about dog breeding and cannabis breeding that is,
is so similar because there, there's a variety.
I can, you know,
a handful of very successful breeders that also have been dog breeders.
Graham, Graham, you know,
Bob Hemphill when we were talking about it the other day,
the old dog man that he knew and taught him dog breeding.
He said that lent directly into his cannabis.
And I agree a hundred fucking percent because here's what I realized.
I was trying to clean up lines, make shit pure,
get a decent coefficiency rating while cleaning up the lines.
If you inbreed too much, you bring all the bad shit right back in.
So I would breed half brother to half sister,
grand father to granddaughter.
And I kept my lines with building the coefficiency,
but fresh blood constantly coming in while testing.
And I was getting somewhere.
And when I would target, um, you know,
a litter, I wouldn't look at a male and female.
I looked at the fucking grandparents.
And when I talked to Graham the other day,
exact same thing come out of his mouth.
We target the grandparents because that's what you're going to get.
And if you just apply, I'm breeding like that's pretty,
pretty straight across the board,
but cannabis and animal breeding can be, you know,
pretty similar that way.
There's double sets of chromosomes in one and single sets of chromosomes in
the other, but you can get traction just as fast by doing X amount of,
be it breeding and breeding back crossing.
Uh, I bring chickens, fucking pigs. I bring rabbits.
Cause I do pigs and find good pigs. Our lines up here, fuck shit.
And you're going to have four pigs.
If you breed Alaskan pigs to Alaskan pigs,
but you can go to a semen bank and like say Chicago area,
there's a good semen bank. I'm facing up the name of it right now.
Like pig semen.com bullshit, whatever.
But they collect the world's fucking best pigs every year from the pills and
they buy it up 15, $20,000 fucking, uh,
camping pig. They put that in their stud farm.
So that pig three days a week gets to just eat all he wants and then screw
these big dummy pigs that are in the estrus spell put on them and they
collections and then they, they store it either for,
they said they try to send it out fresh.
They put an extender in it. They send it to you fresh overnight.
This is for AI's or they freeze it for later on than you do.
You can still do AI's.
It's a different extender to bring this stuff back to life,
but it's in 360 degrees below a fucking cryo store or you do AI.
You want to do an AI surgical on a pig that is ridiculous.
So it's a goddamn gold plated pig. Maybe you're going to spend that money.
Dogs do surgical AI's. That's one of my breeding programs for dogs.
20, 25 years ago I had killer dogs. I knew I wasn't going to have them forever.
I collected semen and put it in cryo storage.
It's in Sandy, Oregon, like the canine semen.
What's it called?
International ICSB or something, international canine semen.
It's in Sandy, Oregon.
I've had an account for 25 fucking years and I realized as much trouble as a
male American bulldog is, they want to go kill other animals,
other dogs, catch moose, fucking get run by cars.
There's a million things going to get the dog killed or get you in trouble.
At one point talking with a big breeder who was like big, one of the biggest breeders,
I told him, you know what, I just figured it out.
You just get the dog for two and a half, three years, prove him,
breed the semen and shoot him, move on.
You know, you saved yourself fucking eight or nine years worth of bullshit.
And it was like half joking and half doing these like,
he was like appalled and just crazed about what I was saying.
But I was like, but you get my point, you know,
you're going to have to be viable for that dog for that eight,
nine fucking years and then cry when you have to fucking shoot him in the end.
So you save yourself all that money, all that trouble, all that headache,
but the semen bank's important.
That's what I'm kind of getting at.
I can go right back right now, find a decent gift,
and I'll go get that person's semen from a 25-year-old dead dog,
and I'll just make new dogs come out.
Well, cannabis, so many people are talking about, you know, tissue culture
and keeping kind of suspended animation that way too.
Yeah, I'm not afraid to end up doing a bunch of my males for me right now,
microfoam suspended animation.
I'm just going to keep them, and when I need them,
they'll regenerate them and all.
It's a, that's what really, I'm not an old smart person or a scientist,
but I see the value in that.
I don't know if I want to set this shit up myself,
but I have somebody who didn't think to do it for me.
Just, it's crazy that, there's a couple guys up here, I guess,
are doing it with 200 to 300 cuts in their library.
It's wrecked people, so they can break it out whenever they want to do that round.
Plan two months ahead of time and then break that shit out and do that round.
Down here in Seattle, there's a House of Cultivar,
which has a big tissue culture bank.
They've got, I think, like 300 some odd strains going,
but yeah, that's kind of their deal.
Do you enter the bank or do you give it to them
and they put it in a public library? How's that?
It's a private company. It's a recreational cannabis company here
that's essentially building their own library.
Yeah, if you're a medical patient, you are able to get clones from them.
I don't know exactly which ones, but probably not the prized ones
that they're putting up like that.
Then they're going to see that thing get tipped on down the road
and lose all its value.
You let the really, really good shit out, it gets out of hand quick.
I don't want to see people lock nothing down
because you're only going to be here for so long
and you're going to own it for fucking decadence.
That lock down is for the foolish, greedy shit.
Yep.
That's probably got its good sides and its downsides.
I sure value a person that can preserve
and have that kind of want inside theirselves
because most people, they move on and lose.
I kind of compare it to people that hunt.
If you're patient, you're going to be a good hunter,
whether you're stalking and spotting or if you're a bait stand hunter
or if you're just any form, it takes a lot of patience
and being in tune with nature.
If you've got the ADHD or whatever and you can't fucking be patient,
and I'm talking days of fucking patience,
you're just a way different kind of person
and some stuff won't do for you, period.
People with patience and really good hunters
tend to be very good preservationists.
They'll look down the road at the long run shit.
It's also like the long stocks.
The day traders are losing their fucking ass, man.
The long stock runners are fucking banking
because they're looking at the fucking 20, 30-year target.
Day traders make me laugh.
They get $20,000 all the way left and fucking right.
Yeah, I've known some day traders
and you can tell when the market's good
and then I remember when the market crashed.
Seconds late on that stock.
I can tell you that story.
My one friend bought a bunch of Greek bank stock
during that crash like five years ago.
Like 3 cents a fucking share stock worth about 40 cents
and it'd get up to 26, 28 cents
and he's fixing to make 20, 30 grand right then and there
and he'd go to the bathroom and come back
and the guy was manipulating the stock.
He was running the whole deal.
He was just reselling, buying, reselling, buying.
But my buddy, he gave away a lot of damn money.
Yeah, I stay away from it.
Why don't you just work for your money
because you can make money from work.
You're just going to give your money away.
Go to Vegas and try to win it
because you're not going to win.
Vegas, you have an excuse.
You went there and fucking gambled.
Fucking that other, just give it away to the stock market.
It's the same gamble but it's fun.
No showgirls.
No, no, and the house always wins eventually.
The house is just going to kick your ass.
My one friend, that same guy, he is a gambler too.
Just like five years ago, he couldn't have that much money.
I bought a whole Zodiac, he imported.
What the hell do you call it?
Import broker.
So he'd have a bunch of cocaine in China,
bring it over here and pimp it out and sell it,
try to market it.
It was just a ton of shit.
Weird shit, the imports.
But he had no money.
He sold me one of his little dinghies,
a little rubber dinghy.
It's like a $2,000 dinghy for 500 bucks.
That cost basically.
He took that money.
I think he, I forgot what,
oh, it was maybe LA, wherever the casino was.
He went down there and his buddy's a professional gambler
and they're playing background.
He wrote his buddy's bets,
but he was up like $8,000, $9,000 fucking dollars
that first night on the 500 bucks I gave him.
His buddy was up $300,000
and by the end of the night was back to like $5,000.
He almost pulled his hair crazy
and went to quit at five in the morning the next morning.
Up $300,000, down to $5,000.
And my buddy, he took his eight or nine
and ran for about two or three in the morning
and woke up the next day
and the other guy was ready to kill himself.
My heart couldn't take that.
I could not take that.
Yeah, I'm not the personality for it.
Oh man, that's like a lifetime's worth of work
and you just fucking gave it away.
Yeah, I like,
you know, like you're saying earlier though,
you work, you put your work in
and you can get some good things from it.
So I like those tangible things.
You're also talking too about grandparents and the dogs.
You were really looking at the grandparents
as far as what the traits were gonna be
or kind of what was...
My partner and I just basically, boy,
we're down to walk up to the grandparents.
That's what we're gonna do.
Okay, because a lot of seeds today,
people need Maury Povich
because nobody knows who the grandparents are.
But that's one thing that, you know,
I think a lot of people really like about your stuff.
You've worked with it for a while
and you kind of know what's coming.
A lot of it is,
sometimes you're gonna have not an IVL
because I could argue on the back and forth.
IVL is like something that's been around 10,000 years
on the fucking island.
The inbred cross is something that's highly inbred to itself.
And those breed one way.
And landraces are, you know,
some landraces are polyhybrids
because different field weeds
and pollen is just that.
It could be 10 things blown into that one P1 field of pure weed.
But polyhybrids from multi-generational polyhybrids
are very hard to predict.
And if there was S1s that were in place
in multiple slots on that,
you'll never align an allele to fucking target anything.
You will not.
You fucking will not.
So the whole game is to target alleles to fucking...
And it's hard because there's thousands of them.
You want to fucking match this shit up right,
then you will reproduce turf, effects, expressions,
and the morphology.
What have you had success with
kind of visually lining up with your eyes?
Because, you know, again,
things like THC or CBD production,
we can't see that unless we're testing.
But morphology, leaf set, nodal space,
that type of stuff, we can.
You just look at comparison stuff
and what you know in your head.
I've got some photos.
I didn't know if this would work or not,
but I had photos from some old days.
And it's funny because it's like 35 millimeters
and we were like super fucking scared in the 80s.
Get it developed?
You could get your hand or pay some stranger
that was willing to just say,
I'm disconnected, I don't care, I'll do it for you.
Or slip it in, tell somebody,
don't even let them know they're developing it.
Make sure you give me back mine and don't look at them.
But yeah, that or Polaroids.
So I have some pictures from the 80s.
And it's funny, here's one,
I don't know if it'll show up.
Let's see here.
Everything is always...
It's real porn, it's real.
Okay, that's...
On the back, I put fucking notes.
This is in 1980.
Oh, wow, that's awesome.
And it says, it was a trailer park app
and the thing had pink hairs
anyway, I just remember that.
It just says Afi, I spelled it wrong.
Crossed with Alaskan hemp times Afi on the left
and pure Indica clone on the right.
And then it says good internal length
using eco-growth.
Tends to work well.
And you can see the plants.
The one is right here is the Afi
and the other one is the fucking Indica.
And there it is.
Shorter.
Trademark fucking pure Indica and Afi.
Even way back in the unknown genetics,
no name on it and we knew what the hell it was.
So it just...
I kind of just have learned a ton of stuff
and it just ingrained naturally as I went along.
When you were working with a lot of these seeds
and genetics, oh my goodness, that's a phone.
Sorry about that.
When you were working...
My wife will answer that.
Yeah, I too am in the office working.
But when you were working with a lot of these seeds
and strains at that time in the 80s,
was there a wide variety of morphology?
Because a lot of times I can look at a plant
and be like, oh, that's gotta be Afghani
just kind of like with the leaf set.
It was like five types and they were all...
We had blueberry, we had calio,
there was a couple of local strains called the bob,
big george.
My devil's club ended up getting named devil's club
because of the big fat leaves
and it was off a strain called big george
named after local people.
So, but you could...
And there was some real haze up here
like they called it carrot top haze
because it tasted like shit,
like fucking literally carrot tops.
It smelled and tasted like the top
and the green part.
It wasn't good taste, but it's very good effects.
But yeah, there was about five types
so you could just look at it and know.
Okay.
And were they pretty true breeding
or was there things that they would consistently pass on
or things you'd recognize easily?
Here's a decent example.
This is picture 1982,
the fucking basically the first time I ever grew.
These are in the like 10 inch peat pots
and I used like a soil mix
and that's Mexican, green Mexican brickweed.
And look how fucking uniform and even.
Yeah.
They're almost almost like clone,
like a set of clones.
Yeah.
You know, shit brickweed,
but that's one photo that's very rare
and very old right there.
It was grown in a closet
using a fucking quartz lamp,
you know, a piece of shit allied quartz lamp
with nothing but pure white and peat,
incandescent and a fluorescent,
a little fluorescent,
like a reading lamp type of thing.
That's what I lit up my garden with
and it was that healthy and good looking.
I think I used Peters.
Okay.
Nutrients.
I never finished it
and never got it much further than dead.
Once I got two foot tall,
I had no place to put them
and it was in an apartment.
Yeah.
In an illegal fucking place,
in Washington state,
in Kennewick, Washington.
Okay.
Super fucking illegal felony
to set up shit right there.
Yeah, that's.
It didn't play,
it didn't play back then.
No, I know exactly,
I know exactly what you're talking about too.
It's amazing what you do.
You know, my first,
my first grow was a closet.
It was with CFL bulbs.
It was in my budget.
It's what I had
and it actually grew something.
Before that,
I actually did try growing.
If you have the little CFL bulbs
and enough of them,
they're really not bad.
They're low lumens
but they're pretty decent spectrum.
You get three,
like the 3000,
a nice warm white,
it's going to be 3000
and you could flower with it
if you could put it right on top of them.
Yeah.
Keep them warm
and then you know too,
sometimes,
especially, you know,
in prohibition land,
something is better than nothing.
So even if you,
you know,
get a half an ounce,
quarter ounce off of it,
you're still like,
this is the best.
We were always looking at day 45
going dude,
if we cut it down right now,
we just scored fucking,
we're over two thirds of the way there
and fuck,
we know what we're walking away with right now.
If we can just fucking,
and then we'd go 10 more days
and get it to that 55,
day mark.
It's like motherfucker,
if we don't go to jail right now,
we're going to have a fucking killer.
Totally.
Every day is like,
two more days,
two more days.
That's the main thought on your head.
It's not right, man.
No.
And we were legal up here too.
It's just once you do the,
over the 16 plant,
it was felony land.
There's over 24 plants
of federal felony land.
So the DEA was up there
and fuck,
they would gladly take people away.
Yeah.
It's a horrible place.
You know,
it's not like Northern California
where they can,
you know,
wear t-shirts and fly overhead
in a helicopter.
They were probably not happy
to be there on a job like that.
Yeah,
and then we all figured out
that they were reading
the infrared heat signatures
right through your walls up here.
Fuck,
it was scary fucking bill.
Yeah.
Of course,
there's always the classic,
did you ever know anybody
who got busted
because one side of their roof
never kept snow on it?
Oh,
fuck every,
yes.
I mean,
it was our biggest,
the biggest thing that people
wanted you to be smart
is don't let ice build up
on your ducts.
Don't let that spot
on your fucking roof.
A couple of rather
little silly tips,
but,
you know.
But real tips,
though.
What they would do
is target that hot spot
and fuck,
you were cooked.
They didn't,
listen,
they didn't prosecute
a lot of people up here.
They'd bust you
and scare you
and threaten you
and do this and that.
But not a lot of people
went to jail up here,
ever.
Ever.
We've never been treated
as an equal to America.
America has been
fucking railed
in a lot of places
when prohibition still is.
You don't play around
in Kentucky right now,
do you?
Fuck,
no.
I don't think
a little bag of weed
down there is felony
because it don't take
any ratty ass neighbor
to fuck you up.
Well,
there was,
all my life,
I guess,
because I've never been there,
but for the longest time
I'd do anything I could
to avoid Utah.
It was a no-tolerate state.
There you go.
Idaho,
fucking Utah.
I'm like,
I'm not even going
in their front door, man.
Idaho's so anti,
I mean,
Montana went
medical legal,
Oregon's legal,
California,
all the surrounding states,
Colorado.
That place is anti-as hell
and will probably be,
this will be my prediction,
is Idaho will be
the last or second
to last marijuana state
to go either medical
or record.
Florida,
I thought,
would never go.
Right.
Arizona,
I thought,
would never go.
It was the biggest
felony border protection
type of shit.
That's where the
fucking DEA,
the Customs Patrol,
the border security,
the Homeland Security,
it was all centered
right there.
They gave it up,
Texas is next.
Texas is looking
at Oklahoma going,
ooh,
I fucking got some cash,
look how big we are.
We're the 10th
largest economy
in the world.
Don't think we're
going to have
the greenhouses.
Yeah,
look at their climate.
I mean,
they've kind of
got it made.
They do.
The chicken house
is the perfect
fucking grow unit.
They have air conditioned,
fucking cooled,
massive air flow.
They're 400 feet long
by 40 feet wide.
They are naturally sunned.
It doesn't take much
to,
half of them
were like opaque
fiberglass already,
so it doesn't take much
to convert the roof
to be full fucking clear
UV good fiberglass.
I know I've got
some friends
that live there.
They don't make
a lot of money.
They get,
they get fucked.
Chicken farming
was a bad deal.
Tyson or
Pilgrim.
Wow.
Yeah.
They wrangle you
into a corner
by a rating
that you get
by how fast,
how many pounds
of chickens put on,
how many died
with no antibiotics,
and it's not
a winning game.
It's a debt situation
just like they do
to Indian farmers
over in India.
You know,
they'll sell,
they'll give you
and the crop
comes in poor.
You're fucked, man.
You don't make a dime
and they'll take
everything you have
and then you go
commit suicide.
It's a horrible
fucking thing.
People,
dirt farmers and shit
will work to death
for fucking nothing
just for their family.
Traditional farming
is one of the worst
economic like
models I've seen.
I did a
sustainable agriculture
program for a while
trying to
learn more
about cannabis
by learning
traditional agriculture
and a lot of those
deals are still
handshake deals.
And like you said,
you know,
there was one farmer
we're helping out.
He had a deal
with the big grocery
store chain here
at the beginning
of the season.
Okay, plant this much,
we're going to buy it.
Well, they had a
change of management
and at harvest time
they decided they
didn't want to buy
this farmer's stuff
anymore.
And I'm like,
well, didn't you
have a contract?
He's like, well,
you know,
a lot of things
are still done
on handshakes.
So, they decided
they would not
grow their crops
to manipulate
the fucking market
while people fuck to
death.
It's a fucked up
per.
I know potato
farmers up here
that do that.
If it's this big,
you get paid.
If it's this big,
you don't get paid.
So, they grow them
this big every year
and they collect
that money.
Yeah.
You know,
it's an unfair
unbalanced thing
that big money
controls.
I don't know,
I don't like to
think corporately.
And if you know a guy down the road you can help you or you can help him. That's who you fucking target
Look stick to it. Maybe it's an old thing, but in 1800 nobody went past a 25 mile radius
And I think people should go back to fucking helping and staying in their little 25 mile radius wife
It's pissed all the time because I see stupid shit like that
But it's international global and everybody's connected
You can just go talk to any country any time of the day any time of the world any place in the world
People need to think more of their fucking neighbors. Yeah
Think think locally. I you know again being in a fishing town. That's the economy here
It's it's you know high tide raises all boats if we're all doing good, and we can all support each other
You know trade trade me your crab for my vegetables my vegetables for your you know meat that type of stuff
You know we still have pretty decent barter up here barter was real big in the 80s
And there was people with trade books of barter all their services all main businesses a lot of businesses
Had their point score what their service was worth and what they would barter for it's it like
Somehow went away. It was such a great system
Yeah, it did it did you know I think to the the amount of resources you have available to you kind of encourage it
And you know the less resources the more people are willing to barter because you just can't get certain things
But you know in today's society you can almost get anything if you live in a city you get it delivered in an hour
I know last summer. I bought a trade it out
I don't know what it was a load of chickens that were 15 20 bucks a baby kid came home with like marrons
Like that just weed seed so those type of barters are fucking essential
And I do you know I do it with them get honey
I get fucking maple syrup coffees, and if you're not trading out that kind of shit, but
Just fucked up. You're just going paying profit to other people to distribute it through other channels
You can go directly to the source and do a barber. It's way better
Yeah, well we're talking I do some other shows on this channel with some organic minded farmers
We were doing an IMO special the other day, and then when we were talking we're talking about you know fermenting fish
And then you had a you know kind of an interesting story about you
You don't wait very long to get that going so is that kind of something that again those things are so much easier to make in
Bulk, but you never use all of them, so you know
Okay, a lot of that to people that are very hardcore into the amino acid foliar spray
And they don't have access a very super high quality product
But if you make it out of fresh fish like as you catch it in the same say equal to you would want to eat
It as fresh sliced or steamy
You fucking it's fresh as you can get that's when you make your FAA
You want it that fresh for your higher quality than a sushi bar can ever delivers?
How good my FAA shit is you know because um the fish by law?
Has to be frozen maybe 20 hours at 30 degrees below zero to kill the
Parasites to be in a sushi bar all fish has to go through the FDA guideline
So it's not only caught processed delivered
And then it gets frozen and then it gets processed and that's good and people pay high dollar for good ass best sushi
But that's still that process you're talking fuck a week old fish
You can pull that thing out of the ocean
And you let the thing bleed out and and it's ice-cold still from the well not ice cold with 50
55 lower deep waters 50 degree water
It comes up cold already you throw it on bleed it and then put that thing in your
Ice chest or put it pack it on the brown sugar
It has zero degradation this you'd want to break the fucking FAA out and drink it
That's how you have thoughts about it. It's that good and fresh, and it just never stinks
It's nice with that. It's real good, but it doesn't stink I have
Yeah, I have a ton of the source given to me with just roots organic
And they have the fish hydra slate it had some kelp in there
But it's a stinky bitch man
Little tent in my garage, and it stunk the whole garage up this gets from it
Yeah, it was probably old fish when it went to the fermentation
You know it comes out fishy fish
And it's a little sludgy. It was wanting to settle up and be sludgy on the ground
I was like oh man that that's a product people propelling and using and maybe you feel good about it, but I
Think I have to drink wine
I mean if you were pot and say you were a tie or Vietnam or somebody that likes the fishy stuff
You probably drink fuck out of my fish sauce because I do make shrimp sauce
Which is just straight freshest hill
Pot shrimp heads are these big old gnarly heads and
You put a layer of shrimp and put a layer of rock salt and you crush that fucker down
You put a layer of shrimp to rock if you crush the whole bucket pack it all the way full of things about
You can get it as early as two weeks, but six weeks of that fermenting you pour that juice off
And it's a black
extremely salty like a
Story sauce okay, but it's fish. It's shrimp sauce and the Vietnamese are big on it or tie
Love it. Oh, is it one hell of a punch it a teapot of that's like a
Gallon of flavor it's crazy strong, and it's fishy flavored
Fermented shrimp be sweet the strong as hell
It's different, and it it makes your breath. Yes fucking week
But it it's a good play. It's just no different than that
It's that
They put a lot of weird strong dry
Fish that's like that the Vietnamese and tidy they love that real flavorful stuff
And then they put chili peppers that no normal person would eat
They say it's just medium
Okay, never never order the five-star never order
Good thing that if you're eating a no a real pie person
Don't eat at their house like make me American food because it's it's hot
Yeah, yeah a little different, but you know living out where we do now
We're not in the city anymore
and we miss pho and that just because of just because of the burn you get from like
You know very good
Yeah, I love I love the sweat
Like it's it's good if I'm sweating
money is I made I made lunch for the body shop yesterday and
Chicken salad sandwich, and I have a bottle of Dave's extreme
Hot sauce that's okay, right somebody gifted it to me because they couldn't eat it. They got it
It's not a usable product, so I put in first time. I use it maybe a
Half a teaspoon or something in my meal ruined the shit is beyond
I can eat some but I put in about eight drips yesterday enough chicken salad for eight people and
Every one of them one or two spoken to my partner fucking Rudolph
He went straight up fucking pure sweat little you know that the massive sweat from Philly Peckers, and yeah
If you quit eating it just kept on burning if you can't beat me it was pretty
Yeah, that's a that's a low degree of what?
People of our friends that are tired. They they they got it. They'll put hot shit on hot shit
And then they'll get hot do it's worse to eat a double hot peppery thing when it's super scorching fire hot
Do and they somehow could eat off on hot on hot?
Yeah, you should not wait when you're talking drips. That's that's intense
Yeah, it was about eight rips
So it's about one drip per sandwich to spice it up very great for me
Just right for me a lot, but I would warn anybody that those newer
There's two million Scoville unit pepper
Sauces now that are commercially just you just don't buy them. That's weapons great
That's weapons great fucking capsaicin
Yeah, don't don't don't
Don't rub that in your eyes or go to the bathroom without washing your hands, right?
We're just talking about that if you're gonna have a dick bag
You want to have a some good-ass?
Antibiotics and some weapons and some food and maybe a bottle of that hot sauce because it'll cover an antiseptic
weapon and the food
But you can water it down a little bit put it in a squirt gun
And it'd be right that's you want to squirt guy in the eyes with that. It's full-on
Pepper spray for hell you need to spice up roadkill skunk that you're forced to eat you could fuckin
You know get away with that or you cut yourself. That's guaranteed an antiseptic
That's super hot hot sauce is it antiseptic very good for open wounds and
Clean up crazy thought though. That's I don't know why that came up yesterday in our conversation
Makes me wonder if it would burn
Put a little lid there
So you're fermenting the fish you were doing the FAA
Kind of over the help extract do you know get a 35 or 50 per gallon barrel and fill it full of
ladder or or
Full kelp, there's that wet kelp
Very plentiful, they don't have the killer sugar kelps as much readily available
You want to eat for humans? I'd like to ferment that maybe I
Just want to eat everything if it's good
Make some good kelp extract up here get it to put IMO
Like em1 or em make your get em1 commercially and then turn it into em5
Which is about chili peppers and fucking garlic and get it to ferment and then?
That's a good like 20 different
microbial
Brains that almost anything in the fermentation
That's a real good way to get a barrel of that from the kids to go and then it'll produce co2 for about
Honestly for about a year. I
Straight almost got a year of co2 every day. I'd kick that bucket it'd be belching of co2
So it's real good for your gardening things like at one point. I put a 55 gallon barrel tape
Drum liner tape it over the barrel hook the hose up to it and put that right through one of the intakes of the fan
Move on because it would kick off that much co2 for almost a year. I just had free co2 from that one hell
Holy shit, what do you call it a hybrid flavor? Whatever? You don't even know what you call that
It ain't juice
Sludge
You know you know where I'm getting to
It's the real bio beneficial because you're getting killing super going to make it a good product
But a lot of that kill
It's like a natural PPR, so it's good to take nothing
But some thanks. I'm over over
Helping or over alfalfa and stuff like that
I
Forget what if it was like ethanol production or something, but yeah, I've heard that
And also to sometimes you get the little flower buds the bud or the leaf bud
You know kind of where the fingers go out you get you get a little bud that grows from there
I I mean, I can't prove it, but I've also heard or seen that
Mangled beach day, which was a weird Australian Australian guy
Gifted it to me had it for a quite a while got it from Tasmanian surfers that went to fucking Columbia
Got the mangled beach AC brought it back, and it's like a mainstay on Tasmania. They call it rip snort
So he told me if I ever reproduce it do whatever I want, but call it rip
So that like one in ten of that's has that bud right on the patio
It's a screen
But I didn't know much about mangled be shake said that a boat he went down
maybe he collected some or had some but I know it was a
A
Pretty cool screen, but it really is it's a red stem. It's a red stem spring natural red stem spring, okay?
Kitty LED fucking dress in the wrong you know spectrum
Spectrum
Yeah, it's a natural red stem
Okay, well that's good to hear too because that is a topic that comes up
You know a lot of times it's what's causing these and you know people into our genetics light spectrum and and
Complacency because if you just keep watching your shit growing don't keep up and keep in tune with it. You're gonna get that
happening
But if you're in tune with your plant you can avoid it 100% or run it like I said those
Original get one and two LEDs they'll process good and then some also cocoa and
that combined eats the element up so fast that you're gonna get
That or genetics, and it's way more rare on genetics. There's only a few red stem lines
That that that I definitely believe have you always kind of grown
Organically or with some of these like Jadam, you know the FPGA is or I?
Very first thing I didn't know shit about anything so I use Peters
This is an 80s run around 80s the very first things were just Peter's book, and I went to echo grow
And echo grow was so I I don't still I mean it's a really good. I don't know it's available
That was a really good thing had a lot of micro nutrients right up
18 or 19 mixed micronutrients plus the main three elements of the heat
And there was a couple of versions they even came up with a rock wool version at one point
But they have one for potting soil one was called monstera. I think which was for houseplants
And that's the one we ended up using a lot it worked really really well problem was it wasn't soluble. It was a little small
Pellets of different size around the spherical balls a different size and color for me to the
different
Npk and stuff all together, so you had to mix it for 20 fucking minutes by hand
They can spit out of it and stir it. Oh wow get it to this first or
You would just have half of it still in the bottom of your bucket lawyer. You know
underwatering the top
That was a downfall, but the stuff worked great, then in 19
I'd say
1991 or something nsr a company that made some different bottled nutrients
They had products both great leaves
or
What was it great roots was their dip formula
Like real simple real thin watery
But it didn't smell or anything like the chemically nasty different grow kind of smell kind of a natural smell
And then they had a bloom and bed formula
It was like pH buffer automatically show either orange purple or yellow and if it was yellow you're about a six five so
Super easy to do is
Leached out really really really well. I don't believe it had a ton of heavy metals in it
And I used it for years and years and the company went from nsr
I mean it was first sorry it was called ESU energy Sun University. This is like
like 1990 so
We were checking it out. We tried the rooting shit best rooting thing. I fucking ever done. We took 75 you know that's
About five fucking days later. You had 75 rooted things to be able to
Post all and you could fuck yourself quick. Yeah
but the product changed in about 10 years it went from ESU to nsr and
The company stayed the same with the labeling and bottling and books and everything, but they went out of business maybe
In years, maybe they went out of business recently, but I had always done a lot of organic because it's available all the time
Right if it's there all the time then I use it also
I'd always have pigs and one of the things you feed a pig is corn oats and barley and
They like it with molasses so you get caught it's called Cobb
So you buy Cobb with molasses and to make it efficient to feed it you put it in a barrel and you have two barrels
usually going all the time and you let it soak with water and
Matt it turns to mash you get corn oats and barley mash
And that's when you feed the pigs because the corn will go right through the pigs digestive so fucking fast
You've got to get that to be soft green. Slow it down. They'll get some nutrients out of it and
the water is
Mashed like I said if you straight this around it right into a still right then you're gonna have a
real grainy whiskey
combination of corn corn oats and barley whiskey, but I
I
Never bothered too much with distillation if I wanted to the thing is it's putting off good co2 the whole time
That's what I was kind of targeting. I like to co2 during that fermentation that bash for my pig
Corn oats and barley it's given off tons
I'd even pick in extra sugar on top of the molasses that it had to get more
Co2 so okay the rod and growing like extra
Fermenting that's the plants that were you know using the co2 that was coming out and then a
film will grow on top of
the water if it's
white
People know all about it. I don't know the technical name, but it's like
Kind of the way you start a lactic acid culture with like rice walks
Yeah, okay. Yeah, basically labs
Different way to make it out of those other ingredients, so I would skim that shit off and throw it in the
Top water top dress all my plants with that shit evenly and it made it would kick your soil and live soil
So if it was a slow four-month potted plant, you know by the time
You're done using it. It's going in the flower
You can throw the all the leaves would be pollinating on the top of that plant
It's alive enough soil to wear the shit with your leaves up just like people are doing now
Different means and methods of it, but it's always good to put that
any weather whether whatever your
Your I
Mo is to get your shit
Be grating and decaying you I like em1 at one point to this you could just buy it a Texas company family business
75 bucks a sip your gallon of the shit that has 20 super good strains and
Picks anything into over dryers, but I would use but you can inoculate shitty soil
And turn it into pretty good soil instantly and if you feed it good food after that it utilizes that food real well
So that soil pain break pretty impressive how fast we can make?
regular just
Almost just like pro mix or something pretty high quality
Yeah, the more I learn about that stuff though the more impressed with it
I am and it's kind of like you you've recognized that you have the inputs around you. I want to fix this light
Yeah, go ahead. Please fix that
Just want to say what up everybody. Thank you for joining us in chat today
I see a lot of a lot of strain questions here and
Yeah, as long as it's good for you as long as it's not playing in your eye the whole time
That's like me. I kind of like I'm not really this stone
It's just I have a really bright light shining in my face a lot of times people are like dude Chad open your eyes
It's the bright light guys
But what were you smoking on there this evening? And what do you generally like to smoke on? Oh good good weed
I just like to smoke pleasurable. So I don't care what that really strange, but I like to be
Relaxed with natural well-being feeling
Lot of weeds that hit that mark great
Fun out weeds are way better for the daytime and up up up we way better for work
or fishing
Right. Yeah, you need to go down super heavy heavy super down. We just like good for insomnia
You did happen to wake up at fucking 2 in the morning and want to go back to sleep
That's the good shit for that, but you ain't getting a lot done. That's me. I'm smoking
black Afghani TK nl5 Hayes
it is a
really really good hash plant and
and
I'll do something with it here pretty soon. I've been realizing it's a black Afghani from a friend in Germany
Multiple incarnations of it of my stuff bread to it m1
Or Afghani one
Bread to that and tends to have a lot of herbs in it. So I've wasted fucking multiple rounds
Generation-wise digging through her lose it. He'll keep wanting to put a forward thing in it
which is a lot of effort space and time a
Couple people just like just fucking uh-huh
and I kind of got I
Kind of got started on it's like I don't want to go forward a little more
But the one that's that seems to be the best if I don't have
this
The black Afghani he killed I think it's a real good 50-day hash plant. It's got big fucking sandy heads
That's what the world needs a lot more and it's got neat leaf morphology
It's got one of the coolest males
What did I call all the holly male is what I called it because it has massively
Spiky
Serrations on it much different plant looking than most any and it's a fat leaf, of course
But it's very cool. And then it's offspring and it can be black. Some of them could be
12 13 15 days into flower. It'll start turning black
the natural
Plant that the leaves have turned black and the flower can turn really dark
That white white resin on that dark
plant return and
It's in 50 days
It's pretty
That that's what I was gonna say. I mean, you know, I I love to fight little 60 days
Or less. We have a ton of fast weed. We have some fucking good fast 50-day weed
And also size I almost kind of feel right now that we've traded speed and size for
flavor and
bag appeal
In the commercial market, that's where I base a lot of these
Assertions off of but yeah, I I miss big old, you know, donkey dongs
I
Grew it a couple of times and f3 drew some plants out and made it f4 drew f4 out
bread it to
But I've read it maybe two f3 males that I had rebeds or something but
That mother with no love. I don't think they got food. It got froze
It had just hit don't do they have like pineapple fucking balms it was big thick
The good old-fashioned good bugs and it was burning purple like crazy and it was seated like Helen still had buds
It was like biggest Oh biggest two-liter bottle
That's that's exactly
Dave Stanley, I mean the guy that invented or created the corner today when I talked to him
he said they were fucking huge buds and
Nice grown in the good cold, Oregon fall. That's not a pity said it turned blue
He was then that that blood turned blue
I'm gonna turn purple and black for me. This shit was fucking
Big so I like that kind of bug right there good
Good smoke a lot of that old stuff heritage. We would call it
It wasn't knock your socks off best weed in the world. There's a lot of it. That was a commercial strain
Right, so
Not all of us gonna be the very best in connoisseur wise
But if you can get happy on both ways with huge buds that have that bag of feeling the high is really good
That's the win-win
Well, you were saying to that you've done, you know a lot of work with NL number one and NL number five
Can you maybe?
Can you maybe for somebody who doesn't know like maybe the difference between the two or what is the difference?
I wasn't an expert on ml5. I got it 94
Didn't got a kind of a downer on NL because we got a hold of some NL 2 by 5 and it was
Like twice as crystally white crystal wise, but they were long
Fuzzy stalks. They were kind of wavy stalks longer and it was also almost a no high type of
Plan and we were like totally disgusted high CBV or CBN or whatever it was low THC and
Other people will say that shit never happened and they'll claim the NL 2 by 5 that they got was the fucking best that never
Ever put out. I hate me and my partner was like well fuck NL if this is what is what the fuck?
They've got to offer but in 94 friend of mine went down to a British Columbia brought me back
I told him to bring me back three packs. Give me 300 bucks
I want three packs of seed from Mark Emery's because he was going to feel like a hundred ton
Captain's license and he's ferrying a rich guy's boat down to like Santa Cruz or some fucked up horse down there
He stopped him his girlfriend and another couple stopped at every port along the way
And they would just visit the port and stay on the boat at night and I knew he was going to Vans for them
So I'm going to pick me up three packs of seeds and he gets in there. That was one. I wanted it was like
260 bucks for the fucking one single pack of that shit. So my whole budget was blown on one
But that's when I got into that and then there was local cuts going around
It was a big bushier
plant
kind of similar elite structure, but at a fruitier side to it and not dank and fuel II and
The NL did have sweet hash pino's to it though to very good sweet hash beans, but it had a dank
I don't know if I can say chemi because I'm not a chem expert at all, but it's like they're very accurate very easy and
dank and hash and do everything you want in good, but but not like
Death star smelling dank and fucking loudness. It's different. Some are even muted
Some were kind of bland and muted
On the NL one, I'm gonna want to see some NL one that's old. Yeah
This pictures, but I put on I do before I don't know if it'll show up
That is and you can recognize the sensibilia tapestry in the back with all fucking old-school people have that's in rock wall
And it's about
You know 30 inch tall
single NL one
Okay from the local cut bread to
89 and a one from devil is the x3 or whatever
And then here's the same plant grown vegetative wise and it had this very unique
Leaf pattern that leaf pattern was very
The difference between the NL 5 and NL 1 right there
It's just the over the other fingers
These are the same NL ones that are nice and lush and bushy as they can get in
Light depth in 1990 of the Trappers Creek, this is how Alaskans used to grow in outdoor gorilla grow light depth
so much fucking work and
Bears will come along and rip the fucking walls out stick it into your plants every fucking day. If you're not there like
Wow
Bears ain't enough fucking ears. I stayed in a
Tree stand over at that at that homestead
I stayed in the tree stand and slept up there all night long
Every night with the gun and we were allowed to get six fucking bears. Anyway, that was the Linda was sick black bear
They kept coming around. We were spraying Malifai on to kill the
Way, we're spraying Malifai and outside on the brush the alders that all this basically alders fireweed and grass
But it's a mosquito haven so right now we're like killing the earth spraying this horrible fucking poison and
It brought brown bears it smelled terror it's like rotten sultry eggs and terrible all kinds of shit smells right dead flesh
Brown bears, let's smell it five miles away
Come up and investigate and we can't kill them. They're out of season and they're really trouble they run off
They don't run off the black bears, you know, but yeah, I was up in trees quickly. I had a couple of
like single-action
black
just a blue blue steel black off single action keep that in my holster and
As a second backup, then I have a like a nine a cheap-ass 9-11. It's got like nine thoughts in it a 45 and
Always decided what's better to shoot it with a little bit better penetrating single action and just control your shit kill that bear
Just unload that fire
All them 45s piss it off. I've always yeah, those things don't penetrate
But yeah, I got run up to three multiple times with brown bear and half go up and pop in his jaws
I was like, man, it's out of season and I'm not sure I could kill him with a good clean kill with them pistols
They're not they're not the best for killing the earners. You better kill it that deadly vital zone
Yeah, that that exact year 1990 we tried I tried to do what my other buddies were doing
I just bought my shit up to his plate
Which was out for my death at Trafford Creek, Alaska. It's in the suit sitting the valley right on the Sioux City River
Like right there
But he had a big homestead 160 acres of homes
440 acres
And that's probably small for up there too. No, that's what you were allotted. That's the normal
It's so huge that would be a dream almost
Yeah
If you were willing to come up and work the land stay there for three to four years
Whatever the rule was and improve the land that gives a fucking deed for
There's a lot of people that make it there's a lot of homesteads they started real good
They could they get that can't they could get that maybe
Haven't built but then they ran out of food and died and left whatever their situation
But there's a thousand things they couldn't get done. So to do a homestead you need
a lot
Yeah, I
want to ask you to which is something is I guess is kind of a local or a
Legend from up there being down here. The stories are confusing
But we have people asking about Alaskan Thunderfuck and I also know that you work with the Matanuska Thunderfuck
So I guess first question maybe is are they the same thing?
Well, a lot of people here's all here's straight what it is Alaskans
Anybody in my age never called an Alaskan Thunderfuck ever. Okay, never been uttered
it's a natural thing it would have never come out of our mouth and then we
it's just Matanuska Thunderfuck, but
though
it came about by
What I learned is that Tony from Sagamarket had friends up here. They gave him
Real Matanuska Thunderfuck and he made Matanuska Tundra and then later that incarnated into Alaskan Thunderfuck
so it is a half of
pure
MGM for a fact
Okay, I was offered the half-bred pure seeds that made that I was offered it back just recently. So
Oh
We just don't call it an ATF because there's another reason what about
Appalachian Thunderfuck you're gonna say ATF you better get more specific because it means more than one thing and then I
Always attributed it to people did it because they either didn't know how to spell Matanuska
That's probably it right there
Or it was a marketing scheme and they didn't have real shit
Anyway, they just tagged Alaska and it was a money-making
marketing scheme if multiple people have
ATF idea
Well, yeah, I mean to be totally honest the the ATF, you know living in Seattle area at that time
20-30 years ago was one of the first names that we actually knew or recognized this was you know
You know, it was either called got some or don't got some but then eventually names started coming and ATF was one of the
first ones that I
Consciously remember being a named strain whether it was the real thing or not. Who knows like you said marketing, but yeah
You know
Horrible
Accent of Chinese Sam block broccoli. Oh gosh. This is fucking as a joke a rolling running joke with the broccoli
Yeah, but that was good. Thank good fucking bud. If you have broccoli, I'm telling you then it was the right fucking good
Various good bud. One thing is the ATF
Uranus type
Is it breeds like half at Matanuska because I've gotten it back and I've heard with a book on
Who don't really use my Matanuska as a male?
And bred to the ATF to make both
The fuck we call it cluster fuck and that it's really good. Okay, cuz I know
It's different than my pure much. You're
That was a little bit more
Not as flat-topped more
Yeah, and that's that's kind of how I remember it was being more of a
You know, I guess for lack of a better term the indica leaning or Afghani leaning effects when I when I smoked it
And then another one coming around there's it's it's I don't know if it's just generational
but it's funny to me that a lot of people are
Going after like that that 90s weed some of these things and I have a few theories about it
You know earlier you're talking about, you know, like feeding Peters to the plants. I almost kind of wonder
Because we know now that food and soil give off different terpene expressions of the plant
I'm almost wondering if it was some of this like miracle grow
2020-2020 that brought out certain expressions that we're not seeing anymore. I don't know. It was pretty basic pretty crappy basic stuff
I think that it had to get better with all of the micro nutrients that are added now and
tailored differently and
Naturally fermented there's a thousand different things that have to be better than that just free commercial. Yeah, that's just like
three chemical fertilizers pounded together for
you know, it does work, but
Right. It works, but I put that shit on my roses
Yeah, I
Can't say I haven't used it because I've come across it for free before from long one landscape. I gave you like
50 pounds of it and then those little applicator guns
it's like spray it on your berry bushes and I did it but I made a huge difference for the
Lushness and greenness of the of the berry bushes like currents
past caps and shit because
The soils all the shit and the plants already been there a long time ago. I didn't keep amending it
Somehow it's it was needed a little bit. So but I don't know if that's
The best thing I don't think Jeff Lohenfeld tell me that that's a good fucking
It's like the anti
Anti
Weeding and poisons of fertilizers and he's like compost your fucking lawn and mulch it and this
This and this and quit doing this and people don't like to hear that shit
No, and little do people realize that you know people, you know
Rag on Big Ag for putting all the pesticides and chemicals into the fields
But it's the consumer market that is applying more pesticides and shit into the environment
Than Big Ag and we already know Big Ag is a problem. But yeah, it's the consumer level. Yeah
He's he's done do not buy fucking roundup
It's very good lines go pick your dandelions and if they get too out of hand just mulch the motherfuckers up
They're gonna be dead, but you don't want to go and spraying
Something that's just the worst or you know, like the diphosphates
That's good shit. No, it's just we got to think about it long-term like you're talking to earlier big picture
Long-term. Yeah. Well, I don't know I could preach on that shit. People are gone
There's a lot of things you can preach on but that's something that people should be more aware
Yeah, well, I think more people are coming around to it and at least people that gravitate to this channel
I kind of think are more conscious minded there, you know
Stewardship of the land is something that comes up often a lot of times people are trying to close their loops and close their sources
But you know, there's also a commercial side too and so I think that's where they're trying to find the happy marriage
I kind of like it up here because you can look around and see pristineness still
In a different field and some others some areas I would I don't been there but I would see
Movies or TV or or actual footage of the place and it's already been so industrialized
Mistakes were made in those areas, but they're not turning it back. I feel lucky to see some pristine
some pristineness and non-polluted this
We me and my wife we keep moving
We keep moving towards that, you know again downtown Seattle for many years and we moved north of the city
The city caught up to that we moved where we are now
Downtown downtown Seattle's pretty gritty
Yeah, yeah, yeah it is now more so than ever but I spent a short time in the town
Fucking crazy. My mom almost died was in Virginia Mason for like three to four weeks
I was like her sidekick and I stayed at the YMCA. It's like 15 year old kids traversing that town
Oh, geez, it was weird. There's some strange. I was even back. This has got to be
584 I don't know what it was early 80s. Yeah, there's some it was weird back then but to stay in the YMCA
I did experience everything
Weirdos living in the YMCA. I
Wouldn't doubt it because I know where Virginia Mason is and yeah
I
Always wondered I'm like, well, I don't think the homeless people eat them. That'd be good
But then I realized their bioaccumulators and that's not so good. So yeah, not a good not a good meat source
Not a good meat source
All right for a while dude, that's another thing I did in
Eighth and ninth grade. No, not only was I working my balls off picking fruit as a migrant workers for a while
I was in Washington State. So the very small very small town of 2,000 people in City, Washington
right outside of the main fruit Valley Yakima Valley for all the fruit for most of the Northwest except for like the apples up at
Right there and
Raised pigeon king pigeons for me
Super cheap easy thing and somebody my age could manage it real well
And I did the breeding of it
You can't really eat their eggs, but what you do is you take the babies and it's called squab in the restaurants
It's a very young just after it gets its plumage king pigeon. That's like a French delicacy
Never tried
Yeah, that's not a ridiculous thing, but not a nasty s
Yes, yeah, no, no, but I don't want it to
Morning those fuck. They're delicious of this tiny
Get up early in the morning and go fucking down the power lines and fence lines and it'd be morning doves everywhere down there
I don't think bird populations ladies people are telling me that all the truckers are gone. The pheasants were gone the quails gone
Doves are gone
Good memories
Of system very well, yeah, it's probably a combination of you know, it's like hunting habitat removal and then just change
environment to
We got a couple oh, I'm sorry go ahead this is gonna say what's a fucking cannabis fucking thing
When I see something cool, yeah, yeah, it's stupid because
There are real poor pictures, but it's Waco which was nl5 Hayes from the about 80
This is the 89 year and probably late 89. But this picture was
That's
Magazine it's
My partner
Keep the Mickey Mouse face. Well, you know, I'll get it another week of shopping
it you can see that how
Chunky, okay
Fucking buds were just huge. Yeah
Had that crinkle weight that a lot of the nl5 still today will produce exactly like that
And I said nl5. Here's one more but that
These are terrible fucking pictures and 35 millimeter look at the size of them how keep fucking yeah
That's what I'm talking about. We were using the 1,000 watt metal our HBS
No, none of those stupid six foot fucking wide
fields that they had back then we would just hang them straight in between the fucking plants and
They were right at plant top level these massive one. What are they? How many ever?
100
100,000 plus lumen fucking bulbs hanging right there face to face with the bugs
so we'd get huge huge fucking production and it was this particular girl was hydro and
They were just beefing it up. I never grew that way but
That face mask that he had on a little bit. It's Mickey Mouse
Punch out face mask from Denny's. Oh
Like the baby. Yeah, we got that because we had
This isn't a true story, but there was an initiative ballot initiative to make marijuana illegal in 1990
There was gonna be an on November ballot and everybody's gonna vote to make it
it was the elite it was legal prior to that from 75 on and
at the time Jack hair and
Steve Hagar were on their tour with the Emperor wears no clothes and they were holding a symposium up here and
It was at the at our Performing Arts Center a big deal, you know, it wasn't packed or nothing
But it was it was it was like straight-up mainstream shit. He was educating everybody about the fucking whole
Way it went down with
fucking
And slinger and all of the laws were done and why they did this what they fucking changed and marijuana
It went deep
Animals used to be fed him. There was never sick fucking animals and cancerous animals and never needed antibiotics
the second that him went out of the food chain for
Livestock of all types animals needed antibiotics and the amount of Omega
3 6 & 9 changed on them and become an unhealthy fat. I mean we got deep they talked about textiles
What biomass it can be everybody's sold on it
But he's helped Jack and Steve are both up here for a week and visiting people's gardens. It's no I
got to gift him a bunch of hash and
really good hash that from the Americana breed out when we had a huge breeding of like
150 plants of it and we got it seeded by accident. We're only making production weed. Yeah
About five weeks in we got seeds
Anyway, you're looking for no herbs found one single male in the back one single stock little male
Kind of behind a female two-thirds of the way back and we called it shorty and that fucker had read everything
but we had to just you know, he seed the crop and we got the keeper from the double zero stainless steel and
The screen they're like little hash
Green machines with class it'll slide out their wooden frame. They were for selling high-tech magazine
It was like real calm and even like and whatever when they were put that it was advertised that people got them
But double drill stainless steel frame double layer
You just rub your you know
Keep a roll on the top one and they would go through and collect on the glass and you pull those glass slide out
Scrape up all your teeth, but I had that it was near bubble. It was near bubble
You know Jack and I gave him a half ounce and then I didn't it was so, you know
It was like so expansive
There's no way that I thought he was gonna like smoking to do smoking everybody else's week while he's out visiting all these places and
Third day he come back and wanted more of that fucking ass. You've already smoked or half
On top of all of the weed. He literally was smoking. He can outsmoke a heavy smoker when you're smoking hard
He was heavy
Overdue it's no fucking joke heavy smoker
Yeah, and he'd get high and everything but he would handle it and just keep on going it's crazy, but we go
Because of the initiative he's here to support
the elect of the
illegality side of it so
they were staying for the week and fighting for our cause and shit, but we were having a meeting at the
The Denny's done kind of Midtown Denny's. It's on Bergeron Road and
We were in the convention part of it
There's like the open part for the public and then they had a little tiny convention room
And we're in there having our meeting and we're talking about this and that somebody from crazy like it's start sparking up a bowl
and
Like nobody really says shit and it is pretty much evolved quickly into us
starting to burn in there and you know, the the fucking couple servers were coming in and
not saying a fucking word and
They we're like ordering everything to you. So that was one of the reasons I think they were going to skip this interview like 500
So they were like they keep pumping the shit to us and let us smoke for three fucking hours in the door
You know when they're coming in and out of the main doors the smoke's rolling out into the main
Wow
People and at one point the customers complained and they asked us to fucking cut down the smoke
Fucking
But that's a fucking crazy only a few Alaskans fucking were there and know about it
Yeah, we fucking had a smoke out a fucking public smoke out in the fucking Denny's up here
You know with Jack here and fucking that was some epic fucking shit a bunch of Patriots
We're all having tri-cornered hats because at the time, you know, Ann Arbor
Like fuck for their rights and they all wore the tri-cornered hats and we all got a month here
The initiative is gonna make marijuana illegal. So we were like rallying that didn't
The vote went through and it became illegal. Oh
No, I do but you got the Mickey Mouse mask out of it though. Oh, yeah
But here's what happened the fucking you can't change in our Constitution
The right to your freedom is written in our state Constitution due to a lawyer that went to jail on purpose named Raven
He got a couple joints and got arrested on purpose and fought it through the state Supreme Court
And it got written in our Constitution that the right to your privacy overrides the fact that marijuana may be dangerous in your own home
This is they wrote up a law says that you could have four ounces
Or 16 plants, you can't transport you can gift it to anybody that you couldn't transport. So you have to magically teleport
Right
Yeah
Bill fucking Bennett the drugs are and
The I forget his name, but the Surgeon General of the United States
Coop the old black guy. Yeah, they're up here called Anchorage town meeting and it was downtown. It's like a federal building and
All of us rallying crazy fuckers that were not want to have the law changed. We're with our Patriot hats and fines and
We get down there
They really don't want us to even go inside the building where the public all shits going on
So we're outside on the sidewalk being jerks and there's a lot of black
a lot of
And their Secret Service guys right there in upper floors of the hotels across the street
Just with taking pictures
single shots of every fucking single one of us and we didn't know how stupid we were being
Kind of serious and we weren't and
When it became illegal, we all go fuck we threw up we hit our hats and we just like went straight into hiding
It's like oh, we're all gonna go to fucking prison watch this shit and it goes directly to
The state Supreme Court and they rule that it's illegal to change the Constitution with an initiative ballot. They overturned the fucking
initiative
Within months
Legal again to smoke marijuana
That's that's that's a roller coaster of a story
We put a lot of effort into the whole thing to not have it happen
but there was a lot of people at that point infiltrating Alaska with kind of like
About four hundred thousand five hundred thousand people to six and seven hundred thousand and
When that happened a lot of those people were moving up with their their values of whatever
Conservative or liberal place that they came from. Yeah, and it changed the view of Alaskans that you know, we wanted this and then they go
Marijuana is illegal and dangerous, right?
Yeah
No, that's I
You see that a lot too in the city's just gentrification
The native, you know, the regulars they they get priced out and moved out pretty soon
You don't even recognize the area anymore. It's yeah
Sucks, but I'm glad you guys fought back and you won that one because that's that's big again. Alaska has been great for a long time
Picture I
Was
These pictures are still are crappy from that time when I did shoot those
The nl5 hazes from the late
The late 90s, but here here's a combination of them
That's the that's the C5 he's nice, okay
And then we almost have someone's identical. It's like got the same lean to it
Got the same exact fucking the crinkle leaf to call it
But there's other people that had crinkle leaf that was different crinkle, but this is a pattern that still can easily pop right out
Yeah, yeah and breathe it
And if I the pays pure the stock I have is
It's just like digging through
The original Steve what the seed has come from it's it's seed make a pollen what to a guy named Steve
He reproduced it. And then in the 90s was in England and
Reproduced it and then
Was in England and
Reproduced it and he is friends with
Graham and
He sent it to Graham Graham give it to the fucking bean bean bean and
He I don't know what he did with it reproduced it I think he reproduced it, but he sent me f
F 3 of that seed stock and it's like I didn't think much of it
I didn't even do nothing with it at first, but then when I drew it
It was like killer fucking version of ml5 hazel. It's like wow this I can't even believe this stuff got it
If the guy was to search out and being recently to search I don't know what it was f3 or f4
But he he just found that that real old-school original haze exactly like he breathed exactly like Neville's haze
It's a no ceiling
Type of case and it's a massively fucking
Expansive dial vascular flow you will cough your fucking ass up and it's kind of like the way
The cough it came off of a version of ml5. He's 10 or 15 years
I put a release and it's known it's called that because
It's the same phenotype is it's a little less flavorful
That's almost like cardboardy
But the effect is hard to fucking compare
They don't pop your goddamn balls off if you have the real pop for Collins cough or the real problem
For the professor he has a
Relic has it 20 28 percent 20. I'd say right now. It's funny 23 years or 24 year old
Holding 28 fucking percent still today. Yeah, that's a
fucking weed that's in
Yeah, yeah, I'd imagine digging through
You know a thousand feeds of that in a good proper search. You're gonna find a real spectacular
That's it and that's what gene can do and gene can come in and do that stuff that's awesome
That is really pop in shit
And
I've had that stuff to where it's really really strong. It's right between the eyes and just rolled
It's instant if you can be overtaken by the strength of it
But it's got a high to where you can keep smoking it and you don't realize how fuck
What you ingested the way an edible fed?
You go over the top some people that can't handle
Really really strong weed and it'll by the time it hits them
They're wanting to crawl out of their own skin and they're starting to smoke that
When you when you leave the room that you smoked in and then all of a sudden realize, holy crap. I'm messed up
It's kind of speaking to of collaborations, you know
Gene is a great one. A lot of people in chat have been asking about Brandon rust and the TK and L5
collaboration
L5
Okay, which did you tell us a little bit more about that one?
No
I had just given him seeds and was hoping he'd run him and give me his opinion and do whatever he wanted with him
And he bred it to lime DX that gene had given him. So he made this really killer cross
Just straight happened to work and very good. He sent me back with a nice bag of seeds
He sent gene back in this magazine
And I don't even know what gene groom or did anything with him who knows does he he's got his fucking hands full
I bet if he could get into the library and
Open it up and dig through and just have pain. There's some pretty good shit
We all just need a warehouse or oh go and have a bunch of big open nursery licenses. Yeah, look at you just
exploration through R&D and look for expression and find your
It could be wonders that could happen
Yeah, Washington State is so so I'm sorry go ahead. Yeah, there are numbers
No, no, you can't and the the licenses are so limited
I've almost said it's like do if I could get a license to grow a thousand plants and I have to turn over
995 I would do that
License and get it one and you can't just you could just grow whatever you want
Grow the fucking coals. It could be excellent or well above average or mids and
Garbage it out. You don't have to pay the taxes
See we have a fucking $800 a pound tax for flower and the grower pays it that is very serious fucking
Overhead and yeah production on that it kills you on production costs when the tax is 800 on every single fucking pound
It doesn't even work in some areas. How are you gonna sell a $300 pound when the tax was 800 fucking dollars, California wise
Look, this is not right. The math don't come up, but it's worth it
and so easy to get into an emperor up here and just like and another kind of out is they give you a
Instead of $800 I
Think they'll break it down to about
150 bucks
Something lower if it's seeded or garbage or say moldy and then you could sell that shit
Do it extract it because they do that
They'll let you fucking do this and you don't have to pay that heavy heavy tax
So as a breeder you could just straight go through it and everything that's average or whatever just save it
It's seeded damaged or molded or whatever and just say I'm gonna put it all through this source right here
And you still get paid
$1,100
You're gonna cover your nice it ain't gonna win you're not gonna win you're gonna pay your taxes on this bit
Which is way less than 800 and you're gonna get your cover your production cost covered
But the good side is that you found
One in a hundred or one in three or five hundred that really really good one and you can move forward with that thing
Or whatever way you want to do it. So it's really young a viable program if
Rent up here ain't cheap. There's the cheapest would ever see it be 5,000 a month for this whole little place
You would have no room at all. So maybe and then they want to triple the price for cannabis
Leasing so, of course, it's all a shakedown. It sucks. It's all a shakedown
It's they see that they're the only one and it's zoned
Title 21 is a lot of it
You have to have the zoning match up and it has to be I want or be three at a minimum
I want to think up here whatever it is. It's real strict and then
You have to meet all the title zoning
Laws for
Title 21, which is X amount of landscaping X amount of snow plan
garbage plan
employee vehicle plan
customers
Vehicle parking plan all this should have to comply
That's a little bit from the curve. They want you to have
landscaping
Dr. Cannabis, this is you gotta put a bunch of nice shit out on the curve
Every business, so it's not just one thing. Okay. Well at least it's consistent
But you know, I joke to that nuclear materials are less regulated. They can't
The assembly the city council the fucking regulating board the state the fire marshal
They're going here's my hand
The fuckers we jump through yeah, you have that's the unfortunately the only thing you can do
But yeah, we've got a thing might be Oklahoma because they'll give you a vertical license for 10 grand
You can produce
Manufacture process and extract and do whatever retail all your own shit on a vertical license for 10 grand
So yeah, that's why everybody's moved there. I know in three years. I think it's gonna be dramatically different
Collapsed on itself that it's almost like that Ponzi scheme set up. Yeah
Yeah, so we so, you know, we saw that in Oregon
Yeah, I got some shit going on over there I used to work with in LA
He ran Abbott grow in LA
Which was getting ready to be sold on the stock exchange
I feel for whatever it was big shit
Abbott is a Canadian company and they have the top and fucking grow facilities aeroponics through remote control
So they monitor everything in the facility and they will tell you how to adjust this and this to this
It's like state-of-the-art spaceship fucking weed
Facility and I was putting
5,000 square foot deal down there and they were fucking had all these grow pods going and it is incredible for me
Pop in lighting
Great crazy to where they were pruning roots that were 48 inches long
They prune them back 24 inches in these aeroponic systems, but it's like sprays here super fine air mist on them
And yeah, they're just hanging the roots are just hanging there
It's like I never seen that kind of shit. It's tuned in and they were pimping the fucking weed up
Pumping it up to here. So
massive amounts of brand-new five-gallon
Buckets that they would trim that we put it in there to cure it and though against the wall
They were just stacked up about yeah
Five or six buckets high down the whole fucking wall and I could just pull a seal off any one of them stuff my nose
In it go. Oh my god that first wave after the cure of like two to three months
You get the true essence of what that was, but it was all my shit stump cabbage and blue balls and just different things that
There was none brand-name shit and it was right before the OG thing
well, you couldn't sell a fucking thing, but OG but there was still a bunch of guys up in Oakland it like flavor and
Same way on the East Coast. They will go for one certain thing hardcore
I think it was getting diverted to the East Coast because the market was so weak on the West Coast because everybody turned only one
OG but there was because the you see how the market changes this at the other California
Is not the place to do any of that, Oklahoma right now
You could you could still fuck around for a couple years and go through some good searches and find something
Well, they'd be able to sell it or use it later. Who knows that it might be corporate
Cannabis takeover whoever's gonna cease and desist on anything everything that they can find genetically. Yeah
Who knows what the outcome?
That same guy in LA. He got sick to California
Got out of it because the regulations were really really fucking tough and then he lost his building due to insurance
They wouldn't even for even a legal marijuana grow
So we ended up it was his place have all of this equipment that hundred fifty thousand dollars worth of air upon it
Yeah, what do you do with that hundreds of fuck? I said he put it in vans. He stored it had all those
Wow, what's that main dehumidifier? What's that for main request?
I feel like doesn't the fucking quest he humidifiers
He ended up just now take it all over the fucking
Nice over still water
He's building it development, I got you know
Open invite to do whatever the fuck I want. The heat will kill you though. You ain't gonna go and enjoy yourself growing
No, no, that's what you just
Give the carrier pigeon the beans down there and then let them do the search for you
I don't know if they're capable and competent enough if I
They didn't do super good they wouldn't listen to me at the LA
Oh, yeah
That's tough hundred seeds or five strains
I told him to crack 1,500 seeds and five strains and we go hunt they crack 15 or 20 of each
Fucked off this and that let the main grower fucking find something really good
He ran off and did his own thing with all the stolen genetics
Jesus
Start a big
big for some really good shit because he
Above average, but you can pop that out of a small
You know population if you have a big population you can find very much of whatever you can find superior
yeah, they didn't ever listen and
You know crazy people but maybe
Maybe you all right and I could leave it on a semi-auto situation and let him do some church outs
And then we just I just have to keep going
Well, yeah, I mean I hope you find the right people for that because there is a lot of potential there again
Having Brandon Russ do some things. That's a great guy to go searching
I think he's moving out of Oklahoma City over to just do another area but closer to still one
Okay out of the main parking
This purpose fucking area
The main population areas
I
Don't know why family lives in fucking greenfield and shit like that with us
50 miles or
80 miles south of Oklahoma City and it's in the middle of the plane. There's hot wind blowing 100 degrees. It's not nice
It's horrible. No, I'm Pacific Northwest guy right here. I'll take I'll take it over here
I got I got out of the car and when it was doing that I was like
This won't be a freak windstorm and it's blowing like a hot air drive, right?
Then the next day it was worse. And then it's like people live fucking here
Right people actually live here. Yeah, that'd be me on day three
So their shit gets destroyed every fucking fifth year
I'm waiting for it and it will happen
But there was these bad series of movies called sharknado made within the last 10 years
I'm waiting for weed NATO when it hits a when it hits a cannabis farm and the local news is out there talking about
Cycloning weed
If you grow outdoors you almost need windrows and they better be big foot window
And then you can do a lot of protection we have heavy wind here so to grow regular vegetables or cannabis outside you have to have
some six-foot wind prevention
Or to be destroyed every ripped at fucking shreds. We have
60 80 mile an hour winds regular
Well, that's like right here on the coast that's like that's where I am getting it straight off the ocean
Yes, that's what it is here we get it ripping down the down the valley from the open ocean on the Gulf and
Like sticking your plant out the window in your car. It's 60 and if you want to do 80, it'll rip it up even worse
Yeah
right up the hill not not
Not 500 feet higher than my house at this elevation. They clocked
Eighteen or hundred nineteen mile an hour wind. Holy
Wow, they when I have 60 and 70 they get 80 and 90 just up the hill a little way
but
Slightly more protective, but you can't deal with 50 mile an hour winds growing shit. So when you're talking 60
Every fucking X amount of time you get these wins you better have
So some something to block the wind from hitting it straight on yeah
Well, it's you know, I know
You know, you've spent a couple hours with us tonight and I know you typically like to get going around this time
I do appreciate it and I'm here as long as you'd like to be here
But I did just want to get it maybe a couple couple more questions in
Okay
Yeah, I
Yeah
Got questions, too
And I wish there was a big group chat going on a nice deal with like what you guys were
What Peter had with the tag you and
They were talking about
You know
Yeah, you've brought up eustarium and other
microbial dirt problems, but
The byroid issue came up real good and didn't get a lot of explanation on it. Yeah
I'd like to hear other people's good ass opinions on that's gonna be a big issue coming up
It will be him
We could definitely
Might embarrass them, you know clean up
This stuff's gonna be a pretty I'd say
during the gold mine
The gold miners all fucking died or were killed for their gold if they did find it
They'd work their ass off for nothing. They all left here poor, but the guy that sold the mules and the shovels
He made all the fucking money and he left here went on to become
You know
hotel
Financiers, yes, every fucking big thing. So in this wave of gold rush
The first waves over and if you didn't jump in and get on time
The next wave would be like IT kind of for that
But it's gonna be the the TC clean up guys and people that can do PC storage and reliable
Services like that chemistry, right? That's it. That's probably like like worth of good work to be having
It's the thing of the future this time. Yeah
It's gonna be a problem. What if a big large canopy producer?
Brings in a by the way, they don't have like good biosecurity. They bring in some by Royden
Yeah, and and monocropping, you know just running the same things we
Yeah
We definitely have the right people to connect you with and you know
If your game we absolutely can arrange to get more of like a panel. We could get you know
Gene involved. There's Joe Romani who is a I believe is a PhD but kind of hop late and boy
Viroid is his jam like
It's gonna be a thing of the future and turn on a live chat with
With
Duke and a couple other guys on his discord
we brought up the idea and the problems that are going around and what people are dealing with and
people dealing with huge libraries and then just put every ounce of your effort into that library and
It all go away real quick and if it already has
one side of it is that you can always start again fresh if you have the right building blocks and there's a lot of
like the
Phoenix rising out of the ashes type of storage right there and could be better on the second wave and I
Always got a ton of questions because I don't know what the whole thing is
But we all were kind of in that's just the 15 plant library for much more sensible thing
Nobody was saying I got this and I got this and I got this but we all kind of came to the conclusion that we
might have some fucking free time room for R&D and
And
Not just like the boat in your whole entire life to a library
So there's good things in fucking wipeouts, too. I've always said it's terrible people that burn out
From whatever cause my friend just burned out in Hawaii
My buddy max pizza. He just had a electrical thing in his house and lost every fucking thing. He owns
and then
Puts everybody's that puts it on IG shows his fucking ash pile
Oh, no tags me and my wife and fucking my genetics going. That was the one thing. He's gonna miss the most like
Fuck what a guy. Yeah
Honolulu, I think it's Connolou, Hawaii or whatever. She's like you
Haven't said shit right there. So that is you can come back from the fucking
You know
You can come back ten times stronger and if you're motivated and looks like good shit will happen because the insurance company
Through a million hours of waiting for permitting and bullshit contractors and all of the fun
It could be to get your house rebuild. You might come back just kicking fucking ass. So that's a good attitude to have
Yeah
Yeah
Ray
Yeah, he's it's in Hawaii, but that is you know, we we tend to have a price
Lucky I was
Yeah, yeah, well there's a supportive community with supportive people like yourself and I know kind of behind the scenes you do a lot of
work
You know just kind of helping people out situations like that and working with veterans those types of things that you know
Don't always go noticed but those people that are appreciated. So thank you appreciate it
more than
Jesus if you want to be some thankful people veterans group
People leave them and kick them to the side after we've used them and fucking you don't do that
I have family, you know
From way back with my grandpa even World War two on a Navy ship for years and fucking
Serious like right now people watch the news right now and see how serious fucking wars. It's no joke wars
Yeah, my my both of my brothers my younger brothers two of them
One was a marine. So he got a gravy fucking on a Navy ship
He's a marine medic. So he's got a gravy run on the Navy ship
he got to go to you know, Osaka and go fucking diving and
Kicking around waiting for something to happen
little service, but the bad thing is when he did have service he had
Bad shit happened it
Benton he had one of the little kids that he liked to move
Blown up and die in his arms. He tried to save him. So he you know, he put it away
Yeah, and tried to hide it and cause problems later and it fucked him up
Like he put his time and did it same but that's the story time fucking 15 or 20,000 and my other brother
He was in a deep face way back in the fucking mountains in Afghan and like a plywood tree
And like a plywood shit shack that they had that was constantly being mortared. He picked up
Two purple hearts and a some other
Fucking cause he's a ranger Wow
Sergeants or something. So he was up in the front and he had to kill people
Same thing
Yeah
It's your job
Yeah
100% that's something that I see, you know again kind of echoed within the community at least here with future cannabis
project and and elsewhere too, but
I know
A lot of people I don't know a couple of times. He talks and talks shit like Nico
You know mental brought so the boy had to fuck this girl
You think thing the gear did a lot of work?
It's easy to donate a couple packs and it was easy for those people
Like me and it was easy for the people that just like I'm gonna donate because I want to help out
they got the good genetics, but the hard part was the logistics of that and they're putting it on and coordinating it and
That tells you what a good guy that
He steps up time and time again and doesn't think about it
Under the stairs
Work
Yeah, I love knowing people that their answer to something like that where people from the outside look and be like wow
That's such a great thing. That's a wonderful thing that you did their response is like well, that's just what you do
Well, you know, I'm blessed I'm blessed to know a good amount of people like that and and Jackson strikes me as one of those people
Like that's just what you do. That's just what you do
Really good community of people when people say that communities don't just different stuff. Well, that's three-quarters to
80 percent ish are
Are not gonna align with what a lot of we think they're not gonna align because they have other motives whether it's
business or
Greed or fucking competitiveness or ego. There's a lot of shit that drives it all but
a group of 20% that can don't have that eagle fucking
That's what I thought was cool about that one event in California Eagle clash
It made the fucking Eagle clash and then you know, they all get together and it's the community tight as hell
There's no Eagle clash in the Eagle class. It's funny
it's all these people supporting each other and sharing and fucking showing and
It's pretty cool because there is too much Eagle class in the fucking whole scene
Yeah, if you could look past being such a dick and fucking thinking your shits better than somebody else's
When there's money to be had that's always gonna be an issue
But I also see it too like and and this is obvious in this I don't and imagine this drives you nuts
But today everybody's a breeder
It doesn't take much to put a male to a female and put out a seed pack and when you when everybody is at
The same level and I put you and others like Jackson way above these people
But when everybody's at the same level, they have to find a way to be better
And that's where all this bullshit comes from in my opinion
Of course
There's nothing wrong everybody should breed I think
If you put some time and effort in I think it's all good
Yeah, just doing some stupid shit and not doing anybody
That's the one good thing that I would talk about a little bit
Is that what about the plants that are being circulated in a lot of the cuts that are being swapped out?
That these every average day guy can just get right now
That we're elites and that's great 15 20 years ago, but say now these these elites 80
percent and up are
Hvlp, I mean the hops latent virus. They have the viroid. They're carrying it and they're sticking they're delivered with it
So these same people that get the cut maybe asymptomatic
It only comes out during stress points and they don't know that they have this so they're not intentionally doing harm
but they do a breeding and
10% of that seed stock is infected with the viroid
So even though they're just getting into the scene and they're trying to make a name for themselves
They're on
Wittingly cutting their own throats and burning every future bridge
That could be built because of their actions right now that they're doing and through testing you could avoid it
It's 50 bucks a test you can 50 bucks a seed you can breathe right out of it males thick males
aren't gonna
Forward it it can't transfer through males and that was explained from Jackson during that land race episode
Last week with Peter and that's extremely valuable information
People should be able to help out right now and get the word out and maybe put a curb on the future
Actions of all of this seed that will
Either be gifted swap traded sold, but we'll enter the market
And if 10% is by Roy out of the 80% of the gardens that you have it proven
It's gonna become an issue
so then again your fault back on do you should only
If you put your money in the TC shit, you'll be cleaning up all these fuckers to it and nothing
But money if it's 2500 on the low low to clean up one of these by Roy plants, but for granted
There's a lot of money to be made in that
Yeah, and and did you know we mentioned do that
If you're gonna target that you could fucking be a millionaire
Yeah, it's just a little bit of work
It's like seven fucking vials and cleanups down the road progression to clean one up
It's an involved thing that takes the fucking time six months around there and a lot of work
That's good thing to talk about though, but what do you know about it it is well the tissue culture
Just that yeah people are using it to kind of preserve genetics, but they're also unit using it to clean up
Genetics and the HPL VD the hot plate and by Roy
Is the thing that's going around?
Yeah, you know the other guys definitely know a lot about it. I've seen it in a commercial
Facility kind of go from one corner to another corner
just
listen to the
last week's
I
Caught parts of it and one one of the more interesting ones is that you know again it being seed borne prior
They weren't really sure that it was seed borne, and then they said well
Maybe it's you know like less than 1% not a concern, but in that episode he
Sounded like it was a lot more 10% yeah, yeah, yeah, and that's
That's testable
$50 to test out you know a batch of seeds and then go from there you if you got some strain
That's gotta be safe. You can read
through this just through testing so and
You could continue to use a sickly fucking mail you might have the best mail of that strain you could use it and never pass
It on you just have to keep them in a quarantine isolated
Thank the reason I bring this up and kind of think about it and have been thinking more since that episode
Jackson said he's had it the whole time
They never just readily transferred to fucking anything and once he found he had it he tested multiple times
And there'd be different viral loads, and you can get the plant to be asymptomatic and even show no
Viral load yeah, and you've still got it, so there's that issue
It's depending on where you're testing it on the plant. Yeah, the issue of
You know does it transfer from leap touching leap and most people are saying right now it doesn't and
But plant juices if a plant is in the wind in there
They're rubbing then there's gonna be plant juice contact and then it would therefore spread, but runoff so sharing
bearing pots sharing trays sharing
tables a lot of mechanical transmission
When you're cutting if you're using the same scissors if you're not changing your gloves in between different plants
Transfers through it your blades and say you use alcohol a lot of people thought alcohol
And it takes very strong bleach and they say 25% I would think
Pure bleach would be better
And
Eat the way you're working with my college you just have a you would have to just have fresh blades are always good
Yes, yeah
And there was there were a few studies when people thought it was tobacco mosaic virus because for a long time
I think people thought it was that it now looks like it's HPO VD
But one of the things there
Are of interest to me is they were they were looking at chemical agents of how to clean it they had your bleach they had
Vicron s but it was a mrn a virus so there was no real coating or
Cell for the the bleach to work on but they found it was a 2% calcium or 2% milk fat
Neutralized it in like a 20-second dip more effectively than the Vicron s more effectively than
Like yeah like your scissors, but I also wonder if that's something
It's to prevent the mechanical transmission like in a facility
Yeah, I
Want lots of fucking pure bleach say another virus that'll prove it is
Carbovirus in a dog. I did dogs. Yeah walking long time. Yeah big time
I dealt with parvo. Yeah, it's a seven-year product in fucking organic surface wood dirt or anything
I don't care if you got a thousand gallons of me gonna escape and kept coming back. Tell it can actually die out
Wow, so
That's one thing about viruses that I I got handles on it and know what it's all about know what it can cost you
It can cost you a fucking lot
especially if you got a breeding program like I lost some dogs that I I
Didn't fuck around and sometimes I'd save them and it cost me a lot, but sometimes
Internal like a long COVID type of symptoms. It's almost the same you guys
Thyroid damage kidney damage liver damage all of these the thyroid will kill them. I mean, I'll get the damage
Intentional they do a lot
so
Then let me think go back to cannabis
One other thing they were what else were they talking about?
The testing I was getting around to I forgot
He was saying that he could get it to be asymptomatic or grow it so far forward on the tips
It wouldn't test it off at the bottoms
so when they do the testing the PCR test and they want you to test it at five different spots and
that's 250 per plant just to do one single test basically and
And
Pretty serious thing to think about people should think about this people to go to bed
If you fucking took implants in the last 18 months from anybody in public
Be fucking double-checking and get some PPR testing on your strip
So do you know people that are entering the market right now with sick by Roy plans and have entered?
Their seed for sale
To the public
So this is something people should
Not that they didn't want to put in the work. A lot of it's not knowledgeable. They are not knowledgeable, honestly
But they're gonna be responsible
When it does come up, so that's kind of a weird issue big issue
It will be because dark heart nursery is is kind of a place that discovered it
Fucking starting point they sold fucking those 8,000 fucking bones
by Roy plant before they
Offered testing for it
Yeah, the seed part scares me now because I haven't I've taken one clone in the last 10 years
But the seed the seed part is I took a cuttings today. I went
ran around
Younger me, but he's got a preservationist attitude and cut that long-term
day, which
Many people do he owns 20 year old cut
found
cleaned up
BX
And he's not something this is not something that's fully being gone through in rounds on a regular basis
This is library shit that really gets grown a lot. But the pets I got I bombed off of him was
An old Island sweet scone
It's super premium type of plant, but this is a fucking biomass forward plan
You can't go six inches a day. I grew it by accident the green for about 20 days one time when I first got it
And it outgrew my green at eight foot. I realized oh, I got a flower it immediately
Downbreed only I could do is breed it to something. I thought could eat it up the way pitbull. This is a good example and analogy
Pitbull genetics 400 years of pitbull terrier. It tends to you do a straight f1 to any animal
f1
breeding and outcrops
The pitbull is going to be about 75% of expression in the animal
It normally be 50% of a hybrid a quarter of the parents on a normal dog
But the pitbull tends to be about 75%
Gonna be a hybrid that looks
Your pit bullish and then you're gonna see the little say it was a chihuahua. It's gonna be a short
Little taco pitbull. It's still gonna show a correction of the people. That's what people dominate dominant
It's a fucking back. You got it
So I was thinking I know one because it's tough and straight and you can predict it
And that's what I had at the time. I had my 28 year old freezer bail
I got a bail got it going
Growing it up using it for everything for a preservation wall. It was there for that summer
It was already hitting six foot tall at one point. I have to flower ditch it
And or take cuttings, you know, we go through it another generation to keep it, but I forget that island sweet scum
so I know I'm gonna control the
Island sweet scum cuz I know one's gonna control and fuck I breed it and found the fucking
Pitbull was the fucking island sweet scum. Oh
You couldn't control it it overran the fucking
And it's a crazy thought the way the way the cannabis does work
But there's a lot of not a lot of good
Island sweet scum people about every month will contact me ask me if I'm gonna ever do anything with the island sweet scum. Okay?
And it is good. I guess there's not a great freedom. People really want that great fruits. Go people. Yeah
I did three. I've got a good amount of that stock of
four or five years old of that, um, you know sweets go
And they'll want
Okay, super viable and good. So I was thinking the only thing I could do go get them
you know the cut again and then throw them the island sweet skunk in l1 and the exit to the
Closest preservation I can but that old 20 year old
Healing round puts it into circulation
Well, I don't know if it's yearly
Huh?
You just keep housing. He's got a bunch like that
That's where my connect gooseberry blueberry came from fucking best blueberry in Alaska and like professor P
It you know dynasty relic he
He said it's the best blueberry out there best sweetest blueberry that is out there. He's in a lot of fucking blueberry
Yeah, I was gonna say like that's a judge for you
None of that shit is in this here hands down the best I agree a lot of blueberries
I don't like the five I have
His pure mother's is fucking good blueberry. You can monoprofit. You're super happy you do
One of the only things he's ever monocropped was that good, but they got it like
You know the kind of black market is commercial name
This is you know kg the normal term from the old days killer green, but okay
Yeah, normal normal term. This is just local term for this was a GP and it got to be a brand name and known
Was a good mainstay, so it's really good not nobody has it but but greedy at a K legend
myself and
Wow
But he crosses, but he makes it to his grapefruit and
Do the Exodus or I think with Exodus cheese? I forgot what cheese it was, but he has good inbred cheese
You can't beat a blueberry cheese cross or good
All the shit he makes with it. It's super good. He even did a back cross of it
but he made a super closest there is to that one blueberry, but that's
That's good
I've got a lot of other blueberry
1990 and then built up to the Salchow cut
bread that stuck together read to another Fairbanks cut from a trucker and the mind that one long haul for the North Slope and
Read the Arctic blue, which is an old-standing fucking 20s 20s plus your super
Blueberry it's super real popular up here because the guy was going into the rack market. He was big license
He was marketed
He had a thing on like Instagram and Facebook and any samples free fucking one gram samples from his farm
Whatever it was called though
At Arctic blue farms and he just had a website and he would just give it give it the fuck away like crazy
Just get money from the market building a name, you know, a lot of people were sick of it didn't really like it
That and Dean's Beans blueberry. It's another said for this little fucking old. It was 28 a couple years ago
It's a 30 year old cut of blueberry sativa that my friend snow capped gardens out on the valley
he said his place is out in that loose the valley and
he has a legal retro he has two of them and
That that blueberries a good ass
It's I'm not even gonna say that can it be free it was equal or better to either one of those guys because both of
Those guys have had each other brain and they both independently say that the other one's not as good as their
Right, it'll not get in the fucking middle
Good blueberry is to be had very fucking easily to go strange. Very good. I put some on the site
Yeah, I saw the
Daga
Garden now has a bunch of your beans up here and it looks like it was the 907 blue jeans
Aka the local aka blueberry strains
That that is the the connect use a blueberry bread to my five-way blueberry all Alaskan fucking blueberry
It's gone Colette was big in blueberry 1990. He got busted a commercial tomato greenhouse
selling them
Himpin making money being a tomato farmer in the back of it was X amount of square footage of
illegal blueberry plants being put on the black market to fund all of this, you know farm because you're not making
It's hard to farm
The thing is it's in Fairbanks 40 50 below proper winners. You're heating a greenhouse
Naming you would have that that corrugated
excellent greenhouse get back then so
He was
fighting the elements and all of the things you would have to fight just to do the
grow, but the DEA coming and busted it and
Seriously took him down. So
He took off grabbed his family and ran to Costa Rica. This is shit. You can Google right now
Don't have a lead and you look up the fucking story
It was all over our front pages of our shit
And he hid out for years and tried to fight expedition and all this shit. They got to be
They'd straight-up told him what the what the deal would end up being if he just straight came back and they fucking worked it out
He went to prison
If he was done running we couldn't just fucking run with your kids for your whole life
Oh, right. This kids end up. They're still living up there in Fairbanks right now and
one of my friends
Contact him and talk with him a bit, but John went on to
read for sure Binsky and
Okay, what did sure Binsky create? That's the most popular thing. Yeah, that's the sunset sure
Yeah, the sunset sure. I don't know if it was the Sunset Sherbert. I don't keep track of any of this shit, but
It was one of the mainstream
Was it gelato gelato gelato gelato? Okay
John Colette for fucking sure Binsky
Produced the thing that right now has boiled down to the most hype strain in the fucking world
grunts and
jealousy and all of its fucking incarnations
Is that a crazy story that he this man had that blueberry operation
Never once fucking said the word
DJ short
Had his own fucking deal going and
Had the blueberry down pat Alaska was so fucking down with blueberry to where we really had blueberry and fucking Calio
Sometimes we would like be pissed because that's all we have you go to a farm trailer park. We
That's still still good though, I mean yeah anytime you have too much of one thing, but good
cycles
Famine with the blueberry fucking man orange to people get sick
We won't even look at and somebody will invent it and they'll drag it up and this and get sick of it
No, love it. No hate it
At the point I hated orange and still not crazy
I take lemon in a second over orange and I take other fruits over fucking lemon. I could have a passion fruit or a peach
But lemon it's a good second and the lemon skunks a good a good one
I'm crazy about turps and
Target delivery system for everything and that's kind of like the main thing always only so much left in this wave of gold
rush and turps are the
farming and
extraction is the one of the last waves of
This whole thing to where you can jump up and still become somebody it makes it look at 710 labs
You know, that's a good example. They're worth a couple hundred million. They turned out a couple hundred million acquisition
they didn't they didn't want to take it and
Couple on a million the big league at that point you could probably take it no official
Terpia shit and that firstly live resin shit. They sell and there's
Till they can't anymore but that
the search through those killer turps is
That's gonna be exciting because I kept saying five years ago people need to do something different
They all jumped on the fucking one model train polyhybrid fucking cookie
Nothing different except that you get a half-hour
Intense higher than it was gone a second. We did any work or kept one fish
Yeah, I I openly on this channel
Dislike cookies just oh, it's a brand. It's a lifestyle
I didn't even know what it was. It took me about 11 or 12 years before I found out what it was
Somebody told me what it was
And then I go why the fuck would you grow an elite extreme low yield?
But and then they told me it's the flavor. It's this and that looks like I kept passing it up and seeing that
Oh, man, maybe the forum is gonna be good and maybe
I
Didn't know about the animals at all, but right finally at one point tasted the taste of it and I was like
And it probably wasn't even pure. It was a hybrid or something. So I
Didn't think much of it. But then
How can mr. Bob give me an elite?
09 in the original fucking cut that
What's
That's what started
Burner not not not the big dude in the fucking crew
Watch Disney giga. Yeah, I think he got jacked it fucking
He got I
Was told he got it taken from me
And then he blamed the crew he blamed at one point pointing fingers or somebody was that the cut that
Mr. Bob was
the stolen
Better source and it came through the church source. It's not something that gets passed around the law
You know those of it was smoke to the people that know of it and smoking to know it
I got it gifted to me Bob constantly said cookies bad, but I like this shit in the highest grade
It's it really was the taste. It's exceptional kind of cooking
So it's worth growing and he kept saying and he would preach he'd be on the canvas
Conference isn't it? The first thing you say is don't breathe cookies
I did cross
One or two crosses to that thing
I did cross a tea candle by pays and know the seat has never been put out or used or gone
No, he's ever even seen it. The other one was an O'Hawk
Dwarf O'Hawk O'Hawk and gold
and I always had the thought of reading it and
forwarding it I never have but I
got sick of holding the cut even though it's elite is the
of the elite people talk about like
People know when they smoke it they go. Oh, it's that one. That's the one that's it. Yeah. Yeah, that's it. But I
I still thought it was just cookies. I never fucking have Mac one either. All right
fucking that guy I
Was it for a long time saying I was the guy that didn't have the fucking plant with the Z word in it
Yeah, I'm a fucking friend King J Gardens in Montana
Yeah, that's to Rosa yeah, you know we test the rules of the talking about Leo
You look on they didn't go dig back and find his test arose from out
He said we call it up this thing
so I crossed it to fucking about eight or ten things and then sit kick seeds right back to J and
I became that guy that had the fucking Z and in his name because test Arosa was fucking skittles and fucking
Open Opus Magnum, which was like Royal spill 11 fucking PX
I became that guy that had the fucking Z word in his lineup
But it only through was through that one test for Rosa male not no other
You didn't see me jumping on the fucking hype train. No, that was no shit. You can go back in fact right now
look at it he didn't ever give it back to Leo with a useful greeting and
And not a snub to him or anything, but he'd done a lot of work and you know what he found it was good shit
He also found some other elite males get a mimosa mountain. Hmm. I like that one. I like Mimosa
Pop and fucking nail you ever get time look on King J's page and dig back through it and find his fucking Mimosa male or that
test arose
Very impressive males. He shared him with me
So I split the seat back with them and we came up with some very cool shit
I crossed that Mimosa meld on my skunk cabbage, and it's a really nice
Like it ever went anywhere or did anything. I released a little bit f1 or f2
And I think that I think I have it in f3 and it might not even be a lit on the list or available
It's kind of like modern looking how purple punch looking look bag wise
If that purplish cool looks to it and the bag appeal green purples and reds and shit all confetti looking nice
Got a killer fucking resin from the skunk cabbage, but the Mimosa
Punch already had the good resin, you know, the skunk cabbage is kind of loose and leafy
It's a hash plant. You can get a ton of fucking good hash
People hate it because by the time you're done trimming it to make it a bug that's nice and tight
You've lost half of your fucking volume, but that trim is the most
It's the most peeper
Doesn't go to trim that you're gonna be able to get so you get an a1
All of the second product from it it washes pretty well, yeah
Well, that's good thing about the
Cabbage, it'll throw that resin on anything with that
That Mimosa tightened it up, so it's like this commercially it's the acceptable ID look
People say I didn't get the real shit
I've heard a lot of people say the same thing
It's funny when I said earlier that I've only taken one clone in ten years
I meant from other people like I clone all the time. I actually have my
I actually have it running right now, but in the ten years purple punch
That was the one clone that I've taken in in the last
Ten years
It was it was from archive it was in Portland
It didn't put out as much
I wouldn't say you know it was like the you know knock your dick in the dirt
But at the same time me and my wife don't necessarily like
You the super upper 20 percenters all the time sometimes. We just want a daytime strain that tastes good purple punch fit the bill
But I didn't keep it. I kept it for
About a year and a half, and then I was like okay
I need room for other stuff in here, so I kind of moved on from it
Yeah, I like weed that has
Beta herpes that are almost an equal it which is super fucking hard to find so with a taste and smell
the same right right and because there's a
There's a lot of holy alpha and blandest hell on the beta, so you will get a good nose
Nothing behind it one good one would have been I even bread with it. I grabbed a cut of it
My god modern strain
Fruity ass shit, I'm spacing off the name of it
Skin yeah
It was one of the main ones to what the main name ones it just came and went on space and out because I didn't keep
It very long up
Forbidden fruit. Oh, yeah
Right
Frosty to it was forbidden fruit, man, but it didn't taste for fucking it
It's had that nose. They do the bait right on right in front of you. They'd give you a whiff of that
What the fuck who took my jar?
What they got me man, they got me again, but if that shit had the equal beta and
Alpha terpene you'd get that fucking
Good forbidden fruit taste when you're permanent and the aftertaste when you excel it. Oh my god, that'd be good
That's why I like a plant that has the proper groupings and terpene is probably the only thing left to explore
Expression is one thing
There's like you had the really cool pressings of that creep show
That's the thing that we can explore and dig into his expressions
There's there's a lot of variegated stuff Pablo Picasso and the perper the giant perper
Those are big single fingered leaf plants that look like a fucking metal plant almost but it's can
That's some cool shit to dig through and look through would be expression
or find some real good
Wide range cannabinoids that are not it. That's why you know, the 20 and 30 the upper the upper high high high shit
It's it's a model
cannabinoid things H C and if you could imagine
Keep a fairly high THC
15 to 20 percent but get a very wide cannabinoid count and dig through meat that has a wide range of cannabinoid
Gonna carry the THC. That's a lower number and make effect way higher than the 30%
It's it's a fact but it would get delivered better. You're alpha and beta
Perpians were fucking proper. It would be like the best would be the old
Bounce doctor around. I think people will probably find it if people keep doing R&D and research
It's easier with like those licenses in Oklahoma
Russ Brandon is able to do a lot of searching and getting better and better
Yeah, what good example of it? I sent him a bunch of my different shit. He gave me back with yes
It's either good or not, you know
You can do it
It is cool and he has a great approach to his you know
The SOP is his standard operating procedures the way that he grows plants the way that he feeds them and treats the soil
He's really able to dial in strains for you
He's a flat brimmer though a flat remedy. He doesn't it doesn't bend it
Yeah, I guess so
And they all could be good or bad but that's a funny shit that's the only way I can fucking you know
Tear people up now. I don't want to be an ass and say things about
any
Anybody period but you can call anybody a flat
That's funny, yeah, no you can
Take fucking
It feels comfortable. It's cold half the time that that leather cowboy had I got keep my head very warm
Yeah, I don't normally wear a cap, but if I'm in the ocean, I gotta have
We're like the same camo snap-on hat for fucking probably 15 years
I haven't lost it yet. I did have twin ones, but I lost one in a fucking bad ocean storm
To go get back, you know big gale winds blasting through with the hat right off my fucking head Wow
Yeah, it's not with that good luck I have a lot of fishing pictures hundreds of pictures with different trips
And it's the same exact outer shirt
So it looks like it's the same day
I
Got my snowboarding gear. I got my best shirt that I always wear my riding shirt. Yeah
Yeah
Big build codec fucking is the brand and it's been 25 fucking years
I've had this thing using off with it and fish with it never fell apart and never wore through
It faded like him. There's a nice camera used to be like a sage camera
It's so muted now, but I still won't give it up to this wall. Yes your ass
You could be on the middle anywhere and get wet. Well, we'll cover keep you dry or keep you warm
You'll be wet, but it'll keep you warm. Yeah, I still got my dad's old peacoat from
army, I
Like that that I'll keep me warm
Yeah, yeah here. You got a consider ship like that. It's you can get into a bad way pretty quick
I was gonna drive down to Homer tomorrow
And pick up beef I
Bought a every year I've been picking up a piece from the cultures, you know, that is
The they got a TV show on the Discovery Channel. Okay, right on all the
Alaska last frontier and they run they run a herd of beef up and free range it up in
head of the bay up in
Homer down and catch it. I'll be down in the Ketchamak Bay there. Okay, so it's like grass fed
Near wild cows and it's grass fed when they're when they're in the winter
Pens they're grass fed. So there's not many grass-fed cows up here. There's not many not much cows period, right?
Yeah, it's almost as good of an animal as a moose
Wild wild game organic as you're gonna ever get period but I've got my beef this year. He got sick
What happened? He got cold ready to butcher. They got 20 fucking below and he's he's 70 something years old
So bottom the one one of the brothers that originally start not the original but second generation of the original home fitter
So he's got this beef operation and he it's too harsh
but you shoot the shoot the beef with like a hot six and go grab his tractor and
Crank it up by one foot and let it hang for an hour and die and bleed
And then he'll come out and skin it before it starts getting cold
It'll still take eight or ten hours to fill out a whole lot
But when it's 20 below outside, you're not gonna fucking in. It's really hard to skin that beef
So he put it off the whole month of like October and November. We had the worst harshest weather very very
20 30 below normal
And he had to put all that butchering off. He had eight or ten subscribers. It was one there people every day Wow
but he finally got him killed and
And
Fucking funny he was voice texting cuz he's working. He's like, please give me an update because I'm fine
I'm finally knocking down these beef today and the thing listen to it and it says I'm finally gonna not see
The text of better voice to text never works right for me
Ever
Did you just tell me you're gonna Nazi them beef cuz that is that's hardcore is that the gas chamber or were you fucking
How are you killing these fuckers? But yeah, they made it. They made it to the
Meat house finally, but then last you had a bad bum shoulder recently, too. So
What a bunch of shit he was supposed to bring it up to me
and
I'm gonna run down there. I was gonna run down there tomorrow. He just called me and told me that almost before
First Saturday in March every year is the I did a run
Let dog race. It's a big thing since the 70s a real big thing. Yeah, I didn't do a
Celebrity the reality
I
Haven't but I don't watch TV. So don't don't be surprised, but I
second-generation like
European import and he's a fucking character with a story that's happening at all points in his fucking
existence
Because he if you watch him on the TV, there's something crazy happening with him every time right real life
Crazy like the old man's a fucking movie star though, but he's anyway, he's invited to some big
I did a rock party that's happening on the 4th. So he's bringing me my damn beef and delivering it
Thank God, so I don't have to run to home or tomorrow. That's a five. It's five hours one way
Would it be my whole entire day start early and you want to get there before the dark get there like you want to run
In the day, there's a lot of moose and it's winter time. They hang out by the road
LG rallying in the dark and a fucking loose will come out. You'll end up fucking losing everything
Fuck now, we're in the dark. There's too many black ice patches and it's crazy dangerous. Yeah
So I was look I almost had to go on though, you know, I don't like to drive down there. It's it's
Okay, good to go bullshit with fucking auto
So he saved my ass when he just told me he's bringing that thing I was yeah
It's okay me and my partner. We're gonna
You know roll a bunch of fucking joints and we're gonna get a bunch of fucking
Good ass coffee and some pharmacist and we were in a rally start. He told me he was leaving Palmer
That's up in the valley that he was gonna leave it free
We'd be here at 4 and we were trying to get like get up to the turning and pass and right before light
To get on the Kenai Peninsula. We would hit it just for like he had a good plan. It was like I was dreading it
He's gonna go
He's a driver he commutes every day for for 20 or 30 years he commutes
60 miles each way every single day
So a lot of them do 30,000 people a day do
They live in the valley the Matsu Valley and they work in Anchorage
30,000 people a day the highway gets so fucking busy in the morning and it's all wrecks and people in the ditch from the snow
And yeah vacates down to nothing and then they all go home and they do that same thing
But he don't even look twice about
Coming into town if we're butchering meat, he's missing one small thing. He'll rally in a beer
He'll do hard to do 80 to 90 straight turns
I don't know how he don't get to go to jail because he rallies he'll get one tail car behind him and
And they'll both just fucking come in. They'll be they'll be in town at 45
But yeah, he he's a driver he don't care he was he was not wanting to do it, but he was gonna fucking rally oh
I hate that road trip shit. Well, there's a lot a lot of places for things to go wrong in those conditions
Do you guys lose power a lot up there
Not as much as you would think because the wind is harsh and super heavy
But there's so many trees have been knocked down and uprooted
Okay
They manage they have
private companies
Municipality will have private companies tree support tree service companies
They come and cut every tree within about 40 50 feet at whatever height so the ship cannot hit
Powerlines we do a lot of work holes powerful could break and shit like that
Everything and it'll go out, but we don't have some winners
We will not have it period and there'll be five of them down. I'll hear about all the things in America going on
We don't have that shit. Yeah, I have a trader and it's been maybe five years ago
I kicked it on for one day and there was one point
There was one bad ice storm
Thirteen years ago all the cottonwood trees were full of wheat and I spilled up on them
So they became tens of thousands of pounds on the top and the damage probably just made a scrape fell over
Yeah
And it was all along that there was four or four to five days in one part of town
Shit
No, he no a lot of people were in a bad way, but it wasn't like
In America, it could be a hundred degrees or something in the tornado comes to it
And you lose your power and all everything you have in the freezers melted and rotted and there's no air conditioning
Could you imagine how bad that would be?
No, yeah, that's there's again with the extreme conditions whether it be cold or whether it be heat you lose power and that's a it's a
Life changer for some people we're changing the world definitely changing a lot harsh
Different weather up here. Jeff Lowenfeld says are you know who that is? Yes, sir
He's our
Anchorage's local gardener and he said he's a he's the coolest guy in the world
He's got the longest-running garden column in the world 40 fucking years. He's taught every single
Wow, wow. Yeah every single week that's that's hard to do that's that's hard to do
Solid in acreage and he's estimating that Anchorage by statistics is turning into a zone for
And it will be and it does straight through but then last winter was a zone three as far as I can get
But it's a progressing thing over
Eight about 18 years every single person that lives here watched the change. Yeah, I
We used to have pool a bedding pool for the first permanent snow day in Anchorage and I bet off over 20th
Every year and I'd nearly win. It's either the 22nd or the 20th
Box it at the body shop. I'd win a couple of bucks every year. Oh, yeah, but no way
You didn't do it didn't go away till April. We'd have 180 inches of snow and it wouldn't go away and now
The one year what happened was November
It never froze in November and the green grass and people would bow in there on
Creeped in and over 18 years. We've seen the thing come up about 15 degrees more than 15 degrees
Oh, that's how warm our winter change. That's significant. It's a huge difference
They say each end of the earth changes way faster than the middle side. So it's way worse further up in Alaska
Very prevalent changes 20-degree different changes
The sea ice pack ain't there is way way different
but yeah, I used to have 30 below serious winters if you didn't have a very good vehicle with a
oil heater and a
battery heater and
Plug those in you weren't going to start your vehicle because carbureted vehicles. They have as much
fuel injection systems for one thing and
Carbureted vehicles have to be coked just right and air oxygen ratio everything just right for them to fire off
So if your battery's real low from being frozen at 30 below
Oil is your oil is so fucking thick that you can't pour it for being at 30 below your vehicle isn't gonna start. So
We put up with that every single day and we countered for that. You had to have a good vehicle
Work
Now you could have any piece of shit and
We don't have freezing half the time. It's weird. There's it's a different world
It's 30 below is a serious winter
period like that in the 50s
The 60s and 70s
And then the 80s 90s it was pretty brutally cold you could see 33 feet snowstorms and 30 below
Yeah, it's like pampering. It'd be hard
And nobody can appreciate that who hasn't been in it because you also have the windchill on top of it
So it's like 30 below sounds cool, but you add in the windchill
Just recently in Upper, Alaska
it hit a
Hundred in a pass up here, you know, I think 191 below
That's
Instinct your skin would just it was like 40 below with a hundred mile an hour wind Wow
191 below
Yeah, you'll freeze in a fucking in a second. Yeah good flash
It's not super flash freezing quality like nitrogen, but you're not gonna live in that shit
But the hundred mile an hour wind has snow particles in it, it would just scour you
Snowboard it, you know
It's like sandblast, yeah, yeah literally
All the good stuff
Well, you talked a little bit about the super skunk too we had a question about that
but how close is that or
What is the Hawaiian cat piss like that? You have up on the the dagger that garden website?
It's a Hawaiian cat piss v3, which you said is the Hawaiian import in the nl1
What it was we just got it's weird of all the things that were up here available in the 80s
It might have been Portuguese fishermen there's a commercial fishing crates huge up here and they would go from Hawaii
fish the fucking warm water fish like tuna and
Wahoo and all of that shit over here and get the salmon
Then they would go back to South America and fish their home waters during like our winter
So I think they imported the but over here, but we regularly get but on the big island and it was in
Vacuum seals in
1985 and 86 the very first vacuum sealed crunched up down weed I think in existence
I've never seen it prior to that. Nobody ever back in the building it, you know would come dense it down really tight and
the brick or
Therefore I assumed
It was like an happy, but he's nice long
holy Christ
How you doing tonight my audio is still screwed up it's coming in it takes a second to stop glitching out and robot and on
me and shit
Good deal
Yeah now you threw me off track, but the bud was coming in
Vacuum sealed and we got a couple seeds out of it and we grew it and then I always assumed it was
It had to be like a humble that had gone to Hawaii a nice Hawaiian indica, which they're very very rare
I think the devil offered one, but this is probably one of the rarest things with a Hawaiian indica and I
Assumed it was you know the and the indica because the way it was shrunk down it just like tricked me
so I grew the seed and it was
Only female so I crossed it to anyone and
The offspring of that kept coming up with a much more sativa plant so I assumed
I don't really know I thought maybe Burmese crosses a thinly Burmese or something was over there and
Didn't really know what it was, but it came back
tasting a
lot of
Frankincense as an after smell and then a lot of ammonia, and it had that sweet tropical front
Okay, it was uh you can walk into the room, and it's it's not churchy
It's not like the fucking Franklin Heights or what they call the pit the real death
You know it's not like you walk, but it's so close to that you walk, and you know people were smoking a incensed
Ammoniated plant and some people are finding very I didn't search tons and tons
I just like grow up some
Had a couple friends grow up. We throw and smoke it find a keeper phenol that light green good super light green shit and
Pass on it. I've never collected that so much seed
I'm just gonna go make more every time we run down to the last hundred batches to see 100 seeds or whatever and
I'm looking and I'm not finding that phenol that I like and then I had a K. Rizzo Tommy
He went to it. He's been doing it. It's like mm. Kind of like little batches and
It looked harder and harder to find that phenol, but the other one that came out with the Northern Lights cross
It was kind of like a super silver haze
I'm really kind of nice, but that's all that is but I had recently found a
Really nice long couple the longer the one with very long middle fingers
It looked like the original Sotheby's that we would see come out of it. They were much more tropical
And it's a lot sweeter
But it's more like the original island thought I do believe so I've been able to select good males that have that
One single trait is that super long middle finger, and they're super pissy
They are a male can even be just great this rub in bed
They're really pissy and real strong and in flower
But that's all that shit is but I made a b3 DX with the more
Longer thinner leaves though. It's I haven't put it any much out of I've given it to a couple people
And I slip it in here and there
But that one you have is this straight
Third incarnation, it's like that free basically
Hawaiian cactus and a one
It's so it's actually good
I certainly never said it's the best in the world and then people would have to skip attitudes
Really quickly, and they say they own the terpene like some people do with blueberry. You know they'll say that they
It was only a genetic line. They own it this that and the other and don't fucking say
It's a terpene that has been around the Hawaiian people know it very well, and I have friends that had uncles and dads
Old-timers they said they remember the shit exactly like I have it right now, which was an old tropical fruity pissy
It was common, and it was known and then
They were happy to have it back again after a long time
It's actually pretty good. I know a couple people that are going pretty big patches of it
That's like run it have fun, and you're gonna bring it to the they're doing two or three
You know R&D tests and then bring it to the market for their area
Somebody that produces you know 30,000 pounds of flour a year
So it's just a lot of flour real quick in case you guys didn't catch
Me and Jean thanks for hopping in and for joining us tonight, man
That's how much time, but I had to say I had to say what's up this guy here, and I need to hear some information
I watched your show last week
With tag you and Tony and Peter that was really cool really good information
I almost DM doing what's gonna ask you like 20 questions, but I was like I don't want to bargain
Shit, I don't care
That that was really good information. I knew a lot of it, and I had my own thoughts about a lot of it
the viral
Yeah, and what you your experiences were very valuable though. I think that's a thing that's gonna be coming up
A future issue here. We were saying it earlier on here. I don't know if you thought any of it, but I think
There's a lot of that that went a little bit too far already
Yeah, some so it depends on where you're at and what and like it seems like some people's
Because we've been like seeing other people who are sending all their stuff to the same lab
And that's just like all their stuff's dirty
and that's what happened I think with like the big scare about it was everybody was like like
Dark heart was saying oh, it's it's it's 80% of everything we test
And it's like with dark hearts kind of testing all the farms that they were selling clones to
And they were the ones that were full of the shit
So it made it you know it's not that it's it's not that other people don't have it bad like that too
But I think you know it's not like it's everywhere is 80%
it's it's probably 80% of their shit, and it's 80% of some collections and
You know we saw some stuff from different collectors where it was like a lot of their library was dirty
But then they'd have ones that you would think would be dirty and now they're cool
You know so it's like things they'd have for a long time figure if someone has something for a long time
And they have a lot of dirty shit. Those are the ones the most likely to get dirty, but sometimes
It's the it's you know ones they got later, and it's just the luck of like where did they actually?
Make the the false moves of cutting this and then going straight to the next one and yeah
But yeah, it's a trippy thing and it definitely I got I dodged a bullet on it because I only have one
one plant that is funky and
It's too cool to throw away, but it's not
It's not it's not important because luckily it's not anything that I've ever I never let anything out from it
So I don't have to worry about it
I got a question
And I have suspicions about this before the old cut of MTF that I have it get to be
For about 20 years the guys that held it. They would just take
Bottom cuts, and they they were really slow and it kept getting slower, and that was the only way
They were doing it, and I told them to get it in fast growing general
You know generation forward growth take some good top cuts and do that a couple of times
And I told him they could freshen it up a little bit when I get it. I was always
taking good healthy forward growing cuts and
It started slowing down and
Even for me it would
Want to have more lateral?
Horizontal branching and the thing started almost binding and this has been in a clean collection
It's never been fucking around dirty plants, so I assumed it was
Because it's been cloned so many times the what the term generational drift
I assume this is what was happening you had your hands on the cut for a little while
So how did that act for you?
I gave it to my buddy to hold because he had stuff going and I had all my stock was at somebody else's place and
So I the reason I gave it to him was because he was he had been hunting for this thing
From Humboldt that they called the mist that was originally they they we heard it called Matanuska mist and
That one came from I can't remember
from serious seeds or something yeah, yeah, and so
He was like he was like what you got your hands on that and I was like yeah
If you'll hold it for me. You know you can hang on to it for a while. I bred it with
Sky Jaro, I still have those seeds. I got to get you some of those. It's probably cool
It chunked out crazy, and it was really sturdy and nice
It didn't have really any issues and it got into that slow weirdness that
you know by Roy plants when they're stressed a little a little bit would show it had the same it had some symptoms and
worse than a say an asymptomatic
Viroid plan
So I was always wondering and I had talked to people
They wanted it and they go they told me to send it and they could go run it through TC
And this is before any talk of the virus was
people
People talked about it people would argue
It's never been a proven case of fucking of the tobacco mosaic virus
and it's always amino acid or deficiency showing that variegation and you know a lot of talk about it either way and
I didn't think about it, but at one point
I thought maybe I would clean up the MTF and then all this virus shit came up and people started passing
I'd say 80% of easily passed around cuts are
Infected I don't know about people's clean almost long-held
Libraries are infected at any high rate like yours. I'm saying a very very low rate
You can't have a 5% or 1% whatever your shit is very low rate of infection so
It's kind of like I don't know I think about it in the future
been a lot of seeds already been released that are at that 10% of
Transmission if that's the rate
there's a lot of seeds going into the mix right now and your normal guy could just get that one in ten bad seed and
Everything is going great, but it just acts a little weird
They say and then all of a sudden all their fucking plants
Yeah, and from coming out of seed people aren't probably gonna see it cuz it's gonna be all refreshed
And it's gonna have a real viral load
but it's still gonna be dirty and still gonna carry and it seems like
It's a lot of the more popular things that carried it
I had a buddy who started doing a lot of testing was one of the first guys. I know and
They got their own little setup so they could test shit
Because when you if you don't do PCR you get a lot of false negatives and a lot of false positives
Virginia have to really test test test test test and after a while it starts to paint a picture like okay
These are really dirty ones and he said the stuff that was coming up. The dirtiest was like the more common cookie stuff, you know
Like the real popular hyped up stuff that like really controls the market. He was like, that's the ship
It's all dirty dude, and I was like, okay, so then we were like, all right
Well, we got to test the Gary and then it turned out these ones weren't that they weren't the ones that were that were dirty
but there was a
There was a certain amount of stuff
That was
Another the Gary that the Gary that that that my buddy got his hands on was clean and we were shocked because we were like
dude, it's so circulated and
Everybody had said oh it's in all the cookie stuff and and so it's not so much like the direct cookie stuff
It's just what what he had in his collection. He was saying was like a lot of that stuff
He goes dude, if it's all this different cookie strains the popular ones
They're all dirty and I didn't really get into the nitty-gritty because they they tend to be the ones I don't want
I have that old animal that you were talking about
Original cookies cut I reference cookies by going there's the there's the thin mint that there was a mr
Bob had there was the o9 animal that gene had and that's the only experience the same thing
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, as far as I know the thin mint the animal and the platinum were all different names
Testing done recently a friend of mine did you know East Coast Cush? Do you know who that is?
He has like a TC set up he just recently started all this within months
Okay, well he's doing a lot of testing starting to do cleanup meristem for people and
You know, he's doing tutorial and everything on it. You can't go learn all this from him and but
Long story short. There was cuts going around a geese. Oh, MS s and
Assist cam
Somebody give them to me I grew them and they were
Asymptomatic by road plans. They acted up really good. They acted really nice. I mean I got killer yields
The diesel was fucking super loud. I didn't have a lot of experience with diesels at all
But man, I was like a real good
If that thing was sick a good one is gonna be really good. I didn't know it should be really really good
So he takes them in gives them six or eight cuts to East Coast Cush and they're fucking does PCR testing and the byrode load
On that geese. Oh, it's been years. It's been sick. This ain't been passed around
It was super fucking high viral, but it's only the second meristem right now. It's still showing high viral count and
Others were less sick, but they were fucking sick and then I was wondering
You know
Bob tells me that if it's MSS
It's gonna stretch when it goes in the flower and told me the real things about I never grew it
I'm asking him what's MSS and I wanted to ID this plant see if it's real I grew it
it got it came out a certain way, but it was the
Virus fucking making it do what it did do and I didn't have enough experience to know I grew it in a tent
Away from everything else in my garage and had the thing filled up and just pimped out and just big bags of that fucking
smoke and
That's when the virus started. I gave it to somebody else and his shit. He's already he's a
Trading pool. He's all tech on IG. You know who all tech is
He has a man
Called mom orange this guy's 20 years. He's a he's a
You know musician 20 years. This is his 20th year anniversary tour and it's called mock orange
So you can get right on fucking YouTube and just check this fucking cat out or his band
But he has a huge garden and did lots of trading and when he when he did test a bunch of shit
it was all dirty though, so
It's a good number 80% of all traded cuts are probably dirty and well, there's a
These guys to though are using the testing that lamp testing man, it gives you so many my buddy
He had a bunch of really cool cuts like the white TK
I gave him my PK
Trying to think of some of the other ones and we
They're being tested. He's paying this money for it and it's like oh shit. They're dirty. I'm like, alright
Well, you know, I don't know
You know, I'm not gonna hold on to these things as someone else holds them. I go ahead and get rid of all mine
He kept them and then we started testing stuff in the PCR lab that does like the real shit, you know, so you go
It was on the other
lamp testing
Yeah, so the other on the lamp testing it was like it was like fucking spin the bottle dude
You might as well have been playing bingo and just fucking randomly throwing
Fucking you know boom this one that one
Oh, you can't fucking tell and then we started doing the PCR and it was like, okay
So these ones that were always hitting before are
Dirty and these ones over here that were you you test you do five tests on one plant?
And you get one of them or two of them are dirty and you're like shit
I guess part of the plants dirty part of it's not
Whatever, but then what ends up happening is you go to PCR?
And you start actually doing the more proper testing and
Where they can actually show you the graph with viral load and shit and you're like, no
These are clean clean clean clean clean
but look at those ones that used to hit on lamp five out of five every time or
Three out of five every time instead of one out of five or two out of five or whatever and all of a sudden you're
Looking at me going. Yeah, those fucking things are dirty. They look dirty. They root slow
They grow with the symptoms
Sometimes the plant that I have that's dirty is an old plant called sweat and it's like a real kind of like cat pissy
Haze type like I don't know what it is, but it's really neat
It's a super super cool plant it was around I grew it since the end of the 90s and then we lost it and you
know, maybe
six or
Something years later and then I got it back labeled as Hindu. I got two clones and
I got him back and
I
Was like this is not Hindu I can tell it's not and then I'm looking at it and it's like sitting I got it in
A little pot and sit my kitchen sink up on the edge and I'm like
But this is not a hint planets to to narrow leaf
And so I go to clean up a couple of little bond
We saw on it from there were a little yellow from the cloning process and everything and I smell my hand and I go
Holy shit
That's so familiar and I look at the I look at the little hair growing and they look like little pipe cleaners
there's those extra fuzzy hairs where they're like, they're not like the little cinder hairs and I'm like
I know this plant but I can't place it and
It was like one of the few plants that really ever wanted to get back that I'd ever lost and I smell my hand
I go fuck it's sweat. And so I bought it out and I'm like, it's sweat and then I grow it a couple times
And I'm just like I go this week should be a little bit more heavy-hitting. It still tastes great
It's still it's like the same weed. It still is really fucking open, but it shouldn't be like to poke
Instead just like really fucking good, you know
No, that's weird. It's a little bit off and so
It was one of the first ones that I tested and when I tested it lamp. It was like
Two out of five three out of five or something, but it wasn't one I remember it was more than one out of five
I went
It could be dirty. It's the one thing that's a little sad
So then took it and tested PCR and it was like no five. It was like five out of five
It was like, oh, you know, yeah, I was all dirty and I was like, all right
Well, it's a fucking dirty. But what was cool was that I had already held this plan again like four years and
I didn't know
You know, I'm used to just like regular
Sterilize everything and all this
For a second now I asked Graham since this spreads
And
Say you're taking those leaves that are infected and wouldn't J damn or
You're gonna put them into your honor or a redonner to the pot or a compost
Virus
Infected material
I mean, I would
Like I've always done like if like the times what I found like the rest of my shit in like
I have like a fucking nice fucking trash can and I would throw that shit in there and
Fucking burn it, you know, like get rid of this shit and I do the same things that I know that's infected
But if that's the case
Even if you don't know if it's infected just assume it's infected and burn your shit
But I have a compost pile that I'm not gonna pull
I'm not gonna pull compost out of it for weed
I'm composting all my weed because it's like what I have to do with it, and I'm not supposed to
He was saying it would be more like
So
You
Continue to spread
Here's the question, what about
Fucking steaks that that would be my main thing. Well, that's the thing
Bamboo steaks
People use
Recycling bamboo sticks. Yeah
So
Say like if you're gonna use if you really want to reuse your
and you want
Shit, like you should probably make like a narrow trough so that you don't have to waste too much fucking bleach
And then go ahead and and and bleach your leisure shit
Today
Some brand of
metal inside with a vinyl
And they have it in every size and they have the every size of the bamboo right there next to it
I was telling I was like question and what are you in my mind?
You think that shit spreads if you didn't sanitize it and it's gonna be hard to get the viroid out of it
We're gonna have a circus. It really is so throw away and switch to the you know
Something that you can usually sterilize would be the newer
It's not recyclable or
Bamboo is a good thing. It's a
Fastest biomass
Use it recycle it it's good
Like
Fucking
Just all the spin running my mind because it's I don't think it's
Yeah, I had a whole way of everything
You know, I had hundreds of beautiful plants, you know, whatever foot tall and five inches
Just a re remake of everything that I had and I was told to opt more things. I wanted to have them
And then I went okay. Well, basically I'm gonna give you everything that's not mine and
I basically kept only a couple things that weren't mine
I pretty much killed everything off
but I had to keep like, you know, my my base ones come out of my stuff that no one else told and then
You know, it turned out I probably didn't have to but the only way I would have ever really known for sure
But they were all
Gives you time away
So
No, I mean I believe that like in theory that you could maybe achieve that um, I
Unfortunately right at that point was
By the time I got to do my testing I had already killed that little fresh wave and
I had to fall back on the earlier wave before because I was like, well
um
What happened was I had I had got this this cool old white widow clone
That's really special and Pete. It's been circulating a little bit. I really wanted it
I got it and I was like, well, I
Tested it. It was dirty and I'm like, well, I've had this plant around and
I
Couldn't remember what I had what I had
I
Couldn't really remember like exactly. Okay. Well when I got it
What was I doing with these other plants when messing with pulling leaf?
I was just like it just be easier to get rid of all this stuff
So I got rid of all the freshest stuff and then I had to go to these older
Shittier moms that were still in sevens and take them out of the sevens and put them in 15s
So what happened was by the time I could get stuff tested by the time I could test that one
It was a root bound seven put into a 15 and it wasn't growing the way that it would have been growing if it would
Have been a fresh
Five inch that had just really caught
momentum, right so
It potentially I have no idea if you could grow past it or not. But in my case, um, I
Wasn't testing that kind of material and I'm I was kind of glad that I wasn't because it was like, okay
It could have had a really low viral load and tricked me
Maybe if they would have been super I was glad that I was kind of testing these old
plants that had been sitting there all the way from the spring and here I am in the summer and doing them and they're woody and
I could really see you know, um
Because it gave me more confidence that what was clean was clean, but I didn't get to see that difference
but I
more what I was saying about that was that uh
Was that if you're gonna test stuff you want to you want to test that lowdown shit
That's more likely to be found up just so you you're getting your best odds of discovering that you got bullshit, you know
I'm wondering if you could get
antibiotics to be
Systemic the why I think they clean up the marist them with antibiotics. Yeah. Well the interesting thing about the
Viroids is that viroids are real fucking weird. The problem with them is that they don't
They're not
In a sense the way I understand they're not really like alive the way most things we want to kill are alive
So they like they don't they don't like that isn't in dormant. Yeah, they don't make their own
They they don't make their own RNA as I understand it. So it's like they don't have
They don't make proteins most things you can go
Okay, we're gonna hit it with this and that's gonna dismantle proteins and it'll fuck it up
And so I'm not sure exactly what the mode of action is with chlorine because chlorine kills kills it
But chlorine, I don't think you could ever get enough systemically. It's to kill it, you know
and so I don't really know exactly what what they say is
People have been doing is like cold treatments
that's what they kind of discovered with hops is they do like cold treatments and
And for some reason the cold slows it down so much that you hear about low voltage
low voltage
Therapy. Yeah, it was interesting. I saw that and I never looked into it that much. But yeah, the electro therapy was kind of thing
my buddy all tech on IGE has set that up and has
Done it just experimenting to see if you can get a regular plant to be any quicker cloning and
kind of like
He keeps playing with it, but he think from the people that tell him he thinks that it can kill the byroids
I mean, I heard that rumored and I was like it's a lot of experimenting and a lot of testing and PCR testing to prove
If you could get a super fast forward
correct
Plant with minimal viral load, maybe you can fucking try it out of there
It's weird because it's he's got the formulas all set up
I thought he was being crazy a little bit nutty
But I didn't know what was behind and it had nothing to do with the virus at that time. He was trying to
get a plant to one of
you know
Sprout roots in five days instead of seven to nine. Yeah, I mean it is kind of nutty
But like when you look at how the how the byroids work
They're nutty too. Like they don't make a lot of sense
So whatever is gonna work for him might be a little bit counterintuitive where it's like, oh shit
Really that works, you know, because because when you look into it, you're like, well, what the what the fuck are these things?
They're really primitive
life forms where they're they're almost like barely alive in the sense like there's there's that I can't really find other things that
behave like them the way it reproduces itself and all that kind of stuff and
It's a it's a weird fucking thing. And I guess there's you know, there's a few of them. They're not as common
Because you know this one became a problem because it comes from hop
So I was able to jump really easy and wind up in weed because they're so similar. I guess they have their cousins
so yeah, but uh
But there's other ones and I mean they're being studied because there's they're really fucking problematic, but it's just always weird because
It was like when russet mites came out it was big scare and then I talked to my buddy and he was like
Yeah, my my my my girls
Dad my father-in-law he works out of Lake County on a vineyard and I told him I got destroyed by russets
It was like russets. What are you talking about? It's for you. And he's like, well, they fucking destroy the weed and he goes
Are you fucking serious?
Russets here since the 70s in the vineyards
that's why we spray so much sulfur is for that and for for fungal shoes and
On the vines they never go away because they go inside of the barn
They go dormant, but he was on a smooth stem plant like weed
He goes dude that sulfur will fucking wipe it right out
And then I started fucking you know started telling people like use sulfur and other people discovered it separately
I found out about sulfur and was using it on
Wild plants in my area after I found out because initially I thought it was a fungus and so I was like
Fuck I just need to do whatever to fucking kill the shit
So I was cutting it off where I saw it and burning it. I'm like, it's just weird the weeds turning brown
It seems fungal. I don't know. I was cutting it off. I was burning it and then
I got to a point where I was like, all right
well
I know that like paraffin oil and sulfur are both really good for that and then
What ended up happening was I found out?
I
Found out that they existed when he told me about him before that
He showed me pictures. He goes. Oh, these are these fucking these are these russet mites, you know
I was like what fuck I go. Look at this picture. I showed him and he goes
That's what it looks like. He's like my picture and I go fuck. Are you serious?
It's mites and I had I have eat drying and I was just about to put in a little indoor breeding room
next to my drying room and I found out that they come in and they go dormant on the weed and all the
I was like
But what I started doing
stuff outside and
Then I was reading about okay, this is a this is a this is an insect
Or, you know, this is a this is this is a fucking this is a bug like okay if it's a bug
What what people kill is there other microscopic mites and then I found out like scabies and these other things are fucking
Microscopic bites and I found out okay, they use sulfur for them. And so I was like, okay cool
And so I was like spraying outside areas and shit
And that was I think that was before my buddy said that they actually used it in the vineyards and once he told me I went
Okay, so this shit should work, but I was doing it thinking it won't work
But on what we used to spray we used to people used to spray sulfur for spider mites
I remember that back when people used to use like cinnamite and all kinds of different shit
People were using that for spider mites and people were using the paraffin and
So it was just one of those things where it was like, all right, it seemed like impossible
But then you okay people have these problems and vineyards people have these problems with scabies
There's different shit and and also enzymes I discovered at the same time people were using for I think it was for bedbugs
And so I was like, okay
You can get these enzymes and I bought this shit before anyone hated it
Nature's eradicator or some shit and it was like a cleanser and
It turned out it's like the same shit. It's like big time exterminator and all that shit
But there was anyway, there was like cross-referencing shit and going. Okay, but when you look up shit about viroids
Everybody who deals with them is like
Fuck no shit up this shit. We're just trying and we don't really know like they know that passes hop seeds
You know, they know the cold therapy can work like you were talking about the reinfection and shit of the fields
From what I saw with hops. I was reading a couple studies and they were like, yeah, we replace with clean stuff
From tissue culture or outside stock
We bring in stock and then it usually takes about three years before we get reinfected and I'm like, how the fuck are you getting?
reinfected
So it makes me wonder
That's what Graham was saying it could be up to seven years. It's just like
Just like verbal any dog breeder would know this fucking game. Yeah about what if you got a fast
Non
asymptomatic plant growing in the good fast forward growing mode in the Sun and happy as hell take a cutting and then
Use colloidal silver and get that going on it systemically
Because that's a antimicrobial in a huge way. It was like the original and only antibiotic for the world for fucking
Hundred years or a couple hundred years until everything's worth trying dude. It's just a matter of like
That's what's so weird is it's okay, we're used to bacterias and we're used to viruses and then these viroids are like these weird
You'd have a female. It'd be a nightmare though. If you started using silver on a fucking plant, you know what it does potentially
Yeah, I'll do your shits all reversed. Yeah, it's not gonna be the good cure
yeah, that's just a thought in my head, but
What if it was something as simple as fucking an antimicrobial just get it healthy and give it a dose
Because they use the antibiotics in the meristem and other other things they do a lot of shit
I don't know people really got it down enough to know a
Hundred percent they say they do
You might give them all your shit and find out they don't
Yeah, well, and there's like two there. There's there's there's like viruses that are in plants too that aren't by roids and
and the antibiotics were good to clean those up and
And
They weren't good to keep things from attacking them while they're sitting there really slow in a test tube or a petri dish
but like the the the whole the whole way that the
The byroid reproduces and shit is just really it's it's really strange and I'm not like I don't know that much about it
But I just try to like read what I can find and I'm just like fuck. It's not uh
Every time I get an idea and I look I'm like, okay. Well fuck this doesn't seem like it'll work, but they're all worth trying
It's just a matter of once you try it
The first thing would be going, okay. Well, I got this plant to look really fucking good now
Let's test it and see if it clear it could be a matter of like you said put it in the Sun grow it really
I mean it it's uh, it can grow you it
Doesn't necessarily it's not necessarily present in all parts of the plants
So, yeah, I mean you might be able to grow past it, but
You know fuck it's a it's a weird thing. All I know though is that in
general for me
Instead of worrying about it too much. What I just always figure is
self it
Grow out the seeds find one. That's a little bit better and
And make sure it tests clean and then just fucking get rid of the other one if that's all you can do it
Which is a bummer because it's a generation forward and you're gonna lose you're gonna bottleneck out a lot of shit
But you said you're gonna you're gonna have a weed you want the way you explained that the males are gonna have
Contamination you can self it and use your dirty mail and
Test the test the prodigy from yourself stop
And you're instantly out of it if you think that dirty milk from reinvesting you're fucking
Shit, which is simple. Apparently you proved it for fucking years and you didn't spread it like wildfire. No one dirty plant
Yeah, that's that's what's so trippy and I fit I assumed I was like, okay, I assume I'm probably fucked
so what I'm gonna have to do is
self everything that I have and
Then have you tested then? Yeah get a twin cut
But it didn't it didn't work like that for me, I am fairly careful
I also don't I only clone my plants probably
Maybe three times a year tops because I don't like have an operation where I'm like, okay
I need a thousand of these I need a thousand of these I'm like, okay
I basically keep like, you know five plants of each thing and then when they get when they're gonna get way too
Rootbound I'll clone them and sometimes I'll go. Ah, fuck it. I'll just transplant them instead. They're still nice
I can put them like I said, I'll move them all the way up into fifteens
So I might have a plant for a whole year
So now we're only cloned sweat four times and then I might have cloned
I might have had the luck where every time I cloned sweat I cloned it last or
I cloned it and then I cloned everything else a week later
Like I don't always just I don't have like a routine like most big farms most big farms
Are gonna be just fucking doing all this stuff all the time and there's way more chance for it to get fucked up. So
I might have been I might have got lucky like that
But what it did tell me is that if it was sitting there dirty the whole time at least it didn't travel with a threat
Or it didn't travel with a fucking
You know what the what the primer would be in those bugs I thought that maybe
Maybe it could because mosquitoes look at a mosquito. It spreads virus like fucking mad
Oh, yeah, it's dengue and malaria and all kinds of shit shit up here
We'll get some bird flu funky bullshit and then everybody gonna we have a lot of mosquitoes up here
It's the last thing you need is some Zika coming on a fucking bird from they all migrate
Get the newest fucking virus, yeah, we think about that shit. I
Always worry about weird shit that fucking the next new human
Weird thing like pig virus chicken virus because they just killed like 30,000 turkeys that had a new fucking bird virus here in America
Just recently and they're trying to get it under control and get it out of control
So I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know
Just recently and they're trying to get it under control and get it, but I mean that shit blows up it does a lot
It's a weird trip
Yeah, I don't at one point, you know
I have fresh chickens shipped in and they happen to fucking be in contact somehow with that dirty ass flock and I'll end up
Having to kill all the Alaskan chickens
That's that's how that goes
Yeah, I was no no game and I am getting brand-new chickens here real quick from Louisiana
And there's a lot of nasty shit, Louisiana, so you never know what my hitchhiked on my chickens
Yeah, careful man shit
I've gotten dogs from Texas that had I mean they went through health certificate the vets said it was okay to ship them
They'd have fucking multiple parasites on
ridiculous
There's ticks and fucking you know fleas and ticks and just but to a ridiculous state
So you never you know hitchhikers or hitchhikers whether they're invisible or fucking
Prevalent but to the eye
Yeah
I've gotten away with some crazy shit. I was in Louisiana
I mean went down to Texas to go pig hunting with my dogs and go to a dog event
We caught some pigs in the woods
Kill the sow there was a couple of little piglets my damn bulldog caught one of them and didn't kill it
So I caught it. I thought I'd bring it home. Yeah, I didn't get no blood. I didn't get the brucellosis or
What's the other main test?
Main pig disease test I forgot what the hell it was right now
But it's supposed to go to the health get a health certificate at a vet
Then they
Kipping permit for this big. I just brought it straight. It was it we were going in and out of Shreveport
I had dogs and create some shit. I had this little pig in a crate
I fucking duct tape the whole thing up really good way couldn't even see it. It could just breathe and
The guy that's putting the luggage through
Kind of like didn't even really look at my dog paperwork too much, but he's like, what's this?
I said as a puppy and now I thought he would just shuffle it straight onto the conveyor belt and that little people
And again, what is that I said, oh it's a Vietnamese pig and
That we we shuffled that pig straight through caught out of the woods, but Oh
Pseudo rabies is the other thing the brucellosis and pseudo rabies are huge in wild boar
You have to fucking control this you don't want to so I'd what do I do?
Smuggle a pig to Alaska and put it right in with my fucking domestic pigs, and I didn't have bad luck, but that's
One of the things I was lucky
Not only did I get away with just like straight up gets a pig out of the woods and fucking just smuggle it straight to
Alaska
And I ended up growing it up big three to four hundred pounds, but my friend who's a
Little friend down south here hundred miles out of a fucking 30 acre
Fenced in with elk fencing boar farm because he was working on the oil so has too much money. That's his hobby
That's what we were doing to we had a hundred wild boar me and my partner with you know
Pure European wild boar some of my was buying it like auctions and having imported 36 chromosome wild boar
Fucking domestic is 38 a feral in the woods a hybrid in there 37 chromosome
These are purebred 36 chromosome zoo stock from like San Diego Zoo the New York Zoo
Different Lima, Ohio have wild game auctions. It's so you a fucking anything you could order anything it straight up
it's funny, but we have four to five different lines of pure wild boars and
I
Grew that wild boar from Tex from Texas. I named him Tex
I left I let my buddy in down south and sterling here have that thing for one year and
Breed to all his yet about 90
But that's a big big spread 30 acres of anything up here in his agriculture is huge up here
Everybody everybody in on it down in other places has a lot up here to put 30 acres on your fence like that
it cost him almost a hundred thousand bucks and
But that's crazy
I don't know how I got off that subject by roids went to pigs caught out in the woods in fact
But I was lucky I didn't like contaminate Alaska. Yeah, man. You never know you know that's how it goes with the weed, too
That's the big problem with the whole clone
the whole clone culture everybody wants that specific plant and
Even though it can spread in the viroids can spread and seed
It's like there. They were way less likely like you look at you look at it, and you go okay, so
10% and then what's the odds that the seeds you get out of or come from that 10%?
Then you grow those 10 to 10 to 10. You're like it seems like a recipe for for it to
To be in hops and then get to weed and then people keep growing seed seed seed seed seeds and eventually the odds
Just are bad bad bad
Eventually you're just naturally probably gonna lose it. It's not gonna be around anymore, right and so
You know I mean like if it was something you were looking for in your weed seeds
And it was 10% and you bred it randomly pretty soon. You'd be like fuck
We can't even find it in there anymore. You know but um because of clones you get one dirty clone
And then people are taking the clone, and it's like it's fucking 80% 90% 100% 100% and then
People make the seeds from those and then everybody finds something and then they trade that and it's like I think the clones have kept
Boosting the statistics to keep it to where it's like okay now the shit
Circulated I think if it where everybody was growing all seeds it wouldn't have circulated and I wouldn't crop
They wouldn't have no pests either. You know that's what keg you was saying, and I agree with them
That's why he's going from seeds not only did he not like to keep a library of fucking pain
but seeds are fresh and good and strong and viral and there's
It's new life a new growth, and it's easy to just see it. You can get your handle on it watch it and
different story
Yeah
I'm pretty good thought that's that's one thing. That's all really good thought all these different things I
Got lots of crazy ideas just because
Who knows what the future is going to be on this whole thing but
Some people maybe you could just spread it around like hell and get a herd immunity
You know like fucking you're pushing with Kovac try to try to outrun the virus
Everything's got it, and then maybe one day. They'll just build this fucking soup not just be asymptomatic, but just plants will laugh at it
He I mean this plan
There's probably immune. There's probably plants that are fully immune to it, but it's always it's it's things are really problematic
When they when they have less symptoms
Because they don't ever kill the host
And it's always really hard to isolate it right
It's that's when you get really big spread and things are really able to fucking hang around because you
the quickest way to gain immunity in populations is
To have something kill everything that can't survive it right so like if you got something in it
Pursuit lives is gonna be immune at that yeah all of them
But if it doesn't kill then you don't ever get that edge of it of it
Bottlenecking it down to immunity, so you know fuck. I don't know, but what do you think when you said bottleneck?
That's another subject
What do you think of the fucking bottleneck can everything be from fucking like?
Four things all of the popular bullshit right now
It's what people do right, I mean, that's yeah, we do it we do it with fruits and vegetables and all that shit
Like bananas that doors closed it's so bottleneck. It's bad. Yeah, and they had to be bread really hard
Yeah
Yeah, it's crazy bananas, this is fucking really looking to that one set of chromosomes
Yeah, I just got the I just got that box set from from
Deepak that's that that that Durand
Collection of all those Afghanis oh yeah, and I'm like all right
You want to avoid the bottleneck all that kind of stuff is gonna be that's good. That's cool
Those there's people hunting in the old place gene pool. Yeah, I know it's already bottleneck there, too
Cuz that's what we do like we want good plants
So we get rid of the shit
We don't like and a lot of the shit
We don't like has a lot of genes that might be things that are that are helpful in there, too
but there's there's no way to stop it because
You know what do people want you make a list and then anything that checks those boxes people people go with them
And then you know nobody wants the stuff that doesn't check those boxes, and there's only a few things that do you know I?
Almost don't give a fuck. I like to make shit goes anywhere good or bad. I don't care
I'm making what I like and yeah
Yeah, I keep I keep things that have any it just has to have something that I don't want to lose
My favorite thing heavy heavy music than Pantera the great southern trend killed you are you familiar with that at all yeah?
I mean, that's the fucking thing
Fuck those trends. You know just like fucking dime said
You don't chase trends the fucking trend is dead
I could just fucking start screaming that fucking song if you go ever get on my boat or go fishing ever you'd be hearing that
Shit, we'll be making people go away from us
A lot of boats and none of not all of them want to listen to fucking the great southern trend killed by Pantera
Quote quality who speaks for itself and things tend to be cyclical too. I mean you give it enough time
I think things are gonna rotate or you back you know
For sure yep, I was earning and we relearn and we relearn from the same lesson
Yeah
It is
Speaking of lessons real quick Jackson had a question for you to about the seed coating or well the seeds and the HPLV is
It's something that is
Systemic in the embryo or is it something that's on like the outer?
Coating of the shell that maybe we could clean off or something. I don't know
I'd like to see people bleach some seeds
You know do it go ahead and treat them like you treat the blades see if you can get it off of the shell
but I personally think
That it's probably like the way, it's only in part of the plant. It's only it's only getting into
certain seeds
I
Think it's trance
I think it's I think it's growing with the seed and the seeds a certain amount of the seeds are getting it
Because they're there the seeds are made out of the tissue of the mother right
So I figure that that that barrier in the hilum is probably not good enough to stop it from
You know things naturally want to protect the the the offspring or progeny like there's barriers
But there's certain things that are just like now there it's going it's going through
But I am curious because it could be the case it could it could be protected because even though it's made out of tissue
There is that that there is that like a barrier there?
You know at the neck of the seed at the hilum where it's like it might not be
It might not be going through and it might be the case that okay, well they need to just be
they need to be
sterilized on the outside, but my suspicion is that it's going in and
For that reason everybody who's making seeds
really only needs to test the moms and
Not put out any seeds that come from a dirty mom
Go ahead and you're like the fucking problem if they would just do that you're like I want to drop the f3
It's like no if the f3 is dirty then go ahead and find new clean parents and after three and drives a fucking f4 guys
But people don't even believe it. It's like fucking a
DJ shorts kid was on Instagram arguing with me about it like oh, it's just a scare tactic
It's like russet mites, and I was like dude
You're a quack bro like if you're sitting there, and you're gonna be putting out genetics and going
He's like if it's all dirty, then I must have worked with dirty genetics and all my shits good
I'm like no your shits probably dirty dude
and you don't want to take the 20 bucks to test the fucking mom to sell seeds out of
Because of what what the fuck is the point and I'm going okay?
Well if there's one guy over here talking about it. I'm like how many
How many people if he's gonna argue like how many people are just going on fuck?
I don't know. I don't know what the fuck and that's how I felt about it initially
I was like well
What are you going to do you know?
Like if it's really everywhere then isn't it already in everything and what can we do and then as soon as I tested my shit?
I was like no the moms that I've been using they're not dirty
So if the moms I've been using are not dirty then a lot of people's moms are not dirty
So if it turns out only some of your moms are dirty find the dirty ones
Don't fucking release any seeds from those and then if you do like if I want to take sweat
And I want to release sweat seeds which I never have
Then I go ahead and go okay. I'm going to take the s1 from the sweat
That's clean
And I'm going to breed that one and then I'm going to have these crosses
And what do I have to do?
I just have to wait until I fucking hunt a new plants going to take me fucking maybe six months
You know what I mean to know like okay?
This one's really good
You really want to fucking do it like if you're breeding plants and six months seems like a long fucking time
Like you need to stop you need to get the fuck out a little
Fucking program. You know I know people that don't want to do that little bit of work. They say it's too fucking hard my god
It almost fucking flipped me out the other day when somebody said that
well, okay, when keg you said the other day he rents is the
The
Hydrogen peroxide on the hall all his seeds because some of the late-run
Flower of his will get arthritis or asparagus whatever. He said I've always believed it that paracanthum can carry a lot of
fungus and
Contamination and bad bacteria for sure and I've always suggested rubbing that fucking skin off the striped coating the paracanthum
I'd like to see that gone, and then do a fucking low tech and 3%
Hydrogen peroxide that will sanitize it. It'll germinate it
I do that off a lot, but he was right and in Jeff Lohan felts
He will always say even with cannabis no matter what it's better to leave the natural enzymes and coatings on that plant
Because that's nature, and it's helping it, but there's so many. There's too many contaminants bacteria and shit now on
On all seed maybe all vegetable seed flower seed since he's talking seed in general
but he included cannabis seed saying that you should never use hydrogen block peroxide or bleach solution or
Heavy oxidation thing like oxygen liquid oxygen type of shit that you use in food processing
Which is food grade, but it's super corrosive and kills just about everything right before you know bottling industry uses that like powdered oxygen shit
Which is such a heavy antioxidant or whatever it kills
every fucking thing
It turns it sterile, but it don't kill you like bleach
Maybe that's something you could put in that damn plan
Oxygen therapy liquid powdered oxygen if you know what I'm talking about in the bottling industry you sterilize all your bottles with this shit
Just before you cap and fill in cap
Yeah, that's the weird thing about that shit about the viroid is it's like
What I found out that that you can't kill it with with isopropyl alcohol when you do when you do mushroom lab work like
Isopropyl alcohol is like you're you're pretty good. You know you spray down shit with
We're good. Yeah, it works, but if you put if you put your scissors in that for the fucking for for hoplite and thyroid
It doesn't do any fucking thing so that's it's like fuck man
It's it's the one thing that makes it seem weird it makes me wonder what the you know how I think the thing about
Bleach is it kind of just it kind of just disintegrates every fucking thing you know it does everything gonna erupt
It just breaks the cells walls on everything
Yeah
One thing that I kind of mentioned earlier. Oh go ahead, please
well, we should probably all just invest in the Clorox and TC and
Bank on that
Yeah, stop doing anything else just fucking buy stock and fucking chlorine dude
And hold on that bleach almost became scarcity when people went on that fucking scour and fucking cleanse scare
Yeah, that tells you it's good shit. It probably did stop a lot of fucking viral spread of every single type even good or bad
It kills I
Like pure bleach, so I'm doing pots and cleaning pots
I use my fucking paint respirator from the body shop
And I use 100% bleach four or five gallons of bleach in a fucking five gallon bucket or a trough or a tray
And you just go to fucking scrub a little bit
You don't want to be in there like causing too much fucking gassing, but you do it in pure bleach
It fucking gas is off so fast. You don't even need to rinse it
You can use pure bleach let that shit sit and the next day. You'll have zero fucking chlorine. You don't have any residue
You don't have any poisons or toxins you all the sanitary
You have something you can probably eat off of and
It's clean
but it's harsh if that room don't have ventilation or
What the fuck ever that's that's a very gaseous shit. Oh, yeah
Plants can handle it though plants. Don't give a fuck about chlorine gas that it's a 100% string
That's one good way to clean up so you got a half room full of plants and you want to clean it
For fucking mold mildew bugs or whatever. That's 300% bleep everywhere
Wrong as fuck except for the existing living plants right there. Yeah, if that you did that
The microbes that were good are going. Ah, you're killing me
That's gonna kill a lot of good microbes I know that
But it kills the bad bacteria and fungus mold mildew
Sounds like it's it's the nuclear option I was gonna say earlier we were talking about different solutions and the the MRNA virus and you mentioned the protein coating
I remember when I was trying to look into TMV stuff. They were there was a study that compared different cleaning agents
Bleach Vickron s but also like 2% milk fat was something that was able to kind of actually get through that kind of
Bleach Vickron s but also like 2% milk fat was something that was able to kind of actually get through that coating
And defeat the virus on that
So, I don't know if you've heard anything about that or seen that in practice and this was more or less for
Mechanical transmission just kind of dipping scissors and that type of stuff to prevent the spread there
And that's for that's it. That's for a by that's for a virus. So viruses generally, I think you can probably
You know you for a virus, I think you could probably use alcohol
You can use like you said like going to be as mild as something like that
Because they're well, you know, they're there it's like we call it a bug right it's
Actually, like it's a little it's a little living thing. It's a microbe. Whereas a viroid is this weird fucking thing
It's like this little you know, it doesn't it doesn't live the same way
Okay, so it makes it a lot more challenging to kill it when it's not really, you know what I mean, it's like right
Whatever, you know trying to fucking kill a fucking robot. It's like well, it's not alive. So you can't just suffocate him
He's a fucking robot. It's like the viroid
It's not it doesn't have to say you can't just take things away from it or dismantle it as easily because it's not
dependent on the same
Mode of survival, so it's a trippy trippy fucking thing
You could probably send that shit to Mars and come back and it comes back
It's a it's like t1 versus the t3 t3 is kicking t1 sass every time
You know what a tardigrade is right the little water bear I've seen him yet
Yeah, those motherfuckers out in the space and come back and they don't give a shit. They're so it's amazing
They just like crawl, but they just wake up and crawl back around. So
Viruses wait till they do some kind of landing mission for real on Mars and bring back the fucking shit that killed Mars
That's total doomsday fucking
Apocalyptic shit might as well have t1 and t3 all at once. I
Think they are collecting it and sending it back already. Aren't they though?
Because we know we know what their soil composition is now. Well their lack of soil, but yeah
Yeah, we need some of that Martian virus
Well shit fellas. I got a fucking jam out, but
I'm glad you got on here and got a bunch of things. It was in my mind to run through that super helpful
Okay. Well, thanks for having me on and have a good one guys. I appreciate you dropping by me Jean
Thank you so much, man. Hey guys
I've kept you way way past your bedtime tonight
It's nothing like that because if I'm on the boat Friday night
Three months from right now
I'd be on the boat Friday night and we have just probably turned over the shrimp pots went through our nighttime anchor right now
We're probably cooking dinner
Yeah
That's a normal occurrence and a lot of time and it's also light because the it's dark to shit here right now night
It'll be summer light all the time by then and then you don't
Consider 10 o'clock ain't shit when it's fucking looks like it's 5 o'clock when it fools the body. Yeah
Fish if we had success a lot of time I might be getting pissed, but I'll be cleaning fish at midnight
Fucking dinner try to watch a movie go to sleep
At that point you're running
Yeah, but by this point we're listening to vulgar display of power by now we're moving on going through
We wrapped up with other boats
These are my friends
No, no, that's that's not bedtime music for most people
Thousand watt system and karaoke from hell every every song we had like 16,000 songs in a database
so we would I don't drink a lot, but I did I did drink a couple times and we were
Doing karaoke and 9 or 10 at night when other boats came into that small
Inlet or small cove there to anchor up for the night
But we were already into party mode being foolishly loud stupid shit. The boat showed up and anchored and went to bed
Really?
Finally
You know heavy metal period
We were just tearing it up Judas Priest and fucking
Been a lot of
Fucking Barbie song that plastic Barbie shit. Don't get it in my head. Don't get it in my head
I never heard it before. I almost died laughing
And drinking
That's late night
Foolish because then you're gonna be not wanting to get up at fucking 6 go kill fish. That's why you're there
Yeah
Drunken karaoke you can do that in a town. I do it all land
No, no for that though, I'm just saying I don't do that shit. I alcohol made me do the road
Yeah, no, no, let's be honest though
Cuz I again I'm in I'm in a fishing town and I see you know, the boats out at night
They're out at dawn and those are the brightest lights you will ever see in your life
Has have people grown with like crab boat light? Oh, they have okay. I
Think the lights are real similar
They're like
Spectrum of a high-pressure sodium a lot of them. Okay. Yeah, I wanted high ballast
super performance
HIV with a much more
Red and orange spectrum. I know what you're talking about. There's a lot of the commercial shit and yeah
I fucking miles away see this thing and as we come up with it looks like the damn son on that boat
Yeah, right as bright as day, yeah, definitely gotta be some gas hogs, whatever they
For energy use they have huge fucking 40k jams running on those things. They don't give a shit. No power running to them. I
Know there's 1500 watts and 2000 watts at those things. So just more industrial
Plasma lamps are a thousand watts or 1100 watts and they're pretty fucking bright, but not like those
No
No, no, no, and especially when they're in the harbor man if if you ever yeah when you get close to a boat like that
You're like that is the strongest light I have ever seen in my life
It'll be the spotlight and it's funny. I'm looking at the chat right now
There's a chat going on on the side on the YouTube and you have got that Barbie song and at least five people's heads
Right
Yeah, it's funny it's kind of like when you go bowling, you know
It's hard not to let out a big cheese smile after you throw the ball when you hear that song you try to hate it
but
Yeah, I'm not playing it in my car we'll put it that way though
Huh? Yeah, I keep a pretty good track. Oh, I'm gonna listen to something. It's all like
1990-2000 pretty hard. I'm not I'm not like Jackson is grooving on really good reggae and
Blues or nothing. I love some good country, but I don't go for these. I
Don't want to call it music, but you know
Right
I've had friends come up here and they're straight-up Grateful Dead people two or three days of fishing in my boat
Playing my fucking soundtrack and the guys this is for real. He says you don't even have any credence
I
Didn't even have any so it's like poor bastard. I didn't know I was killing a map
No, not everybody has that playlist of mine, it's
It's not extreme though. A lot of my friends have suggested shit that I thought was too heavy
Yeah, well with Pantera kind of that same era like Sepultura
I don't know if you listen to Sepultura or not, but they always for me those two kind of sit together
It's one of the next one
I guess I don't know where they're from but
I used to damn with that vulgar display of power came out. I
Used to I think that was 94
We used to go down the class a super nice places called deep Creek
But there'd be it's where we launch our boat out of and go fishing for halibut today
Everybody goes there still today real popular, but there's a flat up in the front row
It's like all class a motorhomes up to you know, half a million dollar each
like
4,000 fucking want system in a k5 blazer
People
They heard the vulgar display of power fucking hostile
I would I would have people that fucking heard fucking hostile and then we'd go launch the boat would be real
Respectable, you know recreational fishermen, but I didn't have the fam that that boy that certain ways of those
It was
They had a lot of fucking Rockford boss gate equipment in it
Being nice that crossovers for the major fucking big base and even though rocks not that super thumping ass
Low bass the kick drum though, man
I kick drums out perfect
I can tune it just to be just killer or I could put on that low bass line shit
Vibrate the fuck out of the whole
row of fun class A's up front
Yeah
Just to be a jerk, but then we'd launch that boat and just be straight up I
Respects nature not you
I
Don't know if there was some good shit that came up here, but I mean Metallica came a couple times
We had a lot of good shit. We were lucky before we don't get anything now. We have no
function
I cut was decent with Brad Paisley
He's country is he country guy, right? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I'll play that shit on my boat
On a good country King George
Every time for fucking multiple years
I played the best of Dwight Yoakam at the when we'd launch it takes a half hour the parking lots a half a mile away
It's a rat fuck type of situation
So I'll get the boat in the water start going down the dock and move out to my position and I would crank
at a pretty moderate level some Dwight Yoakam
Right, we'd leave the dock
Yeah
Yeah, we always say, you know, it's not country
but you know just like kind of like 80s rock or what they call classic rock now is always safe like any like
Warehouse job any type of job where they're playing music in the background. It's usually like that that 80s 90s rock stuff
That can always be the same
There you go
That's one thing about that old buddy
Yeah, yeah, yeah Dave
I
Guess this leads to kind of a random question, but it's because my answer would be Willie Nelson who?
Living would be the one person you would love to smoke cannabis with that. You have it living. Yes
Pretty pretty easy right there because the thing he's not gonna be around a lot and when I was about 12 years old
I had his fucking vinyl and it was like big in my life. Um, I even
honeysuckle rose fucking
Soundtrack for his movie. Oh, wow. I was fucking into Willie Nelson. I always respected that guy
But I you know when in 74 fucking back and black comes out my older sister by two years
They are one step up I I was country I heard back and black and deep purple and it's like I
Changed like I love the country and always have always will but the fucking Hills bells and back in black
Yeah, it was about 74
So much energy like wow that ingrained me right there. I
Never if some it would have been different if I would have heard Gary Garcia or whatever
Yeah, it would I would have been
I got in I got ingrained with that
ACDC on the black album and
III just like the purple album was solid purple. I remember that
Hmm. Yeah, I just I liked the faster tempos like that appealed to me kind of more of my lifestyle
Has always had an active lifestyle. So like that faster like metal rock type, you know tempos get your heart rate going, you know, rah
Yeah, my boss let us jam at the body shop
Late 80s on and let it he didn't give a shit because not a lot of public to come in someone turns investors
And whoever the fuck would come in but they'd have to put up with the annoying
Bullshit, so yeah to work hard and work fast and keep your mind off the fact that you're dying and poison and working
on your knees on concrete sand and
You know
Makes me laugh people laugh, you know complained about wearing a fucking n95 mask or whatever type of mask
Wear a respirator all day
Wow
Tight to make it seal. Yeah. Yeah one time. I got $1,000 fine for having a fucking mustache
There's no shit on the loud facial hair
$5,000 fine that went to $1,000 paid in fraction my boss
Wow, yeah
Never is second nature to me. I've left the body shop for getting the fucking
Guys gonna rob us
Not putting it on my face but just hanging around my neck, you know, it's just there
Zero I see it bottom mister dust or anything and it's instinct for me to cover my fucking mouth
But that's that's I did it for like over 35 years. It's like an instinct. You don't want to breathe that shit
Any body shop dust dry or mist?
aerosol
It's gonna kill you. You probably got a
Ten year lifespan if you don't use respirator, you're supposed to use fresh air fresh
Complete fresh air respirator fresh air oxygen. Oh, wow
Yeah, kill the whole earth all the damn them have much regulation they just pump it out
Your poor neighbor
solids
Heavy metals because they just pulled the lead out of pain the whole automotive industry
It was lead in the paint on all automotive paint for a long time
So there was that aspect to but there's a ton of chromium cadmium
It's heavy metal waste to shit one gallon of fucking paint weights like 14 pounds a gallon of waters 8.4
Yeah a gallon of some of our paints and stuff 13 14 fucking pounds Wow, and that's all the added is
Chromium and cadmium and shit. That's acceptable allowable heavy metals
I
Do a lot of screenings
They'll pull you and make you read do these
oxygen fucking tests and your shit flow a vacuum tests and then they'll make you do go to the doctor and get blood tests pulled
And do they want you out of the system if you do have heavy metal buildup or heavy metal poisoning?
And there's a lot of it in that
Painting a lot
Great was all have you know, at least they pulled the lead out now. It's all lead
There's no lead in our our mixing bank used to be like what?
Fuck no regulations and
Even the exhaust it's just like I said your neighbor downwind could just be getting massive amounts of lead buildup just comes out at an
Organic mist and then turns falls right to the ground
It's not good
Of course, that's a very minor
Thing there's a lot we were polluting the industry, but the automotive industry is pretty dirty
Yeah, I mean Detroit Flint look at you know a lot of those areas
They used it and left it for
Around us so contaminated around the whole thing the old deal dude that I got the
The SS SC stock from did I have and reproduce at least the Beatrix choice and the Williams wonder and the
Emporium he is right outside of Detroit
Been there forever his nickname and his name on the old lights on IG
but it's like I see that or whatever forums and shit was old Detroit and
Used to like, you know talk about the old he preserved all this
Both
Steve being a pollen and SSSC bought it all and preserved it and then was just like slowly going through it was awkward
Nobody was taking him up or thinking twice about it at all. And then I got it second to a kid
met the guy I
Just call him old Detroit and I don't want to give him a bucket at first
He said he didn't want to be bugged at household. No, yeah, right. I go. No, there's a bunch of
There's a lot of flack
Coming back about this. It ain't real because nobody believes the story of 30-year frozen, you know seeds and
That I'm gonna bring your fucking name up and have our people search out the old
Messages on the forum boards and shit just to fucking get the heat off me people saying anything it's real as fuck
You write it right from SSSC in the original
envelopes
He was smart enough to preserve it
The last one he just did was about a year ago or now
And he has it over the fucking seat of it and I've seen all the pictures and I could just instantly look all the pictures
Not many people have grown the night during and are I know?
looking for hardcore and
It's like he's a cool student in his mid 70s
He's busy as fuck with that medical running the medical program for a bunch of patients. Yeah
Don't know what the rules are over
It's a lot better than it is in Washington, but they're they're under pressure. Yeah, Michigan
You can have I think like 72 plants or something
Retire from that thing and he's gonna go through all of those fucking seeds that he's got and do the whole
search out I
Hope he is
Five more years that was a year ago. I've been go for more years, right?
But yeah, he's he is a pretty hip
Yeah
Getting getting busy like that at that level too. And you know, it is kind of one of those things
I mean, I imagine you might be the same
I have some things that I've meant to go through
But I keep putting something else in front of it and then eventually they just never get gone through I sent him about
Thousand seed of each of those three ssse screens. I said about a thousand seats back and
he came a little bit of fucking love and
I sent that same seed stock to fucking Carl
Don't stolen felts or whatever. His name is the ssse owner
Okay
Which they didn't have because they relaunched it
Yeah, all of their old seed catalogs that they didn't have to and he said it brought up here to his dad's eyes
But it seemed the old original 85 catalogs it because they had no they didn't seen it in the year
Like the like the very beginning of his business, right?
That's like the first year in business
explanation
Oh
Ogo's the same but it's it's really changed a lot. You can see that's a Dutch dude with the big old fucking
Jacket or whatever the fuck this style was and then it's completely different now. They're back, but it's all this like
explanation first year in business and then
Then they show the strains and they weren't numbered. They were just like
That's cool. This and this they didn't have the m1 m9 m39 and fucking they didn't have any of that till like
87 year when they got that shit in a real catalog in order
Because we had some people yeah asking about the m48 tonight
That's fucking serious, did we South African days that's he didn't know I
Never have talked to Carol or Carl directly. I talked to Keith a bunch of times and
I'd asked him after dad this. Oh, he isn't gonna know he doesn't remember
He doesn't you know, that was a long time ago a lot of incoming a lot out
No, I they were like bootlegging and fucking guerrilla grows and people basements. They were taking over and squatting and growing
You know, there wasn't a lot of note
So, I know you don't remember what fucking Durbin what?
What was what exactly you'll know what some of it was for sure and he's ingrained in his mind
where he said he got the
Williams wonder from fucking New York, but you know, it was made in Oregon where it was all around but I guess it made its way
to New York
It's it's a it's a market that always paid top dollar
So things things did kind of gravitate towards towards New York eventually. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Everything's gonna go to New York, right? You can make it there. You're gonna make it
Make it on Broadway. Well, I saw one that you had to
18 inches and 24 inches if you went any higher
I would cut it back and let the let it thing turn into two main grow tops
It wants to kind of grow call them their single stock with minimal side branch and you can get it to push out
You can but if you're just running it without sniffing it or flipping it 18 inches and flip
Then you'll go five to six fucking feet of ice days. It's really nice
Well, it's that
I'm not gonna say it's
I was told it's psychedelic. It's that fucking strong and I don't go around fucking
No, he was I know some of them definitely are psychedelic. I give up about half the joint
I don't try to get the psychedelic fucking point
It's really goddamn good strong weed and I've had a couple of old heads that really know the game real good
They're not in America
Banyards and fucking people in spit
They have the opinion of what was delivered at the time of of delivery
I know they're going back circle whatever and go this is right. It's all it's like it
It's pretty impressive and cool to see that it got preserved
Real cool to see a doctor really can't go wrong with it. Not a hermit piece of shit
He's type of thing some of the hazes were touching his fuck right you're gonna finicky and they want to herm and you can get
Up to herm super easy. They had sent me SSSE. They don't sell to America and then like four years ago when they came back
They sent me the first four packs that they released. I was the only one in America. They got it. That's awesome
Hey that old-school haze
It was like four of them
It was like four of them brains names not they were all different and new except for the
The keys old-school he's gonna Carol's hate with fire OG and
Old-school haze cross, which is super good. I didn't know much about fire. Oh gee, but it's super hard
It didn't punch her loud as fucking good. So
Personally, they got a good haze and frosted to that crystally crazy bitch, but it's not like their old stuff
it's way different new incarnation of
Back thing just now straight keep this feminized and stuff and nothing's the same genetics at all. It's completely different. Yeah
Ending they're trying to go for a market that they can sell to a lot of the European seed banks
I feel have lost their original parents and the trend with them does seem to be feminized as well
But again, it's a different market. I almost feel like a lot of the European seed
well
My favorite packaging in the world the cassette tape packaging, yeah, that's my favorite packaging
Heck yeah, I am looking I can see my tape collection right there. I still have Walkman's next
Of course, I still have a lot of vinyl and record players
Through all that we didn't do I put the cassettes back together and put them back in there because the sleeves are real cool
Yeah
every bit of it like
Damn smart right there them boys
It's cool, it's cool packaging and it was cool to see the kind of come back out and
Yeah relaunch
They do good because he was a major part of fucking a lot of influence in
Late 80s early 90s huge fucking influence on a lot of people the people to get those catalogs
They really I had that catalog and my house
Fucking there's like a 100 stories
People see that old cat the old either sensei or seed bank catalogs or the SSC
They're
Like reliving the fucking glory days, they're all like bootlegging we'd all put it's no joke
I think to get a
300 400 dollar order from seed bank or something four or five of us would get together and it'd be six fucking months and
It could have be a bust to the could be a letter from the DEA or the post saying that you got your shit
And then you're worried. You're on a fucking list
Yeah
It was
You could call
16 hours off of us, but you could call Bert was always one answer the phone, but you could
Fucking questions direct
Insane
Big pimpin and fucking he's still taking fucking personal fucking calls
well, hopefully people took advantage of it because they're you know at the time they probably didn't realize how
Great that actually was or maybe they did but I mean just hindsight
Holy crap to be able to kind of peel the onion on some of those strains with him
I figure would be pretty priceless man
If people always said that'd be one of the things if you could go back
Some hash pass out on sidewalk
Or even up to go through fucking communist countries and collect it and fucking
you know
Afghanistan's totally changed, but it's never been a fucking friendly place. No, right during or after the fucking
Dean
Yeah, and modern and all this, you know Soviet conflict and it wasn't a good time wasn't friendly
You know, I was 19. I
Got some 2019 Jalalabad
Speed from I have to search. I have many producers in Jalalabad
anyway, we broke common, but it is to do all the fucking takeovers conflicts and wars and the Taliban and a
Contractor brought back the
It's really cool old pure
Afghani oil can rags and skunky and as good as anything cool and pure
But super low terrible germ rates we did get some plants out of a hundred track we tried a hundred we got a few
But they're doing good. So we maybe we can move forward
Yeah, I mean, that's good patient. You're not going back to fucking Afghanistan and getting those seats right now
Nobody will for fucking it's done
Yeah
Over there fucking it Jalalabad or anywhere in the region
No and from what I understand to people, you know from the states or other areas have traveled to these regions and they'll trade like
current genetics for some old genetics and you know granted they're not gonna plant it if it doesn't work for their region, but
A lot of things have kind of been muddied in that sense
Big time. I don't know. I've had my own views on that
I sent back Paul and the only time I've ever grown Mac or something somebody gave me some really infant males
They couldn't deal with I wanted to pollinate a couple things
But I was 14 grams of pollen from two plants that were only about two fucking feet two foot each
I have pictures of those fucking plants in the of the collection and weighing it out, but I had so much pollen
I think I you know, I bred lemon tree. I
Bread my blue steel. I've read just a few things and I was going you know
I didn't really know what to do with it. So I offered it to people and it went like international
So it went to India like India land race. One of them guys went to like tricone jungle in
Australia he bred it like it's cherry spice shit went to Thailand went to fucking Canada
but I sent the five continents and seven different places around the world and
That's infiltration from hell. They all we have this but I'll never ever in my life get my hands on what you guys have there
And I want to experience like a look. Yeah
some fucking experience with
Good they need it good and bad, right? Yeah
Already happened. It's already polluted already changed infiltrated. There's no fucking pure pure anymore. No
So I didn't hurt anything or change anything. I just help those people and they grow it indoors like in Reno
So, you know like you're a zing and Indian land race. They grow my fucking shit in
India in greenhouses and use like hot chili peppers and some other
Spicing fucking weird shit in fermented juice form for their IPM. Okay
That's cool, though. Oh, man, but I think so
Like
hybrid process
I bet if they have all Landry's pure this and that and they get a hold of something they go man
We run it multiple times. They like it. They smoke it in spirit. I know Indian land race
Heard it with fucking ears in and then he's the one that messes because they have that library up in the mountains up there
You know what? I'm talking about. Uh-huh. There's a mountain way up in the height
the Kandahar
regions
Forget the name of it, you know Mass Medical did
some shit with erasing and then reproduce some brain and feminized it and sold it and then people got down on them and
Ended up all the money getting donated to that library to help its development. Okay? Okay. I'll still look into that
Oh, yeah the world just type in most fucking remote library in the world
Given a set a full set of those
Catalogs to go to that library in that country
It's
Cuz he asked me for and I sent some shit back and forth he sends me Indian spices and
Cool shit like real good spices over there
The bullshit they have they send in some garments for my wife. Who's a crafty bitch
He will make some really cool shit and his wife's picking it up for my wife, right?
He asked for the SSSC
Reproductions, I didn't he didn't say fucking catalog reproductions
So I thought he was talking about the fucking Beatrix choice m48 and Williams wonder that I had just reproduced
You're a zing gets ahold of me so Steve we're gonna put those fucking
Catalogs in the library and I go is that what the fuck he meant and I go back home, dude
I didn't know you're asking for catalog
We're fucking asking for that seed reproduction, so I said a nose and then all my anal stuff
That recent reproduction of the Beatrix was
M48 so yeah, there's m48. There's fucking South African haze in India
Good bad or ugly. They're fucking and growing it. They will be already is
I don't know what their seasons are over there. Yeah, and that it's cool in that sense
You know, it's like I was thinking earlier more about just kind of like wild kind of unmanaged outdoor crops
Where things kind of just cross pollinate and whatnot, but yeah, I think variety is the spice of life
How he could you know growing a greenhouse and oh, yeah, they got pretty up critters from hell in
India
right
Yeah, I wonder what the IPM was because you know
But he said it was all natural work. I
Don't think he said garlic with me, you know, chili peppers and all this
killer up
plant formula
You can't beat that
Yeah, a lot of the like the job Dom and the the KNF practices are boost
Well, I
See
There's there's kind of all kinds of names for them and I'm not that type of grower
So I kind of will lump some of like, you know, we're talking FPGAs. We're talking IMOs earlier
I kind of put them all into these categories
but how I understand them is is
Is they use a lot of local inputs that are available to them and they're very low cost
So in areas of the world particularly like India where you know money is not as plentiful
Yeah, you see a lot of these practices
Super fermented cow shit
It's already got that whole breakdown and the biological thing going on to it and it makes it not hot enough to just like burn
And kill but yeah, and there's nothing wrong. That's good. I think that over 90% of fucking bottle blue creams
Right a lot of it's all heavy metal
derived from back who cares all of the down and
Heavy metals. I don't fucking want that shit in my smoke. It builds up. You can leave all you want
it's in the skeleton in the body of it and
That's why a lot of that we
Yeah, that's that's why I'm moving moving the more organic living soil direction, especially lately this
The room outdoors in warm areas that you can make soil array or soil or fucking regenerate or
Man, you got an on and off switch and it's either fucking hell and you're indoors or it's beautiful and perfect and it's outdoors
But that shuts off just as you think you've got your groove going
Yeah, well, that's what the fuck up you can compost for about four months five months and then the rest of the time
it doesn't work you have to have a certain amount of temperature for any of that shit to work and break down and
It just completely stops and then it goes back to working like hell for months like mad
You guys got all these different things you can take advantage of
Location
Where we're at we still us I
Do that J damn all the time. I have a good day damn. I'll pick fucking
And that'll which we have quite a billion pounds, that's a really good one and
Even just fire. We took weed and look at a 55 gallon barrel of that really nasty stick going good put some
put some kick in it and I did the homemade the IMO kick bra and
It's pretty foul
That's what's held me back. I'll admit it's the the odors and stuff because
That way the kid kicks in well, we got horses next door and you know, I've got pigs on and on livestock. Yeah
It's kind of suity though, it's a good bath it's a little strong
Why is that why it is the what is the best stuff smell the worst I
Don't know but like I said good fresh fucking
FAA ain't a nasty pinkie thing, but
Not as fresh FAA kind of gross I
Have a fisherman so if it's gross to somebody that fucking likes fish. No, it's not very good
No, man. Well, yeah, I've got
Fish they used to it could be a piece of shit farm fish from leftovers from who knows what their source
Yeah, even if it's fresh ocean fish man
We've got the processor plant in town and dude when it's a no wind on a hot day
You do not want to be within a block of that place. It's
Worthy
Yeah
Hardcore they're working in ice-cold conditions and just gag fucking, you know, it's called the slime line
Fuckers the job detail ought to tell you
Yeah
You know again hats off to the people that could do it
That's not me
The people that do it
Migrants oh, yeah
Yeah, we have a lot of
It's all seasonal it's all seasonal. But yeah, we do we do get a lot of
Like European migrants that work it and again, they're they're happy they're
People
They work but I don't want to work 16 and 18 hours a day
They're getting that double or overtime and it's it's banking at that point kind of like compound interest used to work for us
Yeah, right, you know as you save money and it gets better and better it builds up
But I don't want to do that 16 18 I can barely fish 16 hours a day let alone fucking
wave labor
Okay, that can hardly stay away
Yeah
Harbor any of the bigger ports that whip out black
Just the salmon one out of Whittier where I go you can do pretty good
Yeah, it's it's there's like so many things in life it takes a special person and if you're that type of person you'll do well
with it
By 10 foot boat we fished out of Bristol Bay gill netting out of Bristol Bay, it's like for
For 3,000 pound holds so you could do 12,000 pounds, but they'd overload that
You'd be derby fishing to where they draw a line. Everybody's like BAM go get them
It's open and people would be cutthroat. It's super dangerous
When the most people ever died in Alaska ever with 30 fishing on the salmon birdie
They take openers with regular regulatory open
My dad tried to get me to go he would make my younger brother go
Right yeah got my price, that's not it I know
You know I was
Yeah
No
It's the last thing you want to do. I can gill net we have subsistence gill netting. I got a 600 by
It's 12 fathoms so
18 foot deep I think 18 by
600 my gill net is
Five and three-eighths mesh so I can I could still pick up a king if they come around they'll stick in it
It's their they'll end up hooking their jaws. They won't gill up
But it's big enough five and five and three-eighths catch a red
It'll pick us it'll still hit a silver, but a pink generally go through it, so I got it here exactly right where I can
Supposed to retain shit once you gill them
But we can go out
In one day I can just take my gill net to an area with hundreds of thousands of fish and in that one day
Just pull all my fish from and my friends whoever has a permit on the boat
35 per person basically and if you're like eight or ten people in your fucking household
That's a lot
That's a lot
It's more than you would want to do the work red salmon or anything you go get them 100 reds. It's a lot of processing
And yeah, but you're hooked for the fucking here
freezer full
You know cases of charge
Dude, we all just do it though. It's money
It's pretty cool. I go over there and rock my music
But not it's mostly country. There'll be a lot of folks
And then a
$2,000 boat right next to me, and we're all doing the same thing this fill in our freezers. It's out of
That a fish hatchery. They let us fish right outside the hatchery all these fish was naturally return
There's a brood brood pen net and they collect the fish brood stock, but the fish were right outside the brood pen
They don't really go in so they're
$200,000 fish just milling around right there jump and jump in one
Shit, we pull the snag to the saltwater. So everybody just tags because they're reds
No, it's not my family. Don't bite their plank to meet her
and
You snag them or net them so you can do either one and on a Saturday every Saturday close commercial fish
In the last instance the subsistence fish with their net
They closed down all commercial netting for a family to go with their personal subsistence
Oh, wow, a little boat or midsize 20 foot, right?
Get their dinghy stretch that fucking thing out
Whatever 75 feet kind of you don't need a whole lot and then all that kids are picking
Reds out of the fucking gill net and throw them in the dinghy and bring them back to the boat
Processing
It's like the foolish thing you ever seen in the next day it's full-on commercial, you know the grind that's awesome though that they stop it
for the people who
We could have a free opener with no closures or anything
But it had to be within 48 hours prior to a regulatory opener
So wasn't any it wasn't many of them then when it did open we had to follow their rules 6 a.m
Day, you know in the exact same area and you're fishing subsistence among commercial. They are
They're gonna like fucking point guns at your boat and like say get the fuck out of here
We're gonna cut your fucking neck and we're gonna shoot you and kill you because you're taking our fucking money
And
Problem so the state made it fuck you were closing commercial on Saturdays and letting some fucking good on the state man the citizenry
subsistence fish
Good good on them because that's you know, it's a big deal again
That's feeding a lot of people that makes a big big difference and hooked up salmon today at the body shop
I wasn't apt to eat that salmon because it was a Russian employee and that fucking guy don't deserve it super fresh. He would
Is dip netting it that's another way you catch them go to an area where there's a lot of salmon migrating
He's a huge dip net on a pole
Same way the Columbia River Indians get to fish that down or they have rights to still be that shit. Yeah, okay
Yep, these guys just get net and they're laying on the beach in the Sun with the 70 75 degrees for fucking four to five
Hours for the kitchen the whole limit, you know, and then it's going down real straight from there from the very second
You kill it. You should bleed it, right?
Hopefully minimum put it in the cooler out of the fucking Sun, but hopefully that cooler had icing
Yeah, and then then you fillet the fish clean off all the sand and dirt. It's a sandy beach. It's a
mouth of the Kenai River like a world-class
fishing
Oh
It's back in their heads yet
There's some little killers
You know what we did we don't stand on the beach and fucking holding that or stroke the net
I wear wetsuits get in the current past the reach and we drift down with the current
Jesus 14 fish lost three brought 11 reds out at one time
Eight to ten pounds all those were
The current with that hundred pounds of momentum and swing on that and you almost swim for your fucking life
You're not touching the ground. There's good current. It's really good going directly into the fucking
We never had
Okay
Yeah, yeah I would
100 bucks plus those fish all this embarrassment
Haven't fished one time in a kid. He was really I didn't know him or anything
fish
Hit him in the head and throw him in the cooler for me. He was like some little helpful on kid, dude
And what a little murderer
Cuz I caught a hundred hundred hundred plus fish that day. I think we we caught 260 or something
My
My partner's was
Wow
We were filling the ticket and it's in one tide turn over where I said the title run 40. It's not 40 40 feet
That's 100 miles 80 miles south, but it's still like 25 30 foot drop. So you're fishing that one drop. It's crazy
I
Current yeah, it's true
Oh, wow, my partner did land 65 we did all we could to get it
He was like double guilt, he's like he's about to go I just stopped my arm straight down his fucking throat
Which was very big
And I crammed my hand right out his deal from the mouth in right off the gill and it was like my wetsuit
Caught up on his teeth. Seriously. They were just like it's permanent
I thought it was hard to get him off
But he wasn't going to wear that and the two of us wrestled him in but we got it waited Wow
When you're swimming up to your neck and that thing
Like and there's e lions like crazy swimming right there, so you imagine you hit a sea lion
That's what you're scared of. You know, what's underneath it's silky. You don't see it. Okay
That's what I was gonna ask about I'm like a salad would sound like a sea lion's dream place just to hang out and get
fat
There's a lot of a good run in one day could be 80 and
Up to 120,000
That's amazing. That's right. They're just eating all they can possibly use
There's kind of they don't give a shit about you, but you think they might just be big
horrible animal even a cow is
They'll fuck you up if they want to
pounds of
They bite your whole fucking
Fucking around with fish playing games with them or
Then he gets a vengeance for you. And if you're sitting up on the on the rail, you want to bite up?
I'm gonna bite your ass. There's videos of people getting snatched right off the boat rail
We've got big link odds
That's an ugly fish you've got 35 inch or bigger
So if there's 28 inches of like big bowl of sea lion hang out by the boat
We'd like here you go, buddy
Throw it the fish swims down and then you watch him go down just like goes down
That thing came up two minutes later with that fucking thing. It is not shaking it and throwing it in there like a cat
We're fucking mouth. Yeah. Yeah, he showed us. He was super happy. He grabbed it again and just swam away
Oh nice
He was like right behind us
You take that deep exhaling breath and blast this fucking
But yeah, he hung out on that was like, okay buddy here
That link on the skid that was but that's every day up here if you're fishing. There's a lot of that wild
there's more whales and
Orphans, we don't have a dolphin but porpoise whales. Okay
Yeah, we we've definitely got oh, I'm sorry go ahead you're used to it because you're in that
You know that right there where you're out there. You can find all that stuff
Yeah, like I've been surfing and you know there I see him in the water and you know, I'm just like okay, you're over there
I'm over here. Get worried about will be good
You know, yeah, I had I had an experience that I think was a shark the other year
The patterns are warming and they have detected great white attacks in here and the day that I'm speaking about I was out
I was surfing I surfed by myself, which isn't the smartest thing. Don't know anybody here
I see I just see a shadow and I see a shadow in the water and it's moving and it's
It's moving and it's moving and it's moving and it's moving and it's moving and it's moving and it's moving and it's moving
And I see a shadow in the water and it's moving and it was coming for me
and it was big and probably about 10 feet from me it decided to turn and go away and
You know again, I've seen seals. I've seen sea lions out there
But something's different when you get that drop in your stomach. You're just like that was something different
I got out of the water a few minutes later
Went home told my wife about it and she works down at condos
Maybe half a mile away from where I'm surfing and
Right at the same time. I was surfing a sea lion that got bit pretty much in half had washed up
Yeah
Very close
Oh
What's that giant sunfish gold
Not the
Talapaloo talapaloo
Telep is it just actually I don't know what you're talking about. I'm thinking of one fish, but
Big bass brewers, but those things come up here and we catch them not on hook, but they're commercially data by accident
Hmm fucking green sea turtles
Don't follow the monino or whatever current that
Yeah, they'll all come up with oh whoops
Whoops yeah, I mean, it's true though. We we see it here
And I'm sure you see it there things things are changing with the oceans
Man it's fucking five fucking hours on this right now going on to five hours
Yeah, yeah, we hear us those people are gonna go listen to these
Bullshit, I got a little more of that
That's funny, but yeah, we had a pretty good chat we did we did and I certainly appreciate it
Accent made me feel good
So
He's not like
He's got a lot of knowledge for a young guy. He was born into it and fucking it was natural for him
Experience I would know if I grew as long as I did and I was in the place
Yeah, he did it for me like my big skunk just one thing I sent him old big skunk seed out of the freezer
he threw it up and then
Categorized it picked a good male increase, but then when it came back it had fucking
One noted about what this this one fucking p.m.
resistant and this one this and he would then
What male to what female was like a give me all the straight-up info on it and then told me it was a bad
P.m.
You're and everything around the one camera system blew off the PM and they wouldn't even they're laughing at the end
Do that I didn't even know what PM or ever seen it in my fucking life until recently it never came up
You put the pollution on flow Wow pushing it a lot. We'd have him in the last
six years, oh
Wow, only when our rec market started in
Of course, yeah, seriously, it probably did get imported
That's horrible. We have naturally occurring powder milling, but it's species specific and doesn't don't care, right?
Like a lot of those down email news
pieces
Pacific
They brought the shit up here along when he was talking about russet mites
We never had russet until they imported them up here either, but they don't yeah people don't share russet
It's it's in one isolated thing. You'll either ditch everything or kill the light and it's gone
But I blame Colorado for russet mites
Reoccurring like in Oregon when they put the fucking bio control for weeds in the road
bitches, right
Fucking russet might yeah
We don't have a reoccurring thing. You have to keep great bring it back yourself and make yourself have a problem with russets
But I didn't know shit about them either. So any tells me any information about anything fuck. I want to know the case
You never know people have I know how people ask me. What's this browning and curling of my dude?
You probably got russet, you know fucking microscope and or a jeweler's loop and look at you're gonna see these tiny little fucking green
Greenish looking fucking critters and lots of them and sure enough. They didn't like fuck. Yes. I had a place fucking what you called it
You don't got broad mites too
Important this shit's fucking us up. You get the two for one. Come on extra credit there being overachiever with your clones
Who spotted my dick to come up on nursery stock from like Lowe's and all this different fit? Okay here
It was near
You had to be on and have your stick together. It was resistant to all organic
forms
To all chemical forms because once they go into the commercial thing and their IPM fails that thing is a super board
They call it board might okay. I've heard that for that. That's yeah
Being black might same thing you got to get a biological on them and get them to grow that fungus out their ass and die
You know what? I'm done. Yep. Yeah bag of that shit. There's two or three brands
Hmm a lot of people, you know
They a lot of people want to go for the natural predators too. And that sounds like a parasitic wasp or parasitic
fucking a billion dollars on the worst be
Anderson
California
If they supposedly can just do this job die off something can slowly do its job reproduce
going to dormancy eat pollen front and come back and then kick some more ass and
I've tried fucking aureus insidious pirate bugs
Fucking nematodes. I will buy nematodes
You get a 250 million in a tray. You get five trays in one pack. So it's one point two five
1.5 billion buckingham codes in one package about seven packs of 1.5 billion
Fucking trips that are really yeah
That's a thousand dollars worth of fucking nematodes
Could not eliminate this so that's all good, but you might get down to a few thrift
But still
Wow
In a five-gallon bucket and do that one five-gallon water bucket and get the new water bucket with a
250 million put your whole one point two five billion fucking nematodes
And then come back at this later because it got him down to a low count that they fucking rebound. Yeah
Natural is the best
But it is I'd like to own the fucking IPM company at the bio insectly
Company that is selling that shit. It's the people that go for it. I have two or three accounts at commercial
bio fucking war
Businesses really good ones and I've used it
Like they know me a couple guys know me straight up. I'm just like
Emailing. Oh, yeah, you need another fucking couple billion of this
Couple billion if anything sounds crazy
But yeah, I mean that you know that works in multiple multiple modes of action
That really is kind of the the name of the game
It's a minute
And they are a hunter-killer that can fly they're really small
They will bite people to say if they're annoyed or get bored or whatever the fuck
But they're super tiny
The little bug with a spear for it
The proboscis and they go over to a thrift and they can just stab a thrift and they're they're hunter-killer
They're like a vision like a fucking eagle. They come flying around looking for food. They land on the ship
They see something moving or crawling or whatever
They go in and kill it and attack it put it on their little proboscis and spear and then just like if you've seen videos
Of Aureus insidious they name it that because if it's hunting killing thing, it's that's Latin for
What the fuck ever hunter-killer
Badass
Who laughs but but they were supposed to reproduce and hit what they generally do is fly off
No, I tried him in the green. I tried him inside the house like in the house plant area
They don't reproduce
And then my wife got mad because they do
Fucking kind of go over to where he was burned and bug you a little bit like I want to fly over here, right?
Fucking Aureus insidious. That's a cool. That's a cool bio
One of the bio controls like green lace wings
Lady bugs
Hunter-killer
Some of those
Conditions right for them. They'll kill eight or ten
Might today suck them dry and eat 30 eggs
Pretty probation
It's I'm learning more and more about that do a show on Tuesdays with a person Matthew Gates goes by his ethanol
But he's he is like the bug
He is one of many bug experts and he yeah, he is great
Mites to be color-coded
They change they start off one color and then they turn red the predator might so you can see if they turn red
they are breeding and eating like
kind of like a
control form
That's good. That's pretty cool. Then it's something new
Something new, right?
we'll see yeah, right the dump in big vials in the
Cornhusk and by the X amount. I'm just covered plants and
Let them do their thing and then I tried the satchels and have millions and millions of lights at different times
Well, I've had to you had needed them and had I
think at one point you're better off fighting them with the good just IPM and
People away if you can get them knocked down. I've had the resort to like a gigantic 5%
Brian
say
Seven
Millimeters per gallon every third day. What's the wedding agents and dr. Bonner or cue or yucca?
bunch of good strong alcohol, I think just
You can't brew it yourself. Just get the fucking
$13 a half gallon vodka bottle
From Costco, it's probably about the cheapest vodka or booze. You can get 80 80 proof. So you
You can use that for your IPM. It really helps a lot. What are you doing with it?
What are you doing with the alcohol? Are you putting it into your solution?
Either break through the cell wall of a
Of an egg that's attached to the leaf surface and kill the plant that way or kill the bug that way
But it evaporates so fast that it can't hurt. Okay, it's like super good carrier. Everybody does this a lot
I've never tried that you'll find about it
Well, it's interesting great strong coffee and fucking
Vodka 80 proof vodka say your buds are three weeks in the bar
You got a couple mites and you're going oh, I'm gonna kill everything right now
Write it up. Yeah parking coffee and fucking vodka on that shit directly
You're gonna get coffee residue, but you're gonna kill the bugs you can do that once a week till the end of flower
It's gonna be it's super good dripping ass resin and you start spraying it the alcohol it's not strong enough to melt
the
oils off the
Yes. Yeah, I was wondering it's almost like a solvent. It's I mean it is a solvent actually
A build-up of and PM's are that way too. It doesn't like the acidity of the coffee
But at the end you have to rinse that but that coffee alcohol thing just got build up of coffee and you actually
I don't think it's gonna kill you at all to have coffee residue on your on your flower
You could probably smoke it never have adverse effects, but you can rinse that thing
But wash it or five times get it a little bit wet first get it to soak and then do some rinsing
You'll actually have brown fucking coffee water and you rinse it off then hang it
That is just one thing
If it influences the taste I think a lot of people might be into that
I
Can't 5% really does wonders though, but it's better wear a fucking mask
Once it's atomized I use a barter sometimes or a high-powered sprayer. Yeah misting
You don't want to breathe that shit always always. Yeah, I always wear your mask
Hygienic
It's natural and it's poison it's it's organic, but it's still poison
Hey, that's really not that's the best natural
all right, the
Hygienic 5% Oh a couple couple couple places make it. I think evergreen makes it
Hygienic makes it but it's all the same thing 5% right
We could good stuff
We could good stuff and that's yeah
That was one thing that I was talking to Matthew Gates about is the pyrethrum and pyrethrin is just the the natural
chemical for the natural form from the flower and then there's the
Synthetic version of it and it's like those two are so close
Here every
Recreational camp or a homesteader
Anybody with the cabinet does anything new up you had an all fucking native village
But every single native in the world relied on you
Round up the most flower you get a small pile of it or like an instance like a loose on power
It's you've burned you'll fill your cabin or whatever will it'll kill off all the fucking no see him
the mosquitoes in the air at that and
It doesn't kill people like drop dead killing
Came off the market one of the
Craziest things in the world one of the best-selling most essential things in the world if you knew anything about you back
It was manufactured by one company
It was a mainstay thing for every fucking person in Alaska and it went off the market and disappeared, huh?
Let's write that down cuz that sounds
Worth looking into here. It's very interesting because Alaskans we you mentioned you act everybody go. Oh, yeah
As much as Vegemite would be to a fucking off
Okay, they know it inside and out
but it's just the you know, charisma flower, which is the peritherum pounds from oh, I
Don't know why or whatever and then we couldn't even find
European sources Chinese sources fucking craziest thing a world or one of the most beneficial things in the world something similar as those
Picks a mosquito picks, you know off-brand and all these other different, you know repellent brands
So the picks is what you burn at a picnic, you know, and it's a coil
It'll keep gas and I think that that has some type of chemical and probably has pressed chrysanthemum flower
It could be I don't know what the ingredients are that are
multiple brands of it some people
Have another one some people probably bootleg and stole half of all who knows but
That's one thing that was weird that
You have disappeared because mosquitoes are bad up here. It's not super pleasant to have a
cabin full of mosquitoes
No
No, I mean we we get them down here pretty bad and if you're near any wetlands, but you know
I imagine everything is bigger in Alaska. So I imagine their bite is
Oh
Yeah
You know, that is like you just watching them fill up with blood watching
Right in the forehead or something fucking some funny shit, but normally you feel they're big enough. They're very good signs
Or we do have some bugs too, but they're in a way to
Get a benefit out of all of our bugs that we have they grow naturally come back every year and
I'm sure I'm sure there's something
I'm sure there's something there, but we're not we're missing it. We're not looking yet
That's all they eat is that fucking must go fly and other things they go out on the ocean
They constantly are there at the ocean level, you know
But they grow up into the water and they land on the water
You see these tiny little salmon fry just gorging on those so it is good
There's biomass that it's all baby salmon. It comes back and he's all human. So, okay. There we go that chain
But in the meantime, they suck your blood
They're ruthless, yeah
They they do but I you know, I'm pretty peaceful
But if it's an invading like army near me then everything has to die I don't care
Everything's like normal I aim I shoot him the shock of it is like
Thunderous it just like massively bolts and shocks him and he does like a forward stride two or three strides
But it was so fast of a lurch the shock and the forward lurch
The bugs came up in the air
He ran out of the bug cloud and it just hovered there when he ran off
You know, he didn't go 50 yards
Fucking fuck. He shook loose 5,000. No Sam's gnats and mosquitoes Wow
Imagine how itchy Prince William sound oceans there or here or anything is I bet the otters get bit
I bet the sea lions get to
The bugs are bad there if they ever did a naked and afraid they
Guaranteed they would never do it
That's I
May do it in some buggy ass places. Yeah
Lot of shit those little cheetahs those sand fleas don't eat your ass
It sounds like you're throwing down the gauntlet for NBC or for the naked and afraid it's like you guys are not afraid until
You get naked here
you could go find washed up shit on the beach and
Eat some shit and find some food and some protein and probably you'd be okay with vegetation
Pickin from whatever you might be able to kill some shit, but the fact that it's a rain forest
Not get a fire started and you will not get a fire start. There's no fucking fire. We have to dry
there's no firewood and
We do have fires, but it involves big nice-ass chainsaws because the trees were
Four-five fucking foot across their huge. Oh damn
They're big real real deal old girl trees
Never been touched. Oh, it's never been long
Just like the tongue is that type of same period everything but it takes a quarter fucking boy scout juice, you know oil
They'll make a fucking fire start to fucking be real up there. Sometimes we have two or three attempts with good equipment and
Heat like hell gasoline and oil mix with pure oil for the fucking oil and
Then we'll get a fire going then it'll dry the wood enough to continue the system
There's no way that the motherfuckers come with a bow drill a spark or anything
No way
Why they've never done it out of all the places in the world
I don't want to let it be awesome if they would do it
Because you should you ain't gonna live
There like it on the fourth day. They're gonna call that fucking on the producer and go like
Yeah, you're fucking kidding right this is a jimmy to Columbia take me to the end take me to Africa
Anywhere, but this fucking island
Oh
It's bad, I mean you jump off the boat you're gonna head on the boat
So you want to go on the beach for a minute? You're gonna go take a shit. You better time
And by the time you do your business
You're gonna be have these ten bucks beat you on your ass fiercely before you get back on the boat and you're just doing the hoochie
Koochie and your ass. It's just fierce. That's how bad it is
Oh
So what you do before you go you pull your pants down on the boat and spray bend 100 across your fucking ass
That's really a strong
Okay
100% beat
That's it's for real that's something you pre plan not getting a alive
Just
Damn yeah, that is the extreme, but why the fuck would you go there, but man, it's it's heaven
Doesn't sound like it's very populated either
And you might even catch a sunrise or sunset that you remember for your whole life nice
Nice
Crazy tackle we keep going for another five hours
Well, hey, you know I get first of all, thank you very much for coming and talking tonight. This was very cool
Get to share more
More about you, but I do want to let you know to that
We were gonna we'll arrange it and you know, I'll you know contact you here, but we're we've got it like our HPL V guy
That'll be at your access you can you know, ask him any questions, you know again gene you obviously have a good communication with him
But yeah, if you want if you want to do another panel
We will happily arrange that for you
Don't do it for me do it for the fucking community. I just well, yeah
Get forward on this advancement before it gets over on
Yeah, yeah
Well, I will I'll contact you kind of on the back end there and and we can arrange something
But you know again it from my perspective
Listening to you talk with you know
Gene it was great because it is kind of for the community because we get to see two
People who know what the right questions are to ask and so we get it
We get a sit back and we get to hear those answers. So that's not that I would love to facilitate
Yeah, there's like I said, I'm jealous of a guy that can go get a photo plant put it out
Middle of June and July it starts going sex and goes in the flower that doesn't yeah, I world
No, the fact of all those experience and all those times that gene since he was like that fucking high growing
And watching planet freshman shit. I could never learn it in my life. I'm all be dead
Like
Guy I talked to today Dave Stanley guy that made that fuck away as one of these like I said, I'll send you this
He was I'm done growing it. Just get some wheat from my son
He's still splitting his own
animal
You think you'd want to grow yeah, huh
Shoot. Well shit, man
Yeah, thank you very much. I just want to let everybody know to you know
We've got some a k-beam brains gear up on the dog a garden site now
Definitely check those out and I also put it in the show notes, but a k-beam brains calm
That's your website as well and people can find you there
Yeah, no, that's a is a
No, a k-beam brings or let's see, let me go
Okay, it comes from the word from Anchorage was called anchor town and then
been that somebody put
Whatever one of these records I started up with the word dank changing
Anchorage banking at that point. I've already had the dinker town moniker
Which was just a spin on anchor town, but it's felt like old-school
D-a-n-k-o-r-t-o-w-n-e
There's fell in town old school and it's kind of loses. It's meaning people are confused by it all the time
Well, like they can't even read it. My boss is Korean for fucking the last 10 years didn't know what it was
I gave him a shirt and a hat
Dang core
Like oh, oh boy over people's heads
Or the links in my bio on IG cool
All right, well I guess with that we'll wrap it up and you're at fucking 12
Yeah
1230 yeah
That's one good thing about being the last guy in America to go to have that late-night shit
Next is like Hawaii
Yeah, well you get a bit of watering to do this evening
So I'll get to that now and take care of the take care of the ladies
Yeah, I just wait
Not bad reasons, all right. Well with that I'll talk to you later man. I appreciate it
