Well, hello everybody. How's it going? Welcome to another episode of the Dank Hour. I hope
you're here excited and ready to chill out. As you can see, I'm in the garden,
sitting next to the fire, ready for an awesome day. So let's get rolling.
So it's, you know, it's our first, it's our first one back since, you know, lockdown.
So it'll be nice to see some friends.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, MJ biz was freaking I think there was like 40,000 people there. Everybody
was just like, just really nice. It's like nice and energetic.
How we doing London? Are we simulcasting?
Yes, just like I had turned the one mic down.
I was just about to say we are up and running and the YouTube version is up. Say hello to
Future Cannabis Project, everybody. And hello to everybody here. How are we doing today?
As usual, we have the Dank Hour where we get a panel of experts together and discuss controversial
or interesting parts of the cannabis horticulture. We have an exciting one for you this evening
and a special guest, Josh Rusterford from Josh Dutch Bloom will be joining us for the
evening and we're going to pick his brain and dig right into everything going on in
his beautiful garden. But without any further ado, we'll get the ball rolling and introduce
all of the experts that we have on stage and more than likely we'll have a few late joiners
that come and join us. But we're going to go in PTR order. So we'll go Jameson. We're
going to skip you Dutch because we're going to come to you at the end because we're going
to introduce you as our special guest and then Ashley, Corey and then Dr. Anubis and
then any of our other panelists decide to come in when they can. So without any further
ado, you want to introduce yourself to everybody, Jameson, and then pass off to Ash.
Sure. My name is Jameson Welborn. I have been touching the plant since 2006. I've been involved
in the legal industry since 2016. And yeah, I'm super excited to be here and super excited
to have my friend Dutch here. So I'm going to pass it off to Ashley and hopefully we
can get this kicked off.
Hey guys, good evening. My name is Ashley Hubbard. I am the director of cultivation
at a fully aeroponic facility here in Michigan. I've got my master's in plant genetics and
have fun playing with a beautiful plant every day.
My name is Corey Russell, producing medicine since 2005, 2006, somewhere in there. We do
large scale cultivation right now with Resonate Cannabis Incorporated and we're also broadcasting
live on Resonate Radio through YouTube and Twitch. And the podcasts have come out later.
It's a pleasure to be here, everybody. Nice to see everyone again today.
Good evening, everybody. My name is Anna Schwabbe and I have a PhD in cannabis genetics looking
at variation and what sort of, I don't know, like what leads to that variation in cannabis.
And I graduated in 2019, I think. And I also have a master's degree in plant population
genetics and my undergraduate stuff was cellular and molecular biology. I actually went to
school with Ashley here on the stage and I am really excited to have Dutch on the show
tonight. I'm hoping I'm going to learn a lot.
I love it when a BHD is excited about learning. So we're all super pumped and excited to have
you on stage, Dutch. And without any further ado, you want to introduce yourself to everybody
and then tell us a little bit about the cultivar that you're smoking this evening.
Well, I'm not sure that I can teach doctors and folks who have gone to school with all
this stuff, but I'm happy to share my experience, you know, which is what it is. And I value
it and I love it and I'm stoked to share it. So I am smoking some beech wedding tonight
that I did not cultivate. My friend just came by and gave me some beech wedding he grew.
It's really delicious, actually.
Awesome, Dutch. Well, I'm excited, but Jameson is just as excited as well. And he's got a few
interesting questions to ask for you. I figure, you know, Jameson's known you for a little bit
longer and he'll be able to get some of those really fun and interesting questions. Josh, I saw
you hop in there. Do you have a moment to introduce yourself or did you want us to keep going
here, brother?
Hey, yeah, I'm just popping in while I got the chance. I'm Josh Virk. I've worked in the
industry for several years in research and development, currently just doing phenohunts and
organic systems. But yeah, thanks. I'm very excited to hear what Josh has to tell us about
everything that he's doing. Thanks.
Awesome. Jameson, why don't you take us away?
Absolutely. Dutch, I know, I think a lot of people know about, or a little bit about what
you're doing as far as cultivation and breeding. But I don't think a lot of people know your
backstory. And I know you as a guy who spent a lot of time in the mountains. And I think that,
you know, if you could tell everybody a little bit about, you know, who you are, where you came
from, and what you were doing before cannabis, I think that it's a really cool story. And it's
definitely worth sharing.
Yeah, I mean, I grew up in eastern Washington, in kind of a suburb culture, but I really in my, I
grew an affinity to growing, to climbing in the mountains and snowboarding, really, it was
snowboarding that drove me to the mountains. And that turned into rock climbing,
mountaineering, which led me to living most of my 20s in my in my truck, and climbing around the
North Cascades and working for, I ended up working for Outward Bound for a good chunk of
that and spending so much time in, in, in the woods in the mountains deep, deep in the woods
that I just really got checked by the environment. And I mean, that's what I was
doing. That's what I was about teaching about the environment and understanding my impact in the
environment and on the environment as I chose to climb and maneuver my way through it. And, and so,
you know, a few years later, when I got to cannabis, it would really, it's just driven all
that I do, you know, is my respect for for the natural world and the natural world, untouched by
humanity, you know. So, yeah, I don't know, it's, it's, it's something that's just, it's really deep within
me. And I yeah, just to repeat myself, it drives most of what I do. And that's, that's why I put on the
conference is because I want to make, I want to make an impact, you know. And so I believe that that
farming is the best way to do that farming is the biggest impact, negative impact in our world. And so
we can, it can also positively change the world through positive farming.
Before we go into more detail on your farm, let's touch on a little bit about the regenerative conference
and you know, what you put on how you long you put it on for the people that don't know. Tell us what it's
all about.
Yeah, I mean, it started as it started in is kind of a grassroots thing. It was the idea was, we started
back in 2018. The first one we did was in Portland, Oregon. Most folks don't even know that because we
haven't done it there for a while. But yeah, the idea was to get together and like, just clear up some
stuff that was going on, you know, as we the Instagram community was building, and folks were learning
about living soil. And not that certain folks didn't know about that before 2018. But it was just kind of,
there was a lot of stuff going out. And it was really exciting. And but I also kind of wanted to clear some
stuff up. And I wanted to get Dr. Elaine Ingham involved. And so it just, by happenstance, we put this
conference on. And a bunch of people came and it was really cool. And in my whole intention with it was that it
would not be a thing of sales or, you know, trying to promote products or industry, but it was just purely a thing
of education for growers and to move forward in the thing. And so I've held really strong on that. And I think
that's like, to me, that's like one of the biggest tendencies that the conference is about education. We don't do
any vendors, we don't do all the ticket sales are just paying, paying the speakers, you know, and we ask them to be
there for a couple days so they can spend time and connect with the attendees. So it's just a little bit different, you
know, conference might not be the best term for it. But that's what we call it. It's more of a gathering and a
connection, and education, you know, time.
Very cool. I know you had one up here in Canada, and it was really, really well received. And there's a lot of people
looking to have to come back. And I know, you know, you're, you're putting it back on this year. And, you know, I'm
super excited to attend. And, you know, I think that, you know, for people who really, you know, care about the plant
and come from a soil based background, it's a, you know, it's a really cool community of basically, you know, hardcore
nerds that, you know, want to get together and share information. So, I think that's so admirable. And, you know,
super stoked that you decided to do that and move forward with it. But I want to, I want to move a little bit more to
like where you're at now. Talk a little bit about where you're located, where your, your farm is, you know, how you
like to cultivate, and then I want to kind of explore a little bit into, you know, your breeding projects, your
breeding methodologies, your work with Jackson and your work with Nick, you know, so just sort of start by, I think,
start by touching on just sort of where you're located, where your farm's at, and how you're growing. I think we can go
in from there.
Yeah, so I mean, it ties into like my, my climbing history. I spent, I spent time growing cannabis in Portland. And then I
moved out to the Midwest where my wife is from, and I did vegetable farming out there for a number of years. And I
learned aquaponics and was really, really cool, just a massive time for me to learn and practice and hone skills in the
vegetable world that I would translate into cannabis. And, but I was dying to get back to the Northwest, dying to get back
to the mountains. And so I negotiated with my wife that we could move, you know, she would choose to be in the city in
Seattle, probably, and I would choose to be probably in Mazama or Winthrop area, which is quite a ways away from, from
airplanes and, and travel and etc. And so Bellingham is, is a long story. To say, Bellingham is where I live, just north of
that. And I'm, I'm actually about five minutes to the Canadian border, about five minute drive to the beach. So it's pretty
wet and cold. And we moved here for the mountains to be around the mountains. And, and truthfully, I didn't, I didn't
realize how challenging it would be to grow cannabis outdoors here. And I, and I had, at the time, you know, I was, I was
really an indoor grower, a warehouse grower. And so I wasn't messing with, with outdoors that much. But it kind of like
being here and having a recreational, so I have a recreational cannabis license, and I have about an acre grow. And I have a
greenhouse, a hoop house, plastic house, and, and the rest of it is outdoor. And it's really, you know, the weather in doing
this has really pushed me to learn and to fail a lot. And because the weather pressure is so hard, we get a ton of rain, you know,
for instance, I don't know if anybody's checked, checked the news, but my, my little, my little town here is, is totally
flooded. We had this torrential rain that just came through. I think we got like 6 inches in the last 2 or 3 days. And it's,
it's flooded most of our county. My wife's spent since, it's 5 o'clock now, since 1 o'clock trying to get home. She's safe. We
just talked before I got on the show, but she's, she's, she's through the hard part. But anyways, we just get a lot of rain
pressure. And so it's really hard to grow cannabis in the fall and flower it when it's, when it's really raining. And so it
turned into, you know, me listening to, I've been listening to Kevin Jodry and Jackson and Minjin from Mendocino and all
these different folks online through the years and, and realizing that in order for me to find cultivars that would work in my
area, these hard pressures, I was going to have to just do the hard work of opening up genetics and getting genetics and
gathering them and, and popping them and knowing that most of them would fail. But, but maybe I'd find one or two that would
work. And so that's kind of what I've been doing, you know, like, kind of like figuring my way out in this industry, figuring out
how I fit. And it turns out that I think that, you know, working through these populations in this hard, hard area to grow in
is working out really well. It, you know, I've had some failure years, for sure. But the last couple of years, I've had some
stuff that's come through that's been pretty cool. I've been excited about, excited to share.
Before we jump over and get into the next, I just want to take a, because I totally forgot that you're in the same area as me, Dutch. And
there is a wall of water that hit us. And I don't think people understand how majorly catastrophe that it is, like the entire
Fraser Valley in my area is flooded, like there's tons of people out of their home. I had totally spaced on it. How are you like,
you've got a lot of varying setups. How's everything held up? Is it all okay? I mean, you might be scrambling because that was like,
I would because I my office is a greenhouse that's outside too. So it's like it was like a fucking wall of water at one point. It was
incredible. And like for a while, I was just shocking. So I'm glad you're everything's okay. If you want to just touch on that a little
bit more.
Yeah, I mean, it's, it's been a it's been a struggle. So I've been on this property since 2016. And I've been struggling and figuring
it out and learning how to move the water through and retain it. And this thing hit and like, for sure, I've got puddles, I've got
little flooded areas. But all in all, like my property is doing just about the same that it was a week ago. So I feel like really
excited about that, you know, and, and all around me, though, there's issues. So it kind of gave me a, you know, I've kind of been
bummed out on my location, but like, because with how the storm worked out, you know, and it is so devastating. I mean, people are
literally out of their houses, you know, like, lots of them. So I feel kind of like a little bit blessed about how I've a how I've set my
spot up and how it just kind of works, you know, within its little micro environment.
They like, I'd love to hear more. I know a little bit about it. But I know, like the folks, I think you've got some really cool
stories over the last three years, as you've been dialing things in about the cultivars that that, you know, really stood out for you and
weathered that, that tough environment. And you know, some of the some of the breeding projects that you're working on right now. I think
we'd love to hear a little bit more about that.
Yeah, I mean, really, so you know, it was a blessing of the conference, right? So I put this conference on, like I was saying earlier in
Portland, and then I got we got, we had a couple of folks that came up from Humboldt, and we're like, you should come down to Humboldt
and do this. And I'd never been down there. And so we ended up going down there and doing doing a second one, and down there. And then it
turned into like, doing this, this conference that we did a kind of tour, like you said, we did one in Vancouver, we've done them in
Michigan and Maine. And, and we started doing a seed swap at the end of it on Sunday. And that turned out to be the craziest deal that I
just thought was, you know, it seemed natural. You know, I, truth be told, one of the guys that the first time we did one in Humboldt, he
came in, and I was standing up on the mic on a Sunday, and he came in with racks of clones. And I had never, you know, just like, Oh, well, of
course, he's got racks of clones to share. That's what you do at a fucking plant convention, you share plants and seeds, you know, but it was
just so kind of out of balance in my head with the whole, you know, illegality concept. We've just been so scared. They just, you know, and so
the next year, I was like, we got to do a seed swap. And, and out of that, I got a lot, I got gifted a lot of genetics from every region, and
from people who had been growing cannabis years and years longer than I had. And I just ran stuff. And, and I had a lot of failure. And it was
just because my region is so hard. And so anyways, long story. This stuff that came out of lines from Northern California, a lot of stuff for me
and gene from Mendocino, a lot of stuff with Royal cushion it. This guy came up to me, I think it was the 2019 conference, maybe 2000. Yeah, in
Garberville, and he was just kind of hanging out. And there was kind of a lull and everything was going on. So I went over to say what's up. And, and
he's like, Hey, man, I got some seeds I've been wanting to give you and and his name is Marcus urban turf factory. And he gave me a bunch of
crosses. And they were black lime reserve cross Testa Rosa, there was lime vine cross Testa Rosa, Casey 36 cross Testa Rosa, and he gave me a
bunch of variation variations on it. And anyways, I ran a bunch of stuff that year. And it was similar to this year that the pressure was so hard
where just I remember that year was colder, it was warmer this year, or you know, then it was this that that following fall, and I lost my to be
honest, I lost my entire crop outdoors, it was just all fucking rotten. And the only thing that made it through was about three or four plants out of
these crosses that he made the testa Rosa, lime by the lime by testa Rosa and the black primer reserve testa Rosa. So I made second generations of
that. And I held on to those and I went, you know, kind of through my winter season and around to the next year and, and I just, you know, I've
kind of really just held on like I got to go big, I got to stick through and push do big lots and find things that are gonna work within that. So I ran, you
know, all the seeds, I gave a bunch out to friends at the conferences, they have to use and then I just ran everything I had left. And so in the black
lime reserve testa Rosa, as I think I started 1200 seeds, and then in the licorice lime or the lime by and testa Rosa, as I call I did about 800
something. And out of there, I found some. Yeah, sorry, go ahead.
With those large populations, talk, talk us through, you know, your strategy, are you know, are you backing everything up? Are you, you know, or are you
taking cuts off interesting things in early flower? Like, how do you how do you what's your style? What's worked for you?
Yeah, so I can't, I'm pretty much a one man show with a little bit of help here and there. So I can't for the most part, when I'm doing big stuff like
that, there's no way I can back everything up. I mean, I could, but it's just it's not feasible with everything that I have going on. So I rely heavily
on re vegging, taking cuttings at the end or taking cuttings at a point where I feel like, man, I got something here that's special, I better take the
cutting of it, you know, and that'll usually be, you know, into week five, or six, or seven, or eight, or even all the way to the end. And I've kind of
I've gotten better at it, you know, I still have some failures, but I also kind of consider it like a way to like, search for stuff that's strong, you
know, if you will. So like, yeah, on those, those, like, let's say, for instance, the black lime reserve cross test. I started with 1200. I
obviously figured out the males and the females. So now I have roughly 600. And I put those all in the center row of my greenhouse. And then I ran
them. And I went through I was in, you know, in there every day, just sifting through these plants, sniffing and looking and like, I'm really only
interested in finding the plant, like, I don't care. If I mangle everything, I'm looking for flavors, and then I'm going to pull the best flavors and smoke
them. And, and some tagging stuff, making notes, and one leans a little more skittles, one leans a little more royal one leans a little has a little bit
black lime reserve in it. And, and by the time I got,
just jumping in here, that mean gene from Mendocino often is quoted saying that, you know, stump stem rubs on early veg plants that are that smell
like pickles, usually turn into like, the good OG that you're looking for in that sort of cultivar. Did you find that to ring true? And were there any
other correlations like that between like the black lines or the Royals were like, after working with them for so long? You're like, okay, I'm kind of
seeing that like these ones like to do this. And these ones like to do that.
Yeah, I mean, nothing directly like the pickles, but there's. So fast forward to present day, I've run, I've kind of run those lines pretty deep, those
specific and other versions of the lime from gene, and I have a kind of a good idea on how it lays. And I in what I saw in that for that
representation of both the lime vine and the black lime reserve laid out pretty well. I mean, there's the kind of fruitier orangey side of things. And
that gets really ramped up like the chemdoc special reserve really adds something that ramps that orange up. But then there's there's kind of like
the dank in there. And I could pretty much, you know, like often people will say, you know, you don't want to rely on stem rubs. But with with this
kind of one, what I was smelling in that stem rubs, you know, because I'll make a note in the stem rub, I'll tag the plant. And I'll say, you know,
this is the week or this is the time when I noticed that. So that that way I don't get confused. And then when I'm going back, you know, say maybe to
week eight, you know, I look down like, Oh, yeah, I caught that stem rub. And that's coming through on the flower. Cool, check, you know. And to be
honest, the one that I ended up pulling as the keeper that I called the blackwap gold, I didn't find until harvest, I hadn't selected it in any of my
notes. After all that work, I was getting through and I and so one thing I'll do is when I'm doing a big seed run, I make sure that I harvest every
single plant like I don't let anyone do with it. You know, I'll pass off the plants, you know, but I'm the one cutting the plants down, physically
touching them smelling each one so that, you know, I really just get to work it through and have that experience. And it was towards the end. And I
remember I was just like, my nose was so burnt. You know, but by that by the end, if your nose is burnt, and you're something's really sticking out,
like I kind of like think that it stands out to me. And so that that particular one, I pot I read I dug it up, repotted it took some cuttings of it
and was, you know, able to bring it back. And what was the trick? What was the trick? So yeah, I think of it like, like, I imagine it's a lot. It's a
lot like the black lime reserve that I've had from Kevin. But it's got this gas in this rank, like kind of OG thing that's in the background that
just gives it this, this little push in. And it's still really limey. Like when I first walked back past it, you know, in the garden, even now, every
morning, it's right up front. So I walked past and it's just like, bam, lime in your face, like like nothing else lime. And then but when you smoke it, it
has like a deeper muskier, you know, oily, gassy thing that's that's really attractive. And it turns purple. And it's super loud. It's very loud.
That's awesome. You are a hashmaker as well. And so I'd love to dive into a little bit on you know, what you found in your lines with as well for
mechanical separation and you know, your plans moving forward. I know you've collaborated with Kaya from Pacific Northwest Roots, and then a lot of work with
him. And I think you're you're starting to, you know, potentially look at doing some stuff on your own and love to hear more about that.
Yeah, I may. My experience with hash has been slow over the years. I got into it when when rosin was kind of a fresh thing. And I learned from a guy
here, Mr. Hotbox, who I really respect. And we got into it and and I kind of put it on the shelf for a while to be honest, because it wasn't making
sense economically in the rec market. And praise be to Kaya for coming in like a gangster that he is and pushing his his stuff and getting it
getting like the market available for solvenless oils and stuff in Washington. And so he did that. And a couple years later, him and I hooked up and he
was able to push some of my stuff into the market. And it really got me jazzed on the whole thing. And, and at the same time, he was washing all my
stuff in work. So he was going, Alright, man, this one doesn't wash. Well, this one doesn't wash. Well, and it kind of just got me, like
rejuvenated, if you will, in back into the hash scene. And so the last I would last I would say year and a half, or so two years, I've been
focusing on that. And I've been kind of stepping closer and closer and back into that realm. And so this fall, I've watched everything
myself. And it's been really fun, man, to get back into it and to just get those numbers and, and lock them down and to have that one more
variable that I can focus on and really see. It's a really easy thing to see. You know, it's not it's not up to my memory or my attitude of the day,
you know, sometimes when I'm smelling things that those things can influence. But like, when I'm looking at the numbers on paper, I'm like, Alright,
that one yields. Boom. I like that, you know.
Yeah.
So do you think that, like, other than end of term examination of the glands, are there indicators that that you look for for good washers, as you're as
you're cultivating and as you're sort of examining the lifecycle of these these different phenotypes? Are you seeing things there? Or does it really
come down to I've got to kind of see it right before? And are you a believer in sort of this gland versus, you know, or something that would
pull stringers between your two fingers versus something that's more oily? Or have you found an experience where you know, something's very oily,
but it but it washes really well? What's your what's your experience with that?
I mean, yeah, you're kind of nailing all the things like there's the tricks you can do to kind of guess, in my opinion, guess your way through. I've
seen over and over again, and had tested, you know, so I've, I've done stuff myself. But I've also had very skilled hash breakers, wash my stuff
and give me back results. And it's kind of there's been a lot of failures in terms of wishing we had bigger yields on certain things like
dog walker, for instance, you know, you look at dog walker on the plant, and it's it's like coated and smells great. And you're just like,
Yeah, here we go. And then it just yields like nothing like, you know, under under a percent and you're like, God damn it. But that under, you
know, that what comes out of it is actually delicious and amazing. It just doesn't work for the economics of our rec scene as it is. And
that's, you know, we've talked about this a little bit offline, which I think is kind of, you know, interesting discussion is that someday
we're gonna get to a point where someone's gonna say, you know what, I don't care how much that dog walker yields, like I'm willing to pay the
amount to make it worthwhile for you to wash it so I can smoke it in this forum. And, you know, and that I look forward to that day. And
that's kind of like kind of been part of my process, you know, as I've been getting back into Rosin, like, realizing that we're getting
closer to the point where I can create value and having unique cultivars or growing cultivars that maybe take longer, longer to grow, but
they provide a unique experience or flavor that and that that that people will be willing to pay that that value for the extra effort, you
know?
Absolutely, absolutely. I think, you know, the market has to mature. And, you know, we're seeing that in Canada here where, you know, we found
the bottom in, you know, in smokeable flower. And now we're just trying to see where, you know, pushing that top margin, pushing that top
margin and extracts pushing that top margin and flower and, and, you know, people, people are scared to put out high value products. But I'm,
I'm really excited for somebody who puts out a $350 ounce or $400 ounce and says, you know, this is, you know, this is ultra premium and
exclusive, and it's a long flowering plant, and it's hard to grow. And it's unbelievable. And it's a great consumer experience. Like, you know, I
know that we'll get there. And I think that, you know, each market has its sort of own life cycle or evolution that it has to go through. What, like
just talking about different markets, like, and as a guy who's traveled a lot, and seen a lot of different places, like, where are some of the
spots in, in the US that you think, you know, have really, really strong cannabis culture that, you know, maybe get overlooked? Like, you know,
you can't, you can't pick Humboldt.
Yeah, well, Michigan, I don't know if it's overlooked. I mean, there's a lot of great Michigan growers, I didn't, I wasn't aware, I'll say, when
when I first went to Michigan, a couple years back, how strong the culture is. And a lot of us that from the conference, we just didn't know. And so
we showed up and went to this, this growth store. And it was huge. It was 50,000 square feet. And, and, and all that there was 200 people
there. And they all had these beautiful melts. And so since I've gotten to know a lot of the folks, and the culture runs deep and, and same
thing in Maine, Maine, Maine is the cheddar bobs, like Maine is a sleeper state. You're right, dude, 100%. We, everyone we met there. So I
don't know, maybe, maybe that's my experience. And I've just been lucky in that I've gotten to be at these events were like, it draws
like minded heads who are experienced and really down, you know, but it's the same thing in band, you know, when we went up there, I don't
know, I feel like I'm just like, yeah, you but like, really, all my experiences have been like, so rich. And I've been like, so like, holy
fuck, man, this is this. This is really cool everywhere, you know?
Do you feel that's kind of like, do you think that's the kind of emotion that this community draws with it? Or do you think these places are just a
little bit more special? Because I, my, my personal opinion is I've always found the cannabis community very inviting and warm. And like, I
couldn't see it any other way. But I wonder if it's just like that in general, and everywhere is awesome. And we're just like humble, nice
people. Or if it's just, you know what I mean?
I mean, it might be a little bit of both, you know, like, so when I went to Maine, I got to go to Portland. So Portland itself has its own cool
vibe, like aside from cannabis, you know, so that was there's just a magical thing there. And same thing in Michigan, we were in Ann Arbor. And
it's a really beautiful town that draws a lot of like, similar minded people. So my experiences were so beautiful. And everyone I got to meet was
so cool, and so experienced. And, and I just kind of felt like I'm having, you know, having a good, equal way of, you know, where I'm getting, I'm
getting taught and I'm teaching that sort of thing, you know, experiencing and sharing.
I think, I think like, self aware people who have high levels of self awareness tend to be nicer people, generally. And I think that people who
consume a lot of cannabis have no other choice but to be faced with self awareness. And so I think that people who can sit with themselves and
consume large amounts of cannabis are a little bit, you know, more aware of, you know, who they are, and how they occupy space, and how others see
them. I think that there's a consideration in the cannabis community that that's not in other communities because of the plant that we're
around.
Yeah, I mean, I did. Definitely. People, you know, like, you know, say it alters consciousness and like, yes, yes, it creates empathy within
myself, you know, like, that's, that's one big thing it does. It creates compassion and understanding, you know, definitely alters my
consciousness.
Yeah. So the next thing I wanted to talk about Dutch is you've got a really cool project with Nick, and Nick's got a pretty amazing story
himself. But I'd love for you to kind of touch on as much as you're you want to touch on as far as like, you know, the work with Nick, how that came
about, and, you know, what you're currently working on, because I think, you know, the flavor profiles that you guys are chasing there are really
cool and unique. And, you know, I think that, that, you know, sharing that with other people will maybe inspire other breeders to go out and sort
of chase their own unique profiles, such as yourselves.
Yeah, well, we, Nick Risen, we met at the Michigan conference, Virginia conference. And he came up to me and kind of shared, shared his story,
bit by tick. And he got like a bunch of tick-borne diseases, and it really fucked his life up and kind of explained, you know, his life a little bit
to me. And we talked and we shared a couple smokes. And, and then we started talking on the phone, you know, kind of post that and became friends.
And, and, you know, I've got got to share in his journey, which has been hard. You know, he's, he's almost died a bajillion times over the last couple
years. And most everybody that's probably listening knows the story. And the community here has got, come through like, so intensely, so many
times and raised a lot of money over and over to help keep him alive. And it's, it's been the coolest thing. I mean, it's cool, cool thing for me
to just even be a part of like, running some, some online auctions or donating like a pack or two here to help make it happen. But it's really,
what's cool is that it's a, it's a total community thing. And, and so I don't know, through that, we just became friends, man. And we both smoke a lot
of weed. I got deep into cannabis when I got into an accident. And so I smoke out of pain a lot, often, and, and Nick's kind of in a lot of pain.
And so we just started connecting on the, on that and connecting on the, on the way that different profiles affect us. And, and yeah, man, and just
started, and since his background is in breeding dogs, he just kind of was like, man, I'd like to start a breeding project with you one day. And I'm
like, let's do it, man. And, and so we're just, you know, informally, formally working together. We talk every day. We send seeds back and forth.
We, he'll take my work and, and really bleed it into his, and then we'll put that out together. And ultimately, we're both just looking to make some
really good, strong flavors that, that really hold through all the way in the smoke and are really potent because we both need the therapeutic effect. And
yeah, you know, just, just pushing the limit and all that really. I mean, it sounds pretty basic and generic, but I think it's a worthwhile pursuit, to be
honest, like, and the stuff that he sent me, like, he's got a good taste, man. Like that Picot OG, I shoot you not is one of the foulest things that I've
come across. It's, it's like GMO turned up. It really is. And it's got beautiful bud structure. It's easy to trim. It fucking has great mold resistant.
Like, it is a number one home run. Cut. Yeah, I couldn't ask for anything better in that profile, really, like, you know, so it's been pretty cool, man. And then
and then I've kind of thrown like, as it's gone, you know, I've pulled a lot of fruity stuff. And so I've been sending him a lot of fruity gas. And so he's
been mixing that and you know, he put out the work, which is, you know, is a Black Lamb Reserve Testeroson with Tyler from Family Tree Seeds, his
Pam, he pulled a male from it from the Pam and put that on a female that he pulled a really citrus dominant female out of the out of the Black Wap F2
work and put that on there. And so
are you guys still doing the the whiskey turps project?
That's what I mean, that's what we you know, Jackson's kind of the Uncle Jackson almost we could call him you know, I mean, even though we're the
same age, like, he's a little bit more experienced and he's been feeding genetics to both of us. And so so the the Rupert Coca Cola, that's the goal
and that and that's what we're looking through. And that was to find some more vanilla type stuff that we could bleed in. And so it's a it's a
work in progress. You know, I saw folks talking and chat about it and a couple other folks out there got it. Nick sent me some of the seeds and I
actually just started the open pollination. I think I had maybe 10 or 12 seeds that germinated and I pulled the males and females apart so that
they'd have time with to get the hairs going and I just put them in together tonight. So I'm just gonna open pollinate those seeds and look at the
next level and probably do a big seed hunt through those. And then work that back in, you know, into Nick's work. I think he made a really cool
world, Kush cross with that. He made a cool cross with the Bikia. He made a cross with the work and he did a bunch of cool stuff.
That's awesome. What what what are you most excited about right now? Like what's on the horizon for you as far as like immediate future project stuff?
Male reversals. I've never done that. I've not heard a lot about it. I don't think you know, I don't know exactly what to expect from it. But but what I want,
I'm going to do male reversals of about 30 or 40 males that I've selected from the season. And I hope to that that what I see is a representation of what those
males will will put on as a female. I'm not sure if it necessarily will lead through but I think it'll be you know, just another bit of information. So that's kind of
the journey I'm on is is to learn and to create cultivars that I can work with and make cool stuff going forward, you know, so you know, now I have a really
cool for instance, I have the Larry Chimes, which is a it's out of Jackson's work. It's a cherry limeade crosses. Kevin Jodry has had his hands in it.
And but but I've crossed it with a bunch of stuff in it and it breeds really strong with the cherry lime flavor very, very strong. And so now I kind of I have that
unlock and I know what that's going to do. And then I could put that away as a tool that I can use later. And so that's kind of my as I'm going through, I'm just
categorizing things and I'm going through some skunk stuff right now, trying to find some more funky stuff. That's pretty exciting. I got I got some of that stuff
going. I got some F2 skunk 91 skunk stuff gifted to me that I'm looking at that's that I found some pretty interesting flavors in.
Do you have experience with the skunk? Like are you one of those guys who like I know what it is and I'm going back to get it kind of guy or are you?
No, no, I just like funky stuff. I like burnt rubber. Whenever that stuff comes across my palate, it really excites me. So, you know, if I find something that's kind of in that realm, I might just start yelling about it and may may not be exactly what folks remembered or don't remember.
I grew up with a lot of dead skunks around me and I've never smelled that that ammonia type level in in weed. But some of the subtler turps, I feel like I know dead skunk really well, the actual flavor dead skunk. Some of the subtler things that kind of come off as you're driving away or as it passes through a car and through an air conditioner system. You get those burnt rubber
kind of turps that are almost that are kind of pleasant, you know, they don't have as much of the ammonia of the rotting corpus corpse.
Have you have you done any work with the green team I-95 as far as like?
No. OK, very cool.
Um, that's yeah, I mean, I'm the we have the same taste. So, I mean, I'm just kind of just think trying to think back questions, but how is that? How is like a Bicket OG and GMO being received in your markets? Like, is it getting gobbled up or is it a is it a preferred? Is it a
you know, a preferred, not a preferred, but like an acquired taste? Like in Canada, our growers aren't growing at a quality yet where, you know, they can grow GMO, but like none of us would be able to be like that's GMO because by the time it reaches the consumer, it's so muted.
But, you know, if if somebody could actually bring GMO to the market, you know, I believe that new and and and somewhat new consumers, you know, it's a it's a love it or hate it relationship with a turp like that.
Is that the same in your market or do you feel that it's just getting absorbed and, you know, the audience loves it?
No, it's I would I would say it might might be considered. I don't I don't I mean, I don't have any data on this other than my observation in the stores and the prevalence, but GMO itself is is probably cultivar grown in the year in Washington state.
It's put it's put out a lot, you know, and and there's people doing pretty good jobs of it, you know, and it's but but I still think that, like, you know, when I go in and some of the bartenders will be like, oh, but this one really stinks, you know, through the jar, you should really check this one out.
You know, like it's still kind of the same thing.
Like the loudest, loudest one always wins, you know?
Yeah, 100%.
But yeah, I think that being said, like I do think it is a bit of an acquired taste and our market started in 2014, you know, our market did.
So it's six years, seven, eight years into the deal, you know, so it's maturing.
So 100% that's it.
That's a super valid point, because I think that, you know, a more mature market will absorb those turps much faster than a less mature market.
Sorry, London, you were going to say something.
No, no, no, you touched on it as you were speaking.
But I do have it, I do have a question, maybe I've noticed that you do a lot of variant styles of growing from aquaponics to, you know, who all rose like, what do you find?
Maybe you could run us through kind of the advantages and disadvantages that you find in the varying techniques that you use and kind of what the upsides and downsides might be to some of them.
I mean, yeah, like, you know, controversially, I've done hugelbads and I find that they don't really work that well for me in the way that I've done them.
You know, people do them in a lot of different variations.
For instance, Nick does like where he's buried, he's dug big pits and buried logs and material in the ground and then cover that up.
And that's worked better for him.
And I think that would work better for me.
Where I've struggled with that, that tech, to be honest, I've had some success with it, but is that, you know, the top level of soil in the summer, in the heat of the summer when I'm really trying to push growth can be dry unless I irrigate it.
You know, while below, deep down by the logs, it's still holding moisture.
And so I've I've, you know, struggled kind of like overwatering type thing, you know, overwatering, trying to keep the top moist, but like getting going in a real big in the bottom zones.
And so this year I actually raked a couple of them out, you know, where they were kind of more mounded, eight feet wide, mounted up to about three feet high.
I raked them out to be about, you know, a foot and a half square, like a traditional raised bed and boxed up the sides.
And I found a lot more success in that, in my situation.
And so that was just like a lesson learned and in my way of doing it.
And I don't know.
And I know people will just jump all over me if I say hugels don't work.
And I don't want to say that, but.
You know, I think that I think there's a way for everybody, there's no individual single method, and I love that part of your journey, because it does seem like you're always kind of trying something new or jumping in the next thing you're not.
You're never kind of settled in one spot or a rut.
And I love that part of it.
But you do go on.
Yeah, so like with the aquaponics, I started doing that in Minnesota after actually I was stoked to hear, I think Ashley said she does aeroponics.
I answered an ad and started working for an aeroponic lettuce grow and we designed this really cool facility.
And and the whole time I was like scratching my head, like, how, you know, how can we do this organically?
And that kind of led me into the world of aquaponics.
And so that whole process kind of ended up being the big deep dive for me into biology alongside learning with Dr.
Elaine Ingham. So a food web kind of had a compost.
And so now that the tech I use is kind of a mesh where I actually have small aquaponics systems that are really designed to harvest the fish poop.
And then I brought that fish poop as a compost tea and use it as an inoculant to my soil.
So I'm kind of in the goal of my mind is that I'm getting the aquatic microbes and the terrestrial microbes all in one.
And I feel and taste like I get a better product that way.
So it's digested a little bit more, you know.
Awesome. So I mean, so the aquaponics is like that is a deep dive and a half.
So do you think your passion is like the biology of it or the can and the cannabis was the key that opened the door?
Or or do you think it was cannabis was what was behind the door and the key to open it?
I did. I started aquaponics with vegetables, 100 percent.
So it wasn't involved with with cannabis in the beginning.
I was growing micro greens and lettuce, herbs and tomatoes, heirloom tomatoes and super hot peppers.
And so I like the biological aspect of it.
I like the water conservation aspect of it.
I like the aspect that you're growing in a controlled environment year round.
I think that's really important in servicing your local economy and not shipping.
And all those things are, you know, from from like a sustainable.
Those are really exciting to me.
And it's I mean, I was just talking on the on the aquaponics cannabis conference this weekend.
And it's a really powerful way to grow.
And when you use aeroponics or aquaponics and you you have highly oxygenated water moving across the root zone, the plants grow so fast and they can uptake health and nutrition so, so fast.
It's it's pretty wild to the point where I've developed like this really stupid tech, you know, in my busy hustling working day.
I have you know, I have an aquaponics stream that runs that bisects my entire garden.
And so sometimes if I have a plant that I want to re-veg or save, like it's kind of a funny thing that I do with with these tropical plants.
But I'll do it. I'll pull them right out of the ground and I'll knock all the roots off and I'll throw them right the roots right in the stream and let them hang there for a day or two before I transplant them into a pot.
Because they'll actually they'll actually do better rather than rather than me just putting directly into a pot, you know, and kind of watering it.
I've noticed that over time, just kind of fucking with this stuff that they're giving a couple of days to get the plant, you know, into this develop this new these new root hairs, these fine root hairs.
It gives it a kind of a jump start.
So I don't know if that's a weird way to answer, but I just love the tech of it, too.
I like I feel like a little boy, you know, playing in the stream where like you start the water, you pump the water up high and then you just watch it trickle down through all these zones and you try to add in as many different aspects as you can.
And it's it's really, really, really fun.
You know, it's fun way to grow.
I love that. And it's clearly about the journey.
So has there been like has there been a major influence?
Was there a major person in your life that kind of like pushed pushed you into the breeding that really inspired you and kind of got your feet grounded?
I often find that there's usually that one person that kind of push that forward.
Or was it, do you think a cumulative community of people that kind of sparked this and drove you forward?
Because I mean, your passion is unsettling.
You're not settling, but it is admirable in in the amount of time that you spend and what you share and the knowledge that you give out and put out to the community because it's huge.
So like it was there an example of a person that really inspired that type of behavior?
Or do you think it was kind of your communal soul becoming who it was?
I think it was just the process, man, honestly.
My time in the mountains led me to have respect for the earth.
And farming, like, was just the perfect melding for me of like, using my physical energy, like I have a lot of physical energy and emotional energy and connection.
And so it just fits so well.
And then my experience getting into recreational was kind of has been challenging.
Like, you know, I've been saying in the markets are challenging.
And I realized that I'm not a person, I don't want to manage a team necessarily.
And I'd rather be doing the work myself rather than telling other people how to do the work type deal.
And so it just kind of turned that way.
And then I, you know, the biggest, if anything, Kevin Jodry and that Breeder series that he put on at the Wonderland Nursery years ago online.
That was a big like, aha moment for me when I got to see all those guys,
Mean Gene and HBK Eric and Jesse from BioVortex.
And who else was there?
Emerald Mountain.
There was a bunch of guys there.
BAM from Coastal.
And I just like was like, whoa, these guys are all doing cool things and they're doing cool things in their different regions.
And it just it seemed like a better way, a cool way to connect with the plan.
So I dived in and it was kind of a combination with me failing in my outdoor environment, too.
That's why I was telling you guys that earlier.
So kind of all things together just pushed me into into doing this work.
And it's like, oh, do this.
I don't know why I didn't see this ahead of time.
Like, you know, this is exactly what I wanted to be doing the whole time.
You know, if I would have realized that 10 years ago, that would have been cool.
But yeah.
This is awesome.
So I did pop up the link for the Science of Regenerative Cultivation Conference and regenerativeorganiccanada.com for everybody in the page here.
So you can click that and check out your seeds and your event.
Is there something special that if you were going to go like you got to check out this this specific pack, what would it be to the audience that's here today?
Well, I'll do it like sort of as a plug.
So I'm trying truthfully, I'm trying to sell tickets to the conference.
I had to charge a little bit more than I have in the past because things are getting so expensive and it's been really hard to be in the positive on these conferences.
So I'm trying to trying to create value in the conferences.
I had the idea to do a breeding project and I'm actually really, really excited about it.
And so it involves like some of the folks we've talked about, Mingy from Mendocino, when he made the Black Lime Reserve, he also dumped some pollen on his root beer.
And he those seeds got gifted to Kevin Jodry, who gifted them to me.
And I opened them up this year.
And, you know, like I was saying, we had another horrible, hard year.
And it was one of the ones that just stood out, this Chemdog Reserve or root beer cross Chemdog Special Reserve.
And after talking with Kevin and Gene a bit, I came upon the idea like, well, what if I, you know, I made the F2s of these things.
And what if we what if we gave away a pack of these to everyone who came to the conference?
You know, my first way of thinking, I was like, that'll be a good way to add some value and make people feel like, you know, their money is well spent, you know.
And and then I started thinking about it more.
And I was like, actually, this is a pretty good opportunity to do a breeding project, you know.
And and actually, these are some pretty good seeds to do that with because no one's really had access to root beer in just that form.
Or at Chemdog Special Reserve in that form.
And this is an F2, and it's a good look at all the parents and the grandparents and the whole lineage.
And and actually, we have four different regions.
So we could do this region specific.
I just like kind of the whole idea started clicking more and more.
And I just got really excited about it.
And so, yeah, with the purchase of the conference ticket or by buying the seeds, you get a conference ticket, however you want to look at it.
It's hand in hand, and we're going to tie it all together on the back end and do regional specific breeding project in which the group as a group will decide and vote on it.
And then we'll find some way to flip it back around and sell those seeds and get the money right back to the group.
You know, I sort of have been really intrigued about this concept of NFT and and and it really like I was I was dialoguing today with my buddy about it.
And I was I'm really excited about this concept of doing the project I just described where we could do a group breeding project in each region, release some seeds, sell them, and then the money go back to the participants of the project or ticket holders.
Right. And hopefully that it would be a break even or even a positive thing.
Right. So you know, a couple of years down the road, you get money back and you wouldn't have had had that, you know, on the conference.
You'd be like, whoa, dude, I just broke even on this thing.
Like, how fucking cool.
So the NFT concept really inspired that.
This has all been bumbling around in my head.
And I'm kind of just I think and talk at the same time.
So I'm spitting it out this way.
And sorry for being so raw, but I got challenged today by my regenerative community in the concept of NFTs and the blockchain and the amount of electricity it uses.
And and I just kind of like I get convicted me a bit, you know, as I'm trying to trying to promote this this regenerative concept in this regenerative lifestyle, like fuck.
And so then I then I thought about it for a second and.
I present to you like the idea as it is, and I'm going to figure out how to dial that in and wrap it in without maybe having to tie it into an NFT and maybe doing it just through a breeding project in the way we know how to do that online as it is.
The same way you did you did your tractor kind of, you know what I mean?
Yeah. Yeah. So I don't know.
I'm like, I'm just being honest with how I'm thinking about it.
And I know I've talked about the NFT concept and I just want to kind of throw out there that I might be having a second second guess that, you know.
It's hard because there's always that debate and lots of people try to turn on my fireplace and lots of people will debate and argue this thing.
But I think if it benefits the community in the best way possible, it's about taking care of that community.
Right. And sometimes not everybody's going to agree with it in 100 percent way.
But yeah, there's always sometimes you have to find an alternative.
So, Mastin, you've talked about kind of the packs.
What were you in BC?
And I know the challenges that you have out here and the difficulty that it is with growing.
Like, is there a high or a low over the years?
You mentioned that you had a really bad layer last year.
Was there like a super low moment and was there an ultimate high?
And I'll say this as well before you answer that question that anybody on in the audience that would like to come up at the hour mark now.
So we'd like to go through more of an interview.
So at the start and do focus on the subject.
But we'd like to invite people up at the hour mark to come up and say hello and ask some questions or comments.
And I'll do so for the YouTube side as well.
If you want to ask some questions or comments, go ahead and post those in the chat and I'll make sure that they come over.
I think that you've been paying attention as we go, regardless and answering some of them as we go, which has been awesome.
But if you could touch on those while people decide whether or not they want to come up and.
Yeah, I'm going to roll a doobie since it's the since we're getting less official.
But the high of my environment or the real big positive of my environment is that it's so wet.
It's that it's the negative and the positive.
And so it produces some extremely oily, extremely resinous plants.
They're just loud as fuck.
Whereas if I if I move to the eastern part of the state where it's drier and hotter,
they don't put out the same same level of flavor.
And so that's I mean, that's cool.
That's what I'm after is getting after and being able to consume and touch it myself.
And and and also, you know, in the like I said earlier, in the challenges of my environment being so wet,
it gives me the opportunity to find things, albeit very difficult to find them.
When I do find them, they're valuable and they're cool and they're useful for everybody else.
So in my mind, it kind of gives me this little niche in the market where I can I can, you know,
work hard and find stuff that's going to work in my environment.
And if it does work in my environment, it's going to work in most indoor and greenhouse
environments and it'll be helpful for folks.
So that's kind of it's kind of the double edged of what I got, you know.
Big time. Do I have do any of the other panelists have some questions or
comments that they'd like to bring into the conversation?
I think I can scroll back here, too, and see because there was a couple of questions
that were in the chat that I think we missed.
I'm going to scroll back and have a look at that.
I'm just going to jump in here for any guys doing outdoor next season in Canada.
You know, definitely someone to take a look at.
I see so many people grabbing, you know, I'm not going to name drop any specific names, but,
you know, breeders that are clearly breeding indoors for indoor plants and trying to run them
in the Canadian environment.
The sooner you can make the realization that, you know, you need to be the plants need to be
bred in the environment that you put them in and the harsher, more severe environment.
And I mean, just like Dutch says, it's like the worst thing and the best thing about it is the
amount of rain, because, you know, anything that works there is just got to be an absolute tank.
So I think it looks so good this year, too, didn't it?
Dutch like right up into the end of August.
And it looks so good this year, too, didn't it?
Dutch like right up into the end of August.
It was like, oh, my God, this is going to be like an incredible year.
Oh, man, this spring, I was the jackass that was running around telling everybody
we're having Indian summer planted up.
Fucking here we go.
Could have been more wrong.
Like I have I've lost so much plants to mold in here in BC.
If you ever want to throw them, I'm always down.
I'll be coming to you this year for my outdoor for sure.
What plants are in your catalog that are like we're really focused on that kind of
harsh, harsh conditioning?
The Larry Chimes crushes it.
I was this summer I was I just was going through all those crosses I made and every one of them
held strong all the way through October, most of them into November, everything.
So whoever got those, you know, in the different projects, I would say, grab hold of those and
cross them into anything you want.
That's going to dominate in turps and it's going to dominate just in general.
So I've been really excited about those ones, too.
And then obviously the blackwap gold and the licorice lime stuff, all those crosses that
I've made have all done really well.
I didn't get to do a bunch of them direct outdoors this year.
I did them in the greenhouse, the testing of them.
So I'm not like that's why I'm not jumping up and down on them direct outdoors.
But I feel like in general, because I beat myself up those first few years in the selection
process that a lot of the stuff I'm working with is generally doing really well.
You know, that's what I'm seeing from people and, you know, there's some issues here and
there, but in general, most people are finding really good stuff and it's strong and I'm
really happy about that.
I mean, if people are harvesting the plants in November and like conditions like this,
that's that's impressive.
I mean, really, really impressive.
There's not much that'll make it past September.
Yeah, no, no, it's yeah, it's it was a.
I, you know, yeah, like I said, I feel like I've gotten beat up enough and found some
stuff that's going to work and and really this is not like that.
I've read something really crazy or cool.
I've just gone through the work of making selections, you know, so just to reiterate
that, like I feel like that's that's my my strength is that I got a good nose and a good
taste and I smoke a lot and I have a hard environment so I can take the work of people
who I think do really good stuff like Jean and and to make a good selection, you know.
Are you smoking much hash Dutch or are you just smoking dog?
OK, and what do you what of your what do you what do you like?
I know your your go to smoke is dog walker out of your lineup.
What's your go to dab?
The the mean mug I've been smoking a lot of.
Yeah, what's the profile on the mean mug?
It's it's really it's it's interesting because when when you smell it,
it comes through like a lot of GMO comes through and I was kind of like excited about that,
but like also like I got that dialed, but but it doesn't come through in the flavor when you
taste it. It's really so soda poppy and bright and yeah, it's really delicious, man.
And then I'm also do got some where I have here some dog liquor.
Number one, it says so I had a bun like, you know, all my test wash.
I go through them and smoke them slowly.
Are you is that market taking full spec?
Are you like are they demanding, you know, just the 90 you like what I know you are you're
dealing with a more mature market. So I'm really interested in like what what's the
market demanding as as you see it?
Most everybody's doing full spec.
Very few folks, if anybody are doing, you know, like whatever different micron
rosin or different, no one's doing full melt.
I'll say that that I've seen maybe a little bit here in their polarized tracks,
probably drops a little bit, but like in general, there's no full melt on the market,
which is a bummer. You know, that's that's what I first started putting out was full melt.
We called it ice wax.
But I think the market's probably ready for it, you know, a little bit, not a ton of it,
but a little bit.
And you think, you know, cold chain like it's all there.
You think you could make it happen in your state like here in Canada?
Yeah, all the delivery companies, you know, funny enough, I was I was the first person
with every one of them, every delivery company.
They're like, we've never done frozen.
I'm like, we'll go down and buy a freezer and get up to your battery.
And I explained it to him and they'll get back to me like, OK, we're set up, you know,
and but now they all have freezers and some have freezer trucks.
The whole truck's a freezer.
It's pretty common to move frozen wheat around.
And then most of the stores, too, are versed and have a little fridge.
Often the one big challenging thing with any store, I think, is is that they have lights
and they got to use light to make the product look good, you know.
So I have some stuff in my local store that's been in there for like nine months.
I'm like, I got to get it out of there.
The lights are making it look, you know, it's kind of bleeding on the edges and stuff.
Are guys using UV resistant jars or is everybody using clear glass?
You kind of have to be able to use the clear glass so people can see it.
Show it off.
Yeah.
So yeah, that's the one, you know, the blessing in Canada is you can't show it off.
So at least we can use the, you know, the dark glass and, you know.
I'd almost appreciate that more, you know, consumers are most in general like no fucking
way I want to be able to, you know, because you want to buy you're spending 50 bucks.
You don't want to spend it on something that doesn't look or taste good, you know, but
the way to make it taste good and look good is to put it in a dark package.
It's true.
I don't have any, you know, I don't I don't store weed in mason jars.
Right.
Right.
So I do have a question from Chris over here asking, what do you think about temple balls?
And I wanted to dump into this because I think we kind of touched on it.
We've had this conversation a little bit before is that that next level, that next year, that
that higher level product.
And this is one of those things as an age temple ball.
And that concept, have you had one before?
Have you enjoyed it?
What are your thoughts on it?
And yeah, I.
The one time I did that, I enjoyed it.
I can speak on that.
I was at Emerald Cup with Frenchy and, you know, respect to Frenchy.
He pulled out that big old fucking I don't know what he called it, that
Mazi rig.
And he had a big the big group dab experience.
And it was kind of I kind of got caught up in the moment to do it.
Usually I would do the quasar.
The quasar.
Yeah.
Usually I'm on something like that because I really don't like brown hash historically,
but I but it was a social thing.
And I all right, I got to do this.
So it was fucking delicious, man.
I totally got checked.
It was just as good as any full melt or nice rosen.
It was it was fucking delicious.
And there was about six of us sitting around puffing on the thing, you know.
So that, you know, I think it's just all about the process.
It must be, you know, and showing respect all the way through.
And I just personally haven't got experience to have a ton of really, really good stuff
that compares to the fresh stuff that we can do, you know.
Yeah, I've like I've always had this kind of dream thought of them being like, you know,
aged in in like the Rockford Caves in France, you know, something like that to like really
bring the next kind of ode to flavor.
You know what I mean?
Like, like take some really stank cheese and ages in cheese.
That's a that's a good, you know, building on that London Dutch.
Is anybody aging or cured like long term curing their their their rosin before they're bringing
it to market?
And like.
No, no.
It's pretty it's pretty immature, to be honest.
I mean, for the most part, people are like, oh, you can squish it.
Let's put it in there.
And you can sell it for 60 bucks.
Are you know, like, well, I know.
And then the next step is that the guy who owns the facility with all the money, like
for ten thousand dollars in the freezer, like I don't know why I'm talking with a stupid
accent.
They're like, I was trying to do a caveman thing and it was going south.
So I'm sorry.
I was like, you know, they convinced the owner to buy a freezer and then they run around
and buy a bunch of shitty weed off the market and they wash it and they got, you know, a
bunch of low grade rosin that they're trying to push.
And they're like, why can't I get so for twenty five?
Like because, you know what I mean?
Yes.
Yeah.
Learning the lesson we all learned just that much larger scale.
Yeah, but that being said, I still applaud it.
And it's still it's still a better product than some of the stuff that's just like BHO
or whatever, you know, that I'm not into.
And so.
I was going to Cholo Cheddar Bob called me out for my racism.
Well, it's the second half, so we can get away with it.
I don't know if you could ever get away with it.
It happened.
Well, if there's no more like.
Let's yeah, there's no more questions.
Let's where can people find tickets other than the link up here?
It's the the WWW dot regenerative organic cannabis conference.
Yeah, that'll take you through to the to the all the information.
And it's, you know, it's just kind of paragraph format.
So people end up asking me questions.
I'm like, just bear through it.
Read the paragraph.
I'm sorry.
It's like a 1990s website.
That's just how I know how to get my information across.
So yeah, yeah.
Regenerative organic cannabis or regenerative seeds dot com will get you there, too.
And no, I I fucking really appreciate all you guys and everyone that's been in the conference
and supported me in my seed business.
And like it's dude, it's been such a blessing.
Like every time I get on that tractor, I think of everybody.
And I'm really, really just blessed to be a part of this community.
So thank you to everybody.
Thanks to Peter for hosting this and like, you know, really fucking cool.
Yeah, man.
We feel mutual.
You do a lot for the community and we appreciate it.
I mean, I don't want to ask if I've ever had any complaints with my neighbors because of smell.
And I will answer that to say I am in lawsuit and I cannot speak of such matters.
Yeah.
Well, wow.
It's that good.
Yeah, it's pretty normal.
That good.
It's consumed the last like five years of my life.
It's been it's been pretty gnarly.
In hindsight, it can be a brand.
Yeah.
I just wanted to say real quick, thanks so much for taking time out to talk to us.
And I did learn a lot.
And your stories are amazing.
And I think thanks a lot.
Thanks for that.
Thanks for for listening.
Yeah, thank you again.
So I'll like everybody in the audience that's here, make sure that you're following Dutch
as well as everybody else in the in the group.
Make sure you click that button at the top and follow the club.
But I think when's the next show?
Because you do like almost weekly lives on your Instagram.
So that's kind of like your main point of following, right?
That's kind of where I've seen you do a lot of your lives.
Is that where people are going to see you most?
Yeah.
And you just got to be hot on the button because I don't I don't save them or anything because
I can be sometimes I'm loose lipped.
So I just do them live and whoever's in there.
It's a fun time.
I really appreciate it.
And I try to try to share as much knowledge as I can and share about what I'm doing.
And, you know, at the same time, trying to bring awareness to the projects that I'm doing,
you know, so that's kind of the goals.
And yeah, my Instagram and then I also do a YouTube channel.
It's maybe not as well known, but regenerative cannabis is my YouTube channel.
And you can go back and see previous conference lectures and breeder interviews with different
folks and some stuff like that.
So.
You've got to meet some really cool people in your time.
I've got a question, Dutch.
The CBSR, the CamDogs Special Reserve, is that the four or is that the 91?
Or what's the story on that?
I believe it's the it's neither.
It's the Stardog.
Oh, yeah.
And I think it came from, you know, I don't know exactly.
So, you know, don't don't anyone hate me too much, but I believe it came down through Shiloh
to Leo and then Leo did what he did.
It's there's kind of unknown what whatever happened there.
And maybe he selected something cool.
I'm not really sure.
And then he gave that pollen to Jackson, which put it on he put it on his his line one and
the root beer and he made the black lamb reserve.
And then this one here.
Beautiful.
That's awesome.
That was not what I expected.
Yeah, so it's got there's a lot of people that had their hands in it.
And I just happened to, you know, make the selection, make a selection and make the next
generation.
And so I just think it's a beautiful way to do a group breeding project that everyone kind
of can be involved with.
And it's, you know, share that heads to.
Are you still working with that Testerosa?
I know Kev told me about that like years ago, about like I think it was your farm that
everything got wiped out and that was the only thing left standing.
Yeah, so that was it was the black lamb reserve, Testerosa, the black gold and the licorice
lime.
It was those two that that that made it.
And yeah, so those are like foundation.
I renamed them sort or I named them even though the original up one crosses were done by Urban
Turp Factory.
I named the F2s and started mixing them in, mixing them in with all my stuff.
And so that's what you know you got in the in the CSA.
Yeah, those were all those those LL were licorice lime crosses, Testerosa lime vine and then
the black gold or the black black fruit.
Those are two different versions of that that that line.
And what and how do those two express them like is it a gassy lime and a fruity lime?
Yes, the black fruit is fruitier, less gas, extreme fruit really, really, you know, in
my mind, it's a it's a slightly better version of Skittles.
You know, I really like Skittles, but it grows better, looks better, a little bit louder.
It's easier to look better than Skittles.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, right.
A hundred percent.
And then the black gold turtles just like, oh, well, you thought the black fruit was
good.
Like, I'm the fucking, you know, younger brother that came came up on top of that shit.
You know, it's just got the gas behind it that turns it up and there's just like rank
behind it.
And this really draws you in and stays through all the way through down the joint.
And it's my it's my favorite, man.
I really like it.
It's awesome.
I have like there's sorry, this thing.
I'm stumbling a little bit here because my little one just ran over here.
With that being said, should we shut it down?
Is there anything else we want to jump into for tonight?
I thank you again for coming in and and doing it.
I don't want to take too much of your time.
I know you're probably jumping into a hell of a mess like we are with flooding.
I just got a message from one of my buddies.
It's like, yeah, my basement in Whistler is flooded and my basement in Vancouver has
flooded.
So now I'm just trying to deal with that.
Jeez.
Yeah, no, I'm luckily I'm OK.
I feel like I should be out helping people or something, but I tried to yesterday.
I tried to help some folks in my tractor and I got it stuck.
It was a failed attempt.
Well, you tried and we thank you for that one.
I think we'll close it up then.
I appreciate everybody in the room.
Thank you, Dutch.
Thank you, Jameson, Corey, Josh, Damon.
Thank you, everybody else.
Thank you, Peter and Future Cannabis Projects for having us on board.
I thank you all again and have a wonderful evening.
Don't forget to check out Joshua Rutherford, Josh Blooms everywhere you can.
Regenerative Organic Cannabis dot com for the conference and Regenerative Organics,
Regenerative Seed Company for the for the seed part.
Yeah, Regenerative Seed Company dot com.
Yep.
Regenerative Seed Co.
Awesome.
Thanks again and we will call it.
Ciao, guys.
Thanks, everybody.
Book club at 530, which is a little bit different of a time.
So thanks again for all of you for coming in and enjoying this show.
I appreciate each and every one of you and keep it growing.
