And we're a minute or two early.
Is there like one account or the other one that you want me to make a moderator, Peter?
Does it matter?
We'll just make both of them.
I don't think it really matters.
I'm just making both mods.
Yes, exactly.
Exactly.
It's easier that way.
We also make Shavin and Ricardo moderators.
There's just going to be kind of quiet there.
And then we've got this other guy, Richard, that should be joining us.
But they're just kind of here to help facilitate the conversation and make sure it goes super
smoothly.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Welcome, welcome, Shavin and Ricardo.
Thank you.
Thank you guys for having me.
Appreciate it.
Thank you guys.
Good to meet everyone.
Yeah, they're with Rooted Leaf.
They're here with us and they're going to kind of help us make sure that this conversation
happens real smoothly.
And I'm sure at some point Ricardo is going to have something interesting to say about
how technology interfaces into the topic at large, because ultimately it's going to be
about how Silica helps benefit cannabis growth overall.
Right?
Yeah, absolutely.
That's ideally where we're going.
I think we're not really here to talk about making drywall in our reservoirs.
But it's a funny topic because it is something that I think people who are not familiar with
using Silicon or Silica, they don't know and may run into some issues.
It's a pretty commonly used product.
I think a lot of folks use it anecdotally, don't necessarily understand why.
They just know that they're supposed to put Power SI or one of the other Silicon products
in their grow.
And so hopefully we'll have some conversation about that tonight, help people understand
a little bit more about this element.
And of course, I did some reading on it earlier as well to get ready for the conversation.
So I'm excited to have it tonight.
How we doing, Peter?
Are we ready to rock, my friend?
Yes, we are.
Wonderful, wonderful.
Want to make sure that we're all good to go.
So welcome, welcome, welcome again to Huta Herbs Grow and Tell.
I'm Jason Gidiot, also known as Huta Herb on Instagram.
And please, if you like the conversation tonight, please make sure to reach out and tell me,
let me know what you thought.
And make sure to click on that green icon at the top and a little house icon at the
top so you can join the Future Cannabis Project because there's always something happening
on the Future Cannabis Project.
And of course, for our friends that are not on Clubhouse, but are listening in on YouTube
tonight, welcome, welcome, welcome again.
And I hope you join the Future Cannabis Project YouTube channel as well.
So thanks everybody for joining.
Tonight with me, often with me, is my friend Nick from The Rooted Leaf.
And we have tonight Shaban and Ricardo with us as well.
Just a little introduction for those who are new.
Huta Herbs Grow and Tell is a now weekly online Clubhouse hosted room and simulcast, not recorded
on YouTube on the Future Cannabis Project.
And it's a, basically it's a cultivation club that I started.
See Matt's joining us now.
Perfect timing.
So just getting into the intro, Matt.
So welcome, welcome and thanks.
Oh, he popped out.
We'll get him back in here.
There he goes again.
Hopefully he stays with us this time.
You doing okay there, Matt?
Yeah, you know, like Clubhouse just with its moody cycles.
Okay, great.
You're with us and I can hear you.
So fantastic.
So as I was just about to say, Huta Herbs Grow and Tell is basically, it was a cultivation
club that I started in Worcester at a nice consumption lounge called the Summit Lounge
in Worcester, Massachusetts, where me and a bunch of local home growers and cultivators
would get together on a monthly basis and sniff each other's jars and smoke each other's
cannabis and talk about how we were growing.
And that's really how this whole thing started.
And we had a great time, really fantastic group of folks got together on a monthly basis,
became like a family, had some fantastic speakers come in and really, really great sponsors
join us over that time.
So unfortunately, had to stop things because of COVID and the shutdown of the Summit Lounge
and some other things for a while.
But this platform allows us to have those conversations again.
And unfortunately, we can't sniff each other's cannabis today and smoke each other's weed.
But hopefully one day we'll get some smell-o-vision through the phones as well.
And we'll be able to share some of this experience together.
So I encourage you, wherever you may be, to try to find local cultivators close to you
and find a place to meet up on a monthly basis.
It's a great way to not only learn and to find some friends in your local community,
but there's tremendous opportunities for sharing, not only on things that you make
or plants that you grow.
And you might want to, if one person's out and it's about a month till they harvest,
having another couple of cultivators that you know and might be able to help you stretch
in between harvests.
So it's really good to develop that community and I highly recommend it for everybody.
But we're here tonight to talk about silicone.
So I really appreciate everybody joining as always.
And of course, I thank you, Peter and the Future Cannabis Project for hosting this space.
So let's jump into the fun.
I know, Matt, this was a very important topic for you to cover.
It was definitely something that you were interested in getting into and I appreciate
you bringing that up as a topic.
One of the things that I was doing some research before, doing the normal Google searches to
look up silicone.
We had some discussions early in the week on even how to call the room, whether it was
going to be silica or silicone or silicone.
Is there an E on the end?
Is there no E on the end?
I think there was two versions that I made Peter make of our session for tonight.
You should have heard me message with Nick.
I was constantly like, I'd talk about something and then I'd be like, silica, silicone.
You know what?
One of them.
One of them.
One of them.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
And then as soon as I brought the topic up with Nick, he immediately hit me with a question
back and was trying to test some of my knowledge.
I'm like, well, let's talk about it.
And he's like, well, what's the difference between silicon dioxide and orthosilic acid?
So we immediately started going into a conversation of chemistry, which I know Nick loves to get
into.
But since Matt, you are kind of new to the group and to give you a nice little intro
as we were talking earlier.
And so just to give the presentation, presenting out of the green corner, the light heavyweight
champ of the century, Matt Gnarlyroots Ryan.
He is just himself.
He's a craft cultivator, caretaker, book science nerd.
Keep it simple.
Sort of school taught, but does it matter?
Not really today.
Society with information.
All good.
We're here to share.
We're here to talk.
And so I appreciate you joining today.
How was that?
Was that a good intro?
I wasn't expecting the joking part, but I love it.
I love it.
Fantastic.
Fantastic.
And of course, Shavin and Ricardo are new.
So Nick, do you want to kind of give a little bit of an intro to the Rooted Leaf and maybe
some of the roles that all of you play over there?
Sure.
Definitely.
Yeah.
So we're making carbon based fertilizers specifically for the cannabis industry.
And really what we're looking at is a variety of compounds that are produced by plants and
the way that those compounds behave when you start to treat some of those compounds
as fertilizers.
And so Rick and Shav have done a really good job of doing some business development for
us over the past couple of years.
And yeah, if you guys want to give yourselves a quick intro, feel free.
Yeah, I'll give myself an intro here.
My name is Rick Rodriguez.
I am, as you said, I'm one of the best developers here for Rooted Leaf.
I've been involved now for three years with them, traveling with them, doing the Canna-Cons,
doing all the shows, seeing some of our commercial growers and really getting involved in the
product itself and understanding what it is we're involved with.
So as I'm here helping along, pushing this education, I'm also learning a lot and taking
it in and absorbing some of the knowledge that's being pushed around by the other people
as well.
So thank you for the time.
And I'll be here in the background listening.
Thanks, Rick.
Thanks, Rick.
And Shavon.
Peter, you got a hot mic there?
Sorry about that.
My mic was messed up.
I really appreciate the time and you guys having me on here.
I'm just here to support Nick and I really want to learn also about Silicon.
So thank you guys for having me.
Fantastic.
Thanks for being here.
Really appreciate it.
So I'll just give the little bit of introduction.
This is obviously right off of Wikipedia.
So please forgive me if I mispronounce any of these words or stomp over something that
Wikipedia might not even have correct.
Right.
Because it's always up for some of it.
So he's up for a little bit of bait, although it tends to be pretty good on the basic science
stuff.
Right.
So Silicon is a chemical element with the symbol SI, which is, of course, where power
those other guys get their name from.
Atomic number 14.
Right.
It's hard, brittle, crystalline, solid with a blue gray metallic luster and is a tetra
valent metalloid and semiconductor.
It is a member of group 14 of the periodic table and carbon is above it.
We just talked about carbon, how everything in plants is carbon in one shape or form.
So really interesting that it just happens to be the next thing right below it on the
periodic table.
What I found was really interesting is that it's melting and boiling point is 1400 C and
it has the second highest among all metalloids and nonmetals, which makes sense because as
we were joking earlier, how to avoid making drywall in your reservoir, the combination,
as you educated me earlier, the combination of silicon and calcium is similar to what
they make fireproof drywall out of, which is where the joke comes from.
But the fact that it has an extremely high boiling and melting point makes sense that
it would be a great fireproof material.
Silicon is the eighth most common element in the universe by mass, but very rarely does
it actually occur as a pure element in the Earth's crust.
It's usually mixed with other things.
It's widely distributed in space, planetoids, planets, and other things.
Silicon dioxide or silicates, more than, my dog is getting a little edgy, more than
90% of the Earth's crust is composed of silicate materials.
And that's pretty extensive.
90% of the crust is made of this silicate material.
Obviously it's very much used in a lot of commercial usage, whether it's in silicate
sands or clays or stone, ceramic, stucco, silicon carbides, semiconductors, obviously,
where most people know them today.
Silicon valley wouldn't exist if it wasn't for silicon and the fact that we use it in
semiconductors and a lot of electronics.
Interestingly though, it's not as prevalent in all biology and sea spudges and microorganisms
such as diatoms and radiolara secrete skeletal structures made of silica.
And silica is deposited in many plant tissues, but not all plants need silicon.
And it's not all plants need it.
It's not something that's used in all cases.
So it's not necessarily something you want to go throwing around on trees and some of
the other things, but it is definitely beneficial for cannabis plants.
So I'm going to turn it over to Nick for a few minutes to jump into silicon and then
we'll see how this conversation carries us tonight.
Yeah, thanks for the intro there.
And as you had mentioned earlier, one of the reasons that we had come up with the name
silicon as opposed to silica or silicate or something like that was because we wanted
to kind of talk about the element a little bit, the element silicon in and of itself.
And obviously, this planet that we live on, planet Earth has a large amount of oxygen
inside of its atmosphere.
And so it makes sense that the oxygen, if the silicon itself is reactive with that oxygen,
that in our environment, it would react and make silicon dioxide, which as Jason pointed
out, makes up a very large percentage of the Earth's crust.
And so this is interesting for people that study plant biology, because on the one hand,
as Jason pointed out, it's very much so true that silicon itself is the second most abundant
element next to oxygen inside of the Earth's crust.
And obviously, silicon dioxide being the most common form of silica in the Earth's crust
also contains oxygen.
So there's something unavoidable to say about how plants have to deal with the fact that
silicon is present in high amounts.
So that much is true.
You know, silicon does make up a large portion of the Earth's crust.
And plants, just generally speaking across the planet, have to deal with it as they grow.
So this is interesting because a lot of scientists have been perplexed.
Now imagine you're a scientist living in approximately the 1800s.
You know, there's all this kind of scientific and industrial revolution type of activity
happening.
And at the time, processes are being developed to isolate individual elements like nitrogen
out of the air, individual elements, hydrogen, oxygen, carbon to some extent.
You know, so during this industrial revolution process, people are starting to identify what
are some of the elements that plants actually need to grow.
In other words, if we put them in nutrient deficient environments, what do they really
need to grow?
And it's perplexing because silica itself, silicon itself, as Jason pointed out, is,
you know, for some species of plants, it's not really essential in the sense that you
can grow it sort of in a lab setting and the full lifespan of the plant from vegetative
through flowering can be achieved without the need of silicon.
Whereas if you were to make the plants deficient in nitrogen, for example, the plant itself
would not be able to grow.
And so you would eventually hit a point where the DNA itself becomes denatured and you have
nucleic acids being deregulated and desynthesized as a result of, or basically catabolized and
broken down for their nitrogen stores in order to meet the plant's needs.
And obviously if you break down the DNA of a plant, it's not going to be very helpful
for it.
Silicon has always perplexed scientists because it's not really essential for plant growth.
However, there are a large number of benefits associated with exposing plants to silicon.
And you know, Jason mentioned something earlier, if you look at a periodic table of elements,
you'll notice silicon is directly below carbon.
And this property or this attribute of being sort of in the same row lends itself well
to silicon chemistry.
Because as we're going to talk about here in a couple of minutes, silicon, one of the
advantages of silicon is that it has this sort of mechanical advantage for plants and
it's sort of a biological advantage for plants too.
And between those two kinds of categories, it's possible for us to break down how silicon
and silicon nutrition can kind of benefit plants, you know, in the biological response
or the mechanical response and also the biochemical response.
But, you know, it's also worth kind of pointing out that for about 100 to 150 years, as scientists
were kind of pointing out and discovering like, hey, nitrogen is essential or phosphorus
is essential, calcium, potassium, all these macro and micronutrients, they're essential.
During this whole process of people figuring out what do plants actually need to grow,
silicon was kind of shoved off the side and people didn't really focus on silicon chemistry
for approximately 100 to 150 years.
And you know, there's a 50 year plus or minus gap there or a range there because, you know,
approximately the 1960s, there was a scientist in the University of Hawaii that was studying
sugarcane crops, I believe, from my memory.
I could be incorrect about this, but there was somebody studying sugarcane crops.
And they noticed that when they applied potassium silicate, that the yield went up.
And they kind of assumed it to be sort of an indirect benefit, that the potassium had
something to do or the silica had something to do with locking out, you know, toxic contaminants
or heavy metals or something like that in the soil that therefore made it better growing
conditions for the sugarcane and therefore it was more productive or something like that.
But what they did not realize right off the bat was that there are some primary advantages
to having silica present inside of the sort of tissue of plants.
You know, it's not just the fact that silica is a large percentage of the Earth's crust.
It's the fact that once silica works its way inside of the plants, that there's some real
strong advantages to having it there for the plants.
And like I mentioned earlier, you know, there's sort of two buckets that you can group them
in.
One is the mechanical advantages, you know, how does silica actually in terms of its physical
properties, how does it behave for the plants?
And then the second one would be some of the more biological or biochemical benefits.
In other words, does the silica or silicon interface with the DNA of plants and does
it elicit some kind of responses?
Ironically enough, one of those responses that it does elicit in the plants is the metabolism
of silicon.
So in other words, when plants get exposed to some silica, there's a kind of a trigger
that tells the plant it's time to start digesting the silica.
So it's almost like it behaves in such a way that it both stimulates its own metabolism
and provides the substance for its own metabolism.
So there's some actual physical building blocks and some mechanical advantages that are associated
with it.
So I hope that's a good introduction.
And I'm definitely looking forward to kind of speaking a little bit more about those
two primary buckets.
Woohoo!
Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
That's a great place to start.
And I think it's really, you know, obviously we always try to bring these things back to
plants because otherwise we could go off on dozens of different discussions just about
how silicon and silica is used all over the place.
I mean, there's so many different industries, industrial uses of that product and that chemical
element.
But one of the things that, you know, is interesting is its ability and effect on, for those that
don't know, is its ability to bind oxygen.
And it binds oxygen in a way that, which is interesting, it can either bind to one
or two or three or four.
And it kind of exposes these, the oxygen from what I was reading, and I'm sure Nick will
jump in here and help me out.
But it was, you know, it binds these structures in a way that it exposes them to allow the
creation of these complex chains where multiple silicon elements will share the same oxygen
module, oxygen element or atoms to, you know, create these complex chains.
Yeah, yeah.
And I think, you know, the simplest way to think about it, and I asked this question
to both Jason and Matt earlier, which was that if you look at silicon dioxide, which
is SiO2 and its molecular formula, look at that versus orthosilicic acid, which is kind
of the fancy term for, you know, biologically available pieces of silicon to the plant.
Let's just consider it that, right?
So if you look at the molecular formula for orthosilicic acid, and you look at silicon
dioxide, you notice that, gosh, there's only, the only difference between the two of them
is literally two water molecules.
So it's almost like when people talk about orthosilicic acid, or in other words, the
biologically available form of silicon to plants, when they're talking about that, really
what they're talking about is something, you know, a piece of silicon that's obviously
reacted with oxygen because it's present in the earth, and therefore in this atmosphere,
it has to have oxygen present around it.
So let's just assume by default it's reacted with oxygen.
So it's silicon dioxide, and it's been hydrated, meaning that there's been two water molecules
attached to it.
So when you get two water molecules meeting a piece of silicon dioxide, you have the exact
same molecular formula as orthosilicic acid.
So when people talk about orthosilicic acid, don't get confused by it.
It's not a magic trick.
Really what they're talking about is the sort of most primary, most basic, most fundamental,
most available form of silicon that there is for plants, which is literally two pieces
of water, two molecules of water, that have been attached to a single molecule of silicon
dioxide.
So this is what plants recognize.
This is what they take up.
And so as they take it up, there's this sort of innate property of silicon to polymerize,
and this polymerization is sort of spontaneous.
If you've ever heard of the theory of how crystals grow, or silicon dioxide, coarse
crystals growing over time, this is sort of in line with it.
But this is a weird property of silicon that, again, it kind of goes back to that periodic
table of elements that I was talking about earlier.
You can look at silicon, and it's directly underneath carbon.
And so it has this sort of weird property to always change over time, just like carbon
and speciation of carbon always happens as a function of time.
Silicon, as it turns out, when the plants take it up in its most basic and soluble form,
what they're trying to do with it is one of two things.
There's a mechanical benefit, and there's a biochemical benefit with it.
The mechanical benefit is the one that we're all kind of familiar with, which is that silica
basically behaves like glass, and it becomes deposited or accumulated in the outside layers
of the plant cells, and it forms kind of a defensive barrier, where this defensive barrier
starts to be able to protect the plants against fungal pathogens, like powdery mildew, for
instance, or even some actual insect pressures, like aphids, for example, or other leaf-mining
insects.
So the silicon itself being this mechanical sort of bigger version of carbon, let's just
call it that, because again, going back to this periodic table, it lives directly underneath
carbon.
So think about it like this fat piece of carbon.
It's just this giant piece of carbon.
And if the plants can take it up, well, plants typically make their cell walls, which is
cellulose, and that's got a lot of carbon inside of it.
And so there's this real mechanical advantage if the plants take up a piece of silicon passively,
like they do with the transpiration, meaning the water that comes up through the roots
gets taken up passively.
If they have the opportunity to take up a piece of silicon that can replace a piece
of carbon, this is the invisible point that I think a lot of people sort of overlook.
The plant gains a lot more than just the mechanical side of it, and this is the biochemical side
of it.
So I'm going to highlight this point one more time, just to kind of make it abundantly clear
that silicon has a mechanical property for the plants.
It replaces carbon because plants typically use carbon to make their cell walls.
They use carbon to make their cellular structures, their defensive structure, so on and so forth.
So if there's something that looks about the same as carbon, which silicon is, again, look
at the periodic table of elements, it's just a little bit bigger.
But hey, if the plants are trying to protect themselves, it's a great substitute.
So there's a net gain in energy that the plants experience because they can use a piece of
silicon where they would otherwise use a piece of carbon.
And that's very, very vital because it takes time and energy for plants to acquire carbon.
And so if you give them an environment where the cell walls are under constant stress and
constant attack without any silicon, the only hope that the plant has to persist and to
sort of evade the damaging and degrading environment around it is to use carbon to create some
kind of cell wall or extra thick cellular structure or some kind of secondary metabolite
to prevent some kind of infection or something like that.
But if you have silicon, there's a mechanical advantage.
Again, the plants can kind of use that in place of carbon.
That leads to a biochemical effect as well, meaning that the plants have access to a lot
more carbon reserves than they typically would.
And this is the part that I think a lot of people overlook because one of the advantages
of silicon in the mechanical...
I'm sorry, aside from the mechanical advantage, the biochemical advantage of silicon is that
it actually interfaces with the DNA of a plant to sort of bring out some of the characteristics
that are like strong secondary responses.
For example, if your plants are under attack from pests and you expose those plants to
silicon, they have a very strong defensive response against those pathogens.
Scientists for a long time have been kind of curious, like what is it about silicon
that induces this kind of response in plants?
Is there something about this element?
Because plants don't necessarily take it up in large amounts.
If you're dealing with monocots like rice or sugarcane or grasses like wheat, for instance,
you're talking about plants that take up a lot of silica.
But if you're talking about something like tomatoes or cannabis, those plants don't take
up a lot of silicon, but there is this sort of biochemical effect that if you expose the
plants to silicon, you can't necessarily then go back a day later and take a leaf tissue
and send it off to the lab for analysis and try to figure out like, what did this increase
in silicon do for the plants?
It doesn't really work like that because the increase in silicon doesn't have to do with
the response to silicon.
And the response to silicon is something that people have been studying for a long time
because the plants have this definite energy expenditure in the presence of silica.
And that energy expenditure has been largely regarded as being towards secondary metabolite
biosynthesis like the production of terpenes and cannabinoids, for instance, and other
defensive compounds.
And so people have kind of like scratched their heads trying to figure it out for a
while.
And really the beauty of it lies in this kind of intersection between the mechanical benefits
and the biochemical benefits.
If you guys can kind of try to understand that when silicon is introduced to a plant,
it replaces the need for carbon, right?
That's the simple part.
The more difficult explanation is, well, the carbon that was saved that would have gone
towards whatever the silica went to, that carbon, where would it have gone to?
Would it have gone to a monoturpene?
Would it have gone to a cannabinoid?
Would it have gone to something that would have ultimately increased yield and quality
and things like that?
And I think the sort of answer is over the past five to 10 years as scientists have gotten
really serious about studying this type of stuff, the answer has been most certainly
that yes, absolutely.
The plants have this ability to divert energy away from something that the silicon can replace
and into something that maybe growers want to see.
If you're growing a tomato, for example, you want to see certain characteristics of that
tomato plant.
You want to see these what are called phytoliths or deposits of silica that prevent slugs from
contaminating or fungi from contaminating because then you don't have to apply the pesticides
and you don't have to apply the fungicides and now all of a sudden you're dealing with
a much cleaner quality product.
And the same is very much true for cannabis.
Even though it doesn't accumulate a lot of silicon elementally, you're still likely to
find a lot of these biochemical effects that sort of interact more with the DNA of the
plant than they interact with like a piece of leaf tissue where they're going to deposit.
And then you could, again, take a leaf sample and send it off for analysis and say, look,
there's this piece of silicon that when I sprayed on the plants, it kind of took it
up and it became a constituent of the cell and therefore the plant got healthier.
You're going to see some of that, but you're also going to see this profound effect that
silicon has on the actual plant's ability to sort of divert energy away from these mechanical
sort of structures that carbon typically fills and then divert that energy away into secondary
metabolite biosynthesis, which is typically a much more beneficial pathway for the plants.
So yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No.
So Matt, you want to jump in?
Yeah, no, totally.
So I just want to like add on there because like the reinforcement of the plant tissue,
especially at like the epidermis level is like one of the biggest things, I guess, or
the biggest mechanical kind of advantages that's seen externally.
And for those, I think you kind of explained it, but for those that don't really understand
what that does is that that restricts pests and fungal hyphae from being able to penetrate
the cell walls or feed on the saps of the plant.
But what's also kind of neat, you know, what's been noted coincidingly is the, and this is
the word, the silification of the nutrient and waterways within the plants, essentially.
There's been research that shows across the plant spectrum that it stabilizes a lot of
the nutrient pathways from collapse.
So essentially it helps, like you were kind of like saying, Nick, the plant stabilize
its or one, speed up its metabolism, but then to stabilize its, you know, like its supply
chains, which is pretty neat.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's that energy savings that I think a lot of people overlook because, you know, again,
going kind of back to the basics of plant metabolism, what do plants do?
Well, they kind of grow in the presence of light, obviously, because if you didn't have
any sunlight on a plant, it wouldn't really be growing.
So plants are almost defined by the fact that they're exposed to light.
And then they use that energy from the light to reduce carbon chemically.
There's a chemical reduction process that takes place.
So typically what happens is with most of the macronutrients, like the nitrogens and
the phosphorus and potassium and calcium and so on and so forth, those are tools that plants
use to capture carbon or to store it or to kind of move it around or to make it more
useful for their own primary benefits.
Silicon is really interesting because it's one of the few that kind of exists directly
underneath carbon.
And so it has this kind of similar property carbon to property to carbon.
And you know, like I mentioned earlier, the easiest way to understand the benefits of
silicon is to kind of accept at face value that it replaces all of the needs, the structural
mechanical needs of carbon.
And so if you're looking at plants that take up a lot of silicon, like rice, for example,
or even curcubits like cucumbers and squash, sugar cane is another example of a plant that
takes up a lot of silicon.
You know, these types of crops, they do really well from the exposure to silicon, partially
because they take it up and they use it for their mechanical benefits.
I mean, think about like a greenhouse that's made out of glass, for example, the glass
in there prevents the water from evaporating.
And so this property is no different from what you would expect on the plants.
In other words, if you spray the plants and they do take up that silicon and they do deposit
that silicon on the outside of their cell walls, you can expect that cell wall to basically
be like a greenhouse glass panel.
So in the presence of really intense light, those plants will not dehydrate from the inside
out.
And this is very much so true.
This is one of the reasons that why silicon has been shown to be so beneficial during
times of drought stress, for example, or heat stress or light intense new stress.
It's specifically because when silicon contributes to the formation of cell walls, it makes it
functionally just like a greenhouse glass panel where you prevent the light or I'm sorry,
you prevent the water from evaporating from the inside out.
So you have this inherent functional advantage from the plant's perspective to be able to
store more water inside of its cells.
And if you were to swap that piece of silicon out with carbon, what you would find is that
the permeability, in other words, the ability of the light intensity or the electron intensity
to penetrate that carbon sort of glass layer is a lot higher overall.
So during times of stress, when the plants are subject to really high light intensity,
you would want silicon in substitute of carbon because it's mechanically, you know, structurally
it's bigger.
It just takes up more space.
And so it can better resist that stress.
Yeah.
That's a leaf load.
Yeah.
It's, I think there's a certain amount of energy credits that the plant has.
Right.
And if you allow the movement of that carbon energy to a different aspect of the plant,
you're going to increase the need to generate that carbon by utilizing the silicon as well
as the beneficial nature of it's helping to increase the plant cell wall strength and
structural integrity.
You're going to benefit.
I think a lot of the times it's, we don't think about the plant energy, right?
Everything that happens to the plant requires energy.
When you pull a leaf off, it requires, the plant has to use some energy to heal itself.
When you overwater it or you underwater it, those stresses, the plant has to spend its
energy, its bank, its credits, its energy credits on those items to help deal with those
stresses.
And so having that ability to allow that energy to be redirected elsewhere where the plant
may need it instead of utilizing it for the creation of structures, I think is definitely
got to be very beneficial for the plant.
Rice as you mentioned, absolutely.
You can't grow rice without silicon.
And there's a lot of the aqueous type of plants that really require it.
One of the things that I saw and you also mentioned was that it is known for helping
them protect against it.
And both of you actually mentioned it, which was the protecting it against fungal pathogens
to such a degree that the herbicide application may not be needed as much because of the fact
that you have this and that siliceous plant defense molecule that is activated by some
phytolexins means that some of them are signaling substances produce acquired immunity.
So if you don't have that, the plant can actually react with increased production of
some of the defensive substances as well.
So it's definitely one of the things that are important to balance.
I know you also, I think we're going one of the directions we seem to be going that you
mentioned had to talking with the ability of the plant to really in some ways reduce
the amount of water required for the plant because you're able to reduce some of the
transpiration rates.
Yeah, yeah, there's some benefits there, too.
And I just really quickly just want to kind of point out some of the more nuanced bits
of silicic acid chemistry.
And it sounds like salicylic acid, which you might expect to find from like willow bark
extract, which is salix alba, who's obviously named after the plant.
But silicic acid or silica is just kind of misleading because, as I mentioned earlier,
if you just take two molecules of water, if you got H2O times two and you have SiO2, which
is just a single molecule of silicon dioxide, then you've got your orthosilic acid.
And so when people talk about silicic acid, just think about it like hydrated silicon
dioxide.
In other words, you've taken water and you've added it to silicon dioxide, which makes up
like most of their crust is pretty much abundant everywhere on this planet.
There's this thing that happens that's uncontrollable.
And it's called the polymerization or the speciation of that silicon that's inside of
there, because when silica is hydrated, it doesn't stay stable.
When we're talking about nitrogen and phosphorus and potassium, calcium, magnesium, all
these other plant elements, their behavior is more predictable.
But when we're talking about silicon in terms of plant biochemistry, we're talking about
something that is inherently unstable over a long period of time.
In other words, the plants, when they take up that silicic acid, they have a certain
amount of time to try to figure out what to do with it before it spontaneously condenses.
And the problem is that, think about it this way, when you have two water molecules and
silicon dioxide, it makes a single monomer.
It makes a single unit called silicic acid.
When that silicic acid exists in a solution, like if you have one liter of water and that
solution of water, that liter of water is full of other silicon or silicate or silicic
acid rich products, you have this effect called the polymerization, which is where one of
these monomers meets the other monomer and they say, hey, let's be friends.
And they sort of link up physically, they link up together and they form a physical
connection.
And what happens is over time that silica forms from monomers, it forms polymers.
From one, it forms many.
So these polymers start to form and as it polymerizes, silicon itself has this really
weird property.
And the easiest way to describe this property is to imagine a bowling ball.
And if you have a bowling ball that's slightly lopsided just on one little side of it, you
can imagine as you're rolling this ball, it's going to bounce or it's going to like somehow
dip or it's going to have this awkward motion.
And this is the exact same thing that happens with silicic acid is that it tends to condense
and it tends to polymerize.
And so you get this cyclization that happens.
So these monomers turn into polymers and the polymers eventually will cyclize.
So the end of one of these polymers will meet the beginning of itself and it will form basically
like a circle.
And as it polymerizes and it forms this cycle and the cyclization starts to occur, you get
insoluble silicate precipitants.
So for those of you who have ever mixed silica and CalMag together, for example, or maybe
silica and some base nutrients that should have been mixed together, you may notice that
there's this little bit of precipitation that occurs.
There's almost like a gel or a little bit of a solid substance that starts to fall out
of solution.
And that's specifically what happens when silica polymerizes with other substances like
calcium.
There's this joke about how to avoid making drywall in your reservoir.
I mean, imagine watering a piece of drywall.
Imagine you actually went to Home Depot, you actually bought a piece of drywall and you're
actually trying to water it in as though it's going to provide a water-soluble source of
calcium.
It's never going to do that.
So there's no amount of water that will make that substance soluble.
And so if you see that happening in your reservoir, typically what's going on is that there's
a little bit of precipitation that's occurring that's not good.
It's locking the silicon out.
What you want to avoid is this polymerization, this sort of locking out effect that happens
with silicon.
You want to try to find a way to protect the silicon, maybe complex it with some organic
acids that prevent it from polymerizing, prevent it from falling out.
Jason, I know that you wanted to say something about 10 seconds ago, so this is probably
a good spot to let you hop in here.
Yeah, no, I think that was one of the warnings and cautions and items that was important
for those who are unfamiliar with silicon and have seen so many people use it.
I also think it's something that, again, because 90% of the Earth's crust is made out of it,
it's not something that was as prevalent of as an issue until we did a lot of indoor
growing and a lot of these soilless mediums because you don't have that present.
Silicon isn't there in some of these mediums, especially if you're talking about like a
bark or a peat moss or cocoa, well, cocoa might have some in there, but a lot of these
soilless mediums are not going to have that silicon in there, and so you don't have that
thing that's naturally occurring to benefit your plant.
One of those things that definitely has come out of the indoor growing push is probably
this need.
I mean, I personally have had to use additional calcium boosts even in growing tomatoes because
tomatoes will use a lot of calcium, and if you're not growing them in a big enough pot,
they'll eat up the calcium that's available to the plant in that pot, and you'll get these
black spots on the bottoms of your tomatoes because of that lack of calcium.
You know, Mike, you hit something spot on, Jason, is the fact that a lot of this didn't...
A lot of the problems even we're seeing in plants didn't even really start happening
like PM at a large rate until we started moving indoors, and that's where I wanted to kind
of like tag on to what you were saying earlier that silica essentially has been used in the
larger ag industry since the early 90s at a large scale, even for breeding.
It's a common tool to essentially pop as many of whatever you're growing, say it's cucumbers,
and you induce the greenhouse with the conditions for powdery mildew after a treatment of silica,
and then you cull all the ones that produce like PM, and then you breed all the ones that don't,
and you keep going down the line until you have none that produce or that are susceptible to PM.
And the reason they found this is exactly what you said is once they started using peat moss
and cocoa, which has little to no... I have the numbers somewhere, but it has like little to no silica,
and definitely not long term. Even if it does, it's going to be kind of like taken up pretty quick if it's not put back in.
Yeah, I mean, it's used in a lot of crops.
I mean, they use it in the flower industry because it gives you bigger flower heads, actually.
And again, rice, sugar cane, most of those water-based crops that are not being grown in a soil type of a medium,
they also use it.
And as you know, lots of different forms of it all have shown, even in back to what Nick was saying earlier,
in different types of preparations of it, whether it was rice hull ash or potassium silicate powder,
or high concentrate versions with weakly substrate drenches of soluble potassium silicate,
all of them showed benefits towards either stock growth or flower head size.
In what I was reading, zinnias, acapella, ring of fire, helenthias.
So it's different types of plants are going to react differently to those different types of forms of silicon.
Yeah, yeah. It's worth mentioning that there's crops that are typically designated as accumulating a lot of silicon.
So we're talking about rice, sugar cane, monocots typically at this point.
Then there's crops that accumulate intermediate amounts of silicon.
These would be things like squash and cucumbers.
And then there's crops that accumulate lower amounts of silicon, such as maybe cannabis or tomatoes.
You know, the way of categorizing these plants based on their silicon accumulation
has little to do with their actual benefits as far as how silicon actually affects the plants.
In other words, there's some advantage that even plants that tend to accumulate silicon in low concentrations,
like tomatoes, for example, or cannabis, even those crops have a high response to silicon.
And so the question has always been, well, how is that true?
If we're looking at rice, for example, we can see that rice on an ash test, for example, or as Jason mentioned,
rice hulls, this is a very common K and F input because it provides silicon dioxide for the soil.
It's very structurally important and mechanically important.
So, you know, mechanically looking at a piece of silicon going up from the soil to the rice hole itself is very simple.
The more complex question is, well, how does a plant that does not take up a lot of silicon
respond so profoundly in the presence of silicon?
And this is where I think that sort of invisible benefit comes into play, which is that,
again, silicon exists right underneath the periodic table of elements, right underneath carbon.
And there's something to be said about that. There's a major thing to be said about that.
There's a very, very big thing to be said about that, that silicon can kind of swap carbon
in the context of reinforcing the plants and their cellular structures
to some of this disease pressure that comes in or to some of the environmental stress pressures that come in.
I mean, again, with the mechanical lodging benefits, if you have your plants dehydrated on a really hot day,
if those cells are reinforced with silica, that silicon, just like a piece of glass,
physically prevents the plants from wilting.
And so when scientists and researchers are looking at the benefits of silicon, they notice, you know,
goodness, we sprayed silicon on these plants and then a week later,
we subjected them to dehydration stress, we removed all the water from them,
and the plants stayed firm, they stayed upright, they did not wilt over.
And that, again, is because of that mechanical property, it behaves like glass,
it physically prevents plants from shrouding over, from bending over.
But then there's this invisible benefit of, you know, the carbon would have otherwise done that.
In fact, a lot of carbon is required to do something like that.
So instead of funneling all that carbon towards that process,
the plants were able to take that carbon and to do something else with it.
And this is where the specific interface between the mechanical and biochemical properties,
the silicon kind of interface, because it's interesting to the extent that silicon benefits crops
because it both, it sort of provides a mechanical barrier, and to the same exact extent,
it also sort of stimulates the plant to metabolize silicon.
So you expose your plants to this element silicon,
and all of a sudden they have a greater appetite for silicon,
because they know that this element right here, if they have greater access to it,
will allow them to partition greater energy reserves,
in some cases, 20%, 25% of their energy could go towards producing more
compounds that don't have to do with mechanical resistance.
Because if silicon can fit that role, there's a massive, massive amount of energy
that's freed up for the plants to say, great, if I've got some kind of fungal pathogen,
or if I've got some kind of aphid pressure, disease pressure, some kind of insect pressure,
I can use the carbon to create some kind of secondary metabolite.
And I just want to mention real quick too, that when we're talking about plants
that accumulate silicon in terms of their defensive abilities,
what we find statistically looking at plants is that silicon stops behaving
in a defensive capacity when you get much above the size of an aphid.
In other words, when we're looking at compounds that actually physically,
structurally contain silicon, those compounds are just meant to ward off simple bugs,
you know, that would crawl around on the leaf surface.
These are called phytoliths.
The phytoliths themselves are like these structural non-glandular trichomes.
They accumulate a lot of silica, and they form a physical defensive barrier,
much like a point or a spike.
And for those of you who have ever seen one of those, you know,
SEM scanning electron microscopy pictures, you've seen some of these silicate structures.
They actually form a physical sharp defensive barrier against plants
that would otherwise crawl around on the leaf surface.
But the interesting part to note about that is that at a certain point,
the silicon itself stops behaving as a defense mechanism against particular,
let's call it environmental pressures, whether they're biotic or abiotic.
It just seems like most of the defensive compounds plants have produced for,
like macro herbivores, for instance, have carbon inside of their structures, not silicon.
So when we're talking about substances that deter larger predators away from plants,
those substances typically do not contain silicon.
They contain only carbon.
So there's this really interesting facet of silicon chemistry
that's kind of carved out and reserved at looking at specific sizes of predators to say,
isn't it really interesting to note that all plants typically have this cutoff point
where silica is no longer useful as the primary defensive barrier against this type of predator.
And it just has to do with how big that predator is.
Again, anything from fungi that are microscopic to something like an aphid or a leaf miner insect,
those are the ranges at which that silicon can be utilized by the plant to actually form
a defensive compound or defensive structure toward that thing away.
Anything above that, it's likely going to contain carbon and not silicon.
And to, oops, sorry, Jason.
Go ahead, Matt.
Jump on in.
Oh, I was going to say, like the two, I think most important, or no, I don't think,
the two most important abiotic stresses that limit even just food production across the world
are salinity and drought.
And drought, we've kind of already hit on, but it's massive.
And especially as the climates change, I mean, look at California,
a whole section of it went through drought this year.
But then at the same time, salinity, like stress, is a common thing in cannabis growing.
And I don't know if we want to go down that yet, but the salt stress
suppression ability of silica is quite interesting itself.
And the mineral, like toxicity, like suppression ability as well.
Yeah, yeah.
And silica has this ability to form silicates, which is why we chose to call this silicon
as opposed to silica or silicates.
Silica is a form of silica dioxide or silicon dioxide.
Obviously, that's just silicon interacting with oxygen.
But if you were to take a sample of the Earth's crust, what you would find is that
silicon interacts with a lot of different chemicals.
You know, silicon interacts with calcium.
That was the subject of tonight's discussion, how to avoid making drywall in your reservoir.
And as Jason mentioned earlier, calcium, when it meets silicon,
makes a substance called calcium silicate, which for those of you who are trying to set
up blast-proof rooms, ironically enough, if you guys are looking to set up like hydrocarbon
extraction, if you're doing butane extraction, BHO or PHO or something like that, it's very
likely that the fire department will legally require you guys to use calcium silicate drywall
because it has a burn rate of approximately one sheet per hour.
And so you have a fire-retardant effect in place with this calcium silicate.
So it's a little bit ironic that when people apply calcium nutrition to calcium-heavy crops
like cannabis, you know, cannabis does accumulate a lot of calcium.
In fact, it accumulates more calcium than phosphorus.
And I would argue to some extent, it could even accumulate more calcium than nitrogen,
although that's maybe grounds for a different discussion.
It's kind of safe to say that you don't want silicon to necessarily interact negatively
with calcium, which is one of those cations.
Another one would be maybe magnesium, where you have magnesium silicate.
This is a form of silicate that I think is referred to as green sand.
Most often, it's a sort of a biologically friendly form.
It releases a little bit more slowly and the magnesium is smaller than the calcium.
So its dissipation chemistry is perhaps more friendly.
But really what you're looking for, in my opinion, is a soluble potassium silicate.
And to kind of take one step back, we looked earlier at this question, this hypothetical
question of what's the difference between...
If I told you, hey, what's hydrated silicon dioxide versus orthosilicic acid, if you looked
at the molecular formulas, there's really no difference.
You take two molecules of water, you add them to silicon dioxide, and you have orthosilicic
acid.
So, you know, there's this question of how to get silica and silicon to behave friendly
in a plant nutrient program.
And I think the best way to do it in cannabis so far has proven out to be a potassium silicate
type of substance.
And all of the fancy orthosilicic acid products like the Power SIs, there used to be a product
called OSA28.
OSA stands for orthosilicic acid.
Those types of products were just soluble silicic acid at a really low pH.
Now, the Agsil type products, those potassium silicates, those are a little bit typically
a higher pH.
And we make a potassium silicate-based product called Silica Skin.
And it's sort of designed in such a way so as it behaves like orthosilicic acid, so it'll
be plant-friendly and plant-available while maintaining sort of a different chemistry
altogether.
Because, you know, these orthosilicic products, they're sometimes $1,000 to $2,000 a gallon.
So if you can get something for like $45, $50 a gallon and still maintain all the benefits,
that's really what you want.
And as I was mentioning earlier, the real key here is like you can't just take some...
You know, let's just say you're trying to be cheap about it, right?
Let's just say hypothetically you find a piece of glass on the side of the road and you say,
well, can't I just grind this piece of glass up and make glass powder and then add that
glass powder into the soil and water and expect it to turn into the form that I want?
And the short answer is no.
Because on a molecular level, what you're looking for is silicon dioxide that's been
hydrated with two molecules of water.
This is something that's very specific.
It doesn't just occur as a result of breaking down some, you know, fireproof drywall or
something like that or running it through a Vitamix blender or something like that.
You know, there's some chemistry that has to be factored in here.
Because if you want to sort of protect the ability of silicon to interact well with the
plants, really what you're doing, what you're trying to do is drive the maximum amount of
silicon into the plants as you can.
And this is why I think a potassium silicate base material makes a lot of sense.
Because yes, it is a high pH substance, whereas the orthosilicic acids are low pH.
But there's no difference between the two.
Because again, orthosilicic acid is just hydrated silicon dioxide.
And silica precipitates in this weird way where it polymerizes and then it turns into
a cycle in a cyclic species.
And as the snowball gets bigger and bigger, it becomes more and more insoluble.
So potassium silicates have always been this kind of like sort of, you know, good compound
to deliver silicon to the plants because it pushes most of that silicon towards this available
phase for the plants.
The plants can take it up.
You don't need to supply a whole lot.
They can take it up.
It is available to them immediately.
It's rapidly there for them.
And it's something that can be used to incorporate into the cell walls to then provide a sort
of a carbon-based benefit to the plants overall.
I wonder how...
All right.
I just told on Matt, just to cut to stop right there.
I just want to take a second.
We are at the hour mark.
And I'd like to relight the room because we've been in here for an hour.
We've been going for a little while here.
So just to give a quick reset, anybody who has been listening in who hasn't already joined
the Future Cannabis Project, please click on the little green house at the top and join
the Future Cannabis Project.
Please give a follow to all the speakers up here.
Nick, Ryan, our new friends, Ricard and Shavin, and of course, Peter and myself.
Please make sure you follow us.
Check out our Instagram profiles.
Give us a follow there.
We are here every week at 9 p.m. Eastern, 6 p.m. Pacific time.
This room is being recorded and rebroadcast or simulcast on YouTube on the Future Cannabis
Project channel.
So thank you, everybody, for joining us tonight.
Our conversation is about silicon.
And we've gone into the basic discussion about what silicon is as an element.
We've talked about how prevalent it is.
We've talked about how it has an extremely high melting or boiling point, which does
make it ideal for being combined with calcium and making a fireproof drywall and other uses,
highly used in many different types of industries.
And even just to add on to some of the conversation, the glass in that greenhouse also is a form
of silicon that is helping the plants in those cases.
So it's another form of silicon that is helping plants grow by having a greenhouse with glass.
That silicon is helping with that growth.
And I'm joined tonight by my good friend, Nick, and the crew from The Rooted Leaf.
So please give The Rooted Leaf a follow on Instagram.
And of course, Matt Gnarly Roots.
Ryan is with us as well.
Please give him a follow.
A fellow citizen scientist, along with myself, who just love learning about these topics.
So to jump back in to the topic, Matt, do you want to pick up where we left off?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I was just going to circle back with Nick to your comment on the calcium uptake and
or just nutrient uptake in general.
You know, it's kind of interesting that it does, you know, force or force or, you know,
like push the plant to uptake more nutrients broad spectrum.
But from and correct me if I'm wrong, from everything that I've read and kind of understood
is it also in a unique way has a balancing effect that especially and I want to bring
us up for a lot of these like long term living soil systems where maybe some people aren't
having the access or the ability to test all the time, especially for metal toxicity.
Things like, you know, like aluminum, you know, and then manganese and a couple others
that are kind of dangerous and high, high levels that are neutralized or suppressed by
silica, which is, I think, huge in long term systems when you are worried,
especially as a medical patient to metal toxicities.
Yeah, yeah.
And that has something to do with the reactivity of silicon, you know, as we've been kind of
talking about, it kind of reacts with calcium and it reacts with magnesium.
It's going to react with aluminum, too.
And so it's kind of interesting.
I feel like if I could just have like one default response when people think about silicon,
what's the first thing that they think of if I could kind of plant a nugget in everyone's
head or just a little bit of a seed?
The one thing I would say is think about silicon as it relates to carbon metabolism.
There's so much of a gain in energy that plants have by using silicon in place of carbon that
we open up this whole vast universe of trying to figure out like, well, how does the plant,
you know, the plant doesn't take up a lot of silicon.
So what are some of the explanations for some of these responses?
Well, you know, in my perspective, it obviously comes back to carbon and carbon chemistry.
It has to do with how the plants have this mechanical and biochemical advantage.
One of the things with silicon in particular is that the plants themselves, as they grow,
they're producing compounds like organic acids, for example.
And as these organic acids are excreted and secreted from the roots, they have this charge
on them.
And that charge, that negative charge meets the positive charge of some of these cations,
like the aluminum, for example, and it creates a bond.
And that chemical bond can be defined by what's called a stability constant, which is, you
know, how strong is that bond?
How much energy do you have to put into that bond before that bond breaks, right?
Because if the bond is very thermally stable and it forms a thermally stable complex, then
the plants are going to struggle massively to access whatever is inside and being held
together by those bonds.
This is what you want when you're talking about lead, mercury, cadmium elements that
you don't want your plants to have.
Nobody wants that.
People want calcium.
It's good for your bones.
It's good for your teeth.
It's good for your stomach.
It's good for all these things.
People want magnesium.
People want potassium.
So when the plants are in the soil, they're kind of looking to the same extent.
They're looking at these elements and saying, I don't want the aluminum.
I don't want the cadmium.
I don't want the mercury.
I don't want the lead.
And they have this sort of refined ability to make these substances that have a binding
power.
They can sort of be secreted from the roots.
And once they're outside of the roots, as soon as they meet these substances, they bond
with them.
And the bonding strength, again, is so large that the plants don't have the ability.
They say, well, even if I wanted to access that, I couldn't because the strength of that
bond is too great for me to break apart.
It takes way too much energy.
This is one of the benefits with silica is that in the presence of some of these organic
acids like flavonoids, silica can participate in what's called speciation or precipitation
reactions where you get insoluble complexes formed.
Kind of taking it one step back, looking at it, plants don't have teeth.
They can't chew through stuff.
They can't just mow their way through the soil.
They depend on things being soluble.
So as the moisture comes into the soil, and as moisture is released by fungi and microbes
and through hydration reactions, things like that, the water that's in the soil is what
carries some of these dissolved minerals, dissolved nutrients into the plants.
And so there's only so much space that you can fit pieces of calcium and magnesium, potassium
and nitrogen, and maybe a dozen or so other elements inside of a single droplet of water.
What you don't want to do is take up the space by putting some aluminum or some kind
of contaminant inside of there.
That's what you want to avoid.
And so for the past, as I mentioned earlier, about an hour ago, there was some research
that was done at the University of Hawaii in the 1960s, kind of before I think silica
had kind of caught traction.
Because by the early to mid 1800s, scientists had already kind of dismissed silicon and
said, well, it's not really essential for plant growth.
We can grow plants in inter-culture without silicon and therefore it's not required.
And so silicon was kind of ignored for, lack of a better phrase, completely ignored for
about 100 to 150 years.
And so as people have been studying it more and more recently, they've been kind of determining
like, hey, there's these kind of invisible benefits that are associated with silicon
and carbon being so close in terms of their elemental properties.
The plants almost use silicon in the place of carbon in some kind of context.
That could help explain the sort of weird interface between plants that don't take up
a lot of silicon and have a massive response to silicon anyways, despite not taking up
a whole bunch of it.
They see the throughput come out in secondary metabolite biosynthesis.
For example, flavonoids being produced, organic acids, terpenes, cannabinoids, things like
that are all produced in response to silicon.
And like I mentioned, that kind of puzzling, head-scratching moment for scientists has
been, well, what does that mean?
Because the plants don't take up a lot of this element, so how do they have this profound
response?
What happens?
And it specifically has to do with that physical chemical sort of similarity between silicon
and carbon.
But the phenolic compounds that are exuded in response to aluminum stress and things
like that, that's where silicon can kind of interface and form aluminum silicate compounds,
for example.
These aluminum silicate compounds, not very available for the plants to take up.
So what I will say is that in an excess of silicate-rich sort of environment, the plants
will look around it because, again, to kind of go back to it, plants, silicon dioxide
is, silicon is sort of the second most abundant element in the earth, and silicon dioxide
makes up like some major percentage of the earth's crust.
So as plants grow, they don't really have a choice.
They can't really ignore silicon.
Even if they don't take up a whole lot of silicon, they can't really ignore it.
And the strategy has been, instead of taking up that silicon, what plants do is they use
the sort of chemical properties of silicon in the soil to release organic acids that
interact with that silicon and then bind out some of the stuff that the plants don't need,
such as aluminum.
An interesting fact, I got sent on the back on Instagram, the back channel on Instagram,
as opposed to through YouTube or through the back channel here, is that even that volcanic
ash has a tremendous amount of silicon in it as well.
So all the ash and things that are getting spewed out within the lava and the volcanic
ash that comes out has tremendous spikes of that in there as well.
Actually, at the beginning, I wanted to point out when you said that there's no places on
earth with, or there's very little, no place on earth with pure silicon.
Yeah.
One of them is Russia, the volcanic exhaust pipes.
I think they're in Siberia.
They measured them, I think it was in like the 90s or whatever, and they figured out
that they're almost pure silicon, which is pretty cool.
Yeah.
So would lava rock be high in silicon?
Yes.
Yeah, I think it would be.
It's just maybe, for lack of a better term, it would just be a reflection of what came
inside of the earth's crust, which is primarily silicon, plus the fact that we have a lot of
oxygen inside of the atmosphere of this planet.
It tends to oxidize things, and so oxidized silicon is referred to as silicon dioxide.
This is the most basic form, building blocks of quartz.
We use it for computer chips and all kinds of crazy stuff.
But for plants, the important thing, again, is to understand two things.
One is that when you put two molecules of water with a single molecule of silicon dioxide,
that's kind of the very first form, that molecule is the very first form that's available
for plants to take up.
So that's the very first thing.
The second thing is that once plants take it up, silicon has its own kind of chemistry.
Even if the plants wanted to contain it, it would require a massive energy expenditure.
And without going too far into it, it has specifically to do with how silicon itself
forms chemical bonds in such a way as to maximize the silicon to oxygen bonds.
And so you have this really weird effect of silicon basically dehydrating water.
And so regardless of the pH, if it's acidic or it's alkaline, you're going to get some
polymerization that either forms in beads at a higher pH, and so you get this precipitation
that's like marbles that actually falls out of solution.
Or if it's a little bit more acidic, you get this actual gel polymer that forms.
So silicon, in other words, has its mind made up, and plants, despite all of their prowess,
aren't really destined to kind of mess with it to a certain extent.
What they're looking at doing is taking the smallest piece of silicon that they can,
taking it up, and then finding a way to allow it to polymerize, to form its natural complexes,
to kind of grow in size and get to a certain shape and structure where it fits in the spot
that it needs to fit, and then it physically can't grow anymore.
This is what plants utilize silicon for.
This is how it benefits the formation of cell walls, particularly in plants that accumulate
a lot of silicon.
The sort of polymerization of silica is not a function of how the plants want to change
silica.
It's a function of how silicon decides to change whether the plants really have an input
or not, if that kind of makes sense.
So when left to its own natural sort of state, silicon will polymerize in and of itself.
This is how and why, if you guys have ever heard of the phenomena of silicon crystals
growing, this is how they grow.
Silicon will sort of polymerize by itself naturally over time.
So plants have evolved mechanisms to kind of appreciate this and to kind of make it
benefit them, sort of at the trade-off of not having to expend the energy that it would
take to form cellulose or some other cell wall constituent like pectinic acid residues.
And make a structural compound that can be passively taken up.
I think one of the things I forgot to mention earlier was that silicon in the form of silicic
acid is taken up passively by plants.
Again, it's just hydrated silicon dioxide.
So when you have water and the plants take up water passively through the transpiration
stream, that water can carry a little bit of silicon with it.
You know, in natural environments, it's present in concentrations up to about 100 ppm, which
is fairly large and fairly significant.
For those of you who have like Power SI products or something like that, you know, read the
label, look at the concentration, you know, do some math and see how many ppms of silicon
you're getting as a result of diluting it and using that product.
And then you'll find that naturally speaking, the soils around you can actually provide
more silicon than some of these very expensive and concentrated products.
But you want to try to avoid the polymerization of that.
And again, there's a little snaggle tooth in the equation, which is that cannabis plants
really like to take up minerals like calcium, for example, and potassium is another big
one, in fact, greater than calcium.
You know, potassium silicate is soluble, but calcium silicate is not soluble.
And magnesium silicate is sparingly soluble in water.
So the question has always been how in the context of growing cannabis, how do you supply
enough of the macro mineral concentrations like the calcium for specific example, and
not decrease the silica?
And I think the answer to all of that has been the use of organic acids.
And the reason that I mentioned that specifically is because plants, when they make their cell
walls, plants versus humans have this interesting difference of actually having a rigid wall.
Plants have a rigid wall.
Humans do not have a rigid wall.
This rigidity in the wall can be reinforced by silica and silicon-rich substances.
And lo and behold, it turns out that plants depend on the utilization of certain types
of organic acids to actually form these types of silicon compounds that would be useful
in making cell walls.
To kind of that extent, if you looked at plants like horsetail, for example, you would find
that horsetail is rich in these sort of silicate-rich compounds that define its cell walls and other
structures.
And you could kind of repurpose those and try to use them.
I suppose to make a fertilizer, for example, if you wanted to have a silicon-rich fertilizer,
you could use horsetail.
I'm sure it's used in KNF.
Dr. Justin Marchegiani Absolutely.
Dr. Justin Marchegiani Probably.
Dr. Justin Marchegiani Absolutely.
I was gonna say horsetail is a fantastic FPGA ingredient.
It's one of theit's one of theit's a tremendous bioaccumulator.
So it does take up a lot of minerals and nutrients itself and its growth and is a tremendous
ingredient for use in Korean natural farming to make an FPGA out of.
So yeah, absolutely.
I was gonna definitely add on there.
So you know, just reading some of the YouTube stream that's going on, definitely some folks
talking about calling a couple plants that threw some nanners, it looks like.
But overall, there was justjust to circle back on the question, so you know, what is
a cheap way as opposed to buying those expensive products, you know, what iswhat is awhat's
a cheap way toto do that?
Howhow can I get, you know, directly available orthosilic acid cheaply is the question from
Perpetual and followed up with somebody else said, so use green sand in veg and then Power
SI in flour.
Is it better to just use one sparingly?
So I'll kinda let you take those two together.
Dr. Justin Marchegiani Yeah, you know, silicon for this reason is
actually kind of fairly complex to talk about because, you know, it's almost like carbon,
it sort of sits underneath carbon.
You can't really talk about silicon and the availability of silicon without looking at
the different phases of silicon.
And when I say phase, I just mean like, think about, generally speaking, if I give you some
silica, like a piece of glass, for example, you could water that glass all day, it's never
going to be soluble in water, right?
That's not what plants take up.
They take up a soluble form.
And so at a certain molecular shape or format, the silicon for plants becomes available for
them to take up.
And so really what we're looking to do as fertilizer manufacturers or scientists is
to try to figure out what are some of these forms that silicon is most available for the
plants.
And because we know the Earth's crust, for example, being very rich in silicon dioxide,
99.9% of that silicon dioxide that's in the Earth's crust is not available for the plants
to take up.
So what are some of the tricks?
What are some of the tools that we can use to kind of make that silicon a little bit
more available?
And I will say that there's no real, like if you're strictly just trying to look at
it from a scientist's perspective, if you're trying to give your plants an actual maximized
soluble form of silica, unfortunately, I would say without trying to have too heavy of a
sales pitch, you would probably want to look at buying a potassium silicate product.
We make a really good product called silica skin that's like that.
But really what we're trying to do is push the hot potato towards this realm of having
the silicon be most available for the plants.
Because again, just kind of taking a look back at it, most of the silicon that's on
the Earth's crust exists in a format that's not available for the plants to take up.
So we can add as much water as we want.
We can do all these things.
Unless we really get down to the chemistry of it, that silicon is not going to be available
for the plants.
So what you have to do is modify the chemistry of it.
And that can't really occur without one of two things happening.
One is you either have to buy a product that has the chemistry already kind of figured
out, or on the flip side, you have to try to find a way to load a lot of carbon inside
of your plants, or maybe use something that's like organic acid based type of product, or
maybe encourage some kind of microbial activity.
The other opposite end of the spectrum is to look at silicate weathering and say, well,
how does it occur in nature?
How do plants naturally access silica from silica-rich types of minerals?
There's hundreds of different mineral composites out there that have silicon inside of them.
What plants do is they produce organic acids, they produce flavonoids, they produce sort
of what are called secondary metabolites or terminal intermediary metabolites of carbon
metabolism.
And these compounds are used by plants to try to sort of figure out, like, how do I
free up this piece of phosphorus or this piece of magnesium or this piece of silicon from
the soil?
That's one of the things you could look at doing.
But again, what it kind of comes down to is that there's this dynamic kind of naturally,
it's a little bit of a paradox, but the dynamic is that most of the silicon is unavailable
for plants.
And really the best benefits that you get are when that silicon is most available.
So it makes sense to try to make that silicon as available as you can, right?
So in a natural setting, it sounds really good.
However, the problem is specifically for cannabis, that calcium is such a macronutrient for cannabis
plants and calcium just physically will react with silicon.
It will make something that's very insoluble.
And so it's almost like you either have to ferment some rice holes or you have to do
something, I won't say extreme, but you have to find a really intentional and thoughtful
way of making silicon available for your plants.
Because it's not something that you can just think about passively and say, well, I'm just
going to give this green sand or something like that to the plants because it's going
to be a biologically available form of silicon.
Not really.
If you looked at it in terms of how many ppms of orthosilicic acid are being released, you're
likely to find that it's somewhere between one and 10, whereas the theoretical maximum
is closer to 100 to 150.
And so finding a way to deliver that 100 to 150 ppm of orthosilicic acid is where I think
some products like a potassium silicate-based product comes into play.
And to be fair, all of these orthosilicic acid products like Power SI, they start off
as potassium silicate.
That's the thing is, it's just I'm not under a nondisclosure agreement.
I know that Power SI and the guys that own that company, they are under a nondisclosure
agreement.
They can't talk about how that technology is made.
I can talk about it.
I don't have any contractual obligations.
You know, they call it water glass, basically.
High pressure potassium silicate.
So their parent material is a potassium silicate, and then they just react in the presence of
an inorganic acid with a really, really low pH, and they drive that pH down, and then
they give you a product that's very, very expensive.
But if you do the math, you'll find that it's less than 100 ppms of actual concentrated
orthosilicic acid.
So, yeah.
You should check your back channel, Nick, too, and see if you want to see if I have
something there and if we want to go down that.
Just a quick shout out to my buddy Spartan.
I see Spartan Growns on the chat, listening in on the YouTube side.
I appreciate you, brother.
It's been a while since I've joined you on the Cheap Home Grow, Growing with my Fellow
Growers show.
So I just wanted to say hi real quick.
There's an active chat going on today.
So always good to see people joining us in whatever platform or format they can.
I'm appreciative of everybody who takes the time to join us, listen in, and join in on
the conversation.
I see Ali's jumped up on stage.
Good to see you, Ali.
I was wondering where you were.
I hadn't seen you, and I knew eventually you were going to appear, or at least was
hoping that you would appear.
So thanks for joining us, Ali.
Good to see you.
Thanks for coming on up.
And I think at this point as well, we can talk a little bit further, but I think we
can open up for some questions at this point.
So if anybody down below has some questions or wants to come on up and add to the
conversation about Silicon.
We've been going for about an hour and a half now.
I think we've gone down pretty deep.
But there's an area that we haven't covered.
We haven't really talked too much about is I understand it does affect transpiration
rates of the plant and can affect the stomata as well.
So that's definitely a topic we can talk about, and its ability to possibly help with
reduction of water usage and some of those other things is a direction if we want to.
So I'll leave it there and see if anybody else wants to come on up and ask some questions.
I see we had Jolly join us.
So yeah.
I just want to say one thing real quick before Jolly and Ali, I know you have something to
say too.
Matt, you sent me a message on the back channel, and you had asked about humic acid and
sand.
And I think that's actually really interesting because yes, if you look, like generally
speaking, the way that plants make silicon available is through chemical weathering.
And chemical weathering is basically, you know, they take CO2 out of the air and they
make organic acids and they secrete that through the roots.
And as that is secreted through the roots, those acids will chemically wear away at the
silicate-rich compounds around them.
That weathering will allow the release of whatever that silicate is bonded to.
If it's a calcium silicate, for example, you may have some organic acid produced by a plant
that frees up the calcium or frees up the silicon portion of it.
So you have this sort of dual uptake purpose.
And so the primary formation, you know, the primary sort of pathway of soil formation
across the earth for the past 100 million to 250 million years has been through the
release of organic acids by land colonizing plants.
And this is a very important aspect of silicon chemistry.
And the other, sort of the dovetail into that in humic acid chemistry is that, well, what
are humic acids?
Well, humic acids are just a sort of a broad umbrella, you know, term of categorizing plant
produced organic acids that have been secreted and exuded and have composted for a very long
time, hundreds of millions of years.
But they have not lost that acidic charge, hence the acid portion of it.
So this humic acid, think about it like an organic acid, and that organic acid will also
help weather away some of the silicates and allow that silicic acid to be released.
So yeah, Matt, you're right.
If you theoretically took humic acid and added it into sand, you could, you know, have sort
of a rough sketch of what soil eventually looks like.
You'd have to add maybe a couple of chemical reactions and maybe do something a little
bit more fine-tuned from there.
But that's effectively what soil is.
Yeah, so that was my impression, because in the beginning of my greenhouse management
degree, I made a comment to one of my teachers about a little passive gruff that, well, they're
starting to put sand and compost in Home Depot for filler weight.
I thought I was being all smart.
And his response was completely different than what I thought.
I thought I was going to get echo chamber, but I was actually taught properly by a teacher.
And he was saying that, you know, like you were noting that people that are creating
this products are trying to create the best, well-rounded product.
And one thing that the large ag industry realized was, like we talked about earlier, was
in potted mediums where, you know, like misting, you know, like silica.
So they started putting sand in there because it's common in, you know, the large ag, you
know, the large ag industry to use a lot of these organic acids.
So they're trying to get, you know, like people the proper nutrients, not your added
weight.
Yeah, they got to balance off the fill, so to speak, right?
They got to put some of those things back in the pot if they're going to put the peat
and the cocoa and some of those other things that may not contain those minerals and nutrients
that we need.
Again, lots of questions about, you know, does rock dust have silica?
Lava rock, is lava rock high in silica?
Wallanite is a comment.
Wallastonite is a comment that I see on here, which is supposedly calcium and silicon.
And then there's also a comment about yucca.
Any comments about yucca, Nick?
Yeah, I mean, yucca to some extent can sort of interact with silicon in such a way to
sort of delay its polymerization.
So as silica kind of meets more and more silicon species in solution, it'll polymerize.
And the way that some of these surfactants work is to kind of spread that tendency of
polymerization out across a larger surface area.
So you get this sort of weird physiological effect where you can sort of disperse more
of these silicic acid compounds without a risk of polymerizing them, which, you know,
it's kind of a good way of doing it, particularly for species that may be like pore accumulator
or what are called pore accumulator species, you know, tomato, canola, and some of these
other plants.
They don't take up a lot of silicon, but they respond to a lot of the acid.
They don't take up a lot of silicon, but they respond very dramatically to that small
amount of silicon that they get.
So even if they don't have a substantial physical benefit, in other words, you can't necessarily
like take a leaf tissue sample and say, you know, wow, we experienced a 100 ppm or 200
ppm increase in silicon.
And that explains all of these effects.
I mean, even though you can't do that, you can still see and monitor and measure some
of these benefits.
And I think it's for that reason.
Awesome stuff.
Ollie Muffins, what do you got for us tonight, my friend?
Guys, I missed you so much.
I just want to say start off by that.
And I'm sure the YouTube contingent is saying, who the heck is this guy?
But I'm a clubhouser and we're clubbing buddies here.
And I haven't been on and I'm sorry I'm late, but I did jump on like at 720 Pacific, which
is 420 Hawaiian time.
Thanks for inviting me up, Nick.
Oh, where did Nick go?
Oh, there you go.
Thanks for inviting me up, Nick.
The other day, guys, I was walking the seawall here and I was observing the seagulls.
I think I told you, Jason, briefly, and they were taking like clam shells and oyster shells
and literally depositing them up shore.
And I was imagining the degradation.
How many times I've seen so many broken shells all the way up and kind of almost wondered
if the water had been there and kind of I had been taught before that the seagulls take
it and this is a part of the natural process.
And obviously, in that case, we're talking about calcium.
But I thought it was a beautiful example of nature kind of literally depositing something
from the ocean up and fertilizing the soil.
And Nick, you brought up the example of the humic acid and degradation.
So my question, I guess, is for us, to what extent are we responsible for preservation
of silicone availability in terms of preserving plant decay material?
So on large scale farms or even indoor, how much does that decaying material and allowing
the material to be available while it's decaying sort of?
How important is that to plants, to growth, and also, I think, to sustainability in our
operations?
I'd love if you speak about that.
And thank you for the room, guys.
Absolutely.
Great to have you with us.
I think we did talk a little bit about it before.
And I think especially with your indoor grows, silicone is something that you tend to have
to supplement unless you're using more of a natural soil basis.
And so you're going to have to use and bring silicone in, especially if you're using a
soilless medium.
The less soil, the more you have to bring in, because silicone itself is not something
we're ever going to run out of since it's so prevalent.
It makes up such a large percentage of the Earth's crust.
So from that standpoint, silicone is not something that we have to be concerned about from
that standpoint.
I do think it's always important to consider the sources and how those sources are created
before we consider putting them onto our crops.
Do you want to add on to that, Nick?
Yeah.
Yeah.
The floating thought that I had there was, if you think about orthosilicic acid, which
is that plant available form of silicone, it can make up about 100 ppm of solution and
100 parts per million.
The thing that kind of stands out to me is, well, what are the other 990,900 parts out
of that million?
Because if you've only got 100 parts in a million, you're dealing with a pretty small
amount overall.
So this is an important thing to kind of focus on because when we talk about silicone, really
what we're doing is dealing with something that's mostly unavailable for the plants.
We're dealing with compounds that are not soluble.
They're not available for the plants.
Not that the plants can ignore them effectively, but they're not really available for the plants
to take up.
And so the plants have to find a way to interact with silicone in the soil, even though they
don't necessarily take it up in such a great quantity.
And this has always been the kind of fascinating part about it because, again, kind of going
back to the research that was initially done by scientists in the 1800s and maybe the mid-1800s
as well, they had kind of come to this conclusion that we can grow plants in a completely inert
environment without the presence of silicone, and therefore we're going to go ahead and
consider silicone non-essential for plants.
They didn't really understand the particular nuances about how it benefits carbon chemistry
because of its specific mechanical and biochemical effects.
They kind of didn't really recognize that at the time.
And so it was considered non-essential for a very long time until recently when people
started looking at it and saying, well, it's got all these other benefits that have these
effects that are sort of not possible to describe with just saying it took up this piece of
silicone and therefore it helped maintain a rigid structure to the soil wall, and that's
why the insect didn't get in.
You can't really draw that kind of causal line between the silicone and some of the
benefits that are seen.
And that's, of course, what researchers are really stimulated by when they kind of have
something they can study that they don't understand what exactly is going on in that
realm of research.
And so they ask all these questions.
Could silica be contributing these effects because of X and Y and Z?
And that's really been the bread and butter of research in silicone chemistry over the
past five years specifically.
I will say that even 10 years ago in the United States, silicone was not really considered
an important macronutrient and certainly was not really present in anywhere except for
Florida where there's a lot of monocots that are grown.
There's a lot of sugarcane that's grown down in Florida.
And the sugarcane producers have been some of the few that have sort of adopted the practice
of treating silicone like an agricultural element for much beyond 10 years.
And it's really over the past five years that other producers of other crops have kind
of gotten involved and said, well, even though our crops don't take a lot of silicone, they
still have this massive response to silicone.
And the response itself is worth the money that we're putting into these types of products.
And to kind of, again, to go back to it, the nature of silicone chemistry is such that
it's almost always not available for the plants.
Again, 100 ppm, we'll see there are 990,000, 900 ppms, it's something else.
So if you can find a way to make silicone as available and concentrated to the plants,
if you can push the hot potato and play that game of hot potato and make it available for
the plants to such a great extent that they can benefit from it clearly every application,
then you're going to have some monumental increase in the productivity of your crops.
And it could have nothing at all to do with how much silica they actually took up.
It could have something to do with how that silicone interacted with the DNA of the plants
and helped them elicit some greater secondary metabolic response.
Does that kind of make sense?
Jolly, thanks for joining us.
I saw that you also asked a question on YouTube, is chitin silica or is that another show?
Is that the same question you have for us, Jolly, or do you have something else you wanted to bring up?
Yeah, I was wondering, do bananas have silica, like green bananas?
Yeah, yeah.
Can I ask?
Oh, shit, I scared Nick again.
But the difference, Jolly, you just made me think, I'm so interrupted, I'm so sorry,
I'm so sorry of the difference between a brown and a green banana and the silica they're in,
because you would assume there's a difference.
Nick, you with us?
Yeah, yeah, I just came back here.
There's kind of a floating thought that I had there about,
what was the first part of that question you had asked, Jolly, before the bananas?
Is chitin silica.
Oh, okay, yeah, yeah.
So, think about it this way.
When plants produce cellulose, that cellulose is kind of like the most primary thing that
they produce, because cellulose makes up all the cell walls of plants.
And so, in the plant kingdom, cellulose is what we call the most abundant natural,
sort of secondary metabolite or primary metabolite, I guess you could say,
however you categorize it, right?
Cellulose is produced by plants.
It happens to be a very abundant polymer.
It's the most abundant polymer in the natural world.
When fungi grow and crustaceans, instead of cellulose, they have something called chitosan
or chitin.
And chitin itself can be depolymerized and broken down as something called chitosan.
So, chitosan elicits a stress response from plants, but it itself is not a silicon-containing
substance.
It's sort of a polysaccharide.
It's a sugar, much like cellulose.
However, it does drive this response in plants.
I think the interesting benefit of silicon in plants is it stimulates the same sort of
pathway, which is this defensive pathway in plants.
So, it doesn't matter if you spray them with silicon or if you expose them to chitosan,
which is depolymerized chitin, that the plants will kind of have the same effect, which is
to produce secondary metabolites that ward off fungal pressures and disease pressures.
And the thing about chitin specifically is that it is a constituent of fungal cell walls.
And so, when plants produce chitinolytic enzymes, those enzymes break down the cell
walls and that turns it into chitosan.
And that's the biologically active format.
There's specific Daltons of molecular weight that's associated with the biologically active
fractions of chitin.
I don't want to get too far into that, but that's a little bit different than something
that's like a silicate-containing biostimulant.
But, I mean, they're both like hard things and they get taken up into the plant.
Silica is the green sand.
So, they don't interact together in like a bond somehow to form part of the walls that
are the outside of the stem and stuff?
No, no, because really what you're...
Again, the cellulose that's in plant cell walls may be independent of...
When we're just looking at cellulose, that's the chief structure of a cell wall when we're
talking about a plant.
When we're talking about a crustacean or fungi, we're looking at chitin as a primary
constituent of the cell wall.
So, when a fungi comes in and attacks the plants, the plant's natural defense is to
say, hey, screw you, I'm going to go and attack your cell wall because I want to kill you
from the inside out.
The plants produce these enzymes, chitinolytic, like chitinase enzymes, for example, like
trichoderma species of fungi produce chitinase enzymes.
These chitinase enzymes, they act on chitin to break chitin down into chitosan.
And I don't want to get too far down the terminological pathway here, but that chitosan is that biologically
active fraction, the soluble fraction that plants actually respond to.
And there's, again, the molecular weight, the Daltons associated with the degree of
biological activity.
Yes, you're right that silicon can make up a portion of the cell walls and chitin does
too.
But to a certain extent, we're kind of talking about apples and oranges at this point because
chitosan and chitin are sort of different structural and functional elements than silicon.
So, and you were saying that cellulose helps something with the silica.
So, if I were to do like a chemistry thing and do like a humic, fulvic acid situation
with amino acids and then like with the green sand and then mix a bunch of blended green
bananas with that, would that like help the whole reaction or would the green banana give
it that weird taste that like I said, it's like latex, but I think it's just over starch?
No, I mean, you know, really what you're looking at, you know, it's the easiest way I can describe
it is think about how big something is in terms of its molecular weight.
Really what you're trying to do for the plants is deliver really small, extremely small forms
of silica.
These forms of silicon are called ortho-silicic acid.
So, if you had rice hulls and you had perlite, which is expanded silicates, and you had,
you know, there's probably 50 to 100 different minerals present in the earth's crust, all of
which contain silicon.
But the problem is they're polymers.
They're several hundred molecules long.
They have way too many things going on in a single chain for that chain to actually be
broken down effectively by plants.
So, it doesn't matter if that chain comes from bananas or if it comes from greens and
or if it comes from rice hulls.
The point is that all of these forms are chains.
And really what we're trying to do is not get that polymerized chain.
What we're trying to get is a single link out of that chain.
We want just a single link out of that chain.
That's the monomer form.
That's that ortho-silicic acid before it's been polymerized.
And so, the real question is how do we get these?
And so, as you mentioned earlier, if you did some kind of, you know, compost tea, some of
these amino acids that are produced by plants, they do have side chains that interact with
silicon and they can help form some cell wall constituents.
So, when we're talking about, you know, the precipitation of silicon into cell walls,
really what we're looking at is this reaction that the plants have with silicon to put it
in the cell walls.
Well, what do they use to put in the cell walls?
They could use some kind of organic acid residues.
They could use amino acids.
There's a handful, maybe a dozen or so amino acids that have some kind of interactions
with silica.
But these are the things that plants will use as tools to kind of hammer.
For lack of a better phrase, let's just say that plants use these tools to hammer in the
silica into the cell walls and deposit them kind of in place to help plasticize them,
to help prevent them from further polymerizing.
And then they have this real mechanical advantage of not being so susceptible to lodging as
a result of wilting and dehydration stress and things like that.
That kind of makes sense.
And so, do I need micronized silica or is it possible if I were to micronize silica
in like a, can I get it in a Vitamix with the amino acids and the humic and fulvic acid
and the banana, the green banana?
Like you throw it into a blender, just wah?
No, you know, unfortunately, there's no real way to make soluble silicic species unless
you do it under really high pressure and really intense heat.
And you're not going to get that as a result of just putting in a blender.
You actually do need specialized equipment to transform silicic acid species into their
sort of like respective constituent monomer forms.
In other words, you can take like calcium silicate.
Let's go back to that because calcium silicate is basically fireproof drywall.
So if I were to take a sheet, a four by eight sheet of calcium silicate, I could put it
in a Vitamix blender and I could blend it up.
And yes, I would make the particles a lot smaller, but the point is I would never make
the particles small enough for the plants to actually be able to take it up.
So what we would have to do is look at some kind of chemical reaction, not a physical
transformation.
I can grind and I can mill and I can break these particles down to a certain size.
That's all a physical transformation.
Really, what I'm trying to do is get to a chemical transformation where I have that
smallest possible size, that smallest possible molecular size of silicon.
And that is called silicic acid, orthosilicic acid.
You can't really get that as a result of doing, you know, fermentation chemistry or
blender or something, physical transformation.
You would have to actually do a chemical reaction.
And again, to kind of go back earlier to what I said, this is why I think that silicon-based
products, especially a good potassium silicate that's truly 100% available for the plants
is going to perform a lot better than anything that anyone could ever make at home.
Because, you know, for lack of a better phrase, nobody has equipment at home that can take
silicon dioxide up to 3000 degrees Fahrenheit and 100 pounds per square inch of PSI.
Like that pressure and those temperatures just are not possible to achieve unless you
have specialized equipment.
And again, the specialized equipment is really important because most of the silicon that
exists for the plants on the earth is not available for them.
But we want to find a way to make it as available as we can.
Well, how do we do that?
We need specialized equipment.
I just don't understand what that heat and stuff does because like rock dust is silicate,
right?
Something like that.
And that's super micronized.
And if I were to just mix that in a Vitamix or some other blender like that and mix the
green banana for like the cellulose boost, because it said that it was like 50% cellulose
and all of the humic and fulvic acids.
Like, do you think that that would just kind of go into the soil and maybe cling to the
root structure and start its breaking down process a little bit better?
Like with that mix or because like, yeah, in the soil, I just.
You seem to be locked into the banana, man.
I think you need to let go of the banana.
One thing with the banana, I want to say, and I love pointing out when people like to
use bananas, Cody's lab on YouTube, the dude's an amazing scientist.
He does a great little like video on the potassium amount, whether it be in the banana itself
or the banana peel.
And that's a fun video to go watch and actually see how much potassium is really in it and
readily available.
And he goes over the whole science of it.
The banana, I would leave it that and go watch that video.
But then.
Yeah, and so banana is one of those things, I mean, potassium in general, like if we look
at cannabis plants, cannabis takes up a lot of potassium, but potassium never becomes
incorporated inside of its actual physical structures.
So if I were to take a piece of calcium, for example, I could look at that calcium and
say, hey, it went into this cell wall or went to that cell wall.
Or if I put 100 ppm of calcium in the soil, I can watch the plants take that 100 ppm of
calcium up and actually physically deposit it inside of their cell structures because
I can harvest that structure and I can send it off to the lab for analysis.
Potassium is a little bit different because it behaves like an electrolyte.
It always remains soluble in water, but it never really becomes incorporated into things
like cell walls, whereas silicon does.
And so the thing about banana is, I mean, it may have a little bit of higher potassium
concentration than some of the other cations that are inside of it, like calcium and magnesium,
but we're talking about parts per million here.
And so this is the thing that I want to point out.
If you have a banana peel that has 100 ppm of potassium inside of it, if you take that
banana peel and you have 100 ppm of potassium inside of the banana peel, you can do the
math and say if you put that one gram of banana peel inside of a gallon of water, you're getting
potassium in the parts per billion, which is statistically irrelevant.
It does not matter to the plants whatsoever.
Really what you would want to do is find a way not to break these large polymer complexes
like these larger forms of silicon and silicate-containing substances.
You don't want to try to find a way to break those down to their small molecular sizes.
What you want to try to find a way to do is to unlock the chemistry that frees up the
smallest molecular forms so you don't have to deal with silicates anymore.
Because I can tell you right now, the Earth's crust is mostly silicate.
Most of that Earth's crust is insoluble.
You could water the drywall you want all day long.
You can water the planet all day long.
It's never going to solubilize.
Never, never, never, never.
What you want to try to find a way to do is to unlock that chemistry, not unlock the physical
properties.
Don't worry about the blender and the particle size and milling it down and getting it smaller
and smaller micron and more and more micronized and things like that.
The micronization does not affect the solubility.
The solubility is the same regardless if that piece is a mile long or a tenth of a mile
long.
The same amount of water is still going to be required to solubilize even the smallest
fraction.
So that's what I mean is when you're trying to solubilize that small fraction, you want
to pay attention to the chemistry of what the plants are naturally doing.
This is where organic acids come into play with the natural cycles of weathering silicates.
This is the sort of chief cause, the primary cause of soil formation across the planet
is the weathering of silicates through the production of organic acids by plants.
This also kind of ironically enough lends itself a little bit of credence to talking
about how orthosilicic acid complexes are stabilized through the use of things like
boric acid and inorganic acids as we're dealing with low pH substances here, regardless of
if they're organic acids or inorganic substances as the acidic sort of component that prevents
the polymerization.
So I was hoping before it gets too late, we could kind of take it towards like the, you'd
kind of talked about it earlier, Jason, and I want to do it, but I figured it's like kind
of more towards the end is the flower and bud site research that's been done with
Alexsilica.
I can go on it or anyone else can.
Let's go ahead and talk about that.
I want to get, I do want to wrap up in a little bit.
So I'll bring that in if you want to go ahead and talk a little bit about that and have
Nick respond, and then we'll do a kind of a summary and a wrap up and we'll close it
out because we're getting close to the two hour mark here.
Time always flies.
The time always flies in this room.
It's amazing how fast this, the time just disappears on us every week.
So I want to thank everybody for joining us.
Obviously, if you've enjoyed the conversation, click on the little green house at the top
and join the Future Cannabis Project and follow all the speakers and definitely give Jolly a
follow and Olly Muffins a follow and some of the folks down in the audience to follow as well,
because they're obviously interested in these same topics.
I appreciate all the folks on YouTube, especially Chad for dropping all the awesome information
and Greg and some of these other folks.
Fantastic conversation tonight.
So I appreciate them all joining us as well.
So go ahead, Matt, take it away.
Matt, I did want to make a quick joke about the bananas on the East Coast.
The bananas are in pajamas right now.
All right, Matt.
And I'm just gonna keep going.
So yeah, just in a nutshell, because it's getting late and I don't speak as well as Nick,
OSA has an inhibitory effect on some plant gases like, I believe it's ethylene,
which delays the onset of flower.
But on most plants that it was tested on, it raised the bud site size and strength,
as well as the anthocyanin accounts throughout plants.
And then also, because it translocates from the roots to the shoots and then to the rest of the
plant, the dry weight across the board, like in plants, not really testing cannabis,
but I would assume there's some correlation.
The dry weights with silica applications raised from 30 to 85% in the plants that were tested.
So that's pretty cool.
You know, dry weight count for a simple element, you know, I guess.
Jason I don't know if you accidentally got cut off guys or Maddy, but that was a
great rendition.
Some of it cut out for me.
Jason, do you have something to add?
I was able to hear that.
I was waiting for Nick to respond.
Nick, did you get that?
Yeah, yeah.
And I think, you know, the point, you know, to kind of partially to summarize it too,
is that, you know, the benefits of silicon are multifold and that's partially because
it's been ignored for so long in the literature.
The reason it's been ignored for so long is because plants don't need to take up a lot
of silicon to acquire a lot of benefits from silicon.
So there's always been this question of, well, even in really, really, really small
amounts like these ortho-solistic acid products, how are some of these benefits being conveyed
to the plants?
And so it's been really hard to kind of understand some of them.
But as of recently, researchers have figured out ways of kind of figuring out how, you
know, for example, silicon promotes stress responses in plants.
There's this interaction with the DNA that silicon has to create silicon-rich compounds
like phytoliths, for example.
And you can imagine if you're a plant and there's bugs crawling on the outside of your
stalks and your stems and crawling up your leaves and biting into the surfaces, if you
had some kind of physical compound you could produce and secrete in mass that was free
to take up from the water that you would, you know, be able to create a defensive compound
from, that would be pretty cool.
So that's one of the passive ways that plants have kind of learned how to deal with silicon
in their natural environments around them.
You know, it makes up a large percentage of the Earth's crust and they can't really
do anything about it.
So they find a way to kind of deal with it.
And one of the ways is they take that up, they create these phytoliths.
These phytoliths serve as non-glandular trichomes.
In some cases, they're systolithic or phytolithic deposits that contain silicon and they ward
off some aphids and some leaf mining insects.
They're really sharp and unpleasant to the touch.
If you guys have ever kind of cut yourself on a plant that's really sharp, it has, you
know, in some cases like tomatoes and zucchinis and cucumbers can have those really sharp
spikes.
You don't want to touch them.
Roses are probably a better example.
Unfortunately, those sharp spikes from roses are not phytoliths in the sense that they're
silicon containing compounds that are ironically enough carbon containing compounds.
Those are systoliths.
But, you know, regardless, if you have a really healthy cucumber plant, for example, it's
going to have really sharp trichomes on it.
These trichomes, they're not like cannabis trichomes.
They don't produce aromatic compounds, but these non-glandular trichomes will nevertheless
serve as a physical defensive barrier for plants.
And that's been very crucial to, you know, understanding the sort of the small microscopic
dynamics of that has been really useful for scientists to try to figure out what are some
of the pathways through which silicon, even if it's not taking up in large amounts, can
help displace the need for carbon to then subsequently fill in those roles.
And because the plants save a lot of time, a lot of energy, a lot of carbon, they can
divert that carbon into producing more compounds that would be useful for further defense,
for further pest resistance, for further disease suppression, things like that.
That's where some of these benefits of the secondary metabolic metabolites start to come
into play through the jasmonic pathway, through the salicylic pathway, you know, pathways
that are sort of responsible for biotic and abiotic stressors.
Silicon as an element interfaces with the plant DNA to help it express those.
And again, the simplest way to understand all of that is to just look at a periodic
table.
Silicon is directly underneath carbon.
If you give the plant silicon instead of carbon, they can do a lot more with that carbon.
What are some of the things they can do?
Well, they can produce some of these secondary metabolites.
And that's where you start to find some of these massive changes in the plants.
It's not really like this mysterious thing, except for how much energy would it have cost
the plant to otherwise do this without silicon?
Exactly.
And it's able to use that energy to produce bigger flowers, to produce bigger buds in
many cases as well.
So absolutely, it's awesome stuff.
So again, thank you, everyone, for joining.
I know I see somebody put their hand up, but I'm going to go ahead and wrap it up.
I do appreciate everybody listening in tonight to both the YouTube broadcast as well as the
Future Cannabis Project channel and conversation here tonight on Clubhouse that we have every
Thursday night here on Hota Herbs Grow and Tell.
It is every Thursday night at 9 p.m., 6 p.m.
Pacific Time, 9 p.m.
Eastern Time.
We have a different topic every week, and we'll have to cook something interesting up
for next week.
I don't have next week's topic yet, but I'm sure we'll come up with something good for
everybody.
Matt, was there anything I want to go through and give people an opportunity to wrap up?
I also wanted to invite Shavin to jump in and contribute here for a moment or give a
final statement before we wrap up.
So Matt, you want to go ahead and start?
Yeah, no, totally.
I appreciate all the information, Nick.
There was so much that blows my mind that you keep in that brain of yours.
One last thing I just want to note is on propagation.
We kind of hit on the ability to strengthen the cell walls.
And a lot of the research that's been done or the studies that's been done in crops compared
to controls, the plants that are treated with silica have a larger or a quicker rooting
time.
And a lot of that is just the ability to fight diseases, mainly like blight, because the
cell walls are stronger.
Just wanted to throw that in there.
All right.
Any additional final thoughts on silicon that you feel people should take away from tonight's
conversation?
Yeah.
Yeah, I would just say that silicon, even though it's not taken up in massive quantities
by plants, it should not be mistaken as, well, therefore the plants don't get much of a benefit
from it.
They can take up a piece of silicon and free up, let's just say, hypothetically 10 pieces
of carbon.
It's not exactly like that.
But the point is ultimately that if you give your plants the silicon, you're helping a
lot in terms of contributing to their potentials in other pathways that the carbon would otherwise
get funneled into.
And to kind of go back to an earlier topic that we had talked about maybe a week or two
ago, it's that carbon is the macronutrient.
It's the king element of plants.
And there's this really interesting connection and relationship between silicon and carbon
and specifically how plants will use silicon to free up the energy that would otherwise
go into processing carbon, into things like cell walls, for example, and phytoliths.
Having the luxury of having a lot of silicon available for the plants makes it so that
you can really, in the context of cannabis cultivation, you can get a lot of terpenes,
you can get a lot of cannabinoids, you can get a lot of really...
Besides just those two classes of compounds, you can get other classes of compounds that
contribute greatly to the health of your plants such that in the presence of silicon, you
may find, hey, I don't have to spray my plants anymore.
I don't have to spray sulfur at the end of veg, or I don't have to spray cease or forbid
or avid or EGLE 20 or anything like that.
You may find that your plants are so healthy that you don't have to really reinforce their
defensive responses because the silicon has done just that.
It's an element that exists naturally in the earth's crust.
It's not a pesticide, it's not a fungicide, but it has these qualities that are like pesticides,
like fungicides, not 100%, but they do help the defensive pathways of your plants.
So just keep that in mind too.
It's not about how many PPMs of this or that, it's just about the presence of it.
Get that worked into your feed program, get it worked into your nutrient program and your
plants will be a lot healthier.
And it sounded, you know, and as we talked about earlier, it will also inspire the plant
to produce some of it as well.
So, yeah, no, it's fantastic.
Ollie, anything to add before we wrap up?
I was laughing.
I'm just so happy that you guys are doing this for our community.
I was just clapping.
Okay, Jolly, anything to add before we wrap up?
Is cellulose something that is taken into the plant from the root system or that's made
in the plant through something?
Yeah, it's made in the plant.
I mean, think about it this way, is like CO2 in the air.
If you've ever opened a can of soda on a hot summer day, you hear that hiss.
That CO2 is trying to get out of solution.
It does not want to stay in that water.
So, plants have to figure out a way to make carbon soluble.
So, they make hydrated soluble forms of carbon.
These are called carbohydrates.
One of the complex carbohydrates is cellulose.
And you can water cellulose all day long, but it's not going to dissolve in water.
So, the solubility of this particular species or flavor of carbon is very low because it
serves as the interface between what is the plant and what is not the plant.
So, the plants have a vested interest in making sure that the cellulose does not dissolve.
So, you can't just, you know, it would be difficult to provide cellulose in a quote
unquote soluble format for the plants to have them take it up and then be deposited and
reutilized.
Really, what you'd have to do is break that cellulose apart into its individual building
blocks, the organic acids perhaps that make up that cellulose.
And then those organic acids which exhibit high degree of solubility in water, you would
then put those in solution, have this organic acid rich solution and then supply that to
the plants.
Like, you know, with compost teas would be a good example of one way of kind of breaking
down the cellulose, breaking down the plant matter, having some fungi and microbial constituents
helping to kind of repurpose some of that plant matter that exists, making it a little
bit more mushy, making it a little bit more soluble, freeing some of that carbon back
up from its insoluble form to kind of its soluble form.
And to kind of piggyback on that with a closing thought is it's along the same lines as what
we've been talking about with silicon.
You know, the ultimate goal is to try to convert it from insoluble form in the Earth's crust
to soluble form, aka ortho-silicic acid, the plants can actually take up.
Awesome stuff.
Awesome stuff.
Peter, I know you are out and about.
So just giving you the high sign that we're going to get ready to wrap it up here so that
you can go ahead and hit pause or stop on the YouTube side of it.
So I appreciate you again for making this, for producing this show on a weekly basis
and helping with keep us organized and moving forward.
So I really appreciate the Future Cannabis Project and all the tremendous stuff that
they do, because there's just a plethora of shows that have unbelievable hosts and
different sets of information and speakers all the time.
So really check out the Future Cannabis Project, both on YouTube and on Clubhouse.
These videos or a video recording of this simulcast will be on the FCPO2 channel.
So the Future Cannabis Project, the O2 channel.
There's two separate channels on there.
So make sure you look at the O2 channel for us.
Give us a follow.
Click on the blue house.
Join the club.
Give the speakers a follow.
Give your roommates a follow and check us out every Thursday night.
Thank you again, everyone, for joining.
And with that, I'm going to close down the room.
Have a fantastic night, everybody.
Thank you, Jason.
Thank you, Peter.
Thank you, Nick, Ali.
Thank you, everyone.
Thank you, guys.
Thanks, everyone, for coming by.
And if you guys have questions, feel free to reach out.
And we'll be doing this pretty religiously if we can for the next foreseeable future.
So, yeah.
Thank you, guys.
It's an amazing room.
You guys have really created a dope space on Clubhouse for all of us.
I appreciate you all.
See you next week.
Calcium.
I want to do it.
Let's do it.
CalMag, bro.
I could talk about calcium for some time.
We should do CalMag just to get rid of that whole thing right there.
Okay.
Well, we'll talk on the back channel and we'll figure out what we're going to host next week.
All right.
Thanks, everybody.
Take care, guys.
Have a good night.
