back in our lives. FCPO2, thank you everybody for joining us this evening
and on the replay Chad or Bob was gonna go to bed but we can't have that so we
decided we're gonna talk to the ranch tonight and this is gonna be an exciting
show guys we are talking genetics so please Adam go ahead and say hello to
everybody real quick hello everyone my name is Adam I'm the ranch on Instagram
from San Diego I'm a 25 year old cannabis breeder epilepsy patient and
just all-around cannabis fanatic yeah it's awesome and we've actually we've
you know I've had the opportunity we've spoken before on a show in the past for
the home grow show that we do and we're kind of focusing just cannabis and
medicinal benefits and you know how that's played a role in your life and if
anybody hasn't seen that episode yet please go back and check it out it's
about a month or two probably two months now time flies doesn't it though yeah
really does I think it was back in September I believe or no no it wasn't
August it was August yeah it was it was the month of August we got Peter in
there let's do this all right so we got the whole crew showing up in chat
already that's awesome but yeah so we were able to do that show and you know
we covered just what an impact that it's had on your life and I left this show
you know feeling like I'm not sorry to call you kid I'm you're not a kid but
I'm old so I'm like I had that thought my mind I'm like this kids gonna do
great things like you know I really enjoyed the conversation and the
direction and the drive that you had for what you were doing and it was yeah
thank you man and and it was after the fact that I found out that you had kind
of started getting into breeding and and you've actually been doing this for you
know a couple years is that right yeah so I you know got into the cannabis
scene in around 2015 when we first started cultivating indoors and I grew
mostly from seed at that time and so I would played around with making some
crosses with you know we had a warehouse and so I wasn't able to do any
of the crossing at the warehouse but we took home the clones of all the males
that we found and a couple females that we were working with and my buddy would
take him to his house and do some pollinations in the backyard and we
never actually got around to growing them out we just were making crosses for
fun and it wasn't until about 2019 that I started to get more serious with
breeding at home and just to touch on a little bit of my story just so some of
the listeners haven't got to see the last episode at the age of what was it
now almost I believe it was about 16 now I started having what I thought were
panic attacks and I kept having these for multiple years got to the point
where I was having them every day and I was I had a convulsive seizure and found
out that all of those panic attacks I've been having were actually epileptic
seizures and so I was diagnosed with epilepsy at the age of 19 and from 19 to
20 I spent about you know two years with worsening epilepsy seizures progressing
to the point of having two to eight every day and it was really debilitating
I won't stop going to college I stopped driving I stopped working and at that
time I found cannabis and it completely changed my life and as of October I'm
now I might be wrong I think it's five to six years seizure free so cannabis
has completely changed my life and given me the freedom back that I you know
always had as a you know young kid but had it all stripped away from me with
the epilepsy diagnosis so for me I have like a really strong relationship with
cannabis and it's really important to me in my lifestyle and you know just
living a normal life and I've gotten to see a lot of other people in the
community through my experience in the medical side I've met a lot of people
who are involved in cannabis but mostly on the medical side and so I've got to
see a lot of really cool stories and life-changing experiences that were you
know completely mind-blowing to me and most of them were not even just
epilepsy everything from cancer to you know MS and all these you know a broad
range of things and so I always had a really strong you know passion for the
plant and so we were actually I don't know if I told you this story before but
we were actually cultivating in a warehouse and the laws changed in San
Diego and so that drove us to it actually made us our facility illegal so
there was no regulations in San Diego that said you know where you had to be
growing they're just regulations didn't exist and so they finally came out with
some regulations and those regulations specifically said you have to be in an
agricultural zone and so we were actually across the street from an
agriculturally zoned building and so we were zoned out of being legal and so this
was pre this was still medical days and so we had to shut down and you know my
father's been an entrepreneur for over 30 years and so being legal is something
that was really important to him especially with legal cannabis looming
in the future and there being those rumors of potentially if you have
felonies you might not be able to operate in legal cannabis so there's
somewhat of a scary time and San Diego's a little bit more conservative so they
really do come down on some of these larger cultivation facilities so we
moved or we shut the facility down and we looked all around and San Diego had
released maps and so on these maps they said you know where you can cultivate
and so we ended up finding a place building it all out and it ended up not
working out and so you know 2014 is when I first went to a cannabis cup and
in about 2015-2016 is when we started building out our cultivation facilities
and so at that first cannabis cup I went and bought a bunch of cannabis seeds and
I met DJ Short at his booth and the first pack of seeds I ever got was the
blueberry from DJ Short directly and so it was a pretty cool experience and a
good way to start my collection. A very good way. Yeah and so I also went and found
Insecta at CSI Humboldt and he was giving out free seeds at the time and so I was
with my family or like my dad and some friends and so we were able to actually
all get a free pack and none of them were into growing at the time so they
all gave me their free packs and so when our first grow actually CSI Humboldt
gear is pretty much the only thing that we grew and we found some really cool
purple plants and I shared the flower at some of the... we would go to cannabis cups
and give away flower to get people to sign up for our collective you know to be
legal in the medical days and there was someone that I met there that tried some
of the purple flower and he was just a completely blown away and it's funny
because I've ran into him since then and we both forgot that we had already met
but there's a group called the San Diego's Finest Cuts and it's like a... it was in the forum
they had like this little San Diego almost like I guess a club of breeders
and growers and they actually meet in person occasionally and so recently in
the past couple months they invited me out to one of their little meetups and I
went and got to meet all these folks and one of them is like the San Diego grower
it's higher 619 or higher standard 619 he's a really cool dude and I he realized
like hey dude actually like years ago like I got some of that purple flower
from you and like still remembers it to this day and so that was like our first
grow and it was actually the Mendo perps times purple urkel from CSI and so
I got to have a lot of fun growing all these cool seeds that were really unique
that I was getting cool you know feedback from the community from when I
would go and give it to people and I really wasn't into just growing clones
you know clones were cool but you know I didn't want to just be you know
monocropping what every dispensary had you know I would take this Gorilla Glue
into the shop and they'd be like oh we already have three Gorilla Glues oh well
you know we're new growers like I know mine's not gonna be you know beating
everyone else's so I just was a little uneasy with the clones but we got a
bunch and we ended up getting the form Girl Scout cookies and this was at our
original warehouse that I'm talking about before we got zoned out being
legal and once we got the form cut and it was didn't grow so good in veg but
once we got the flower I was like really blown away and I realized like oh wow
like this is why people are growing clones like you can really have a proven
quality and get it the same every time versus these seeds I was growing you
know a couple phenos wouldn't be very good and one of them would be great and
so we'd have to really do a big hunt first and it just was a big waste of
time and we were working with the consultant and he was very against you
know hunting and just growing clones and so I got to you know some of that and so
once we shut down that first grow I decided you know when we open up our new
one you know what clones were great I still you know want to go with seeds and
build our own line of flower that is unique to our brand and not clones that
other shops or you know everyone already has in their shop as flower and so I
started collecting really seriously because I knew we were building out this
next facility here in San Diego and so I you know just started going out online
on Instagram and all over the seed banks and just searching and searching and I
would just get so overwhelmed because there's just so many options and as a
new buyer you know I've heard you say Chad like you know you buy some seeds
like one of the packs I bought at that first Cannabis Cup was a Tahoe OG from
Cali Connect and like you said before you know I expected to get the Tahoe OG
clone from the seeds and you know I quickly learned you know that's not
really how it works and you know you get all these different phenos and everything so I
really started researching and researching and learning and learning
found all these you know resources online and there wasn't much of the
future cannabis project out yet but there's a lot of others simpler
resources and pages there was the great gardener on YouTube all different kinds
of things and then slowly through time more education started to come out like
a company called Green Flower and they've actually put together the Ganjie
program and I'm actually a student of that and the Green Flower is really cool
and I got to learn a lot from that and now the future cannabis project you know
it's super easy for anyone to learn as much as they want about really any
specific topic on cannabis so it's been really incredible to see this community
grow and now used to be a consume everything I could find on YouTube and
in the internet that was around breeding and cannabis education and now I'm at the
point where there's more content than I could watch and you know a single day so
I'm kind of stoked that the community has grown in that way but um you know so
at this time in around 2015 I got really serious about collecting because I knew
we're gonna have a big facility and you know I'm gonna need a lot of seats for
you know doing the proper hunts and so I had learned through my research that you
know you really want to be buying larger quantities of seeds not just simple 10
packs and you don't want to be growing one seed at a time from all these
different varieties really want to be growing one bulk variety and so I would
just do as much research as I can to find you know what breeders are popular
right now and so I started buying a bunch of the thug pug stuff that was
coming out the original peanut butter breath and all the choice and I slowly
you know built this collection up and the first facility we were building out
the San Diego County came out with a moratorium on you know legal cannabis
facilities and it was basically they were determining whether or not they're
gonna ban legal cannabis and so over the course of about six months they debated
and debated and their council and everything was like saying like no guys
we need to you know allow this to happen and we had a lobbying group that we're
working with and we're paying all this money to them and we're going to meeting
with city officials at their you know fundraisers and sitting in person with
them these board members like being like hey you know my name is Adam I have
epilepsy you know cannabis really changed my life and I'm like telling my
true story to them about why cannabis is cannabis access is so important for you
know the members of the community in San Diego and they were to my face just like
yeah you know I totally understand you know we have the woman's owns a pain
management center so she works with all these patients with pain and she's like
yeah they a lot of them use cannabis and she's like you know I'm gonna stand with
you guys I'll be on your side and then you know the board hearing happens and
they're voting to ban cannabis and she comes up and she's like yep I'm just
she's the swing vote because she was a new board member and so she completely
banned it and so it was a really heartbreaking sad time and we really
lost a lot of investment capital on this project that you know the first one
failed the second one was now pretty much failed because of this legal
situation and so it was really tough and for me having this you know big
collection of seeds and at the time being unable to grow at home because I
have a I have a younger sister who at the time was you know underage and my
family just wasn't cool with the risk of CPS and all that stuff so we really just
were playing it extra safe and especially since we were working with a
large cultivation facility we didn't see the need for me you know growing at
home and taking that risk so well the facilities didn't work out I just was so
desperate to be growing and you know finally doing some female hunts and
everything and so I never stopped collecting through the years and just
kept building and building and the opportunity arose for another facility
in tribal land here in San Diego and we acted quick on the opportunity and it
was right around the time that legalization was happening and so we
started to build out and legalization happened and the legal the emergency
regulations came out and these emergency regulations said specifically that
Indian tribes are not allowed to be a part of the state system and so now our
third project is now again illegal or pushed out of being legal that's that's
one of the really hard things I know in Washington the state the rules are
different than in California because from the kind of the get-go tribal land
was given the like hey you know you guys set your rules but they were very
hesitant and I still think very slow in Washington to get into the business I
actually lived near tribal lands when I was up north and when I went back to
visit last time there was a dispensary taking up the old abandoned bank and I'm
like oh well that's you know it's a start it was really interesting of
course I had to go in and check it out and you know it was like oh my gosh
there's like 20 people working in there it was crazy so to my point though is
a lot of these rules and regulations change on a whim almost with the
elections sometimes you know it's the election cycle can be a whole new set of
rules and as a business owner gosh you know that's really tough and your
perseverance is this kind of seems like is what's getting you through here you
you know you you have a purpose but there has to be backing to the purpose
and and you know it's nice that you're you're still keeping the ball rolling
so third third attempt and their new new rules or how did that turn out for you
yeah so I'll keep going with it so we ended up and I don't mean to be going on
a negative story it changes the story progresses so we you know had this
facility all built out and because we were pushed out of you know being legal
again we decided to not take the risk with continuing the investment and so we
step back from the investment opportunity and just really just was
decided to play it safe and see what happened and so at that same time CBD
was becoming a thing that was you know being sold outside of dispensaries and
so we launched our own CBD brand and also we connected with at the Indian
tribe there's multiple other cultivators that were on the site so it wasn't just
our facility there's multiple other ones that were operating and they were already
in full swing and so they're just were producing some really incredible product
they've won some awards at the Emerald Cup and stuff so it's really cool to see
them put San Diego on the map and you know such a small knit you know
competition and this was just in the past couple years so you know it wasn't
there's a lot of competition in the past couple years but so this company
Palomar Grow they had some cultivators that were there that I got to get to
know one of their names is Darren the other one's Jared and my other but I have
a really close friend named Connor who went and worked there and I got to
really see some really incredible work they were doing and they were doing a
lot of phenohunts themselves for the brand because they were growing you know
their own branded strains and so I thought that was really cool and it was
really inspiring to see all that and I got to see some strains they were
running such as they had something that they called blueberry bomb and my buddy
was able to tell me that it was actually something from dying breed seeds and it
was his booboo berry and it's like a blueberry times an Afghani NL5 paki and that's like the male side and I actually loved it so much that I was able to you know through my knowledge of knowing how to get seeds through the Instagram
community I went on Instagram and I searched and searched and searched and I
found a photo from 2014 that someone had posted and it was actually I think his name is I love Kush or something like that
I forget his exact username but I hit him up and he still had the seeds and so he sent them out to me and it was actually weird because it was during the election time and you know they took forever to get here like they were lost in the mail for over a month and so they ended up getting here and I popped them and I was able to find some really cool phenos and they were very similar to the flower I was getting it's a really strong blueberry aroma with some really really funky turps but so I was able to get you know some really cool experience with seeing all these different
plants they're hunting and get to know plants that you know I really wanted to be working with myself and so I was had a really cool experience up there and although that didn't end up working out that facility would have been the largest that we were going to be working on and that one was an acre greenhouse and so by that time I was really really working on building up a big big collection and I was reaching out to all kinds of breeders and looking getting like hundred seeds at a time of different varieties and so eventually you know because it
all didn't work out my sister my little sister had finally grown up and moved out to college and everything I was like you know what like now's the time I wouldn't just grow a bunch at home and so I dug into my collection and went through and found the pack that I had the most seeds of and it was a cherry chem and then I also had something the mandelbrot kush from Emerald Mountain seeds and so I popped both of those in about 2019 and I did a big pheno hunt and selected a
oh I killed all the females or I'm sorry all the males of the cherry chem and then I left all the left all the females of the cherry chem and all the females of the mandelbrot kush and I just did that kind of an open pollination and I also had some other plants in there that were like fem seeds that I decided to throw in to I was decided I'm you know I'm gonna just learn how to breed myself through experience you know I've been doing all this research online and I've read everything I can read and watched every video I can watch like the only way I'm really gonna progress is by doing it myself
and you know there's a lot of people I follow on Instagram like Masonic Smoker for example who's actually a little bit of an inspiration to me because he really you know push this idea of you know just do it you know you've got right you have all these seeds like you what's your collection worth if you're not popping them you know and so I really just decided to just go for it and just start breeding and you know if people don't want it and then you know oh well at least I'm you know hopefully gonna have a facility worked out in the future and I'll be able to hunt all my seeds at that facility
and so I started breeding really with the intention of you know trying to stop spending all my money on buying seeds and creating the seeds that I wanted to work with and you know have bulk of bulk seeds so that I can really do a proper hunt and have that at an affordable rate and you know do things my own way really and so I started practicing at home with the Cherry Chem and Mandelbrot and that was actually one of the first crosses I made and I grew it out the next year and the year after
and I did open pollinations each year and actually was really really impressed with what I found and I was super stoked and I
sorry I forgot where I was going yeah no where's you were really stoked with the the Cherry Chem and the Mandelbrot after open pollinating it for a couple of years yes yes that and so that project really you know kicked things off for me with just breeding from seed and breeding with seeds
and I had seen you know all these popular clones that people are working with and actually it was kind of interesting because with legalization having happened there really was in the beginning limited stuff at the dispensaries but now it's opened up and there's more and more more stuff
and then around 2020 they really just went crazy with getting clones into all the dispensaries and so all these clone options opened up to me and I was like well you know I'm gonna do these hunts and I'm gonna have these males like why don't I just throw some clones in too you know that'd be kind of fun
and then it would be fun to you know get some experience with these you know legendary clones
like the Sour Diesel and you know there's the East Coast Sour and the AJ Sour and I don't know what the difference is and so I really you know went out and got as many different
clones as I possibly could throughout 2020 and I ended up with a collection of about like 75 different plants and it was just a little bit ridiculous and I was trading with people on Instagram and I would get the Gushers and for me it was 35 bucks but then someone else had like a clone
and they were selling for a thousand bucks and they're like oh but you have the Gushers oh I'll trade my thousand dollar plant for your Gushers and I'm like okay like you know it's not worth it to me but you know the trades are worth it and so I you know built up this big collection and I went through all these different types of plants
everything from the Dosey Does to the ice cream cakes to the wedding cake like Gary Payton some you know old school stuff some of the newer hyped up stuff and through this process I really learned that you know some of the older you know classic strains that people are always you know continue to rave about to this day are the ones that I really really liked like the Sours and the OGs and the Chems and so I realized you know I kind of want to stick to more of the old school
classic stuff with my breeding and also you know CBD is still really important to me and so while I enjoy using CBD and working with the CBD plants and growing them the average consumer doesn't and so I wanted to make sure that when I you know create some crosses that I'm creating stuff that's open for all consumers and not just the CBD market and initially when we got into the cannabis space there was we were dedicated to just you know just
when we first got into cultivation we were going to only grow CBD and everyone just told us we will never sell you can't do that and so we were really pushed away from doing that and we ended up with all THC clones because we were led to believe that's the only thing that would sell and the dispensaries really were only interested in that back in those 2015-2016 days but so you know I went through these
couple years of playing with seed plants and clones and you know practicing making my own crosses from with these clones and seed plants and I you know finally decided that I really want to go a certain direction with my crosses I want to work with old school stuff and I want to work with some CBD mixed genetics that aren't just straight hemp CBD because when I made that one of those
Mandelbrot crosses I worked with something called continuum from mid tree seeds and I believe it was I don't know its lineage is a little bit murky to me I don't know it's full makeup but it's something called like Toki tonic crossed with Suzy Q and both of those are crosses made by mid tree seeds that are like pretty much pure CBD lines and to me it seemed pretty hemp like and sativa ish and it was really late and it's onset of flower the spirit or the
buds were really spear like and long and the flowers were the leaves were a little more slender and everything and I just wasn't as much of a fan of that style of plant that was just not like the OGs and the quicker flowering stuff that puts on the weight quick and everything and so I wanted to really find some stuff that's you know doesn't have hemp in its background and well I don't know if that had hemp in its background it was so sativa like I almost kind of think it was just the hemp that could have been in it I might be wrong though I
don't know enough about hemp and CBD genetics but I'm looking for more stuff that has like these Afghan ease and stuff that carry their CBD like so I when I dug into my seed ball I found the pina from mean gene and I had gone to the 2018 Emerald Cup and got to go to you know walk around and go to all the booths and got to meet me gene and buy some of his seeds and I actually got a bunch of stuff from him at that event but the pina was one that really piqued my interest because I had heard him talk about in a former podcast
how in the F3 generation he had found some CBD in some of the plants and so he said there wasn't as much in the F4 but I had gotten some seeds actually so I got the the pina F3 seed so there's a guy on Instagram modern cannabis and he's not around anymore he had a nutrient or a fertile
Mike
backed I don't know what is it called a
fungi product a beneficial fun guy okay yeah and so yeah this beneficial fun guy probably was like a blue powder and it was a really weird stuff but it worked pretty good and he had had a dog that had an injury and he was raising some funds for the vet bills and everything and so some bunch of people sent him some seeds and mean gene sent him a bunch of stuff and actually went back on his Instagram to look and he actually look like you got a lot of stuff for me and gene like some some of the
pk lime and all this stuff so like the original black line and everything and he was at the time this was a time when you mean gene really wasn't selling his seeds anywhere and so when I saw this guy posting that he was had them for sale I was like oh my gosh like finally an opportunity to get some immune gene seeds you know I've been following him online and seen all this stuff like you know he's very well respected I got to get these seeds and so he was listening for a really high price and he had the the pina the great I forget what that one's called the
grape soda skunk the root beer and so I ended up getting the root beer and the pina from him and it's the root beer back cross two seeds is what I ended up getting and so back in 2020 I'd hear heard you know a podcast with it was actually Masonic was on it and it was on the future cannabis project they're doing a fundraiser and mean gene and all these other guys and they were raising some money and all these people kept saying they wanted the Wilson times root beer and I was like oh my god
I went into the the my seed collection and I was like oh my gosh like I have Masonic's original you know Wilson release that he first put out because I had been following him since he you know first came onto the scene and then I you know had these root beer seeds and I was like oh my gosh like I can make the Wilson root beer and so I ended up popping both of them and going through them and I ended up not making the cross actually but I ended up I did gift Masonic some of the pollen and hopes that he would do the cross
himself but he ended up pollinating like an apple fritter skittles or something like that I don't know exactly what it was but it's something totally different but I mean I don't have any problems with that but the the root beer cross I ended up with like about 30 seeds when I went through the hunt and I flowered them all out in my backyard and there was actually to be honest a good amount of Herm's in them and I believe that was originally why mean gene
wasn't releasing just the pure root beer because it wasn't really stable indoors and I've heard him say to some other folks like J2Cans I believe or Cascadian Grown who's working with the back cross number three and he found a good amount of Herm's himself too and you know I guess that's just what happens sometimes with plants you know just certain genetic makeups just aren't you know the best but the quality of the flower is freaking incredible and so I found a couple that were you know really stable and
also just really nice and turpy but there's one that just really stood out in the females and so I took all the males and I stress tested a bunch of them and I am you know like yourself kept him in small pots got him real dry and you know did everything I could to just really just fry the crap out of them and just see how they reacted.
I had to make them yeah.
And so I just knew that that you know those genetics were just really solid and so when I you know went and got some seeds of it and hunted through it I found this one that was like it's kind of exactly like GMO in every way there is except for the smell.
The smell is a little bit different and if you're familiar with GMO you might be able to tell the difference between the two but if you had never grown GMO and I handed you a clone of GMO and this Johnny Burger and you grew them both like you would be convinced they're the same plant their structure and everything's very very similar but the difference is the smell on my Johnny Burger is more like the chem so it's a little bit more funky and more like a halitosis gross bad breath type of smell and so it's a really cool plant.
And it gets really like big it stacks really nice or at least in my last round of it it did when I had seeded it and actually I had it in a big pot and the GMO was in the smaller pot and the GMO didn't really stack but I think it was just the flowering conditions of that time but usually it's almost the exact same as GMO.
And so I ended up using two males from the root beer selections that I made and I open pollinated kind of the I did the Johnny Burger and I did a couple other plants but I haven't I did the vanilla frosting actually and that was a plant from a clone I acquired from what are they called the Humboldt seed company.
And so Humboldt seed company does this thing it's a 10,000 plant phenol hunt and they do you know give seeds to all these farmers and they work with them to do this selection and so they selected this one that was a frost OG female pollinated with a gelato back cross three and so this plant is like very vanilla but also very it's almost like a vanilla gelato to me.
And it has all the turps of the gelato still but it's like some vanilla notes as well and so there's like the wedding cake and some other plants that are a little bit vanilla but they have other undertones that are make them completely different and so this vanilla frosting was a really cool plant and being that it's called vanilla frosting you know I had to combine it with the root beer.
And so actually the Donnie burger the burgers and beer and the vanilla frosting those are the only two root beer crosses that I've released and vanilla frosting actually released that one through a buddy Captain clutch and so I want to give a shout out to him he really was super cool with releasing that and his.
I did the Wilson times Pina as well and so he wanted to release that exclusively and so I sent him all those packs and he's calling that one clutchy Anna or I'm sorry clutchy now is what it's called.
And so we've had some fun with that but the vanilla frosting times root beer I think will be a really cool one and I'm actually doing a pop of that one myself right now and I'm doing a big kind of the burgers and beer as well I popped about 50 of those and I have them all going under a sheet cloth right now.
I actually sunburned them a little bit when I first brought them outside so a little shade cloth and they're chugging along now.
But so, you know, I had a lot of fun with the root beer cross but I really, you know, was during this time trying to figure out you know what is my direction and I realized you know old school stuff and I feel like this the root beer is kind of like a old it's turps and stuff are similar to old school type of strain so it's really cool.
And it's got like a really right now in flower I have one right now out there it's like really funky and it's almost smells really gross it's kind of cool.
I like that.
And I want to work them into some old school stuff too and so I've gotten that G13 hash plant from sunburned mids and I'm doing a big hunt of that one right now.
So I have all these projects going on of all these different seeds that I'm growing out with specific plants to work with them but the CBD stuff is really cool to me because you know I don't see many people working with CBD plants that are yielding in hash and so I'm really curious to see as we go into the future.
If you know any of these rosin makers start to work with any of these CBD genetics because in my experience in the past CBD really changes the texture of the rosin and I know resin ranch just posted a photo or video of his Mac or his grape GAC and it's like super it looks like distillate almost is like super thick resin it never buttered up like most rosin does and so I don't think that's you know as desirable I don't think that's very desirable myself but.
We're curious if maybe that might be CBD or something that's making that change in the in the texture.
So I really want to get some CBD genetics together that will yield and hash and produce a quality resin and see what we can do to get some you know quality meds out to some people who like to dab because I love dabbing and personally when I dab all day like I get you know a little bit too high sometimes and you know I end up sitting on my phone for a little bit too long.
There's some stuff with a little bit more of a balanced ratio it would be probably more productive for me throughout the day.
And so that's some stuff I want to play with.
And so when I went through my collection I found the pina seeds and I was you know remembered all means genes talk of his finding some CBD stuff and so I popped my F3 that I had gotten from that guy modern cannabis and the F4 is that I got from his Emerald Cup release in about 2018.
And I did a big I did actually just a single pack through that one.
And so I went through those and actually we found that they were all super super consistent.
Every plant smelled almost identical they all looked almost identical they all had some purpling in the stems and some very light purpling on the flowers but mostly pretty green buds.
But the smell on them was very very unique and it was like straight pineapple but it was like a real pineapple like if someone just freshly cut into it and there's like you know this real smell that you smell from the fruit but like most of the pineapple turps I'd ever smelled all smelled like candy pineapple or like a you know a fake artificial sweetener kind of thing and this one was like a real pineapple and I was like wow this is so tropical and like you know fresh it smells like a real pineapple.
And it's a very unique turp profile so I was really happy with those pinas and I did an open pollination and I crossed it to a bunch of things but my goal with this project was you know to cross it to this other CBD line that I had and it is a pineapple tsunami that I got from.
Forgetting their name Southern Humboldt seed cup.
And so I believe their family has since sold the brand.
But you know Lawrence Ringo was the founder and the original breeder for them and he's you know one of the some people call him the godfather of CBD and so he's done some really incredible work and you know being that his work has impacted my life so much I really want to be able to carry on the legacy and work his stuff into my lines.
And so this this line that I'm working on is the pineapple tsunami it's a pineapple times sour tsunami that he had created and I actually found on when I found the seeds there you know they labeled the year on them and so this pack was actually from 2014 and that was actually the year he passed away.
And so that was one of his last seasons you know with us and so I thought those pretty special to have gotten some seeds that could have you know been in his hands at some time and being that by the time I came onto the scene he had already really passed away I didn't learn about him until after his passing.
I thought these seeds were you know you know extension of him and so I planted them and you know crossed all the female selections I made to the pina males and I'm looking at going through those and I'm calling those ones typhoon and I'm released the F1 frost untested right now on Daga.garden.
And I'm looking at doing a big hunt through those and I'm going to keep line breeding those for a few generations to you know try and find a one to one with that real pineapple turf profile and so I'm really excited to continue that project but another line that I had in there was the banana mango.
And that was a plant I got from another one of the hunts from Humboldt seed co and that banana mango it was just so crazy tropical I had flowered it out in a different you know thing you know time I was flowering stuff and I was just so impressed with that I was like oh my gosh like I have to throw this in with the pina this is just so tropical you know to not include the pineapple would be a mistake.
And it has no pineapple in it but it's really tropical and banana mango II you know true to the name and so I pollinated that one as well and that one we're calling puree and so I'm doing a big kind of that one as well right now and that one is actually the.
The mango it's so I've researched the genetics and it's a little bit unclear what the banana mango is it's they listed online as a mango trees banana OG blueberry muffin and then somewhere else they listed as a banana OG mango tree or yeah banana OG mango tree blueberry muffin so it's the genetics are a little mixed up and their listings online.
But it's still the same plants in there I just don't know the makeup exactly.
That's terribly uncommon in this world.
Yeah I'd imagine right and you know it doesn't necessarily matter too much.
I end result.
The quality is what really matters you know and it was just so tropical is a really cool one so if you're looking for some tropical turps I think that would be a good one to go through.
The and I guess the I'll just continue going through you know all the crosses that we have up there.
Yeah.
And so another one I did was the banana OG.
I acquired that clone.
I don't remember where exactly but somewhere along the line I acquired the banana OG and I flowered her out a few times and sent her to a few different people and they've confirmed it for me.
I think one of them was a Dan Kizze.
He does some cool work with the high school sweetheart male I think he selected and he's doing he's done some banana crosses as well.
But I actually grew that banana OG out real big this that time when I pollinated and it was really really every time I'd walk out the door just get big whiffs of banana and it was right next to the GMO too so it was like a nice little treat.
There's a contrast there.
Yeah exactly.
Big contrast.
Exactly.
But so the banana OG you know that one's a washer.
I've heard from a lot of people who make hash and stuff but I haven't I will say these crosses are untested right now so I'm making them available because you know I don't have the means to go through all of them and test them all.
And personally as a seed collector I have you know hundreds and hundreds of seed packs in my collection and you know being that it's tested is not something that is 100% important to me as a buyer and I want to make sure that you know the work I'm making is available to people if they want to buy it or not.
So if you don't believe in buying untested stuff then maybe some of this stuff isn't for you but I do have tested offerings as well.
I've tested a lot of seeds and stuff so we've given them a little bit of the you know stress with the not the best ideal spectrum and everything and they do great.
But the yeah.
I was going to say you know that's good too that it's given a little bit of stress and I know the problem of having you know too many seeds and not being able to go through them.
It's great that you put that out there that you're very up front with that and you know just to kind of unpack that you know a little bit more.
It's great because this a lot of people love the hunt.
That is actually I think primarily what most of us as you know like home growers or even like a craft grower we're really we're after that hunt.
And this kind of gives us the ability to do that more so like we might have a little bit more expressions than if say if this was DJ Shorts blueberry.
So you know in a commercial atmosphere you know again once you find a good plant and you take a clone of it then you've got your level canopy so it doesn't matter where you're at.
But if you're popping seeds you know in the large commercial facility again you want that that flat canopy which you know you might not get from things that have multiple varieties.
But again that's only your first run because then you select what you want to run with and then you can clone it and do that.
But just for you know for people like me you know it's really exciting.
You know I kind of mentioned this beforehand and you know I'll let you kind of get back to the strains here and I've got some of them here and I've got them on the website too.
So let me know if you want me to pull any of them up.
Yeah if you want to go through the list we can do that.
OK. But you know I enjoy that we're able to get the back story of where these came from and your travels.
You know you've gone out and you've met with some of these people and you've really done your research.
So that gives me the confidence to use space in my garden.
Again as a person with limited space I kind of have to be selectful of what I might put in there.
And having just again sorry to be long winded there but you know it's nice to have the confidence in a set of F1 seeds that I'm going to be able to search them and also have kind of I mean reliability is one word that you can use there.
But just the depth of work of where they came from. So you know the sourcing is important there.
And that to me when it comes to something untested or not I'm like well where was it sourced.
OK I trust the source. We're good.
Yeah. So to me I've found that you know through my learning that you know working with genetics that are coming from a trusted source is you know one of your most important things as a breeder.
And so that's why some of the folks whose work I've been working with such as Lawrence Ringo and a lot of the stuff that everything that's available with Daga Gardens, Ming-Jin's work.
So Ming-Jin I'm really impressed with a lot of the stuff that he puts out. I really respect him and his work.
But there's a lot of other breeders out there that do a lot of really serious you know line working and put out some pretty stable consistent stuff.
And so I'm working on some of that stuff myself. So keep your eyes out guys. There will be some lines that I've you know have fully line worked and have fully tested.
So those are on the horizon. But you know yeah just I've been really happy to work with this pina and some of these really you know stable genetics and have compared them to some of these other things that I've popped such as you know the peanut butter breath and some of these more real popular newer things.
And the difference is really shocking. You know it's the work that's been put into these lines is apparent and it's very good quality gear.
And you were talking earlier before I jumped in there Anya. You were talking the banana OG and then the cross with the pina. That was the carabrese. Is that kind of OK?
Yes.
OK. So that – go ahead.
Do you want me to go into that one?
Yeah. Yeah. I think that's where I said –
No worries.
So you know I have heard from some grown man. He did a pina to the hash plant, the G13 hash plant. And so he found some plants in there that are washers. And so while I'm not aware if the pina – if there's any plants in the pina populations that will wash and create good hash, I do know that in its hybrids there are some plants that wash.
And so being that the banana OG washes, I've sent out some packs of the carabese to a guy named Whitewater Hash out in Oklahoma. And so he's going to be doing a hunt to test for some washers in there and see if he can get some rosin produced out of that.
And so in that line I really was doing the pineapple tsunami cross and just trying to throw in everything else that was really tropical sounding. And the banana OG, banana mangoes, those were just no brainers.
And there were some other plants that I had going that I decided to throw in that I wasn't really sure what kind of cross that would turn out to be. And so one of those is the KD1. And the KD1 is a Hollywood pure cush hybrid by Mean Gene.
And I can't remember the exact makeup off the top of my head, but it's a pretty complex hybrid with Urkel and Diesel and Hollywood pure cushion. And he took that one to F4 as well. And so I had a nice selection of that one going that actually produced some real sandy resin as well, kind of like the banana OG.
And so I decided I'll just pollinate that one as well and play with those seeds in the future. They're both F4s and so I was thinking that would be kind of cool because a lot of the stuff I've made is F1s crossed to each other or this pina F4 crossed to another F1.
And so I think that one might be potentially more likely to be F1 in nature, I guess you could say.
And yeah, so there's the makeup of the KD1. It's the Hollywood pure cush, Sour Diesel, Hollywood pure cush, Urkel, Black Affie. So it's got that Black Affie from Mean Gene is a really funky one.
And that line he put out, there's a lot of people finding some really good sandy resin heads and super good washing plants. And if you've seen the photo he posted of the bag where it's just like you can't even see through the bag. There's just resin heads at the bottom. It's kind of cool.
Yeah.
Yeah, so another one. So this past season, Paraplegic Pappy is his Instagram. He sells seeds. He did a release with Pacific Northwest Roots, their copy F6. And so I grabbed that from him and in a freebie pack they sent along something called the Bananamal Mints Cubed.
And so I was really intrigued and so I popped a bunch of those this past year along with the pinas. And I actually had kept some males and I culled them because the plants were looking great, but the smells on them were like, it was really spicy.
And it was like incense and it was almost smelling like some kind of hazy smell and I was really just not too intrigued with it. I just thought it was kind of weird. So I got rid of all the males and I was like, I already have all these other projects and I'm not going to work with those.
And so I just kept the females going and as they got further along, they got to their last two weeks of flower and that spiciness and it wasn't necessarily spicy like chili, but like spices, like just weird exotic smells. I don't know how to describe it.
Cinnamon.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so those last two weeks, all those spices started to fade and like all these fruits came out. And so by the harvest time, it was exactly like the zebra stripe or the fruit stripe bubble gum and they have a zebra on their logo, the little tattoos for the tongue.
Oh yeah.
And so it was like, almost like that was all I could think of every time I smelled it. And it was really, really sandy resin and the nugs on the, there was a couple of different phenos, but the one I selected, the one that I harvested the seeds from is the one that I'm describing. It's the only one I kept all the rest I just tossed away, even fully seeded. I didn't like them.
But this one, it was like, it was like straight fruit stripe bubble gum and sandy resin, very large yields. And so I kept the cologne and I'm going to run it out again this year and wash it and probably try and grow as much of it as I can. There's a guy on Instagram, Curtis Terps, who he has a four by eight in his bedroom and he produced like so much rosin out of it.
I was just like, my mind was so blown. And so he really inspired me to do some single source at home. And so I'm going to try growing out this banana moments cubed and just wash her specifically. And yeah, and so that one I'm calling diced. And I'm actually popping some of those myself this week too. And so I'm really interested to see how those come along.
And they're from very different, you know, genetics. So it'll be interesting to see how they come up the banana punch and animal mints.
I could really see, you know, the animal mints, I think brought out the was a lot like brought out a really nice structure and big giant yields. And then the banana punch just brought out a lot of that, you know, weird fruity turps in the end. I think I lost Chad there.
There we go. There you are.
When you hit the wrong button, that is not the stop sharing button. Okay, sorry, we're good. Nobody saw that. It's live.
Yeah, so another one of the crosses I did, I had gone out to was it a Masonix store opening and down in Fairfax. And so I was there and I ran into someone I was giving out packs of my seeds to everyone to just my man cherry, Kim Mandelbrot, just trying to get my name out there and share some of the genetics and I had some of the CBD crosses to that I was giving out.
And a lot of these folks were saying like they had no CBD in their collection. And so I thought that was kind of cool to make sure everyone has it in their at least.
It's a big mission for Ringo.
Yeah, exactly. And so I ran into someone and he's like, Oh, I know, Ranch, I know you. And I, you know, at first I was unsure of who he was. But then I remembered who he was after, you know, a few minutes. But his Instagram is a trap bacon C co and or pk trap bacon. And he's a I don't know exactly where he lives. I think he's either in NorCal or out in LA.
But he had this line with that he shared with me when we were there. And he told me this story about how you know, I had actually seen he was on he was out in Mendo. And he posted on his story. He's like, Yo, mean gene, where's the root beer? And I was I saw that on Instagram. And I was like, Oh, my gosh, like, I wonder if he's gonna get some root beer like what the heck. And he turns out that he met up with mean gene and he got to smoke some of the root beer, I think.
And he shared some of the, the stream that he had. And it was called 11. And it's a black lime reserve orange cookies, female cross to a purple unicorn male that he selected. And so he had talked about how mean gene really liked it. And so he's like, you know, feeling like you know, that was like the seal of approval, right? And so I was like, Okay, cool. You know, if mean gene likes them, if you like them, like I'm gonna pop them right away. So right when I got home, I popped those.
And I found some cool plants. And they were actually really, really consistent. And they all really looked really similar. And so it was kind of cool. But I used two females that I kept in pollinated. And they were both you know, what's interesting is I really couldn't describe the smell. They're really fruity and tropical.
But I went to the Ganji training up in Humboldt this past couple months. And when I went up there, I stopped in at the dispensary Heritage Mendocino. And they had a bunch of the white thorn rose bubble hash from Huckleberry Hill farms. And I was I grabbed some there, you know, I smelled some and I was like, Oh my gosh, I was like, what the heck this stuff smells like.
And I was like, Oh, this stuff smells crazy. So I got it. And it was just super, super incredible stuff. And I've, you know, well, every chance I get, I'm going to grab some for sure at the Emerald Cup, they're gonna have some available. So I suggest to everyone, make sure you get that that white thorn rose, it's really impressive. But this 11 plant that I was growing, it's it smell really, really reminds me of that white thorn rose, it's a little bit different. But in the structure and everything, it's a different plant, but the turps are pretty similar. And it's turp profile that I hadn't really smelled before.
It's like, hard to describe. This is very fruity and no gas or anything, just fruit. And I don't know. But I figured, you know, with all these fruity strains I was running, I figured, you know, I have to pollinate them all with the pina, you know, because it's super tropical. And you know, if I'm going to do a line of pina crosses, I don't want to just be hitting a bunch of, you know, random things. I want to be hitting things that are all at least somewhat
fruity. And so I wanted to make sure I cover the fruit base for my collection of, you know, the stuff I'm working. So now I'm ready to do some hunts and find some fruity stuff that washes and hopefully in the future as I work towards my CBD direction, I'll be able to include some of these lines in the mix. But one of the other crosses I made, do you want to pull up the list? Because I'm
Oh, yeah.
Yes.
Sorry.
Now. So actually from Masonic.
Let me hit the right button here. I'll hit the right button this time. I promise.
From Masonic, I was actually able to get the Cuban Black Haze. So he passed me a couple clones of that one. And so I pollinated that one with the pina as well, because, you know, the pina is a little bit on the sativa side, I would say, in terms of flavor, in terms of the way it grows, because it is a hybrid of super silver haze. And so I figured it would be
interesting to mix up with the Cuban Black Haze, which is, you know, straight, pure sativa, very much longer flowering than the pina. And it's very spicy and woody and churchy, I guess a lot of people describe it as I haven't been to church enough to smell that smell.
But the potpourri.
The potpourri. Yes, I get it now.
It was a really cool plant for sure. So some people I've talked to are really excited about that one themselves. Should be some pineapple mixed in with that incensey wood smell. So should be cool.
Let's see what we get here. Oh, Bulu. You were talking about the Bulu earlier.
That blueberry Afghani NL5 Pakistani, that was the blueberry bomb that I was getting from Palomar grown. And that was what inspired me to go out and search for the genetics. And that was from Dying Breed Seeds. That was a selection I made here in the backyard. And that one was like a straight blueberry. And I actually shared the clone with the one who sent me the seeds.
And he grew it on himself. And I wasn't sure. I thought myself that it was almost like a real blueberry. Exactly. And I had my mom smell it and she's like, it smells like pine.
Different pull off of it.
Yeah, exactly. And so no one really got the blueberry. And so I was like, dang, like, am I imagining that? And so my buddy who flowered it out, he was like, yeah, bro, it's exactly like blueberry. And it's a really frosty, frosty plant. As you're standing in the garden a little bit away from the plants, it stands out amongst the crowd as the most earliest to set frost and the frostiest.
And so it's a pretty cool, pretty cool line. And I actually just saw recently, my buddies from Palomar Grow, I believe they, one of the people who's working there, I guess, moved on to work with 710 Labs and his Instagram is furtherfarming.
And he has their, the Palomar Grow's, their Boo Boo Berry cut, they're growing it at 710 Labs now. And so he was posting some flower shots of it the other day. And it's pretty similar to the one that looks, you know, you could tell it was from the same genetics of the plant that I have.
Okay, burgers and beers, we touched on this one. Definitely this was the Donnie burger. And again, you get the Skunkmax or Flex, GMO, GMO, Lario GF8. My wife was just asking about, she's like, I want some Lario G the other day. I'm like, well, you're in luck.
Yeah, I wish I had gotten some of those, more of those Lario G hybrids he was making because some of them I've seen some photos of and they're really, really impressive. I think that that meal he used was pretty nice.
Yeah, let's see here. Crabreezy, we touched on that was the Banana OG. That was the one that I kind of flashed up there. Now, Seg Martha, that sounds like a old land race or something to me.
Yeah, so you know, I am not too familiar with the information on that. I just know that the Banana OG is a hybrid of the OG Kush and whatever that Seg Martha is. I forget who the breeder was, but I believe he pollinated it with a male is what I think the story really was.
And from those seeds, he selected that Banana OG. And I guess Organ Kid's back on the scene. And so I've seen him doing some work lately and posting a lot of jars of rosin. So it seems like he's a big smoker. So that's kind of cool to see. And being that his Banana OG turned into a popular rosin strain, it's kind of funny to see that worked out that way.
And we hit diced with the Banana Moments, Klua with your 11.
Yes, yes. And Trap Bacon is one that came up with the Klua name. He's thinking like a Hawaiian barbecue party kind of smell is what we were thinking.
Nice. This one we haven't touched yet.
Yeah, yeah. So that's just the Runts clone I got from Purple City Genetics. I was actually running that next to the Boo Boo Berry. And I had this old school, my dad's buddies all came over. And he brought over a friend that was a grower from LA. And he's like an OG grower. It's been growing still under the metal highs and all that stuff.
He's like, I've been doing it for a long time. And he's only grown these OG and Hindu cuts that he's been holding forever. And he's a really cool dude. And so he's coming in around smelling all the plants. And I was like, I've never, I've ever smelled the Runts. And he's like, Runts? Like, nah. And so he like smells it. And then he smells the Boo Boo Berry. And he's like, whoa, this one smells way better.
It was just kind of funny to me because I was like, dang, man, I'm not too impressed either. But I hadn't grown the Runts too many times. But I will say, although I wasn't too impressed with it, it's just because it reminds me so much of Gelato and Sherbert. So to me, it wasn't like anything new. But I will say the quality of the Runts is there. The turps are there. And if you dry it wrong, it's still super turpy. Like those turps really last. And it's a great plant.
I'll say. It lives up to the hype. It really does. But it's not something that I would personally focus all my energy on.
Right. Well, that'll be interesting, you know, because I'd love to find those. I had one cross, different breeder with some Runts in it. Grew it out, hoping for like some good Runts turps. Because again, I don't know that I've ever had like the real true clone only Runts. I'm not convinced that I have. But what I got, and because it was crossed with something else again. So no, not blaming the breeder. But what I got is I got Oregano turps.
No way.
This is like Oregano.
That's so funny, especially because Oregano is like, you know, what people would replace the weed with. It's almost like he, not saying he did, but it's almost like the genetics played a joke on you.
Damn it. It did. And this one actually, this one really had my eye too, because Purple Urkel, a lot of strains come off of that one.
Yeah, Purple Urkel is a classic.
Yeah, big, big backstock. So this is now to the Pina.
So I got in contact with Laserface. I forget the numbers at the end of his tag, but his other name is Lasers Library. And he sells clones and breeds as well.
And so years back at the warehouse, we had, you know, when I had gotten all those original seeds in my first, you know, time buying seeds, I got the, that was at the time CSI was offering his Purple Urkel line of Femme hybrids.
And so, you know, when we did the grow, I did the Mendo perps times Purple Urkel, and I did the Triangle Kush Purple Urkel. And both of those were really, really cool, very, very different.
And so right away, I just had this big love for Purple Urkel. And I just knew that, you know, whatever it was bringing to the table in those hybrids was really special.
And so I really wanted to get it. And I'd always really wanted to get the TK so I could, you know, just remake those old family Purple seeds and do a big hunt because I really love that one so much.
And, you know, with the CSI charging, you know, as much as he charges a big hunt for me just economically doesn't really make sense.
But those old family purples are really special. And I suggest that everyone go buy them from CSI Humboldt if you can.
But so the clone I got from Lazer's library and I was so stoked to finally get it and I ran her a few times and oh nice you have it.
This actually actually yes I got it here. I'll zoom out here. Sorry. But big shout out to Dave.
This is a this is a straight. So sorry to interrupt here. Dog shit is a strain that I remembered from the 90s from the Pacific Northwest and it smelled like dog shit.
Now being the name dog shit. This was really before there a lot of the strains had names like there was AK-47 and Alaska Thunderfuck.
Those were really the only two that we knew of at the time. So when somebody said it was dog shit, I never thought of it.
Didn't hear about it for over a decade like years and years. Heard somebody mention it on one of the channels and then I was talking with Dave about it and he's like, bro, I got you.
And here's here's here's the kicker where where I made me pull it out. It's called Hong Kong Phooey, but it's dog shit times the old family purple.
That's super. So yeah, that'll be a nice one to hunt through. If you get some.
It's there's three fembo would be really crazy. I can't imagine what you would find in there.
Yeah, yeah. But sorry, you're saying the old family purple and I'm like, old family purple, man. I actually amazingly have that here right here.
Crossed the dog shit. So, yeah, there are three fem seeds in there. Those are all getting popped. I'm hope again. It's weird what we do in cannabis, but I hope I get the dog shit, you know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But so it's funny. So the candy pina I made as well. And I sent those to Dave as a little gift and I sent those to you and you guys are the only ones with those right now besides me. So I hope you guys enjoy those ones and are able to find something cool in there. I don't know what I don't know what the can will bring to the table in the cross, but I'm sure it'll be interesting.
That is actually I mean, that's one line that I've been hunting like chem 91 91 chem is one of my favorite strains. Chem D chem for I've started kind of collecting different chems and different cheeses lately because I want to go in and try, you know, again, do my hunt, try to find what I can. So yeah, when these showed up, I'm just like, yes, got got got some more ammo for the soil, you know.
But I'll be I'll be eager to go through these and let you know. And wouldn't that be wild if you know there was like a marriage of some of that those those chem profiles with some of the the pineapple and the pina. So this is the it's the hunt. This is what I love, man. So thank you for that. But yeah, you so that's something that you're just kind of keeping in house for now to.
Yeah, it was just a small plant and, you know, the yield was small and seeds. And so I just didn't feel like offering it out, just keeping it in house.
Yep, I know that one. And let's see here. We we kind of covered these strains as well. But I did just want to click on here because I wanted to come back and touch, you know, like the CBD aspect. I was very glad that in the medical days 2012, gosh, 10 years now, I was able to pick up Harlequin.
I had the option to pick up Sour Tsunami, but it was a it was a 20 to 1 CBD to THC. And I was like, well, you know, I still like to have some THC in there. Hindsight. But one of the things that amazed me over the years is there was a company, unfortunately, they got busted about two years ago, but called Dynafem.
And they were doing a lot of work. They were in Spain, kind of like we're saying earlier, sometimes when you're the biggest, you get all the attention from the law. So something that was gray zone there, they got busted for. But anyways, my point to that was they had worked CBD into some interesting lines like some OG Kush's and like things you wouldn't expect to see CBD in.
And initially on the outset, I'm like, what? You know, OG Kush doesn't have 10% CBD. What? You know, what BS are you pushing? And then, you know, through education, I kind of started learning a little bit more about that process.
Is that kind of a road that you're trying to go down? And I see Gumo in chat. He's all got I got critical cheese by Dynafem. So yeah, Dynafem was putting out some CBD stuff. They're gone now. But was that is that a direction that you're looking to go towards with a lot of these things?
Um, yeah. So there is in the future I am working on working towards a one to one line, and maybe even some other, you know, different profiles, but something that has a, you know, good, good dominant amount of CBD to complement the THC. And as I create this line in the future, I'm planning on like I did with the pina, you know, pollinate a bunch of other plants and start to create some other lines from there.
But I don't want to just take an OG, hit it with a CBD plant and call it CBD OG. I want to create some unique, interesting new lines that are, you know, totally different and unique to me. And so that's kind of the direction that I'm hoping to go in. And right now, you know, I don't see many crazy terp profiles in the CBD world. And as I go to the dispensary, there's a string called Harmony Rose that I've seen.
On the flower shelf and four or five years ago, that was the same strain that they had on the shelf. And it's just like the only strain and so you know, I'd like to see some some different, different options out there. And to be honest, I don't see any breeders working with it.
So I want to do the work if if no one else is. I know there are people doing a lot of CBD work. So I just got to find more of them and connect with them and see what's what strains they're working and if there are people with some CBD hash plants, because I'd love to connect with them as well.
Yeah, that would be cool. It's something that I start to see more and more, at least in my area. But you know, at first, yeah, you couldn't find CBD at the rec dispensary. Or if you did, there was one strain. The store I went to work for is, you know, I was like, okay, you guys, because they had they had a whole wall of CBD. They had all kinds of CBD products. And for me, the medicinal aspect of this plant is very important.
You know, that's why I went there and worked for Shitty Pay. I wanted to help people. I had nothing else to do. So I did it. And that's where I also saw the White Widow one to one. I'm like, oh, that's interesting. But yeah, to your point, the flavor profiles aren't really there. And it's almost kind of secondary. It's almost like, hey, be happy we had it.
Take it.
So that's really refreshing to see. And nice to know that, you know, these folks that are still in cannabis are still making sure they take care of everyone.
Yeah, and actually now that, you know, I'm thinking about it, thank goodness, Mr. Longpipes is in here in chat. But he just reminded me, like Seattle Chronic, he's another breeder that is up on this site. He's doing a lot of CBD work. So that's a great person too.
Awesome, I'll check him out.
Yeah, Hoku, Weed Should Taste Good.
Yeah, I've heard of Weed Should Taste Good. I will look into some of those other names, though. I have not heard of them myself. So thank you, man.
Yeah, but that's, you know, that'll be good to, again, maybe just, you know, do the collaboration or obviously, you know what you're doing there. But we can only do so many cycles per year. So sometimes when we crowdsource or we team effort these things.
And like, you know, my crosses that I made with the Harlequin, because again, a lot of the males that I had, I always wanted something, you know, more CBD. So like you, it started out, I just wanted preservation. I want to be able to have things to work with.
So I made a bunch of those seeds. And every now and then I'll run a couple just for myself. But I have no way of saying, yep, this has CBD in it. You know, there's that feeling you get, but that's the hard part about doing crosses.
Yeah, that's, for me, that's, I found the biggest challenge with working with CBD lines. You know, I think that with most of us working THC lines, we have that confidence that you know, the power is already going to be there, the potency is going to be there, and we can smoke it and kind of tell. But with CBD, you really have no clue what the real level is, even if you're a CBD user, regular CBD user, probably have a pretty bad idea or bad. You're probably pretty bad at gauging how much is there.
So working with analytics is really like the only way it seems. And I unfortunately haven't been able to test these two pineapple tsunami females that I'm holding, but I'm going to flower them out again and take them to the local lab and the lab charges, I think 70 bucks. And to be honest, when you're doing a big hunt, like that's just, that's a lot of money. But when you just have a couple plants, it totally is affordable. And it really does give you so much insight into, you know, what's going on with the genetics and what's going to be in the offspring.
And, you know, what kind of medicinal value that plant has. So I'm excited to get these two tested and see where the line goes. And, you know, I'm curious, you know, even if I'm curious to test them, and then test some of the offspring and see, you know, where does, where do those ratios change and come in? Because I've only done one CBD line and I haven't tested it yet at all. So I've just smoked it.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah. And that, you know, and that's a big important factor for me. And I imagine for you too, it's, you know, a lot of the people who are after the CBD are after it for a reason. So to be able to confidently say this is expressing it, or this is passing it on, that's, you know, it's a big deal.
It is. You know, we buy our THC seeds knowing they're going to be there, the THC is going to be there. So when we buy these CBD seeds, we want that same confidence, you know?
Absolutely. Now you have, you know, you have a wide palette to work with. Do you, you know, right now you're kind of doing some of the fruity things with the pina crosses or crosses, you know, with mixed with the mango, get your carabrese. I kind of tend to fluctuate. I tend to either be ahead of the curve or totally behind the curve.
Like when OG and all that stuff was really popular, or the gas and the sour is like, I want fruit, man. I want nothing but fruit. I want a fruit cocktail. And then, so I was a little bit ahead. And then as that became popular, I was like, you know, these OGs are really good. I really like, so I went way behind the bus again.
And I've kind of, you know, I flip flop. I've kind of given up on my skunk hunt. Going for the cheese though and the chem, but I'm almost going more like fruity, like my, my palate is missing the fruity flavors because I've been focused on something else for a while. Does your palate kind of change like that? Or is there an ultimate profile that you're after in all of this?
You know, there's, I wouldn't say there's any ultimate profile. You know, my palate definitely changes all the time. There's, you know, a couple weeks ago I bought, you know, a couple, a couple of ron and grams of GMO. And after a couple of days, I love GMO, but after a couple of days I was like, I don't want this. This is horrible. I just wanted something else, anything else. And so, you know, you do get sick of those flavors for sure.
So I think it's important, you know, that we get, you know, a couple bases covered, you know, like I think Kevin Jodri has put it that way, you know, and he's talked about, you know, we've got these, you know, the floral, you know, the fruit, the gas, and I think there's the earth. I don't know. But, you know, there's these couple different bases that you need to cover. And for me, I've been focusing on the fruit area this past couple, this past pollination.
But my next project, this next pollination that I'm going to do, I think it's going to be an OG male that I'm working with. But we'll see what happens. I haven't made the final decision yet. But yeah, still all those other plants are, all the pineapple tsunami stuff, they're all still real young seedlings. So they're not ready to flip yet.
It's amazing that you said that, you know, I quote this all the time. It's the fruity, floral, earthy, or gassy. You know, I heard Kevin Jodri say that years ago, it made absolutely sense to me. The guy's business acumen is just insane. But it's so true. If you want to be competitive in a market, you really need to have a specialty in at least each of those categories.
Granted, like music, there's many subcategories. But if you cover those bases, you can almost cover the marketplace, you know. So that's awesome that you mentioned it because that has framed a lot of what I have done as well. So that's cool.
Another thing I learned from Kevin Jodri when we were up at the Gangier training, he said that his son turned this coin and it's called N.A.S.T.E. And it's, this is how we buy cannabis. And it's the first, most important is the nose, the appearance, the smell, or maybe I'm putting this out of order. And I think it was nose, appearance, smell, taste, effect.
But I guess nose and smell are the same thing. So maybe I'm mixing those up. But anyways, nose is what we first pick up and determine the quality on. So those turps are so important. And like you said, we've got to have options because the first one you smell might not be it.
Well, we're very visual too. And in a lot of the rec markets, at least, it's all visual. You can't smell the cannabis anymore. Even Oregon down south, they were the last bastion of like, smell this jar. But they're going away to prepackage stuff now.
It's a bummer. It really is. But, you know, with the, you know, being able to be, you know, learn more about the product and everything, you get more comfortability going into these shops, you know, as you get to know the genetics and the brands, you start to have, you know, there's going to be a little bit of consistency with these certain brands and those specific strains.
So, well, it's been nice to become more familiar with the product and the space and how it all works and everything. And, you know, when I go to get my GMO, I know what I'm going to get. Still, sometimes, you know, some brands, it didn't come out the way I expected. And sometimes I'm disappointed. And so not being able to smell it is such a bummer these days. So you guys are lucky that you guys still have that, if you do.
Yeah, a little bit. It's honestly, Washington. Washington weed sucks. So we're not too far from Oregon, allegedly, go there to their stores.
Yeah, some homegrown it is.
Yeah, I'm so glad for homegrown because again, a lot of this stuff, like I said, you know, I don't know that I've really had the real runts because I've never known a person like a good grower who grew it. It's always been a wreck purchase. And it can taste like anything from nothing to mild. I've never had a bowl of runs and been like, wow.
But that's what everybody keeps telling me. That's what the internet says. It's like, wow. So I'm waiting for that wow moment here.
Yeah, yeah. And there's just so many, you know, cuts or so many just bags passed around with whatever name they put on it. I remember my buddy, when the runs hype started getting big and he tells me, yeah, I got some runs, bro. I finally tried it. I was like, what was it like? And he's like, it's just like chem. And I was like, what? Was that runs?
Dude, working at the dispensary, literally producer was there dropping his delivery off and we're just bullshitting as we usually do. And he's like, dude, if I put a food name on it, it sells twice as fast. And he was dead serious. So yeah, it's, it's stinks from a person who looks at this like medicinally because you want the person to be able to find something that works for him.
You want the reliability in the producer run after run to get the same, you know, chemotype profile to it because it's providing a certain effect for people. You know, as I see it really home grow, potentially in the future, craft grow is going to be the way to do it hard to do at scale. And when you're in a rec market.
Yeah, there's so much misnaming and that's no discredit to the person who legitimately thinks that they got it as this particular cut, you know, it's nothing nefarious by them and they may pass it on to me under that name. And I'm like, well, yeah, it's this. But back to kind of 360 or 180 that to do something with it. That's why I really, again, enjoy the kind of the providence that you provide with your product.
Yeah. So, and I'm going to take this opportunity now to get into a little bit of a conversation with some of our viewers. And I want to start with this question. We know that there's a lot of people that have been talking about your genetics. We know where these came from. We know Mean Gene is a decent dude. He's not Mr. Instagram breeder. So, you know, and a lot of these too. It's cool that you've had the journey to like collect these and to meet some of these people and go to the Emerald Cup.
that stood out to you or was inspiring
for what you're doing today in that journey?
Yeah, you know, Mr. Toad, Phil You'll Feel,
he's definitely, I watched all those
Meet the Breeders series by Kevin Jodry
up at Wonderland Nursery.
I actually wanted to go up there for them,
but you know, I just, being in San Diego,
it didn't make sense to get all the way up there
just to watch some breeders talk.
So I heard his story and you know,
I was really inspired and I immediately went out
and reached out to him and got like 10 packs
of his Angel, what is it, Inbred line
or something like that.
And some of his Space Tiva, but you know,
he talked a lot about how, you know,
he was breeding for his family and his mother
and you know, she had two different strains
who helped her with two different issues
and he combined them and then that strain
was able to help with both of those things
rather than her having to go get two different ones
or grow two different ones.
And so I was just like so intrigued by that,
you know, his medicinal side of the story.
And I don't often hear that amongst many breeders.
And so I thought that was really cool and touching
and it really impacted me.
And I thought that was really cool how he got to work
with so many patients through his experience as a breeder.
And I don't know many people who've gotten
that kind of opportunity.
You know, there's a lot of people who get their genetics out
for people to smoke, but how often, you know,
do those people really deal with something
where the cannabis is gonna, you know,
really change their life and those, you know,
terpenes can make such a difference.
Like with Nick Rizdin, we've seen with the Royal Kush
and everything like, you know, it's incredible
how these small amounts of, you know,
a specific chemical can change someone's life
so dramatically.
So it's impressive and touching.
So shout out to Mr. Toad.
Yeah, yeah, and you know, back to what we're just saying,
once, you know, once you find that strain
and it has that impact for you,
it's so important for that to be consistent.
So that's, you know, in our market.
But yeah, you know, Mr. Toad is a big inspiration
for a lot of us around here.
The work that he did in his dispensary or the store.
I don't know the proper term and I'm sorry
if he's out there.
But, you know, working with a lot of the patients,
it's that experience.
It's that hands-on, again, hey.
Because he'll talk a lot about, you know,
he'll give somebody this, I'll try this,
yay or nay, keep working there, narrow it down,
find something that works for them.
That's great.
That is, that's an inspiration to me.
So I'm glad that you kind of pull a little inspiration
from that as well.
Yeah, and you know, it's cool to see him on here
all the time and get to learn so much from him.
And you know, another person that really, I think,
helped shape my direction as a breeder
is Sun Grown Meds, Trevor.
I went to the CanMed conference.
I go to that one every year by Medicinal Genomics.
And it's just like a conference on, you know,
they bring in all these researchers
that are gonna present their paper that they've done
in the past year that's research on cannabis.
And they just talk about, you know,
the current state of cannabis medical research.
And to me, that's really interesting.
I just go just to hear and learn.
And you know, like, what are the new cannabinoids
that could be important?
You know, like, I just am curious.
And I went there one time and connected with,
actually the first year I went,
I met this guy named Wade.
And I'm forgetting his Instagram name
off the top of my head.
I think it's just Wade Oles, O-L-S.
But he's a really cool dude.
He's a breeder out here in Vista.
And he lives up in Davis as well.
So me and him connected at the first one.
And I went to the second one.
He's like, oh, Sungrown Mids is here, man.
You gotta meet him.
And so after the event, we go out
and we have like a little sesh.
And it was actually pretty interesting
because it was all these presenters
had just, you know, given their big important presentation
and then they leave the event.
And then they're all just outside standing in a circle
having a big sesh.
And I'm like-
Like everybody else.
Yeah, exactly.
With, I forget his name.
His last name starts, it's like N-G-A.
I-O, I can't pronounce it, but he's a hemp.
He has a business in the hemp field
working hemp genetics and stuff.
But he's a big person in that field
and in the cannabis genetics research space.
And so it was kind of cool to just be hanging out
with all these, you know, really smart people
and everything and Trevor was there.
And so he had all these bags of flour
and he was pulling them out.
And right when he reaches in his pocket,
I could just immediately smell it.
And I was like, what the heck, what is that?
And it was just so funky and great.
And so it was a bunch of this coastal
or Gold Coast genetics flour
that he had, I think, grown out himself.
And so I talked to him and he told me about
how him and Bollywood Bam go to UC Davis
for these breeding education things.
And he said that actually they're doing a specific program
on hemp breeding and seed production
and that I should check it out.
And so I went and looked it up
and I sold a bunch of seeds from my collection
to raise enough money to get out there.
My buddy Wade, who I met at the CanMed,
he lives up in Davis and in Vista.
Like his girlfriend goes to,
or like she works up there in Davis.
So I was like, oh man, like we should go to this.
And he's like, yeah man, stay at my house
and we'll go together.
And so he signed up for it as well.
And we both went and Bollywood Bam was there.
The breeder for Realm of Caring or Charlotte's Web,
forget her name, something bear.
She's a hemp breeder.
And she did a whole presentation
about how she does only fence work.
And so all the education was just really, really cool.
And it really opened my eyes to the future
of where cannabis is going.
This was the first real,
the year prior was the first year
that colleges were allowed to legally research hemp.
And so these super serious scientists, professors,
did all these studies on hemp
and they're growing hemp out in New York,
in upstate New York, just in the Cornell and stuff.
And so they're growing hemp
and then have all these like weird studies
where they're trying to figure out
like how far does the pollen fly?
And it's just like silly stuff,
but it's like so important too.
And they found that the pollen can go,
in an area where the wind is constantly blowing
one direction, the pollen can go two miles upwind.
Somehow it just finds little streams
that are able to carry it.
And so they had a genetic testing they were doing
on these pollen samples too,
to prove that they came from the specific plant.
So it was a very thorough research.
But so I got to hear all this really cool research
and stuff and meet Bollywood Bam
and give them some of my seeds and everything.
And so it just really was a cool experience.
And really I had been doing all this research for years,
trying to learn at home.
And I really left that like as a certification course.
I left that course feeling like, okay,
I know what I'm doing.
And the research I've been doing is valid.
It's not just bro science.
Like you see all this contradicting stuff online
and people telling us to do all these different things.
So it's really hard to trust what you're learning.
But after you see all these professors saying that,
yeah, this is how it's supposed to be done.
And all these other breeders in the community
are doing it that way.
I was like, okay, yeah, we're on the right track.
And it was just a real cool experience.
So I felt really blessed to be able to get that education.
And from there, I've just only focused on my breeding
and done that full time and been focused
on just connecting more and more with the community
and as many people as I can that are as passionate
about cannabis as me.
So the Ganja program has been pretty fun.
Because I will say, a couple of years ago,
my friends were all over and my buddy comes over
and he's like, oh, like,
are you still growing watermelons, Adam?
And some of my buddies started cracking up
and they're like laughing at me
because I'm growing watermelons and plants and stuff.
And I was just thinking, wow,
I have the lamest group of friends ever.
Like, they think it's lame that I'm gardening.
It's like, dude, they love weed too,
but they don't understand what it is
that I'm doing with weed
because they just aren't interested.
And so it's just like, I've found a lot of happiness
connecting with all these other folks
that just love cannabis too.
So it's been fun.
Yeah, well, it's a good community to surround yourself
with like-minded people.
And you're on the hunt.
And the education too, it's smart.
You have to verify what you hear.
And last night, I was on a Potent Ponic show
with Dr. Bob Fost and Coot.
And those are some really intelligent dudes,
but we were talking about a particular product
and they were talking about uptake.
And I know that a lot of people,
kind of like your friends, that we love weed.
We don't question where it comes from.
It's just there.
And a lot of times people are like that with the science.
So it's like with the uptake, I said, okay,
well, how are you quantifying this uptake?
Are you actually doing like a SAP analysis
or is it just like, well, it drank this much?
Because sometimes in the world of bro,
it drank this much equals uptake.
But no, and Dr. Robert Fost,
obviously with the doctor in front of it
and a few other initials, he was kind of like,
well, we use the standard agronomic,
this is how it's always been done in agriculture.
And I'm like, and I know, but we're talking cannabis here
because a lot of people don't realize
so much of this stuff is already done in agriculture,
just not on the cannabis plant.
I mean, the other day, Aerobidopsis is the most common plant
that you're gonna see studied
that we can relate back to cannabis.
There is gonna be some more hemp studies now.
And it's great that we're actually finally seeing
cannabis studies because we can get rid
of some of the bro science, because again,
every plant as similar as it is,
is gonna act a little bit differently.
And we all know environment plays a big deal
with our cannabis.
So yeah, definitely verify the information
that we hear and that we learn.
And especially when it comes to breeding,
it's been a freaking absolute pleasure for me
to do a few shows with Trevor, the sun grown mids.
Like, freaking A.
That's some deep stuff there.
It's like, it's really overwhelming to hear all that
as a breeder because you really start to wonder,
wow, I didn't go to school for this.
Like, can I do this?
And so it's a little bit, sometimes when you dig
into the science in this and how it all works,
it's a little bit overwhelming
and a little bit daunting and scary.
But when it really comes down to it,
I think we have to focus and remember that,
breeding is just as much an art as it is a science.
And so, while it's really great
and I love what Trevor's doing, sharing all the science,
I respect also the memes he's making,
saying, we're not doing this wrong.
Just because we're practicing it as an art,
doesn't mean we're doing it wrong.
The science is important to know,
but we can still practice it as an art
and keep furthering the genetics the way we are
and implement the science where we can
and where it's helpful.
So it's been cool to discover that as well
and to learn about Luther Burbank
and how he didn't even really believe in Mendelian genetics
and he didn't believe in Darwinism,
but he ended up creating 850 plant varieties
that are still used today.
Yeah, so it's interesting.
There's a happy medium there
between the science and the art,
because I think we all, I mean, there's Maranol,
there's synthetic THC.
And if we were to feed growing a plant
or selecting a plant even,
the art of breeding to algorithms,
you might get something a little soulless, you know?
And that's, you know, that is the art behind it.
And that's cool.
You know, I always say, you know,
it's like experience is great, education is good.
But when you combine the education and the experience,
it's really hard to beat.
Because experience, sometimes you get complacent
and you don't learn about new techniques and new ways,
because everything, especially science space,
is rapidly changing.
But when you're just educated,
you don't have a lot of those hands-on,
like, well, it looks good on paper,
but in reality type situations.
So again, when you merge the two,
it's the perfect honeymoon.
And that's what we're all after.
That's what we're all working for.
But again, you can't speed up time.
So, you know, it's like,
we're doing our education in the interim,
we're learning every day.
You know, there's a saying,
if you do anything for 15 minutes a day for 30 days,
you're gonna be pretty proficient in it after that.
And so I'm sure there's a lot of us that give,
you know, at least an hour a day to reading a paper,
listening to a podcast, doing anything in that vein.
But you've already started.
And, you know, it's kind of like myself.
You know, I have ambitions one day to make great lines
that are very consistent,
that would be, you know,
wonderful in a commercial application.
Not that I wanna get into a commercial application,
but you have to be at a very strict standard
to meet that level.
And that's the path you're on as well.
You've started this, you know, years ago.
You're, you know, you're making some crosses now,
you're building the bank of things to work with
for the future.
And you're saying that you have some lines
that you have that line breeding goal,
and we know you can't rush line breeding out the door.
So there are things that you've been putting work into
over these years, right?
So you're actually going back a few lines
and waiting for that to happen.
Is that kind of what you're doing as well?
Yeah, I have a couple that I'm waiting on releasing
and I'm still taking two steps further.
And actually one of them,
well, the Cherry Chem Middle Brow
is one that I already released a bunch of the,
I gave away a bunch of the F1s
just to everyone that I could meet
because that first batch I had made,
the first batch of the first like crosses I did,
those plants were like,
I say the first crosses I did,
but they were the first crosses I did with intent,
with knowledge and understanding of breeding.
I had made some crosses before when we were younger
from the warehouse and stuff,
but we really didn't know what we were doing.
Oh, there's a male, it's this strain, oh, that's pollinate.
So this first cross, the Cherry Chem Middle Brow,
I gave out a lot of those
and I even made a Middle Brow Kush F2s
and I gave away a bunch of those as well.
But the Cherry Chem Middle Brow,
South Lake Farms is gonna grow them out next year outdoors.
He got a bunch of them.
So I'm really excited to see how those do for him.
Cause for me, they've been really,
really productive and healthy.
So it'll be interesting to see,
hopefully that one get on some shelf somewhere
and maybe by that time I'll be able to release the F4.
So that'll be a cool timing, hopefully.
Now that'll be awesome.
And I'll be paying attention.
I'm definitely gonna be following you.
I knew I would from the first time we met,
to here we are again talking
and I know we're gonna be able to talk again in the future.
Before we go though, in the big world of things,
what is a strain that for your own smoking purposes,
CBD, THC, whatever that you are after?
What is the elusive one?
And then maybe as far as potentially using
as a breeding stock, maybe they're the same,
maybe they're different.
What kind of is on the wishlist there for you?
Right now I'm trying to find the Nubia.
I think that's Ningeen's cross.
I don't remember who exactly selected it,
but it's a cross by him that's supposed to have
a little bit of CBD in it.
I believe he told me it was around 4%,
if I'm remembering correctly.
But it's supposed to have a really crazy turt profile.
And there's actually a couple of folks on IG
that are out searching around for it for me,
sending out some feelers.
So there's some really cool people out there
that have been doing some really great things for me.
And I feel really lucky.
So thank you everyone.
And yeah, so that Nubia is the one.
So I haven't been smoking on it
and I haven't tried it though.
But the one that I've been,
the one I really wanna get is the TK.
The TK is another one that I've smoked that a bunch of times.
I have some other OGs, but I'm curious to see,
what's the difference between growing the TK
and some of these other OGs?
Because I really love the flower
and the concentrate that I get from the TK.
That stuff's just my favorite OG.
Nice, yeah.
And with the, sorry, and with the Old Family Purple,
that's that Urkel triangle cush.
And I still have the Urkel,
so I need to get that triangle cush to remake those.
Yes, yes, yeah.
That was awesome.
That was an awesome score.
The Old Family Purple, I looked into that and I'm like,
oh, well that's a freaking dynamite thing too.
So we'll see.
And their selection, the T1000,
that's a really nice selection as well.
Yeah, yeah.
So yeah, the only information I found online was it was,
focus, focus, focus.
It basically listed them interchangeably,
but I don't know if that's the case.
Yeah, so the T1000 is a selection
of the Old Family Purple.
They call it the Trump 1000.
That's the name of the cut.
For some reason, they didn't call that cut
Old Family Purple, if that's what you were confused about.
Yeah, yeah, that's where I was.
I think it was done by Tigard Farms,
the same guy who selected the Obama Cush.
He works with CSI.
He's out of Oregon, I believe.
Probably Tigard, Oregon.
I know where that's at.
Yeah, probably.
He used to live not too far from there.
Yep.
Geez, yeah.
I've just kind of written down a few things over here.
Again, one of the things I love
is one of your driving motivations
is just access for cannabis for people,
and more particularly patients, CBD-focused cultivars.
Really like that, really admire that,
and always happy to see that.
So thank you.
And we're glad that you're on daga.garden now.
And it's daga.garden, everybody.
Daga.love will still bring you there.
But yep, daga.garden.
Let me go back to the homepage here.
And all those crosses that we just talked about
are all available at daga.garden.
And yeah, show some support out over there,
and reach out if you have any questions, guys.
I'm more than willing to answer any questions.
So just hit me up in the DMs at underscore the ranch.
And yeah, thank you so much, Chad and Peter.
I really appreciate you guys
not only putting me out on the daga.garden,
but bringing me on here to talk with the community.
It's, you know, I'm listening every day for hours and hours.
And you know, that 12-hour episode
was on there the other day,
and I was like, oh my God,
am I ever gonna get through this?
But by the end of the day, I had completed it.
So I keep it running while I'm working in the garden.
Yeah, I'm showing all the handles here.
That's why we love you guys' content.
So thank you guys.
Yeah, no problem.
We'll keep the hits coming, man.
You keep doing what you're doing.
We'll keep it up over here.
Thank you.
Yeah, no problem.
And I see Peter in chat saying, me too, thank you.
It's very awesome.
The poinsettia one today was even really cool.
And being that we're, I'm in San Diego,
I'm really close to the Escondido and the Ecke greenhouses
where they were doing a lot of that breeding work.
And so it was really cool to hear the real history.
You know, I've heard a lot of it here being local,
but that was a real deep dive.
So that was real cool to hear all that.
I don't know if you got the chance to hear it today, Chad.
I did get a little bit of it
because I absolutely love getting gardening information
from non-cannabis people.
Because it's, yeah, it's not better or worse.
Sometimes they think of things that cannabis people don't,
but then there's also things that are so ingrained
into farmers like NPK that in the cannabis world,
it's kind of like, whoa, bro, what'd you say there?
So it's fun to have some of those conversations
with some like real farmers.
One of my friend's dad, he was out from Montana visiting
and I cornered him because I knew he was a farmer
and I cornered him about, you know, that stuff.
And you know, he had some good answers for me too.
So that's the exchange of ideas.
And that's the important thing here is the more you talk,
the more you learn and yeah,
make more decisions going forward.
So yeah, that's, you know,
I've got a lot of good information tonight.
I appreciate it.
And again, everybody, his Instagram,
as well as the link to dagga.garden
for his specific profile is down in the show notes.
So if you just want to make life easy on yourself,
just click the show more, boom, you'll see it down there.
Click on those, get a hold of the ranch.
You got to have some stuff coming up soon for anybody,
new projects or is that going to be till next season?
You know, I think I'm unsure when the next release will be.
I'll update everyone via Instagram though.
I'll let everyone know.
Awesome, awesome.
Well, hey, thank you for taking your time tonight.
I appreciate it.
Thank you, Chad.
I really appreciate it.
Yeah, my pleasure, my pleasure.
And we will see you, actually,
I will be back here tomorrow morning,
FCPO2 with,
bum, bum, bum, bum,
the Perfectly Imperfect Grow Show,
featuring Uncle Rick, DP710,
Smotpoker and Crispy Wannabe.
That's right folks, 2 p.m. Pacific Standard Time,
Saturday, December 4th.
Tune in, don't be late.
All right.
So I had to-
Wait, so Chad, are you going to be
at the Emerald Cup this year?
I am not, unfortunately,
that is on my wishlist of places to go.
And Peter actually asked me the other day,
he's like, hey, did you want to go?
I was like, well, yeah.
And he's like, it's December 11th or 10th and 11th.
I'm like, I can't,
logistically, it's too fast for me.
You know, if I went down there,
I'd love to have stuff to share.
I'd love to have big jars and stuff.
And yeah, I can't pull that together in two weeks.
So it's not going to happen.
Plan for next year, man.
We'll make a future cannabis project,
get together or something next year.
Yes, yes.
Well, we were talking after hours
and I hope Peter, let me see if Peter is still in the chat.
We were talking, but he needs to get that.
I see him, he is in here.
Needs to get the farm going
so we can have the future cannabis project cup this summer.
Because holy crap,
that's probably going to be the best smoke in the nation.
So yeah, hopefully we'll get to meet up.
Cool, yeah, I agree.
Well, have a good night, everyone.
If you're going to be at the Emerald Cup, come find me.
Hit me up on Instagram, I'll be there.
So yeah, thank you, Chad, for hosting
and staying so long with me
and letting me go so deep into all the crosses
and everything, appreciate you.
Yeah, no problem.
Always my pleasure.
And everybody in chat, watching on the replay,
thank you again and peace out.
Enjoy guys.
