All right, you mind modding everybody up for me, brother?
Hi, everybody.
How are you doing over there at Future Cannabis Project?
It's me again.
I hope you liked my lemon cush headband video from earlier.
I have peppers here, but you can see I have, these should be lemon cushes.
Now, these are my Acapulco Gold, which you're going to see next week coming up as well.
You can see I'm getting warm and cozy by the fire for another episode of the Dank Hour.
So without any further ado, let's get rolling.
Let's get started.
If you want to check it out, hop over to YouTube and see what's going on there.
And hopefully you can enjoy that.
Just a second.
Let's do the thing.
I got this new intro.
That's the intro.
And if everybody can hear me, there we go.
Pause that, mute that mic.
Get rid of me from the screen.
Bring me over here and you can see me and hear me loud and clear over there in the YouTube
audience.
I hope everybody is doing well.
Damon, Ashley, how's everybody going today?
Fabulous.
How are you guys?
Awesome.
Very, very well.
I'm excited because I've got some fun stuff for us.
Before we get started and get everything going here, I wanted to ask each of the moderators
in the room right now to change their profile photo to a plant that they really enjoy growing
this year.
And that way we can kind of show and tell a little bit here on Industry Insider.
So if you don't mind just taking a minute while I bust the intro out and talk to everybody
out there on the Future Cannabis Project side and on this and turn off my fireplace.
So it's a little bit not doesn't get too hot on me, which is wonderful.
So everybody welcome to the Dankower, another episode of Get Growing Together, Industry
Insider.
This is a fall smoke up where we get all of our industry experts together and sit down,
relax and have a chat about how the fall went and how everything's going over the last year
and what's our plans up for the next year.
This is a little bit more casual of an episode and will continue to be so.
If you're over there in Future Cannabis Project, want to come over and say hi, don't be afraid
to do so.
If you've got any questions, don't forget to ask them.
I'm happy to share, post and get all of that going as well.
So without any further ado, we're going to introduce each one of our experts on the stage
today.
Jameson, we'll start with you, then Josh, Dr. Anubis, Corey and then Ashley.
Are we going?
Are we launching?
Yeah, yeah, you're good to go.
Hey everyone, my name is Jameson Walborn.
I am a cannabis industry veteran.
I have been touching the plant since 2006, been involved in the industry up here in Canada
since 2016.
And I'm incredibly excited to be here tonight with my friends.
Hey everyone, I'm Josh.
I've also been in the industry for a little while myself.
I worked in research and development on a molecular breeding project, identifying markers
for future breeding projects, but currently just doing good old fashioned pheno hunting
and living soil.
And also excited to be here.
Thanks.
Hey everybody, Dr. Anna here.
And I am a cannabis scientist, I have a PhD in cannabis genetics.
And I am in New Jersey, currently with a company working on growing cannabis for an aquaponics
system.
So using fish to provide nutrients to plants.
And I also teach modern cannabis science at CU Boulder.
My name is Corey Russell.
I am a principal managing partner for a large scale cultivation company up here in Canada.
It's been a busy year.
We have been through Canada, the United States, Colombia, and Portugal.
I've been officially on the books making medicine in about 2005, 2006 in the great state of
California, back in the good old days.
And all they try to do is bring that same passion back up here to Canada.
So I am extremely excited to be here as well.
It's good to see everybody again this week.
Hi everybody.
Hey, Corey.
I'll go next.
My name is Ashley Hubbard.
I'm the director of cultivation for a fully aeroponic facility located here in Michigan.
I have been in the industry professionally since 2014, where I started as a trimmer,
and then within a couple years worked my way up to director.
So excited to talk about what we've got for new year's trends.
And Chase, do you want to introduce yourself as well?
Welcome up to the stage.
You are one of the main speakers on the breeder panel on Monday.
It's always awesome having a chat with you.
Welcome to this stage.
And you want to introduce yourself to everybody out there?
Yes.
My name is Chase Rieta.
I'm originally from the state of Hawaii.
Currently, I am the owner operator of Turp Isle Consulting, Turp Isle Genetics, and Turp
Isle Processing in Oklahoma.
I also act as the director of operations for anywhere from four to five commercial operations
in Oklahoma at any given time that vary and range from 10,000 square feet all the way
up to about 34,000 square foot all indoor operation.
I have a couple that I work with in regards to setting up their genetic stable and library
on outdoor application as well for numerous farms.
But besides that, I'm just happy to be here.
I didn't even know that this thing was on.
I was just kind of dicking around, killing time, messing with my breeding projects that
I have going on at the house that are just little tiny things.
And I'm excited to be here with everybody.
Awesome.
Well, thanks for joining us.
As I said, we're going to keep it a little bit more casual and have a little bit more
conversation today about what everybody's growing.
Jameson, we will get to you a little bit.
But if you have a photo of a plant that you're really proud of this year or an extract, maybe
you'd like to post that in your PTR so we can all talk about that.
When we get to you, I'm going to start right off the bat with you, Chase, because that
is one frosty looking nugget.
I would love to know exactly what it is.
And my first question for you is what's the best thing you've grown this year?
Was there a major standout and was there a plant that just really didn't make the cut?
Absolutely.
So first and foremost, that little nug is one of my tester seeds that I had a tester
here in Oklahoma grow out, which is my grape Odonata, which is grape ape crossed to a three
way hybrid that I crossed that was something that was also given to me.
So I didn't breed all those other ones, but it's Santa Maria, which was given to me also.
Oh, shit.
I forgot the name of that one.
Santa Maria top 44.
And then the last one was cantaloupe haze.
Sorry, I mess with so many different cultivars.
I kind of forget sometimes.
But that is the nug that came out of that.
That is more grape ape leaning.
More of your Santa Maria, your top 44.
The top 44 kind of brings out more of your newer skunk turps that are more of your fruity
floral, not necessarily the skunk that I was looking and hoping for.
But that thing is very much grape ape leaning.
As far as things that haven't made the cut, I have tried to grow some Afghanis that I
thought would do extremely well just because of their stature and have turned out to not
really do very well from a production standpoint.
They were able to make the weather and the wind here in Oklahoma.
But when it came to extraction value, this particular cultivar just did not do the things
that I needed it to do in a extraction type setting.
Those were the two things that I have been playing with.
Awesome.
It sounds like an eventful year.
You always have a hundred things on the go.
I imagine you have quite the notebook at the ready to keep everything documented.
I was going to say my wife is the one that actually makes me look good.
She's the one that keeps all of my data.
That's all my Excel sheets.
She puts together a lot of my presentations to keep my mess of a mind in check.
I know that I have the ability to go off in a whole bunch of tangents.
It's almost like a bad way to deliver a story that Dave Chappelle is extremely good at doing
where he can get completely out there and then bring it all back in to actually make
sense.
Anyway, just super stoned and rambling.
Always fun.
Who am I going to go to next?
There are so many frosty nuggets in these goddamn photos.
For those that don't know, Ashley is a phenomenal grower and expert in aeroponics.
It's actually up for interview this week on the People Who's Behind the Plant on Monday.
Excitedly, I'm going to ask you, Ashley, what do you have growing under those lights?
What did you excitedly grow this year?
What plant did you grow that just did not make the cut?
Also, what are you smoking this evening?
That picture on my profile is one of our top selling strains.
That's platinum garlic.
That strain just always does phenomenal for us.
We've actually gotten her into the 32s recently.
Just really fabulous terpene profile.
What I love about that plant is she takes a lot of training.
She stretches all the time, but I think she's just reaching for that light.
Love that platinum garlic.
I really enjoy smoking that one too.
It's very lemonene dominant, so it definitely gives you some energy.
A couple of strains that we've grown this year that have failed dismally is I had an OG kush.
That was probably the ugliest plant I've ever seen in multiple rounds.
I was a little bit shocked by it.
Actually, we got those seeds from Dinosaur.
When I tested it before we actually decided to cut it and not grow it, it was a 50-50, surprisingly.
CBD, THC.
That one was really interesting.
I don't know if that was truly the genetics that I was supposed to be getting, but she just did not like aeroponics.
You definitely come across strains that...
Every strain is unique and succeeds in different techniques versus others, but she hated the aeroponics.
If I can find a picture, I'll post it.
The angriest looking plant I've ever seen.
I was like, well, she's not going to make the cut.
Smoking on right now, we've got some Gary Payton from Cookies.
Since we're teaming up with Ben Wallace, doing our homework on all the other NBA guys.
Smoking on some Gary Payton.
Nice. Always delicious.
Those are a hell of a grow and a hell of a good job on that.
I'm very excited to ask you a few more questions on where you think things are going
and what your plan is for next year.
I know you're always working on a whole bunch of very, very, very, very fun stuff.
We'll come back to you.
Josh, what is that icky, sticky, gooey looking nugget that you've got going on there?
Then on top of that, what made the cut this year?
What was the plant that didn't make the cut?
What are you smoking on?
That's a good question.
That's a good question.
The one in the picture, at least, that is a Donatello Kush F2.
I had done a selection a couple years ago.
That was the one that we had selected out of 100 plants.
It was a decent hunt.
I know it's got a great, great aroma to it.
It's very foul.
It's got a very cushy note to it.
It's very pungent.
It's delicious smelling.
It was a purple kush from Heavy Tricone Genetics from Michigan there,
across with their Master Splinter.
That one definitely has been really nice to be able to grow that one out again.
As far as who's made the cut, I currently have a hunt going, more of a trade talking,
just seeing what comes out of it, a bunch of different cuts that have been given.
I'm just seeing what I might want to work with in the future.
We're only at day 59 right now, I think.
There's a bunch that are starting to stand out.
There's a snow mango, number four, which is really, really frosty and just reeks of overripe mangoes.
What else?
Yeah, I mean, the Donatello kush, there's an Asian orange in there that is like orange cleaner.
That's just very nice as well.
I know ones that haven't made the cut, though.
I know everything in there is relatively decent.
There's a strawberry banana that isn't doing very well, but that was more due to my failure than the plants.
But at the moment, that's the only one that's really not doing very well.
Yeah.
You know, it's unfortunate that people aren't able to PTR.
I'm not able to properly PTR on the future cannabis side because you guys keep changing your photos.
There's been so many fucking epic flowers that have been popping up.
It's been pretty fucking awesome, guys. Thank you so much.
If you want to check that out, you'll have to come over here on to Clubhouse.
If you're interested in the conversation, why not?
You can come up at the end of the show and chat.
But anyways, that is like a hell of a plant, man.
So you said you just got it back, did you say?
So you had given it a little bit?
No, actually, I've had it.
Well, I mean, I've given it out, but I've had it for a little while.
I just haven't had a chance to grow it in quite a while.
I've had quite a few other projects and popping seeds and just having a slight addiction to, you know, popping and seeing new and various things.
So it's just it's been a while since I had it in rotation.
But since I was just doing more like a flavor run just to see what I had available to me and see, you know, when things did what they did and figured it was time to throw it back in there.
And I'd already kind of put one out at my parents' house in the backyard and I'm going to make cash out of that one.
So I'm pretty stoked to see how, you know, the variation comes out between the indoor and the outdoor and finish with the one that I have inside at the moment.
There's some beautiful stuff. I want to get you some of my gear to see how it rolls.
Jameson there, what's that frosty nugget in your photo?
What was your high plant of the year?
What was your low plant of the year? And what are you smoking on tonight?
I think industry trends. I had to choose ice cream cake because I think it's in a lot of people's gardens this year and made a lot of growers happy.
But yeah, I was totally impressed by it.
I got it as a late addition and wasn't something that I was overly looking forward to growing out.
It absolutely blew me away and really enjoyed it.
And, you know, found what I had was much more of the 33 leaner in its expression and I enjoyed it.
And so, you know, it's maybe a bit played out down south.
In Canada, we get that same influence from the mean culture.
But for me, you know, it's a strain that will definitely be tied to this era and these last couple of years.
And, you know, I was just really impressed with it as a plant.
And so it was really nice.
Another picture I threw up was the Royal Wedding, which was an Emerald Mountain Cross into the wedding cake, which was, you know, progenitor of the ice cream cake.
And that thing's doing really well for me now.
So those were the two standouts for the year, you know, both with that wedding cake in it and, you know, love it or hate it.
That's my pick.
I love that. Do you want to just give me like a full rundown on your interpretation of the palette on how that wedding cake hits your palette?
Specifically, I'd love to like just go ahead while we're at it.
Yeah, the ice cream cake, like the, you know, I think everybody kind of knows what wedding cake tastes like.
But, you know, when I look at ice cream cake on paper, I feel as though it's going to be a very cake forward taste with like a hint of the fruit from the 33 on the back end.
What I really got was like a fruit forward funk with like a slight sweet batter finish.
And I'm, you know, much more into that, that funk.
And so having that was like a very pleasant surprise.
Like, of course, you know, it's going to express itself differently in different rooms.
But the rooms that I took down of it was, you know, really impressed with the vigor it had.
And, you know, I had some, I had a complete malfunction of my blue mat irrigation system in one of my beds.
And like, I couldn't even tell that it had malfunctioned because the plants were so resilient.
And I thought, you know, and it wasn't until, you know, I planted a few different plants in that bed and those plants started showing.
And I was able to deduce what had happened, but, you know, no damage to the ice cream cake.
So, you know, enjoyable smoke.
I've had, I think, you know, everybody's had good and bad ice cream cake, but with Grown Well, I, you know, it's something that, you know, the jars were some of the first ones to go.
So, yeah, I know I really enjoyed it.
And what I'm smoking on now, I'm Between Harvest and a buddy just sent me some Funky Charms.
And I don't know what the lineage is on that.
I just, I just looked up the name for another buddy, but it is proper smoke.
So I'm really enjoying that.
Awesome.
That sounds absolutely delicious.
Now, what I have in my photo here is a Lemonfish headband.
If you're interested in seeing that one go, you can see it on Future Cannabis Project from start to finish, which I actually just posted about 4.20 today.
So you have video there.
But I got to ask, you know, Corey, what is that stanky looking plant that you have going right there?
Apologies.
I was just taking a little bit of something right there for you.
That plant that we have right there is a Blueberry OG from the Dutch Passion.
It's been one of my favorites.
It is really conducive to the environment and my substrate build that I do.
And it just pushes.
I know exactly what it's going to do at any given time.
And, yeah, kind of a throwback for us.
Unfortunately, we've lost that genetic due to some unfortunate issues up here.
But it's really pushed me to become very busy this year and look for some different blends and different things that work.
So, you know, what has worked?
Not a whole heck of a lot.
It's been an interesting research here.
I had some, a cross called McSlurry, which was an interesting one.
We picked up from someone in Ontario.
One of the other things I was looking forward to, just as far as getting some mass concerned, is a Northern Lights Fast Variety.
Definitely comes fast, but trying to, yeah, it comes through the cycle very, very quickly.
But it's very difficult to understand the feeding program for it.
So for me, it's a little bit too much of a challenge in that regard.
So I am, yeah, going to clean out the tent again shortly here and kind of restart things and look forward to some other things that I have in the bank.
The one that I'm really looking forward to kind of see what it does for me is a tangerine dream, Acapulco gold and Northern Lights cross.
So a friend of mine gave me some of those beans and I'm looking forward to see what comes through.
But yeah, it's been an interesting year.
As you know, London, looking for housing in the lower mainland and having the ability to keep your genetics is one hell of a challenge.
So that's something that we definitely had to play with this year.
I'm complete.
Yeah, I hear that one.
Oh, I'm going to get reversed.
Turn that down a little bit.
I hear that one. It cannot be easy.
It cannot be easy. I got lucky. I'm blessed with the home that I have and family that I have around me and being able to do and grow and share and everything that I have.
Well, I'm, while we're on the subject, I'm speaking snacks, you got to come over and visit. I got lots of fresh cuts of some fun, fun gear to you for you to play with because I want to see you take some pictures of my stuff.
Don't have to tell me twice. I'll see you within the week, brother.
Dr. Anubis, last but certainly not least, when it comes to this specific question, what's that beautiful flower in there? I know you're not smoking anything tonight but is there something that has been special, kind of that you've really seen growing because you're growing aquaponics.
So I imagine there's been a lot of testing so you've probably seen some really awesome stuff and probably seen some really fucking horrible stuff. Do you want to go into a little bit of that and talk about how your year went?
So it's been a really interesting year. It was a startup company and basically trying to figure out how to stabilize the system and we had a lot of problems with equipment, not showing up with COVID and supply chain, things like that.
We weren't able to put a fan in at the beginning of the summer and so we had a lot of problems with high heat in the greenhouse and our water being too hot. And so it was just kind of a constant battle trying to keep the system in equilibrium and getting the plants to grow.
And we finally just reached our first successful grow. The plants weren't very large but again we've been having problems with that. We're growing CBD type, so type 1 or type 3, sorry, type 3 plants.
And the one in the picture is called Merlot which is berry blossom and cherry wine cross. And they just turned the most amazing color, like almost black. And I have in the background our other variety that we were growing which is called Chardonnay. I don't know, they have this wine thing in the hemp genetics.
It's like a thing right now but you can see the difference in color between the Chardonnay type and this Merlot. And this Merlot was like really, the smell of it was really unique. It was almost smelled like coffee and cherries, which I thought was really interesting.
And the other thing that I was really surprised by is that it was compliant when we harvested so it was under 0.3% THC but the CBD was way higher than I expected considering how low the THC was. We measured it between about 13 and 14% THC and I was expecting it to be more around like 8 so super surprised at that.
And yeah, I mean, I'm really interested in the freaks and the colors.
Other than that, you know, like none of the plants to me were super interesting. But, you know, I mean, you know, I'm a scientist so I like the weirdos. And then, you know, I don't know what's going on with my plant.
I usually, you know, we can't grow in New Jersey, but I usually grow every summer in Colorado and I know that my son was growing in our greenhouse this summer. I don't really know what's going on with that. I hope that he did it right and is having a good harvest this year. But I guess I'll wait and see how that goes. But yeah, that's what's in the picture.
What would be worse if it was like, you know, harvested but a complete mess and everything was all like rotten afterwards or just completely forgotten about? What would you prefer, Anna?
Well, I know that he had some issues. And so the seeds that he was growing were from Ethos, which we've had problems with before. A lot of them ended up being males last year and this year.
And I know he had issues with, oh, just not having time to repot them. And then so they were kind of stunted. But I don't know. He said they were filling out nicely. So he thinks that he'll get, I think he said two to three, I want to say ounces total from like four plants, which I feel like isn't that bad considering he didn't do shit.
I guess we'll see how it is. I don't know.
Always fun and always exciting. Corey, you dropped down there. What happened? Did you kick yourself out or something? Where'd you go?
I don't know what happened. I just work here.
Well, then I got to ask, is Ashley, is saying your photo and it's control key and I can refresh. And I mean, you got some some bomb color looking there. But while we're on the subject, because we've still got to move through it and kind of keep going with the fun questions and the fun dialogue. What are you excited for next year? Is there a pack that you have ready to go? Is there a genetic that you've been working on that you're excited about?
Excited to hone in on? And is there a product that you're excited to play with?
Yeah, so that strain in that picture is Larry Burger. You know, people always are really, really attracted to the purple strains. So that one was a pleasant surprise in our phenol hunt. That's from skunk house. But as far as where I see the industry moving towards, you know, in our stores, I mean, we're just slinging pre rolls.
Actually, since I was doing some research on pre rolls, because the cone manufacturers cones are actually hand rolled out of just a couple spaces in Indonesia. But with COVID and all that, there's actually supply chain issues. So you will see pre rolls absolutely continue to dominate the market. The sales since 2019 has gone up 116%.
So I do think there is an impact with COVID and people, you know, are convenience shoppers a lot nowadays. So pre rolls, I think will continue to escalate, hopefully, you know, barring any supply chain issues. I just gobbled up as many as I could, just so we don't run out because that is what our customers absolutely prefer.
But something that we're excited about moving into next year is we're actually Marley, our director of processing has been trying to create a nano emulsified powdered drinks and stuff. So I know there have been a handful of manufacturers that have released like different sparkling waters and stuff like that. So we are looking to hopefully kind of push that forward.
So that'll be, you know, the benefit of nanotechnology is it hits your bioavailability a lot quicker. So, you know, typical edible that takes 45 minutes can actually be felt within five. And they're pretty awesome. I've tried a couple different brands.
I would say pre rolls are absolutely continue to sell a bunch.
But we're really looking forward to on our on our processing side, get into those nano products, but we're actually getting ready to release a new rainbow rosé strain. We've got a white truffles on the back burner. She's along with some supreme grapes. So what I always like to do with my guys is I give them homework.
So, you know, I value their opinion. So let's try everything we're growing, choose the best phenos, so on and so forth.
Sounds like a lovely place to live.
That is for sure.
Josh, as a as a southern Canadian and someone who is going to lift this week.
Shout out to the Canadian Candies Conference lift. What's your what are your goals? Are there anything you're excited to see or do it lift? Also, what are your plans for next year? Do you have anything exciting coming down the line that you are excited to plant and grow and go into that?
Thanks. Yeah, I'm very excited to lift.
I don't know. Honestly, it's I'll be most excited to be able to connect with people and, you know, see people for the first time in quite some time.
That in and of itself will probably be the highlight of the trip.
Things that I'm excited for for growing. I'm just kind of figuring out what I'm going to be putting into the tent in the next run. I've been speaking with a few people here about what I could put in there.
There's some stuff from Emerald Legacy that I'm really excited to possibly put in there. And I have a couple of seeds that I've made myself over the last little bit that I'm also kind of just a couple of seeds here and there that I'd like to just toss a few in and see kind of what came from them.
I have a cross of my Aiden's Petals with a Z Bud.
And Aiden's Petals is a Ace of Spades crossed with a Sabbath Petal and the Z Bud is a Fire OG crossed with a Fire Alien Crush I think crossed with Bruce Banner.
From Dead Panhead I believe.
So the Aiden's Petals had a very kind of citrusy cherry chocolate kind of, I don't know, had a very Durban-esque kind of smell to it. So I wanted to throw something kind of cushy at it and see what pops out. So very excited to see what happens there.
Is there anything specific? I got a question over from Matthew Holinski. Is there anything specific from Emerald Mountain Legacy that you're interested in?
I was looking at the tar pit or the oil spill there. It really depends on what I'll be able to get my hands on but both of those look like things that I'd be very interested to grow.
They look like they would hit my flavor profile and I'd be really excited to get a chance to grow some of those genetics.
Awesome. Well, thank you, Josh. Now, Chase, from your region and locale, what do you see as market trends going and what do you see the market doing over the next year 2022? What's your projections? What do you think is going to happen? Is it going to be a shit show?
Or do you think they're going to lean on, you're going to see a lot of trending towards, just like Ashley mentioned before, pre-rolls, which seems to be a pretty regular thing everywhere that seems to open up.
But pre-rolls and the development of extracts going anywhere. And what do you see as the flavor profiles of your region developing? Because I find this is an interesting question that we don't often talk about.
Because as time goes by and we continue to develop a culture of cannabis and then we develop into regional cultures of cannabis, there's going to be flavor profiles that become popular in individual spaces.
So I'm wondering if there's anything that you see pop up a lot in your area that becomes very popular and if there's a flavor profile that you think will create that distinction.
Yeah, so in Oklahoma, Oklahoma is a unique state from the standpoint that it is definitely behind the times. I think Instagram is kind of lessening that gap.
But stuff that is popular right now in Oklahoma is going to be Runts crosses, Mac crosses. Those pretty much are dominating the market. Yeah, there's still some Girl Scout cookie crosses and stuff like that.
But as someone that is a writer of SOPs, I'm literally in all kinds of commercial operations from cultivation to extraction through retail locations.
And the sad thing is that I don't really see a lot of diversity. Yes, there's a lot of different names. But as far as bud structure, I can probably break it down into about 25 to 30 parental cultivars that pretty much make up most of the market.
Because of the opioid epidemic, there's been a tremendous desire for your Afghani or your really sedative leaning cultivars also because of flower time here in the States. So I definitely see those not really going anywhere.
For myself, I tend to like a lot of the old school stuff like the pitcher I had before that is a super silver sour diesel haze that I've been running since early 2000s.
That's the stuff that I enjoy. And I know that for me, I'm able to take certain cultivars and put them into production. And then there's the stuff that I like, which is completely two different avenues, which it sucks.
But at the same time, you have to have those because whenever I go into an operation, I don't want that operation to lose business because they don't have the same cultivars as the dispensary down the street. You know, something that would have someone come in and say, hey, do you have tropical runs? And they don't have it. And then they turn around and leave.
So I want to make sure that every operation we work with is able to kind of carry all the major terpene profiles. So that way, if someone wants something that is fruity, that can be addressed. If somebody wants something that's sweet and deserty, I know that's still kind of popular right now that that can be covered.
Obviously, where that falls short is going to be like on the skunky stuff. You know, I really know people always talk about having the real deal skunk. But I personally believe that once indoor cultivation begin, that was kind of the beginning to the ends, just because of selection pressures.
And this is what I refer to as before charcoal. When you had to have extremely risky partners or you just kind of had to be in a really optimum situation to grow.
And then obviously, once you start throwing in the price of electricity, if you're not stealing electricity, that you want to grow cultivars that are more conducive to yield, not so much on terps.
So I think the future of cannabis is going to be extremely neat because we're going to see more diversity. But at the same time, I would like to see more people out there that are actually going kind of off brain and going towards things that are just completely unheard of or not the norm.
But as far as products, I also think that this year is going to be inundated with a tremendous amount of ice water hash rosin in a state like Oklahoma, where you have no cap on scalability.
People are literally just throwing plants in the ground. They don't care if it's seeded, if it has botrytis, they'll just work that material and that biomass because they're just looking for tremendous amounts, which most of it will go to distillate production.
But at the same time, they'll take those main colas or the stuff that doesn't have botrytis or pregagation, bug pressures and stuff like that. It's going to affect the plant.
They'll actually take that, put that into a fresh frozen material, which, you know, if they had the ability to take that product and fresh freeze it where they're using like CO2 or nitrogen, that's one thing.
But what I see a lot of times is these big, huge farms, they'll buy a tractor trailer and we'll just put a tarp down in the back of this thing. They'll cut these plants and they'll just throw them in on top of each other and just stack that thing full like we all do whenever we move and just try to play Tetris with a U-Haul.
And they bring it back to nothing more than just a metal building and we'll throw their plants up in there, no proper ventilation. So obviously they have no environmental control. So for having biological and pathogenic pressures also still will potentially go up in this.
And unfortunately, you'll see more material that will slip through the cracks because since metric hasn't taken effect in Oklahoma, people have the ability to, you know, essentially get around the system to be able to push failed product through the channels or to give it to someone that is messing with, you know, lower quality inputs.
So that's at least what's going on in my neck of the woods.
Thanks Chase for a hell of a breakdown and appreciate it. There's another, Louis Salazar says spot on Chase, spot on Oklahoma. So he appreciates you.
I want to hop over and go to Jameson as a Canadian genetics fellow and a person deeply embedded into the Canadian market. How do you see, I got an interesting question. How do you see the Americans influence on the Canadian market affecting next year's flavor selections and profiles on what's going to be on the market?
Oh, I dig it, Tim. A dab there, Jameson. Shall I come back to you in a moment?
He got sick of listening to me.
Oh, Chase. Oh, Chase. Dr. Anubish, what's going on in your area? Do you get out to the dispensaries very often? Do you see what's kind of moving? Do you talk about it? Like, what do you see as market projections for the next year and kind of like your area and what you're producing?
You know what, there's no recreational here, although the New Jersey folks voted for it almost two years ago, two years, it has been two years now. They haven't given out any licenses or anything. So really there is no legal recreational market and I don't have a medical card so I can't go into medical. So I have no idea what's on the shelves right now other than there's a whole bunch of V8 on the shelves.
DVD dispensaries. But I really lost touch with the market, you know, in Colorado, I would go into dispensaries all the time and just kind of, you know, check out what they had and, you know, purchase things and, you know, at least I had a lot of friends also that were in the industry here. I don't even really know anybody.
And, you know, New York, which is next door. Also, they don't really have any recreational stuff. I think the closest place with rec is Massachusetts. So totally out of touch with what's going on in the market on the East Coast. So I have no answers for you. I'm sorry.
But at least we got a good breakdown on what's going on in your area when it comes to the cannabis. Do you think they're going to legalize it soon or do you think that we're going to wait for federal legalization?
I mean, it is legal. Like the voters in New Jersey and New York have voted for rec and that was quite a while ago. But so what happened here in New Jersey is they voted for it and the state began, like they opened up the application process for licenses and there were so many people that the system crashed.
And they just sort of said, okay, the system has crashed. And that was probably about 18 months ago. And they just haven't done anything since. So there's all these licenses that have been put into the system but haven't been processed.
And they're supposed to be taking a new round of applications here soon. But it's just it's going so slowly and the same sort of process is happening in New York. You know, they've said yes, we'll be taking applications for everything. So it's cultivation, manufacturing, distribution, dispensaries.
There is a loophole here, which I haven't tested out yet. And this is in New Jersey and New York. You can go online and you can purchase. There's one company called Budhub. You can purchase like a hat or a t-shirt or a candy bar for like $200 and then choose your free gift, which is of course cannabis.
And then they deliver it to your home. And the states have come out and said, hey, that's illegal, but they haven't been able to actually like show it or take down any of these companies that are doing this. So it's really that's like, you know, people like the gray areas in the law.
But that is something that's going on. I just haven't tested that yet. So I haven't I don't really know what's even on those websites to choose for free gift.
That's hilarious. You know what, if there's anyone that will find a way it's the cannabis community. We're always going to find a way to either get to the flower, get it, get it grown, which is what I love about the community. And we wouldn't be where we are now without it.
Jamison, I saw a little mic flash. Are you back?
I'm back.
Awesome, brother. So I got to ask you, what do you see happening in the central Canadian cannabis market over the next year? And has there been anything that you have seen specifically in the Canadian recreation market market that has gotten up to that next tier of quality?
We're talking specifically about central Canada, like the Saskatchewan market?
I mean, you can go all up Canada if you like. It's up to you.
Yeah, I think all of Canada is a little bit more topical for our listeners than, you know, Saskatchewan.
No, no, please give us the central breakdown of this Jamison. I'm looking forward to this.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We're going to have you name and break down the whole prairie region for cannabis.
Maybe I'll start a Patreon. Maybe you guys can all sign up. That'll be how I make my money.
You know, Canada's just kind of getting our we're just getting our feet under us.
Cookies coming, love them or hate them, cookies coming to Canada has been a real wake up call for, you know, C-suites and management teams who are, you know, all fresh, fresh and starry eyed from oil and gas who have never heard of burner cookies or gelato or shabinsky or, you know, Emerald Mountain or, you know, anybody.
And they're kind of going, oh, well, you know, OK, well, now it's time to pay attention and seeing that, you know, the execution to market was created through, you know, in cookies execution was created through a curating a line of cultivars, love them or hate them, and generating a tremendous amount of hype around them.
And then selling them on an exclusive basis and charging exorbitant prices for them. And that model hasn't been adopted in Canada. In Canada, you know, we, we, everybody. So a bunch of suits came in and raised a bunch of money.
And every single investment deck said that every single person and every single dollar raised was going to ultra premium, high quality craft, premium indoor flower, medical grade, every, every, you know, high quality moniker that some investment banker could throw at a, at a, at a shiny glossy page pitch deck and quickly realized that, you know, that they weren't going to be able to grow a premium product as easily advertised.
And so the race to the bottom ensued because the race to the top was too hard. And so we in Canada have successfully kind of explored what the cheapest dollar per gram we can cultivate is. And, you know, we're, there's, you know, widget number crunchers at every company always trying to make these numbers better.
But, you know, we've gotten down to the, you know, the $96 for 28 gram offerings. And now we're starting to work our way back up. And I think that, you know, really understanding that you need to, if you're running a cultivation facility, and you think you can just work in, you know, a pheno hunting or a breeding project, which is, you know, what I'm seeing a lot of now is that, you know, oh, well, C-suites are going, okay, well, this is a great idea.
And they're going, okay, well, this is important. Let's do that. And the grow team is going, what are you talking about? We're just dialing in our rooms. And they're going, you know, let's start running a breeding program or something. And so, you know, it's respecting the process of something is understanding the difficulty in the undertaking of it.
A lot of that is lacking in the industry, in the management spots. And so, every time that, you know, something new is learned about a process that needs to be treated with respect, a lot of people just try to undertake the process instead of look to the legacy or, you know, more knowledgeable individuals or specialize.
And so, you know, what I foresee is that over the next three to five years, you know, a lot more nurseries and genetic programs becoming more prolific. And then these nurseries like farm teams, the baseball teams, where, you know, bike shops, I grew up working on mountain bikes.
And I knew that if you ran, if you sold Norco in your bike shop, you couldn't sell specialized. And I think that's going to be how it is for these smaller nurseries where you have really, really passionate guys who are working on a much smaller scale in comparison to these giant operators or, you know, and they're doing the phenol hunting for two, three, four, five different cultivations.
And I think that each company is really going to have to identify and elbow out their own flavor profiles. And it's going to take those giant corporations making connections with, you know, some of the realest people in our industry who have, you know, longstanding been recognized in, you know, breeding really unique flavor profiles and these large operators learning how to, you know, humble themselves and deal with, you know, our peers that are, you know,
that are, that are, that have been and continue to make these flavors and kind of understand where in the market, you know, where can I stand? Where can I elbow out space? I mean, when I was last down in Cali, I was super surprised, but like, it totally made sense where, you know, you walk into Hall of Flowers in big booth and it's, you know, some farm and they're like, we're, we're light weed. And I'm like, excuse me. And they're like, we're, you know, we're light, we're weed for, you know, the guys who want to smoke, you know, stuff that, you know, was around maybe when they were small.
They were growing up and is not as strong. And, and, you know, I think that identifying user, identifying market segments, and then targeting yourself towards them is going to become more, more apparent in the Canadian space. I think, you know, if, is my brand catering towards legacy consumers who were consuming prior to legalization, or is my brand catering towards new consumers? And I think it's hard to blur those lines between the two. I think, you know, probably smarter minds than me can do it.
But that's what I see. I see a focus on genetics, a focus on, you know, guys, you know, guys out there doing it, who are making, you know, unique profiles, like, I'm, you know, Dutch and his work with House of Selections with Nick and like, going after like, whiskey turps, like, fuck, man, like that, that kind of stuff, that stuff that stops you in your tracks and just really makes you go, okay, well, this is different than anything else I've tried. So, you know, I just think that it's going to take a, you know, a few more years.
But, you know, soon these management white collar guys are going to start realizing that, you know, we're talking about all this stuff for a reason. Like, we haven't even figured it all out. And that's why we're so passionate and in these rooms late at night, chatting about it is because, you know, it's a puzzle that we keep trying to put together. So, yeah, like, I see a lot more focus on diversifying your genetic lineup and pheno hunting and finding, you know, something that's going to make a difference.
And I think that's something that you can bring to market that can be uniquely your own without having to go after some type of plant breeders rights or anything like that.
Well said, Jameson.
Boom for you. You dropped bombs there. I appreciate that, Jameson. Very, very, very fucking well said. Corey, you got to follow it up with some genius words as well. I'm sorry, Jameson, you're so charismatic. It's brutal. Corey, can you tell me a little bit about how you see some of the market going there and kind of what your hopes and expectations would be to see the market in the next five years?
Yeah, I mean, five years is an eternity. But, you know, I really, I'm hoping that the push does come from that cultivation side because it's very difficult to push it from the dispensary side right now. And that's what a lot of people are, you know, listening to as far as making cultivation decisions, right, is the purchasing decisions of people in these stores.
And, you know, I think that's the also the other part of the pie here, a cake, whatever it needs to kind of fall for us here is that, you know, we also are making sure that the public is informed and educated that, you know, they want these products because right now, you know, I'm still going into dispensaries and just kind of sitting back a little bit because, you know, I like to look at these stores and see the layout, etc. Just being, you know, the nerd that I am within this industry.
And there's still too many people just walking through the front doors and saying, I want the highest THC for the lowest price. And so it's really going to take a pretty concerted effort from both sides from, you know, cultivators and also, you know, all of us who have this passion and this experience for this plant to, you know, take our time and really explain, like the nuances of this plant to everybody and really, you know, there's a spiritual connection that goes through it.
And it goes with the entire thing. And we just, we need to somehow convey that without people saying, you know, I've been in conversations where you, you know, you use the word terpenes, and people feel overwhelmed, for example. And, you know, there's a way to handle it gently and keep them indulged in the conversation.
And I think that's a really important aspect of it. So I really, you know, I'm making that plea out to everybody, guys, you know, like Jameson is being well said for sure. But also, you know, have that conversation at, you know, a little bit of a simpler level so that everyone can understand it so that we can, you know, hold these so many dispensaries out there and some of these blocks here in Canada.
You know, hold them some accountable and give them that differentiation, you know, demand that they bring these products to their stores. I see a little bit of it in the Okanagan right now and in the interior here in British Columbia, where some people are trying to do that.
The different franchised dispensaries are trying to, you know, only carry an ultra premium type of product and then there's, you know, some of these other dispensaries that will only hold the value ounces.
And, you know, I think there's a proper place in a way, but I think it's really time for the community and especially up here in Canada, who, you know, again, the medical community absolutely went to bat for everybody in this country and that's why it's legal now.
I think we need to have that same fire and passion as the recreational community and really push the knowledge, push the topic, push the conversation so that, you know, we can really get out these absolutely like whiskey terps, right, Jamie? Like, get the fuck out of here. Like, this is just, that's where we should be.
So I think, you know, again, that's really going to take a concerted effort from both sides. There, hopefully that's good enough for you. Is that good enough, London?
Jameson, do you have a response? Because that was an excellent response.
Yeah, I just, you know, I agree with everything Corey says and I have massive respect for Corey and everything he does. And my comment is that if you think that in the next five years, if you want to try and bring an ultra premium offering to market or a unique favourite profile to market and garner an ultra premium price, and you're not hitting 25 or 20 to 35% THC,
you're doing yourself a disservice. Like, California still hasn't shaken that monkey off its back. And so to expect Canada to do that is silly. And so I kind of look at it as though you have the flavour profile that you can access within the chassis that has to be 20 to 35% THC.
So if you're like, yo, I got this dope profile, and it's fucking incredible, and it's gonna blow everything out of the water, but she doesn't go higher than 16%, hold on to it. Do not let that out because you're not going to get remunerated fairly for it. And it's going to get lost in the motherfucking sauce. Like you, you need to play within the rules of the game. And the rules of the game are 20 plus percent THC, or else asking for an ultra premium
market price is you know, you're pushing wet rope up a hill, you know, you're making more work for yourself. So save that stuff that's lower potency, unique terpene profile for a more mature market that's, you know, going to come in, you know, 10 to 15 years when, you know, you ask an average person where to get cannabis and they say the cannabis store, not their buddy down the street. So you know, there's a time and a place for things and, you know,
if you brought out music that was hot in in 1980 and 1940 people would look at you fucking sideways and call you crazy. And, and you know, and then you bring that 1980s track out in 1980 and you've got a fucking hit. So understanding the market is just as important as understanding what you have.
Well, well said. Any of the other speakers have a response to Jameson or a comment in return? I mean, I think you're super, I think you nailed the, the, the head on the, you nailed the hammer on the head of the nail and lined up exactly how long. So you really do think it's going to be more of a 10, 15 year of development for the cannabis industry to move forward?
Look at, look at the last three years, look at what we thought would happen in any market anywhere, globally, locally, provincially, municipally on a state level in Cali, federally in the US, every fucking every, every build out that everybody in this room has been a part of every, you know, from a closet build out to a hundred thousand foot facility, call me and tell me if that shit has taken shorter than you expected it to.
My phone is not ringing. Like everything is going to take longer. And that's just a fact. And when you're dealing with cannabis and you're dealing with, you know, people with stigmas, double that or triple that. And like, there's some shit that's just not going to move forward until some motherfuckers just die. And that's just a simple fact. So like, yeah, this thing moves slow. And like, you know, thankfully, the real ones are left here to pick up the pieces.
But, you know, when you see these new states come online, or these new countries come online, there's this massive influx of individuals who sometimes aren't there for the same reasons that we're here. And that massive influx of individuals can dishearten a lot of us and really and make us feel like we're, you know, not, you know, we were kind of lost.
And, you know, it's building these communities and talking and building networks that, you know, keep our community within the industry tight so that, you know, we can lean on each other when these outside forces come in and, you know, make our lives miserable. So, you know, that's what this is all about.
Passionate words from one of the most passionate cannabis advocates that I know. And I'll say this is in it's a huge volume of work that needs to be undertaken here. And there's a lot of shit that needs to be done and a lot of parts of the industry that need to be helped in support and go from accounting to education to horticulture.
I mean, you don't have to necessarily be touching the plant to help support and drive and keep this movement going forward. I'm just gonna say right now we're at an hour length because it's industry insider night, and I see a lot of industry folk in the audience. I'm gonna ask you all to put up your hands.
I'm going to throw out some invites up there to have you all come up on stage and let us know what you're thinking, what's going on in your area for our last 30 minutes of show. But I really wanted to touch a little bit on Damien's note and a few of the comments that were in the Future Cannabis Project.
We have this amazing opportunity and platform here at Future Cannabis Project on Clubhouse, on social media to do two things that I think is really important is the first thing being is create a community that can drive change and create education. This sharing of knowledge and free sharing of information is super, super helpful and helps drive us forward as a community, helping each other to move forward.
And then on top of that, these type of conversations, having amazing experts and what's going on. I mean, I guess I can put this out there as well that we have some awesome stuff coming up here on the Dank Hour, and that we look to continue to increase and develop education every single week and help develop as much as we can.
Next week we got Joshua Rutherford, who was here earlier but isn't here in the audience now. Dutch Bloom, he'll be joining us as a special guest on Regenerative Farming. And then we have the following week we have Joshua Steensland, which is crazy. And then we're doing Bokashi. We have a lot of amazing stuff going on and some amazing opportunities to connect the scientists, writing the papers and communicating like Corey's show that he does here on YouTube.
And then we have the following week on now Wednesday nights, not tomorrow, but the following Wednesday will be the next episode where they go through scientific papers and discuss proper processes and the scientific method and actually growing and developing.
And then we have Justin in these rooms with these horticulture experts that are in the ground digging the dirt and growing. And I think it's important to have these conversations and drive this piece forward because if you look at something just for example of feminized seeds and feminization and reversing plants, you can see that the original paper using colloidal silver, I believe it was,
was actually written 10 years before the first kind of reversing processes were done on cannabis. The first time we introduced it into the cannabis flower to create feminized pollen wasn't until 10 years after the scientific paper was released.
Now me and Corey know because we go through a ton of this stuff on on Wednesday nights that there's lots of these scientific papers being released right now. So how valuable and how important is it to have these amazing papers and these amazing scientists communicating and visiting us here on stage with these amazing horticulture experts.
I think it's awesome. And I am just super pumped to be excited and join the conversation. So there's going to be a lot of crazy, awesome stuff happening up here. And a lot of awesome things going on everywhere else. So don't miss out on that. Do we have any questions or comments for awesome group of experts today we have a quiet.
It's a little bit of a quieter night in our audience. If anybody wants to come up and introduce themselves and tell us a little bit about what's going on in their region for cannabis I invite you to do so, and appreciate it. I gotta ask Josh, you know, what do you see what what are you most excited about.
Like what if you could see something on the market right now that just broke through all of the barriers didn't have to go through all of the bullshit was available you can go to your grocery store and buy it right now. What would that product be available at the grocery store.
Maybe like I mean, you know, I guess the dispensary but available anywhere.
I mean, you know, more diverse cannabis like flower products initially like I mean we're still, you know, behind the ball just on flower, like I mean we need to get the market at least there before we can really start looking at, you know, other products I think, you know, once our quality.
Yeah, I mean, I think it's kind of across the board and I think Jameson is pointing out earlier about you know cookies coming up to Canada, you know, that's going to kind of force people to look at the genetics which will hopefully eventually push that, you know, quality level higher but you know there's going to be no still issues with, you know, even this processing that, you know, are still going to be challenges and hurdles for a lot of these, you know, places to overcome.
So, yeah, I think, you know, just quality flower in general be really great for.
There's still no like brand that you can go like if you're like I smoke gas and I want, you know, like a really strong gas profile.
You know, somebody, there's no consistent brand like that there's no consistent, you know, OG Kush, you know, in the market that somebody said okay well you know I'm going to be the OG Kush supplier of flower in the market like I think that, you know, having a reliable, you know, stable of like, this is a pronounced fruit.
This is a pronounced fuel. This is pronounced floral. This is pronounced or if like, and if you can cover those and have, you know, something that can be repeatable.
And I think that there's fruit in the market in the ultra premium category.
For sure, I just don't think that, you know, some of these come out and really captured that gas profile and in a way that it can stay in the jar, and I don't know if that's a packaging issue I don't know if that's a transportation issue.
Or a post harvest issue, you know, and I think that each situation that might be different but we haven't yet we haven't had a true, you know, if you if you if you're a cannabis user you can understand that that true gas profile and, you know, having that fuel and that's something that I haven't seen replicated or offered repeatedly in the in the legal space.
Yeah, I have to agree completely and Canada, there's just no gas at all. And I guess, you know, there's, you know, some things that are starting to you know, check off boxes, but, you know, at the end of the, you know, after looking at it and you start smoking and it just, you know, ends up disappointing.
You know, there's been a few things that have at least burnt clean more recently but I know.
So without flavor like I'm not really sure what the point is like we've all taken like we all love cannabis because of the diverse turkey profiles and, you know, effects that we can get from it so I think it's really important to have all those different profiles available.
So if I if I can ask this maybe Dr. Ana this, so I think there's there's often like there's this issue where if you go to one place or another and they always put a label on it doesn't turn out to be what you think it is it doesn't have this gas flavor it's not as consistent as all.
There is also you know people saying that they got 40% THC and some crazy high numbers and you know there's a lot of issues I think that lab testing. Is there, like, do you think this is going to cause an issue in the development and growth of the industry and you think there's a way to create a better consistency to help drive the whole industry forward when it comes to like I don't know a product testing.
I don't know a product test point, for example.
And that's a really complicated question.
I think we can take. Okay, so, yeah.
When it comes to different products.
You know, things with a name.
Probably aren't going to be exactly the same if you get them at different places and this could be because that they have, you know, they're grown from different sources that they are grown at different locations with different inputs different nutrients different watering, etc, etc.
You know different growers.
And I think we can take a page from the playbook of other industries like the wine industry, when you know it's been around forever too. And it was a mess with, you know, different varieties called different names with they're actually the same variety or the same variety
of varieties called the same name, up until the point where they could actually develop tests, using genetics to kind of sort everything out and sort of iron out all the wrinkles in the industry I think the cannabis industry could take some, some direction from from other
I think that knowing that knowing what we know about other plants and what we know about cannabis. If you know I've talked about this before if I have a clone, and I give another clone exactly the same clone to let's say Ashley.
And she grows it in her facility and I grow one in my facility there from the exact same plant, they're going to turn out to be totally different plants because we have totally different ways of growing, she is a far better grower than I am I will probably totally
But, you know, I mean these things turn out different. So, um, you know, I always talk about having standard conditions and standard tests, and that's not to say that a standard growing condition needs to be followed or needs to be regulated, but knowing what happens to a plant, if it's grown under conditions X, Y, and Z, you will get this product, it's important.
And then, you know, you can layer on top of that your own personal nuances with, with, you know, changing nutrients or lights or whatever the case may be, which will change the phenotype, ultimately, but you can at least give that information to let's say a consumer or customer and say, this wasn't grown under standard conditions and it's better because of, you know, X, Y, and Z.
And then the consumer can make decisions from that point on.
The other thing you asked about was like potency THC, we know that there's issues with, I don't know how it is in Canada, but at least in the US there's very little oversight and there's no standard methods or SOPs or anything for testing labs, they kind of have to do in-house validation with standards and things like that.
And labs come out with very different results, even when testing the same sample.
So that's an issue, I think that can be figured out eventually.
It just is going to take some, either the industry is going to have to regulate itself or it's going to take, I think, I think ultimately the industry will probably regulate itself, but customers and consumers are going to start demanding that their products are accurate and precise, at least more so.
And then this is generally more for flower products, it's much harder to get a consistent result when you have, you know, differing potencies, even within the same plant from flowers at the, you know, apical branches versus lower branches.
And then, as far as, you know, these high THC levels, like some of them are just not even biologically possible.
The plant only has so much room and it needs, you know, to have a certain amount of just stuff to actually function as a living organism.
And about 35% total cannabinoids is about the top of the range of where, if you have higher than that, the plant's actually not going to be a functioning organism.
It's going to start losing things that are vital to its own survival, just as a living organism.
So, if you see, you know, test results higher than about 30, I mean 35% is the absolute kind of feeling.
Unless it's infused with something or sprayed with something, it's just not biologically feasible for a plant to have more than that.
So, I would be wary of those kinds of test results.
But I don't know that it's going to hinder the industry, but I think as we start to identify and bring awareness to some of these issues, I think things will start to get worked out and start to be less of a shit show than it is and has been for the last few years.
Okay.
So, do you think the most appropriate message is to just wait and kind of let the industry balance itself out?
Or do you think that it would be beneficial for all to have kind of a government certification on lab inconsistency creating a national standard in, you know, cannabis?
I don't know the answer to that. I mean, government oversight has not historically been a great idea.
And I don't necessarily think that it's a government issue.
I don't know enough about the wine industry to, you know, know who oversees that.
But I mean, I think the industry can take care of itself.
And I think it's ultimately, you know, in the best interest of the industry to have some of this oversight, even if it's coming from within the industry.
You know, like I always like to give people the benefit of the doubt.
And I like to think that, you know, people want, you know, even in the industry, like, you want accurate test results.
You want to know what your product is. You want to know these things.
You don't want to have, I don't think you want to have inaccurate results and kind of, I don't know.
I don't know how to explain it.
But I think the industry can regulate itself.
There may need to be like some sort of body that is created within the industry that can take over this sort of role, I guess.
I don't think it needs to come from the government.
I don't think that's necessary.
But maybe like, I mean, there's like the natural foods.
I don't know what it's called.
There are some natural products organizations for botanical products.
I mean, maybe an organization like that could help or provide some sort of structure for the cannabis industry.
I don't know.
I don't know the answer to that.
I don't know the answer to that.
It's a complex question and could probably take a whole lot of people conversing about it.
And, you know, there's all kinds of round tables and stuff.
These are known issues.
But as far as like figuring it all out and getting it all worked out, I think it's going to be a while.
I do think that some of the bad actors are going to kind of go away.
The players, you know, that are disingenuous, I think will kind of weed themselves out.
There's already been a whole bunch of companies that have, you know, gone gotten way too big for their boots and kind of imploded.
I think that'll continue to happen.
But I think there's going to be a lot more ups and downs before it does start to stabilize.
But I don't know.
Market analysis.
Market analysis complete.
Troy, done.
I think, you know, I think.
In Canada, I think it'll be like, I don't know how it rolls.
How does it roll here in Jamison?
How consistent are the lab testing out here?
Are they playing the same game?
It's the same game.
Yeah, no, it's the same thing here.
Yeah, I think there's got to be a red.
Go ahead, Josh.
I was going to say, I think also, like, you know, or like the.
Accuracy, I think, is important.
I think it's important on a formulation side or like, you know, edibles and stuff like that, more so than on smoking.
And, you know, traditionally, we've never looked at the THC percentage.
And like, having looked at THC percentage and having had access to that and having smoked a lot of cannabis that was tested.
I can attest from personal experience that, you know, the THC level is not, you know, equate potency like, you know, in legal cannabis in Canada, the most knockout stuff I smoked was 13 percent.
And, you know, smoke stuff is 27 and 29 percent here in Canada.
So, you know, the THC percentage, like, we need to figure out what actually equates potency before we really are going to solve this problem because, you know, the labs, you know, having these issues is, you know, because of people being concerned with, you know, this arbitrary THC number that they're getting value from, which in all reality is, you know, not accurate in the first place.
So, I don't know, I think focusing on high quality, you know, growing practices and cannabis that, you know, is actually, you know, good quality is much more important than worrying about, you know, I think that'll solve the, you know, the accuracy issues once we realize that, you know, it's not just THC.
And, you know, they start taking a, you know, a more broad look at everything that we can in the profile because the entourage effect, you know, the entourage is everything, not just THC and CBD and the terpenes that we know about, like, it's everything.
So, and I think that's something that, you know, we'll have to change before, you know, the situation is fixed.
I would like to definitely see some standards across the board.
The fact that, you know, the discrepancy in how many pesticides that you guys up there in Canada test for versus Colorado.
I mean, I think Colorado is like 13 pesticides that they test for.
And, you know, I know that that's a joke for you guys.
But at the same time, until we have some type of standards, we're not going to really be able to kind of, you know, really kind of hit the nail on the head as far as being able to quantify what is real quality.
Because the fact of the matter is everything that everyone is smoking on aesthetically looks better.
The only thing that I think is kind of lacking is the pungency that, again, once people had to start going indoors, but those both of ours still are out there and exist.
But I hate the fact that because the testing side is monetized, that there's always going to be the potential for corruption.
And like Dr. Anubis was saying, that's the reason why you see operations that are operating at a higher level almost have to do in-house testing just to be able to keep those third party testing facilities in check to be able to say, hey, you know, why do I have such a discrepancy in my numbers all the way across the board?
And yes, I understand the difference in sampling, but at the same time, you know, if you literally took a bud and cut that thing in half and then gave one to one lab and gave one to another, we all know here that, you know, we're going to have fluctuation.
I welcome the standardization and I would also like to see something that was like a ranking system for commercial operations, kind of like a Michelin rating with restaurants.
I know that that's potentially controversial with some people, but that way it says, hey, you know, these people are operating at the highest tier.
These guys are girls are literally the ones that are setting the example.
This is what you're trying to strive to be if you're a new business entering into the market.
So that way that there's different but similar ways to be operating at the highest level.
And unfortunately, moving forward, if you don't have some type of vertical integration, you know, you're definitely leaving a lot of money on the table.
Those are great points. And I was just going to say, like, I think, you know, having some sort of even some sort of, well, it's not really a cohort, but like some kind of organization that you can belong to as a lab, like you, where you're testing each other.
And I think the Emerald Labs kind of do this, but they only do it like once or twice a year.
So like where you audit each other and make sure that your results are all in line with each other.
So you can say we are a member of this, you know, group of labs so that you know that you're, you know, they're testing each other all coming up with the same results.
And I think as far as potency goes, as Josh was saying with the THC, it's this cat 22 where lack of education consumers are purchasing making purchasing decisions based on THC content.
Therefore, the highest content goes to the top shelf, which is brings a higher price at the counter, which then, you know, as a grower, you want to have a lab that returns you the highest numbers, which then incentivizes labs to generate the highest numbers.
Because labs that are generating lower numbers, potentially more accurate numbers are not going to get repeat customers because their numbers are too low.
And it's just, you know, perpetuating cat 22 where unless somebody breaks the cycle, it's just going to keep happening.
And I don't know how to break that cycle because the lab with the lower result is just going to lose customers and go out of business.
I think maybe it would come from education of the consumers and the customers that THC doesn't equal quality. And really what you are looking for is something, you know, this is this is this is how you can tell what is quality.
Here's our best quality product and you may even have, you know, the same flower on the top shelf, middle shelf and bottom shelf, being the apical buds, the middle buds and the, you know, the shit from the bottom.
I don't know but I think education is going to be a large portion of this industry fix.
And as consumers start to learn more about, you know, their consumers aren't stupid, people can read a label people can read, you know, information labels on any kind of package and know, oh, this has a lot of sugar in it or this has a lot of fat in it or this has a lot of sodium in it.
But we just have to get them there to where they know okay this has this much THC or, you know, but THC is not exactly what I'm looking for I'm looking for terpene, what terpenes am I looking for what is a terpene.
But we have to make sure that everybody, and everybody's not going to be on the same education level, either.
And I think I've used this analogy before like when you're in high school Boone's Farm and Natty Ice are perfectly accessible to drink. By the time you get, you know, to your, your mid 20s, you know you're drinking microbrews and maybe, I don't know, turning leaf chardonnay or something.
By the time you get a little older you know you're drinking, you know, better quality beers, wines, whiskey, whatever your palate changes your education level rises. And I think the same thing happens with cannabis, you're just starting out in your journey kind of, you know, what, what's your price range, what are you looking for.
And I think that's probably, you know, the most popular or whatever but as you start becoming more familiar with the different products, the different things out there.
Well, I mean that was a juicy response if any of the other panelists have anything else they would like to add right about an hour and a half now so we might close it down.
So don't miss out on those but we're not going everywhere anywhere weekly, you'll see us here on future cannabis project. I'd like to give a shout out future cannabis project to the Dank Hour if you're in the room, follow the club, follow the followers, check out the Instagram, I have posted them in the description of the video of all of these fantastic motherfuckers.
And I shouldn't be swearing because I'm holding an infant child right now. So I'm going to avoid that one. Thank you all for coming to today's show.
Happy fall and hopefully it's not grinding too hard for you and you have a flourish, and you've had a wonderful harvest. I'm looking forward to continuing these conversations here on future cannabis project.
Don't miss out on Jodaherb on Wednesday, Friday, we have, Oaksterdam is on Saturday, no Sunday we have Fire is Fire with a special guest. And then Monday we have, we're back again, oh no, we're back with breeder panel, and there was one little note here.
I appreciate you all and thanks again, guys. I'm going to close the room down here. I appreciate it panel of esteemed experts.
Oh, I'm still going on here. I appreciate you all coming to the show and checking out I'm over here on future cannabis project. And thanks again. I hope you all enjoyed it. Come back again for another show next week. Check us out as time goes by and the future of cannabis happens. Yes, yes, that was excellent.
