I'm doing it.
I'm doing it.
All right.
Let's see.
Because we have permission to use this.
Stop that.
And we'll come back over here.
So I'm doing a dual stream right now.
This is a test.
And what I want to talk about today is typing C. This is something I learned about in college.
So how do we there's lots of ways to classify things.
And it helps us to understand what we're talking about when we're talking about them.
So ideally we're talking about cannabis primarily here.
But this works for vegetables or I studied forestry primarily because cannabis wasn't
legal when I went to college.
And so let's say we're going to go breed a tree.
And we're starting from scratch.
I want an ornamental pine tree that's consistent with the locality I'm living in.
And so I walk out and I look at trees and I find a specimen I like.
So the wind's blowing pollen into that tree.
It's going to have a seed pod in it.
And it's going to have a parent that I know what it is and a parent I don't know what
it is specifically.
And if I just picked a pine cone up off the ground, what would I have?
It would be a it would be a known parents on both sides.
Right.
And so we've got I've got I got a wild pine cone with with no known parents.
I've got now a pine cone with with known parent one parent.
Right.
So that's two types of seed.
And then if I have if I'm able to collect pollen and then inseminate the pine tree that
I selected, both of those are going to have both known parents.
And that gives us three different types of seed.
Right. We have both known parents as a type one seed.
All right. And then one known parent is a type two seed.
And if we have both parents are unknown, that would be a type three seed.
OK, so ultimately we want to utilize these different typings to get all type one seed
to offer to people or utilize for our own purposes.
All right. And produce our offspring for nursery or commercial stock.
OK, so again, it's type one is, you know, both your parents type two is, you know, one
parent and your one parent is unknown.
And the type three is both parents unknown.
So if we're going to talk about cannabis like this, so where it's pertinent today,
people reviving old seed stock.
All right. So somebody finds a bag of seed hidden in uncle's shoebox after he passes
away and we have great blessings to have this now science technology that can help
revive this kind of stuff.
And so that's where this type three seed would be designated.
Right. If you get somebody, for instance, I get seed from people give me bag seed when
they're traveling around the world.
And it's classified.
I don't know exactly what this is.
I don't know exactly the parents.
Right. It's classified kind of as a land race.
That's a type three seed.
I haven't seen either of those parents.
I'm not exactly sure what their parents are.
It could have been anything.
And until I've grown it out, I'm not going to be able to have any clue for identifying
it. Right. In which place, if you're growing it and you have a little pollen dust comes
through from wherever and you don't know and you're growing a parent and you get a bag
seed. Right. You have an unknown pollen donor and your mother plant.
That's your type two seed.
Right. These aren't necessarily things that we're going to be pursuing breeding unless
you have enough space to do it.
Or perhaps you're in a place where you don't have access to a whole bunch of prime
breeding projects.
Also, some people don't like using other people's work.
It can be considered more prestigious to ground source your own seed and breed a proper
breed from it. It's a lot more work.
It's a lot harder. I've been called a pollen chucker for doing it.
I've been checking pollen for 35 years.
So it could also be a master pollen checker, I guess.
Anyhow, so we have this type three and type two seed in cannabis.
So these things that were unknown, their bag seed or they're gifted to us.
And then the type one seed should be the stuff that we're buying in sealed packs.
Right. And we can utilize as breeders.
We can be looking at it for even if you're just at a home.
I call myself a pollen checker all the time.
It's being humble. Someone else calls me that.
It's being an insult.
Right. But so we're at home checking pollen.
That's something we might want to look at.
Right. We all know that some of the best stuff on the market today came from a type two or
three bag seed.
Right. Somebody the dog series that comes from the Grateful Dead parking lot, for
instance. Right. We all know stuff from Aphrodite's even as a breeder.
That's one of the things I do intentionally when I'm testing all these type seeds, even
my type one seed.
I'm putting in through severe stress testing.
Right. And occasionally you miss a little pollen or whatever.
These things can be destroyed.
You can feed them to the chickens or you can save them for later when there's a
possibility of opening them up and see what happens.
I hear people discussing it's like sometimes that's some of the best product you're
ever going to get. I know in my experiences over 35 years, I have a really hard time
separating out a little bit of from aphrodisiac, just very minor single flowers that
they're usually going to produce pollen.
But those tend to be the plants that have like just the most stellar effects with one
hit medicinal purposes.
So people shouldn't really discount these things or have a high horse ride.
And it's a matter of different people are doing different things.
And you're looking, you know, different people might not have the opportunity because
they have a commercial operation going on and have to meet their numbers so they can't
open up that type two and type three seed.
Some of that type three seed needs a laboratory.
It's old. Right.
So we're in here.
But this is a totally different set of typing that we can utilize again to communicate.
And that's pretty much kind of what I want to tell you.
You know, I've done this with grass seed, wild grass seed.
Right. I've done this with my collect different kinds of wild flowers and stuff.
Right. So collecting that seed, it applies to different things.
And I've been trying to figure out where I found this from.
And I can't remember if it was one of the old actually cannabis breeder books or if it
came from my forestry studies.
But this is all stuff I've run, huge forestry greenhouse and operated planting out
two hundred fifty thousand sprouts and cuttings for forestry projects and stuff with
huge crews of seventy five people and things.
So it's all it's not like I just make this stuff up.
It's the program I've been utilizing, but it's been pointed out to me that no one else
is using this. And so I figured I'd go ahead and I wanted to test doing I'm actually
doing this simulcast here on my own personal page and the future cannabis project, too.
And hopefully the YouTube doesn't have a problem with that.
And we'll just keep rolling this kind of.
I guess it's not early morning everywhere in the world.
I didn't think I'd have anyone join in and thanks for everyone for saying hi and stopping
in to see what I have to say.
It was really just wanted to be a short one.
And I'm looking at the chat there.
Has anyone got any questions for me before I let this down?
Let's see. I got I got two chats.
I got to pay attention to you there.
But. Let's see.
Oh, boy, I don't really see anything there, so.
Yeah, right on.
I just want to slip in this morning before there was anything on and do this test on
both channels at the same time and more than
such. Sasaja.
The Breath of Purple Dragon by Cherry Kush, I wish I had more of that seed that
Breath of Purple Dragon was really hard to reverse everything coming out of those
that Pakistani Chitil Kush and the Zakhastani.
That stuff is all I'm sorry.
Yeah, the Zakhastan. That's just all really hard for me to get pollen out of the males or
have a hard time with pollen and the reverse.
Yeah, Delta 9, I was trying to remember I had to get that from forestry school.
And I'll touch on that again.
I'm going to answer the Cherry Kush and Purple Dragon that Purple Dragon I had a
hardest time getting any pollen out of in the reversal.
So there wasn't very many of them. But that is exactly what it says.
It's the precursor to Cherry Cookies, that Cherry Kush and Purple
Dragon is the Zakhastani Kush back crossed or crossed to the Dr.
Dream all here. And so it's kind of an OG
land race back cross thing.
And that purple. Yeah.
People are loving it, though.
So so that the three types, you know, I really, again, was trying to figure it out where
that came from and.
Going back in even to to like where Burbank got his first potatoes seed from and he
started his entire career, that was somebody gave him seed out of a random potato
plant. Right.
You saw the plant grown or the guy got it from.
And so I think this is like really old school stuff.
Again, nobody's I don't see it being used anywhere.
It was pointed out to me, but you don't got to use it.
It's just something that you can utilize to separate things like a lot of people call it
mystery seed. Right.
You're going to see you'll see a lot of breeders packaging up a package of mystery seed.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So so strong side style organics is talking about trying to breed those
old seeds and you really need to get a seed saver kit.
And I think they even fall short.
I think there needs to be some of the enzymes and hormones.
And I am not a pro on the tissue culture, but I think that should be doing in a sterile
lab under a hood with sterilized tissue cultures.
I got I got two things here.
That's right. Yeah.
So I've tried I've gotten it's a lot of work utilizing all the different sterilization
techniques and trying to feed them like coconut water.
There's there's different things you get all the enzymes on the aloe works.
You can use banana peel for ethylene to try and kick them up.
You can use three. All these things are going to do different things if you're trying to
stimulate those ancient seeds.
Right. You having a temperature control, having sterilized auger to pop them in.
And then, like I said, I like to have.
It's those hormones and stuff for the tissue culture, I think would be the real way to
make it happen. Bean water is another good one, too.
But again, that one can make things I think I like to do is I like to do these these
feed soaks and then hit them with the sterile and with the the H2O2.
And but I've just had them where I'll pop I'll pop out a radical and they'll just sit
there for like three weeks with just a radical and they're stalled out.
And that's where it's like, man, I really need these in a laboratory to make it work
proper. Let's see.
See.
Right now, it's I lose them.
I cry, I try, I really stop trying because I don't have a lot of time and I keep getting
that close to having a laboratory and it doesn't come through.
Let's see. Vada's watching.
Checking on my home channel here, I got I got I got to two cameras, two computers going
more than Nick.
Man, Nick, I need to talk to you on the phone, if you're not busy, they call me and.
I don't see any other questions.
Cool. Appreciate you all for dropping in this morning.
Everyone have a great Sunday and or whatever day it is that you're seeing this and.
Peace out. See if I can end both simultaneously.
