Hey everybody, Chad Westport here. Today we're gonna have fun with a few what ifs.
Our first what if is what if, what if I topped the plant right here, discarding
all of that above and only keeping that below. Do you think it would live? It's an
awful lot to take off but sometimes you have no choice. So what do you do? Let's
find out. Another fun thing that we're gonna do with this, since we're gonna top
it down here and we've got all of that above, do you think if I put that in the
aero cloner it will clone? I don't think so but let's find out anyways. Okay so as
you can see I've got it all lined up to be cut and I'm just gonna pan up and
down so you can see once again the ridiculousness of this cloning attempt.
So let's pan up and check her out. And as you can see she's too tall to flower out.
I kind of let her go this long because I wanted to pre-sex her. I have determined
that she is a she through the pre-flowers. I know that if I cut it back
and play around with it, if it lives I'll get a nice bush anyhow. So let's play.
Here we go. Stick her out. I'm gonna cut her at my angle here right above the two
branches that I want to be the top. And one, two, three, clone! Oh it's so thick I
can't even cut this bitch. Oh my goodness. Oh yeah, alright. Yeah.
So right now this is a scraggly looking plant. I'm gonna train it. I'm gonna clean
it up a little bit. You'll see what it looks like later. But let's go check out
our monster clone. Guys you can see the absolute absurdity of this size of clone.
As I said earlier there's a dozen good clones on there. If you really wanted to
take a clone they're in there. Not the one piece. But I've got it in the
Aerocloner and we're gonna find out if it works just because. Go ahead and place
your bets in the comment. We'll find out what happens. Alright so you can see what
I've done with this plant is I've taken those stems that were going up and I've
bent them down. That's gonna serve a couple purposes. One is these inner node
spaces here, here, here, here. All of these, their branches are gonna grow up. That's
gonna fill this area in and make it fairly bushy. The other thing I've done
here is I've used my binder clips to take them down. Now because of
phototropism these are actually gonna start to curl back up at the point that
they're bound. So this is no longer gonna stick down here. That's actually gonna
come back up. It's gonna look for the light and follow the light. Same with
this one. It's gonna curl back up and it's gonna be a nice bushy plant and
kind of stay within the confines of the structure given by the plot or pot.
We're about an hour into this monster sitting in the clone machine and as you
can see I took some of the fan leaves off. That's just gonna give it more of a
fighting chance. Too many leaves it's gonna transpire too much and there's not
enough water in the system. So I'm actually have expected the leaves to go
limp by now. It's been, you know, like I said it's been over an hour since I
cloned it. They're still pretty turgid. There's enough water in the system. We'll
see if it stays that way. Holy crap guys it's 24 hours later and this thing is
not only still alive it's looking more turgid and more water pressure in there
than when I cut it off the plant. Can this thing really be a true clone?
We'll find out. So we're getting close to two weeks into this after I chopped the
top off and bent all of these all the way down. As you can see what I bent down
is starting to curl back up. This was way down there but again phototropism it's
gonna want to grow towards the light. They're all about the same height so I'm
controlling the apical dominants and all the auxins and where all the priority is
going essentially. We've got these middle nodes that are now starting to put off
their branches. So these are gonna come fill up the middle. These will continue
to grow up around the side and hey at the end of the day we're gonna have a
monster bush. Oh my goodness you guys we are over a week into this thing being
chopped off crudely by the scissors and stuffed in this aeroponics machine. Not
only is it still alive and not limp all of the leaves are looking good. They're
solid and get this. This thing's starting to get roots. Check it out. Look at that
guys. Look at that right there. That is just crazy. Do you guys think I'm gonna
be able to get enough roots for this whole thing to finish flowering? We'll
have to see but I'm gonna put it back in the aero cloner for now.
