Hopefully the phone will charge and I'll be able to go check out and walk around the garden a little bit.
Well, we are live and native.
You don't know the format.
It's very casual.
You're in gentle, good hands.
But so Alex sent me blue corn and I've grown it out.
And I just asked him what insect was destroying this.
And he said it's not an insect because you see all like you see some kernels, but then lots of spots where there should
be kernels. And I thought it was some sort of insect that was destroying it.
But you said.
So that you can see all those missing spots where there's there's really full kernels throughout there and not all the way.
And so when growing corn, it it's a self pollinator in the wind generally.
And but what happens is your main shoot comes up and the corn throws out its pollen from the top.
And then like a week later, you start throwing ears out the sides.
And so if you're just growing a single row or a couple of plants of corn, if you've gotten the corn of mine in your beans and you
planted one of those, you want to collect that pollen when it first comes off.
And then when the silks start coming out of the ears, you can manually apply that.
And but if you're planting corn for your garden, you want to plant every every week through planting season.
And that way the first row comes up and it puts off pollen, it blows away and the next one comes up and it blows pollen into the
ears of the first and et cetera, et cetera.
Some corn, this one here has what's called tillers where you have multiple, multiple stocks come up from a single, especially if
you plant them far enough apart.
The traditional corn from a lot of these Native Americans that dry farm, it's you plant them six to ten feet apart and then six
stocks come up and you can get 15 ears on a single plant.
It's pretty wild how the diversity of it, as opposed to the super fed, super shrunken sweet corn, we plant six inches apart.
And as it came up, multiple rows is generally how it's done where you don't have to manually pollinate.
Well, you just mentioned kind of one of the things I wanted to lead into this conversation with.
And that's kind of so Nate, a lot of our conversations are around cultivation, cannabis, but also other crops.
I like to grow other stuff.
Alex likes to grow their stuff.
He breeds other stuff.
The other guys coming on do a lot of breeding.
My starting point is I feel like you go into your average American grocery store and they've all been homogenized to show the exact same stuff.
And, you know, it's it's you got two choices of there's Elka.
You got two choices of corn, sweet and yellow or the white and yellow.
You got like three choices of onions.
And then if you're ethnically, you know, like, for example, my brother and his wife, his wife's Persian.
They have a Persian yogurt company and she wants to start growing Persian herbs and fruits because you can't source that stuff here to put seasonally into her yogurt.
So it's kind of like we live in this world where a grocery store has this much selection of the possible possibilities of fruits and vegetables you could be eating and enjoying.
And I feel like most the reason for that is what is it?
Transportation and shelf life.
Those are kind of the driving factors in the grocery store.
So can you give us some background on you and what you do and why you're doing it?
Because I think that's kind of related to what I just kind of set the table with.
Sure. Thanks for having me.
Happy to be here. So my name is Nate Kleinman.
I started the Experimental Farm Network, which is a nonprofit based in Philadelphia with my friend Dusty back in 2013.
And our main purpose at the time was to get people collaborating more on plant breeding projects, especially towards the development of some perennial staple crops like perennial grains, oil seeds, largely to help fight climate change.
We we decided pretty early on that we didn't want to become dependent on grants or big funders.
So we we set ourselves up as a small seed company and we grow and sell seeds of all sorts of plants, including many things that other companies don't offer.
We sell seeds for a lot of perennials that a lot of folks don't ever think of starting from seed like that first picture you showed was elderberries and which was actually one of our best sellers this year.
You know, there's there's very few elderberry varieties commonly available on the market, but each one of those.
Each one of those berries has multiple seeds inside and each seed has a unique genetic profile.
So, you know, you never know if one of those seeds has has the next great elderberry variety until you try growing it.
And yeah, somebody commented on our Facebook page that I'm on an elderberry group and none of the all those people are experts and none of them bother growing from from seed.
But, you know, every variety that they're cloning all the time started with a seed somewhere.
So, yeah, we're selling yucca seeds.
And this year we're planning to sell thornless blackberry seeds because there's not a ton of thornless blackberries out there.
So might as well get some more genetics.
And we get a lot of our seeds from the USDA, from government seed banks around the country.
There's you know, our government has over half a million different varieties of all sorts of food plants and fiber crops, medicinal crops in these seed banks.
And, you know, they're not doing any good just sitting there in a deep freeze, especially with with climate change that we're facing.
It's really critical that people be adapting these things to our changing world, using them and just getting getting some of these varieties that have been sitting there in obscurity back out into circulation.
Yeah, I'm just kind of showing off some of the pictures, but I think.
Can you talk about kind of.
Fight like I when I read through some of the posts, you know, you tell the story of a fight like even the farm you're on, it's like I think it was the rhubarb was there for generations and then you took it.
Can you just talk about some of those stories of like people who have been growing something on their land for 30, 50 or even, you know, they got there 30 years ago and it was already growing there.
And. Sure.
Actually, one of the rhubarbs that we sell, the Tracy rhubarb was I found that growing in the backyard of of family, friends who had passed away, the parents of somebody my my mom went to college with the in-laws.
And she thinks that they had that rhubarb in their yard for 50 years.
In the back of the yard, they had may apples.
Actually, that's you're showing a picture of it right now.
May apple is one of my favorite woodland plants, and it's a it's a really amazing wild fruit in here in the Northeast, all of eastern North America pretty much.
But people hardly ever get fruit from them.
They don't they don't pollinate well.
Animals eat them.
But they're in the back of the Tracy, the Tracy's backyard.
I found these big plants with enormous fruit on them.
And I don't know what the people who planted it are are gone now, so I couldn't ask them where it came from.
But I was able to salvage some and get it growing in a couple of different places to make sure that that that exists.
And that's one that we only distribute through this breeding, through breeding projects, through volunteers.
We don't you know, we don't get enough seeds from that to sell them.
But that Tracy rhubarb, it was it was one tiny little plant that had been mowed over every two weeks because the the the owners of the of the house were gone and their their kids, you know, hired somebody to mow the lawn every couple of weeks.
So the neighbors wouldn't complain.
But this rhubarb had like a pencil thin leaf with one stem, with one tiny leaf, like the size of a quarter.
And but underneath the ground, there was a huge root ball once we dug it up.
And when I planted that in full sun in a garden where it had a chance to thrive, it became this enormous plant with really thick ribs and enormous leaves.
And it turned out to be the most resistant to Japanese beetle damage of any of any rhubarb I've grown.
Japanese beetles love rhubarb in this in this neck of the woods, but they they leave this one alone.
There's something about it they don't like.
So it's a really useful variety.
We started when I gave some to my sister in Michigan.
Hers started hers started flowering in its second year.
And so we got a ton of seeds from it.
And people, turns out, are really interested in growing rhubarb seeds.
So we you know, that's another one that is mostly produced clonally.
People get things that that are all named have the same name, Victoria rhubarb or Glaskins perpetual rhubarb.
But if you plant seeds for them, you can get something completely different and something something new.
So that's that's a really good variety.
So that's that's a lot of what we do.
And we are we're in the last couple of years as a seed company, we've started offering more seeds that are that are really, you know, unexpected things.
We're doing F2 hybrids like things that other seed companies would never sell that we know you're going to get really interesting results, really diverse, hard to predict what you're going to get.
But people are interested in that more and more people are realizing that plant breeding doesn't have to be something that we that we, you know, let only the giant corporations do.
It's something that anybody can do in their backyard.
And it's really how everything that we eat was developed by, as my friend likes to say, by illiterate, illiterate farmers over the last over the last 10,000 years.
Anyone disagree with that comment that it should only be in the domain of the big corporations?
Doesn't seem like the crowd.
I liked what you were saying about planting seed to acclimatize to the modern world.
You know, I think that's something that people don't really think about.
You know, all these old varieties were were grown at a certain time.
Different, different kind of, you know, soil conditions, all different, you know, variables are in there.
So I like the like that you brought that that that part up.
I think that's something that needs to be kind of thought about and talked about a little bit more, especially with all vegetables and all plants and cannabis and all that stuff.
I think that, you know, being being regular and actually planting seed is a really important part of what we're doing.
Yeah, we grow, you know, if we plant something that was that was put in a seed bank 70 years ago from New Jersey, there's a good chance it's not going to it's not going to produce well.
It's not going to it's not going to thrive here.
Maybe it'll do fine in in, you know, New Hampshire or in the United States.
But I think that's something that we need to think about.
And now we should probably be growing things that are, you know, were collected in South Carolina 70 years ago because that's the way things things have shifted.
And it's it's happening fast now.
So it's really hard to predict where we're going to go.
And with perennials, the challenges is is even more stark.
And that's why I think it's so important to think about the potential for growth.
And that's why I think it's so important that we get more people planting seeds of these things that are not traditionally grown from seed, because, you know, even as we have incredible heat waves in the summer and extended droughts, we're also getting, you know, we're also getting these polar vortexes that are bringing us more extreme cold in the winter.
So plants need to be even more resilient than they have been.
I got a question, too.
Sorry. Well, I was going to touch on Peter's first question there about the homogeneity of our groceries.
And there's several several aspects that play into that.
And I actually had an experience last night with watching the exact same thing happen with cannabis.
And consumers are well trained.
OK. And we just want to go and buy grab.
Don't think about it. We're just going to make our purchase.
Some people even think that freedom is having a choice.
There's three different kinds of squash or three different labels of a box, whatever it is.
But they're all identical. Right.
Everything is precision, repetition, production and no flaws, no blemishes.
So when I had my organic farm and I was talking to the local grocer corporation and they're really, really into promoting local farmers.
He was describing to me how like your zucchini all have to be exactly.
Eight inches by two and a half inches and you have to have a case and they have to all be identical.
So you're throwing out 80 percent of your crop because there's diversity in your crop.
But that's he explained that.
And once he explained that to me is something I observed in a farmer's markets.
You really see human nature and stuff.
But like if I just throw my zucchini in a box, people, I wouldn't sell none of them.
And if I threw that, if I put them in a box all lined out perfectly, the big ones over here and the little ones all right there,
they would come up in this people would exactly maneuver through their training of consumerism.
And it was no thought to it.
They just reach in.
You know, the more stuff you have, the more diverse stuff you have, the more they have to think it's harder for them to actually make that choice.
Right. And so there's a real mental dilemma that's been created in consumerism where it's you have too much choice.
You can't make the decision. She just knocked me out almost.
So I saw it yesterday with a fellow who brings product in from out of state and hooks people up.
And it was all in that pretty packaging.
And the dude just paid an exuberant amount of money in front of me for a quarter ounce in a pretty package.
And then the guy brought out his homogenized extracts in expensive packaging.
And it's like, but it's the exact same thing where we've been trained to consume and not think about our consumption at all.
And, you know, the guy is tattooed with the geometry of the base of the universe. Right.
But, you know, at the same time, he said, it's all about the money for me.
And it's like, well, gosh, that's a lot of landfill for a little bit of money. Right.
And so it's kind of the same thing with the corporate production across the board and with breeding and food diversity and all that stuff.
Boy, I mean, that's just just something from that beginning, that beginning stuff there.
That's something else they picked on was with the seed banks where he gets his genetics from.
These things are around the entire world. They're in every advanced country.
And we as breeders, plant researchers, educators, we can contact these seed banks and say, hey, I'd like to acquire some of this succession of what you have stored here and to work with.
And that's across Europe as well as here in North America and South American stuff.
There's just a couple of points I had there I'd taken notes on.
And, yeah, it's just it's crazy how.
We're just cattle almost.
Yeah, one one of the one of the things I talk about a lot in my work is about this concept of a land race.
And that's something that usually goes over a lot of people's heads.
But cannabis breeders and growers tend to know what I'm talking about when I when I talk about land races, which is really just it's a term used for for the older, non-uniform varieties that we're talking about.
And these are varieties that were that are associated with traditional farming systems.
They've never gone through a formal crop improvement process.
The breeding process with a university.
These are these are things that you can find in any in any agricultural community around the world.
And every cultivated variety that exists now started out as a land race somewhere where everybody in one valley is is kind of pulling their seeds.
They might all get them from the same small farm store or a few different growers pull them together and then share them out as seeds.
And they end up with with kind of unique characteristics of that region.
They're they're adapted to the to the weather.
And the same thing existed.
I don't remember how many they say there are around the world, but the original cannabis land races that that existed, you know, are are all all over the place.
And some of them have been lost inevitably.
And that happens with with every variety.
But when you go through the government database, they tell you the improvement status of of a crop, whether it's a cultivar, whether it's wild material or or breeding material or a land race.
And we really like to offer land races to people and to use them because they have this natural diversity.
And that's that's what allows them to be resilient.
If you're selling to a lot of our customers are gardeners and small market farmers.
If you're selling to somebody who is growing for commodity markets, they need that uniformity there.
They are not interested in growing a squash that's going to produce squash with 12 different colors and patterns.
And that's completely unpredictable.
They want to grow something totally uniform.
But if you're growing for a homesteader or for a gardener or for a small farmer who's who's got a customer base at a farmer's market, they like that diversity.
When when we're faced with all this extreme weather, that that diversity that expresses itself in different flavors and textures and colors also expresses itself in different levels of resilience, different resistances or susceptibilities to pests and diseases and extreme weather events.
And so these are the kinds of things that we need more people to grow.
The more we the more we whittle down the varieties that are available for farmers to grow, the less resilient we are as a species.
And moving into into this really scary, uncertain future, we've got to bring as much of this diversity with us as possible.
And we can't rely on the government seed banks and congressional funding to to maintain all this.
We need people to be getting this stuff out there, growing it in their gardens, sharing it in their local networks, adapting things regionally and for different microclimates.
That's that's really the only way to go.
That brings up something that there is like a you really got to fight for the freedom of being able to do that.
There is a large push on and there is good reasoning on different levels of this where seed trading is almost becoming illegal in some places over the past 10, 15 years.
It's definitely tough for us to legally send seeds internationally.
And, you know, and there's good there's good reason.
It's like they have the agricultural checkpoints when you're driving into California because there's a massive damage that occurred for instance, when the Mediterranean fruit fly was brought in.
And so you can get pests on seeds. You can get weeds transferred and things like that.
Right. So people do need to remain diligent in what they're doing with this genetic because through some of the land-raised cannabis has been lost because of genetic pollution, anthropomorphic, translocative genetic pollution.
And we move the seeds around and then something that we've bred becomes dominant and kind of washes out all that older genetic.
Some people claim this doesn't happen.
My understanding of genetics is that the wild stuff tends to be a bunch of there's a bunch of that double recessive stuff set into it, but it's it's all a bunch of dominant expression.
And so when we take a hybrid, it's a bunch of double recessive and recessive that we've selected for.
And so when it when it gets diluted in that gene pool, it's pushed underneath and those aggressive dominant traits tend to override.
But my understanding and belief is that that's the recesses are going to stay in the gene pool and sort of dilute that and pollute it.
So, yeah, there's there's definitely things to think about when we're doing that backyard breeding, but it should be done.
It needs to adapt everything. It's one of the things I do here in the desert.
There is definitely things here in my yard. And when I was running my tree service, I would collect a lot of flowers to antique flowers.
But I have an asparagus that was here when I purchased the house and just in the desert sand and it was surviving.
And it's like that's a hardy asparagus. Nobody was taking care of it.
And these things are supposed to be in the creek bed or right.
So I collect the seed from that and have maybe Nate. We can.
I don't have time to distribute stuff. So maybe we made a great connection here where I can see sending you guys stuff for distribution.
Absolutely. Like that, too. You know, I try to keep the Ethiopian barley and various.
I had a five acre plot with I had over 300 heirlooms, ancient grains, arc of taste foods, things like that that I was growing.
That's awesome. Yeah, we've got we've got about thirty five growers this past year around the country produce stuff for us.
And a lot of them are breeders who are are playing around with stuff or have been working for for 30 years on certain projects.
And they don't have time to start a seed company and get things out to people.
But we you know, we we have a profit share model that we we make sure that people are are not getting growers are not getting ripped off like they are from bigger seed companies.
And we're a nonprofit. So we you know, we we make sure to share all the come in an equitable way.
Definitely a passion and a love for what you're doing, because you're not making money doing a small scale garden seed operation.
Any it's it's it's a passion thing. You know, there's guys who have 500 tomato plants and they struggle trying to market that stuff.
And it's it's it takes it takes a village no matter what you're doing.
Absolutely. Elka's sitting there smiling with these beautiful heirloom tomatoes.
I want to know, is that some Costa Luta? What do you got those fluted ones there, Elka?
And you're muted, so you'll need to turn yourself on.
Yeah. And also, can you turn your phone 90 degrees sideways?
Yeah. Look at that.
I think you're right up to you.
I'm upside down to me. I think your screens on lock, which Alex discovered had it.
Are you on an Android or an iPhone? It's Android.
Yeah. Alex knows how to how to fix this problem.
But why don't you talk like you are and we'll fix it.
Here we go. All right. Let's see. It's it's it's the right under the blue dot.
There is that rotation emblem. Right. Right there.
My looks like I know Nate knows what we're talking. Yeah.
I don't like it. I wait. Watch this.
We're going to we're going to watch him in real time. This is technical support.
Real time. Old dogs learning new tricks. I tried.
I tried doing it. I figured it out after the show.
But I will figure it out for next time.
But anyway, you got you got some tomatoes in front of you.
You want to tell us about them?
Can you hear me? Yeah.
All right. I got something weird going on with this fucking phone. Hold on.
While he's troubleshooting Tyler, you're you're never one who's
at a loss for words. I got a couple of questions.
You know, basically, number one,
kind of a fun question. Like what?
What is your least favorite seed to prepare for?
Prepare for sale. You know, certain things got like a joke, you know,
gelatin shell or things are a frigging nightmare to crack to get into somewhere.
You know, it's super small to get, you know, get in order to count out whatever.
What is your least favorite type of seed pair?
And do you have like a process or a place where you do all your your seed drying and curing, you know, based on all seeds are completely different.
Some, you know, artichokes or little ferns or whatever.
Some, you know, artichokes or little feathery things. And, you know, some are big and hard, other things like that.
So, like, what are some of your tips and tricks on on curing and storing and drying the stuff?
Some of your, you know, harder seeds, so to speak.
Great, great question. So I'll start with the second one.
We so I live in southern New Jersey, outside of Philadelphia.
I live in a house that's about five minutes from where I farm at the farm.
We have a hoop house barn that's just, you know, like a greenhouse with a tarp over it, essentially, where we store most of our equipment.
We can hang some things to get out of the rain. I've got a garage.
Sometimes I use that for for hanging stuff. Mostly it happens.
I've got a basement where I where I do a lot of a lot of the seed drying, seed processing work.
I was on the floor of my kitchen yesterday with with a couple of friends sorting the picking those elderberry seeds off of the off of the plant.
And it's yeah, like you said, every every seed has different requirements.
It's like, you know, when you're a seed farmer, you've got to learn every everything about these seeds.
What's the pollinator? How much distance do you need to keep them isolated?
What's the population size you need to prevent inbreeding depression?
You know, there's all of these all these different needs. Is it is something you know, can you dry?
Can something dry down on the plant in this in our humid climate? Or does it really need to be undercover?
Do we have to dig things up? Something like lettuce is hard to do in the open air out here often because it gets so humid.
And yeah, that's that's that's the the long and the short of it.
At this this time of year, my house starts to become, you know, looks like it looks like a barn, basically.
And as far as the my least favorite seed, there's a lot that are pretty annoying.
Some of the really tiny ones are really are really tough.
I use screens up on the top shelf there. There's some wooden wooden screens like antique wooden screens.
And I'm I'm always there are all different sizes and something like wormwood that is the main ingredient and absent has the tiniest seed that I've ever worked with.
And I use a screen that is they call it 60 by 60.
That means there's 60 wires by 60 in one square inch.
So thirty six hundred little holes in a square inch. And that's a you know, it's like a microscopic seed practically.
But then the ones that are really annoying are things like Kinaf, which is a Kinaf is a hibiscus.
It's a primarily grown as a fiber crop these days. But it's a it's a food crop in India as well.
The seeds are edible. The leaves are edible. In India, they pickle the leaves.
They call it Gongura. But it has these tiny little spines.
Like if you've ever harvested old school varieties of okra, it's a little bit spiny, a little bit spiky.
But the seeds of Kinaf are like that as well. So in the the it's really hard to separate those spines from the seed.
You want to wear gloves. You want to wear a mask. You don't want to be inhaling this stuff.
So that's definitely high up on the list. And we sell prickly pear cactus seeds as well.
And not a lot of companies are selling prickly pear cactus seeds, especially for cold hardy edible varieties.
And just dealing with the prickly pears, they call them prickly for a reason.
They have these they call them glochids. They're not just like regular cactus spikes.
They're tiny, tiny barbs that get stuck in your skin and just root their way in.
So that's something that I planted a bunch of those in my house.
We got all different types of prickly pears and apples and dragon fruits and stuff like that.
So it's partly for food and all that fun, nasty stuff. But then it's also for discouragement.
Yeah. Yeah. Those things are no fun to fuck with, man. So getting seeds out there and just playing with those in general.
But that microscopic seed, man, that's that's a good one. That's that's that's got to suck.
For sure. What do you do for like like like gelatin covered seeds?
I mean, do you have any tricks like that you like, you know, you know, like for tomatoes, water, I mean, for days and different things, you know, for certain ones.
And there's different things that I do to try to, you know, get rid of some of those gelatin-y type seeds.
But you got any you got any weird tricks? I mean, we just do this sort of the standard process for something like tomatoes.
And we squeeze the tomato seeds into a jar or a bowl.
We usually our trick is to put a coffee filter on top and a rubber band over the coffee filter so that there's still air exchange so it can ferment and not explode like in a closed jar.
But but fruit flies don't get in there. And things like, you know, mold, if mold starts to grow on top, you can just swirl it around and and keeps it from growing.
But we do we do a lot with that for tomatoes, sometimes for cucumbers or melons.
But you ever do any kiwis? I do lots of different kiwi varieties and stuff.
So I fiddle with kiwi stuff and they're they're they're a friggin pain in the ass because they're no and they're very gelatinous.
And it's like, fuck, I got to do it. Got to soak them in water. And like, you know, you got to do all these little things.
I would just, you know, it's similar to tomatoes.
Yeah, I've never I haven't kiwis, but with all the berries that we do, the raspberries, the blackberries, the this year we're going to offer currants and gooseberries as well.
And those are those those are fun to process. It takes some time.
But I like them. I like doing the fruits because, you know, you can run it through over a strainer with your hands and have as much juice and pulp as you can before you get started trying to get the seeds out.
And then you've got like, you know, great. I have a 32 ounces of pure blackberry juice in my in my fridge right now.
And I'm just going to make some really good jam. So, yeah, it is a pain, but it's worth it because it is fun to see what people do with these new varieties and and stuff.
Do you see those Android instructions at the bottom of your screen?
Oh, it looks like you got it.
Oh, wait. Holy shit. All right.
There we go. All right.
Yeah, there we go.
I hope everybody shares in our sheer joy at this successful technical troubleshooting.
Yeah, it's always slow with me. It's very nice meeting you, Nate. I like I like everything that I'm hearing you saying.
And what you said about acclimatization, I'm very passionate about. That's essentially what I breed for.
I want it to do well in my environment and a seed company isn't going to be able to provide that to me.
So I respect a man that understands over problems to get stuck by that shit and breathing it in.
Yeah. No fun at all. So that's nice. Do you have a Luther's prickly pear by chance?
You know, I have actually I have one pad I can I have one pad that I picked up at the Luther Burbank house of a variety that he grew called actual.
And this has been I wrote it in a pen there.
It's sending off new growth here. I like this little heart shaped thing.
This has been sitting out since it's almost two years.
It's unrooted and it's just sitting here and I've just become I've just sort of seeing how how it's just starting to send out roots right now.
And it has nothing to go. I mean, it's it's a really an unbelievable plant.
But this one is seems to be pretty fully gloated free.
So we'll we'll see. I'm I'm not sure I'm going to I'm going to root this one and get more.
But I know I could get more. So I was just sort of testing it by leaving it out because once it was gone, once it was sitting there for a year and it hadn't hardly desiccated at all.
I thought, hmm, let's see how long this thing can last.
That is very, very cool. We recognize. And I don't know if it'll survive outdoors here.
I want to send you some stuff. I've got plenty. I've got all kinds of this. This is a cantaloupe that I bred.
Oh, beautiful. Look how it's. Hold me your hand. Like this thing ripens very fast.
You can smell it. See what people can do with it up north. But this thing is extremely sweet.
It is. It's beautiful. It started off as a sweet and early from burpee.
And I just made up twos from that and started slurping through it. And I like these small ones the best.
They were delicious. So this thing's just at three and it came out consistent.
I'm going to take them out in the garden later and you'll see my feet up plants from a windstorm.
But they still got fruit grown on them and they're all like this little goody, beautiful, sweet.
And it has a small seed channel in the center of it. So it's not all seed.
This is mostly meat. And as you see, it ripens all the way up to the edge. It's not green at all.
So, yeah, I'm pretty proud of that thing. And these tomatoes, Hardy was asking about those.
This lobe one, this is a F2 expression from a pink Berkeley, tie dye across to Roma.
And all of these larger ones like this is a pink Berkeley expression from that.
I was wondering if I was going to get one. Here's one that's a little more Roma, pink Berkeley.
But they're beautiful.
Does this one have caverns to them? It looks like a coastal Luda.
Yeah, like if you open it, is it cavern eyes where you can like scoop and stuff and.
Absolutely. It's like a pepper in there, man. It's just a pepper.
Nice. Now, there's definitely anything like that until this year.
I looked in catalogs. The totally tomatoes doesn't have anything like that.
Gates doesn't have anything like that. I've got two heirlooms that are that are lobe cavern tomatoes like that.
And so I acquired like 50 maybe heirloom tomato varieties that I keep trying to keep inbreeding and stuff.
And coastal Luda, gin, gin of Azi. Yeah, that's one of them.
And then I think Bear Claw was another one. That's a cavern that I have.
I'm not sure I didn't. It's been so I haven't had my farm in like 10 years.
So each year I try and go through and just do 10 or 12. I always end up like, wait, you know how it is.
Way too many tomato plants. Your little melon is beautiful, though.
That's like a chanterelles, really potent, sweet dessert melon with those those ribs and small seed and stuff in there.
And yeah, that's like one of those. It tastes just like that.
That's a good guy that's never eaten this thing. You did a great job describing it.
It's an orange one of those because, you know, I got the green skin on the outside.
Right. Right. Excellent. And this right here, I saw you hold up something similar to this party.
Yeah, this is something I want to send you, Nate, because this is a this is an old heirloom.
It started off as a yellow pear. And this old man, it just grew wild.
He never planted a seed again after he started this bush and it just kept going and going.
And over time, it lost its pear aspect. And it's just a big, juicy, flavorful, sweet tart kind of thing.
Now, I definitely want to I gave a bunch of these out to Peter and other people.
I want to spread this around because that old man got very excited when I told him that I was spreading this around the country.
And he got even more excited when he said I was good when I told him I was doing it for free.
So I was very proud of that thing.
How's this going to go to that? I've never even heard of.
He gave me a bag of seeds after I holding that the next time I saw him.
And I've never I didn't recognize any of those names. So I'm excited to pop some of those next year.
But yeah, you're going to get a care package for me, Nate. Awesome.
Looking forward to it. What's the skin like on that Elka on that yellow pear?
That's that's always been one of my problems with yellow pear. It's a thick skin on that thing.
Is it you did happen to medium? It's thick enough not to crack, but it's not like chewing on leather, you know.
Nice. Nice. Very hardy plant to get large.
And they don't have any problems because that thing bred itself in a field for over a couple of decades.
Excellent. Yeah. One of my favorite tomatoes is ivory pear, which is not like the it's a much more substantial pear shaped tomato than the red pear and the typical yellow pear that you find.
It's got a it's got a thinner skin. It's got a yellow shoulder and then mostly it's white.
And I just love the flavor of those white, white tomatoes.
That's the most vigorous, biggest tomato plants I've ever seen have been this this white pear, ivory pear variety, which I got seeds from that in Canada many, many years ago.
This yellow one I was showing, it's I think it was marked as green molder.
And so that can show you how things either mislabel or interbreed by accident or.
But this is a sauce tomato, actually a yellow sauce tomato or pale green.
I'm dripping on my computer. But yeah, there's a.
What else do I got in there? Gosh, I might.
This one here is a this is a white zebra. So think green zebra. Right.
Or those red flames. But white, white zebra. And this is actually the first time I've run this one out.
There was a guy from Jersey stopped by my farm stand one time and handed me a whole bunch of heirloom tomatoes.
And it's it's pretty it's pretty exciting growing them.
My favorite is one by far is the I don't have any right now.
They start popping up out of my soil about now. It's about this big.
It's the yellow currant, the golden currant tomato. And they literally they top out the size of the tip of my finger.
Yeah, I used to give those away at farmers markets because people would look at all the tomatoes and they'd be wouldn't sure the shapes and the colors and ugly tomato good.
And and I would just I can't hear if you've never had an heirloom, try this.
And there's more flavor and one of those little teeny fingertip sized tomatoes than a whole.
And I was showing these the other day. This is a month old store bought. It's got to sit that long before you can get any flavor out of it.
Yeah, I had a hard freeze in my late hard freeze in my for some reason, the thermostat on my heater went out and I lost all my overwintered tomatoes.
So I had to buy some. Yeah, it happens.
I feel guilty every time I buy a zucchini because there's no there should be no reason to ever have to buy zucchini.
But sometimes bugs. Yeah. You know, I'm just I'm trying to save all of mine for seed.
So I'm or I'm not growing zucchini because I'm growing another pepper squash that year and I need to keep that one fewer.
Damn zucchini pops up everywhere. I was just out there yesterday. I was like, I guess we're good.
You know, it is so it's hard to kill around here to them.
I got zucchini and artichoke problems. I got artichokes every six feet and they just seed themselves and grow and just seed themselves and grow.
I got like I got 15 foot friggin artichokes almost literally like those stocks at least 10, 10 or 12 feet up into the air.
Like that, like nobody, no joke, you know, that's not all good.
But it's basically it's a thistle. Right.
And they just been selected somewhat for that large heart and whatever.
But there I've seen some pretty big ones on the there was one on the old farmhouse, the field I was leasing.
Same kind of thing where just, oh, massive, massive.
And then seed everywhere and it just kept going.
Yeah, it's unbelievable.
Like I've never seen them so tall, so fast.
And it's, you know, the biggest ones are never the best ones to eat.
You know, they're always the more stringy, you know, little harder, a little tougher, a little, you know, it's always those little those more delicate, you know, closer to the ground.
Always puts the better fruits.
And it's funny, like it's, it's how it goes.
Right. You know, that's a superfood, by the way, for people don't know if you don't eat artichokes, you should.
It's really and that's one.
It grows just about anywhere.
I can get them grow here in the desert, especially with a little clay.
But our founding fathers pretty much all grew them because it was such a hearty, good food that there's no reason not to have.
They're beautiful, too.
When they go to flower, it's an amazing, beautiful flower, all purple.
And then they open up and get showy flower of that featheriness when they're gone to seed.
They're a little marginal here in Jersey, having them over winter.
But we have had success overwintering cardoon, which is the wild artichoke relative that was domesticated for for the stock, the leaf stock.
It's it's really bitter if you eat it without much preparation.
But, you know, you give it a new blanching once or twice and the flavor is really good.
Dip it in batter and fry.
There's there's hardly anything better out there.
But it's funny, a lot of the a lot of the plants I've noticed that that have naturalized in the field where we grow are our desert adapted plants.
We get I've grown a lot of desert adapted plants because I like to dry farm as much as possible.
And here we get so much rain that it's it's really possible.
I haven't set up irrigation for the last three or four years.
And this year, the plants that are the plants that are coming up from what I planted in the last few years are tomatillo, desert adapted tomatillo variety.
We get I've got I've got some chia that's managed to to naturalize here.
Tarahumara heirloom chia that we planted.
That's the only one that will even flower and produce seed in this area.
Elevation desert.
Yeah.
And that's that's doing well here as well.
And then the devil's claw, which is which is like a real southwestern desert plant.
If you've never grown it, it's a beautiful, beautiful beast to have in the in the garden.
It grows incredibly fast and it's got it produces these twisted pods that that look kind of like an elf shoe.
And then the the skinny part as it dries, splits and becomes a heart shaped double barb that used to they say it evolved to latch onto the ankles of giant herbivores that used to walk through through this continent, giant sloths and things like that.
But now it's it's a domesticated plant.
Indigenous people use it for the fibers.
Those those barbs produce a black fiber that is woven into baskets and it provides a contrast with the tan yucca fiber that they also use.
And so it's it's a but those those pods can be eaten like okra when they're small and when they're ripe, they're full of these delicious seeds that taste like a cross between the sunflower seed and a pine nut.
And then the flower looks like a fox glove.
It's this big, beautiful pink flower and the enormous leaves are sticky.
It's kind of a proto carnivorous plant.
It's so sticky that little bugs will get caught on it.
And that was probably an adaptation to both prevent predation from certain insects.
And then also, I'm sure in the desert where there's limited fertility in the soil, just having a few tiny bugs on there and then having the bodies decay and wash down every time it rains.
You know, that that provides a little nutrition.
But the weird thing is, last year we had so much rain and this year it's happening again that the plants are getting enormous.
They're bigger than I've ever seen them, but they're not producing a ton of pods like when we have a dry year.
They definitely prefer it dry, but they do just fine.
We had so many volunteers this year that I dug them up and planted a whole new row.
I wasn't planning to grow it this year, but there were so many that just came up.
I I stuck them all in one row and now they're they're the biggest thing in the garden.
So you're saying you're having a hard time adapting artichoke, right?
And get it to naturalize and go perennial.
And I haven't even I haven't tried very much because because that's just been what I've been told.
I've only really tried hard here in Jersey, but I've been good.
In the last 20 years, it's been pretty hard to find an old school seed that actually.
So all the seed for artichoke was bred towards and this is all the stuff we're talking about.
It was bred toward annual production.
So the fields where they produce quite a few of these things, they just they'll chop them down, replant each year instead of.
And it was a pain in the butt to have the thing coming back up on them.
Right. And so especially like I know not all artichokes are grown in the artichoke capital of the world.
And in north central California, south of the bay and north of San Luis Obispo there, there's there's this belt actually north of.
But just south of the bay there where they anyhow, they also grow them in the desert out near the Salton Sea in the winter.
Right. And so those ones there, they'll grow different stuff at different times of the year in the same field.
So they need to plant and grow a crop. And so if you can find older seed.
To reproduce, that's exactly what this entire talk is about, is why we're losing genetic diversity.
Why are the banana all of a sudden going to go extinct because they only use one freaking variety to feed the world.
Bananas and there's 70 different types that we could actually grow commercially and that we bottleneck and kind of screw things up that way.
Yeah, it should be. You plant the artichoke and you collect artichokes every year.
There should never be. I know there's discussion about like alfalfa, even the same kind of way thing that people think that they bred out the longevity of alfalfa.
And my research shows that it's even more. And I let it grow and I collect the seed from the alfalfa.
I'm not sure the origins of my seed, but they say it's a root rot bacteria.
That's actually why it used to at best go like 12 years and now it goes two to three.
And it's more they say the bacteria you can still get an eight year run out of something if you don't have that issue.
But those are all things that that affect what plants do and why they hybridize them and produce these things that are compatible with matter.
Modern mass monoculture agriculture. Right. Versus what we're talking about with these these things that take a little more love or we can adapt them to our space.
So Nate's talking about letting things go naturalizing. And one of the great ways to try this in your location.
And I do this here in the desert. It's a lot different. Is you take a bunch of seed, you baby it maybe and do a seed expansion.
You can just toss your seed out and do it. Do a scatter toss type of thing and see what grows and then select from those ones the best ones that have either don't bolt in the heat or are able to reproduce.
And if it's super rainy for you. Right. It's kind of interesting hearing that what you're talking about, those ones and they're going huge, but not reproducing.
And a little bit of stress or the dry stress and they're reproducing the product that you're looking for in that and thinking about how things originated and how they adapt.
That's all that's really neat stuff. I grow a lot of sorghum is one of my favorite crops and it's sorghum is a grain.
It looks a lot like corn, but a lot of the varieties have sweet stock and you can press the stock and squeeze out the juice and make molasses with it.
Sorghum is wonderful. And the grain, actually, my favorite way to do the grain is to harvest them when they're still green.
And it's like a chewy kind of sweet corn, the sweet corn version of sorghum.
It's it's fantastic. But a lot of the sorghum varieties I grow, I got the seed from the government and they came from traditional farming communities in Africa and India and other places.
And a lot of the ones from Africa are people think that they're day length sensitive and that they can't get a they can't get a crop because they won't start flowering until the days are about the same length and time.
Nights and days are the same time in late September. And then it's too late to get a crop when we have a frost that sets in here by late October, early November.
But what I've noticed with a lot of these varieties is actually that they are their their signal to start flowering doesn't come from the day length at all.
It actually comes from from rain patterns because they're used to growing in parts of Africa where they had a very clear wet season, dry season.
And the farmers knew exactly when to plant it for that particular variety.
So they they planted so that it's growing and growing and growing during the rainy season.
And then as soon as the rain stop and it gets dry, that signals the plant.
OK, now it's time to flower and produce your grain. And so when we have when we have a really, you know, unusually wet August, it can throw everything off.
And we might not we might not get a seed crop from something like that.
We might still get a syrup crop, which is one of the one of the other reasons why I love growing this organ, even if it won't produce seed, I can at least get syrup from it before frost sets in.
But I'm experiencing that this year with a variety that I've grown before from Darfur in western Sudan that in previous years, the plants haven't gotten taller than six feet.
And and they've always produced grain heads pretty quickly. This year, this summer has been so wet out here.
I know that's the opposite of what what what a lot of you are dealing with.
But we this year, those plants are already eight feet tall and they haven't started flowering yet.
So I'm not sure if I'm going to end up getting a seed crop out of that variety, although it's early yet.
I'm keeping my fingers crossed. And we often get a pretty late frost here in South Jersey.
We're zone seven and tempered by the Delaware Bay. We have a we have a pretty nice climate here.
There's a sogrum in my chicken scratch that I feed my birds and they miss some of it.
And so it pops up all over the yard here. It doesn't get past mid thigh.
It's a short grower. Those are the that would be descended from the the commercially grown tractor,
you know, combine harvested dwarf varieties that were bred primarily as animal feed.
But the ones in Africa, you know, some of those grow 12 feet tall. Those those are bred for consumption.
I need to get some of that into the yard so I can feed the chickens the good stuff and get some of that syrup out of there.
Now, I was looking at it just going, how do you get how do you get sugar out of this?
I don't understand the grain. Ain't going to do it. The stock is way too small for press.
And that makes it. Thank you for. I love learning. Nice.
We have some videos. With that, Elka. I'm asking Nate, does he have one of those sorghum cranks with the two cylinders and the crank on the end of it with the gears?
You got a little thing. I have a I have a eighteen hundreds Kentucky cane mill from from Louisville, Kentucky.
And it has a 15 foot long bow of Osage orange wood, the hardest native wood on this continent.
And it was it was a horse driven one. So a horse would walk in a circle around this machine.
And then it's got three big steel rollers in the middle.
You feed the sorghum cane in one end and it comes out crushed on the other end and squeezes the juice right out.
I saw a video of this the other day. Is it you have one that's titled Everyone Gets to be the Mule Perchance?
Yeah, we don't have a horse. So we we we send people around it in a circle.
Although when I'm when I'm doing it without a lot of volunteers, we use a riding mower and run it right around the circle.
You know, it's maybe not the environmentally conscious way, but it's it's what we got.
Yeah, it looks just like that. And yeah, we've we've had some big gatherings where people come out and do it.
Last year I drove the thing to Maryland. We had a sorghum festival down in Maryland.
And this year, my friend down there has his own. So hopefully I won't have to bring mine down there.
It's a it's a heavy, heavy machine. And I don't like driving it around on the trailer.
That's a whole nother aspect of this concept of getting into old heirlooms and stuff is you start getting into antique and hand driven farm equipment.
That's that's so cool. And I actually like I get so spread so thin.
One of the things I've had vision on is getting someone to start producing some of the old farm equipment again for small producers or modern adaptations of the like the all crop.
The the the tractor that was all totally adaptable and you had like 20 variations of the screen capacity on your combine. Right.
And that does know the one guy with his 40 acres and he could process all his stuff himself and small hand driven tools and horse driven tools.
All that stuff is really neat technology. And we've lost so much just understanding of how mechanics work.
That's a seed way. And I don't even use it anymore because I got into all plugs.
That's that's a bitching little antique seeder. This is my favorite. Yeah, this is my favorite tool.
It works. Got a class hopper. This is a Planet Junior. It's ground driven.
So you turn the wheel and it clicks and drops the seed in a very even spacing.
And it's a it's a really sweet old machine that I found for thirty five dollars at an auction in Maryland.
But, you know, it's probably people who know what they're looking for.
We'll pay ten times that for a machine like that. Right.
They just don't make them like that anymore. Now they have these crappy aluminum and plastic things that are in the works.
But like the the seed plate. Is this what you were talking about, Alex?
Yeah. I have my farm. I don't know if you're like I didn't even mention this.
So I haven't been on Facebook much lately, but I have a page on there from my farm days.
It's Sadie's Pride, Senegro and Senegro. I'm dyslexic. It's organic spelled backwards.
So I had an hour. One of those all crops came out and helped me harvest my main wheat crop.
That's pretty fun. I use the scythe and my hand hand winnowed a full acre, actually,
and totally understand what it takes to produce a loaf of bread. Hand grinding that.
You can see my I got I got a hand mill out there and I in the background.
I've run through a couple of different hand mills, but I use that now for for mending my soil mixes and stuff.
Grinding up beans primarily. The heavy breads are kind of heavy. I buy cheap flour.
But, you know, yeah, the paper tape stuff's kind of neat, but it's also everyone I see here, you say you got to work it.
And so there's this payoffs with all that stuff in the small.
Nate, do you see that question?
I've never heard of this Walter de Miliano. I got to get in touch.
I've got a big wheel plow that I push around, kind of like kind of like pushing the when I got to till my soil or soften the surface.
I try and do no till, but having that old push plow is kind of nice.
And actually, when my my tractor blew its header on my five acres last year, I had it.
And so I literally had to hand plow the field and one acre of.
Who is it? One acre of 40,000 head of garlic.
I estimate I'd push the plow 10 miles just to plant it.
Oh, yeah.
It looks like this is him.
Interesting.
Yeah, that looks like it's going to be helpful for you, Nate.
Yeah, for sure. He's up there.
Yeah, we're playing around with my friend Chris O'Mannix out in Washington state, who's an awesome plant breeder.
He's the guy who bred the perennial kale that we sell.
He's growing out sorghum that we got from the USDA that comes from somewhere in the former Soviet Union and is the shortest, shortest season sorghum that we've grown in Jersey.
So we're excited about that possibility of getting that out there and then seeing what kind of improvements can be done.
If we can cross it with some of these African varieties and get higher yield and and more uniformity when it comes to seasonality.
What is your zone there?
We're zone seven here.
We're like 30 years ago, we were zone 6A and now we're 7A.
Yeah, kind of nuts.
Same here.
We get crazy hard freezes and stuff.
My walnuts all went to, they got hard froze early in the autumn and might even been still summer technically.
And so like all of the arms of my finely pruned walnut trees all died off and then it came out and bushed out of the core.
That's amazing.
It's tough because that affects all sorts of stuff, not just my backyard, but like the whole mountainside.
There's red leaves hanging on the oak trees and maples and things like that.
A lot of the wildflowers weren't able to reproduce.
That's other stuff I'll go out and collect in.
Like you said, there's different concepts as to what landrace is.
It's basically the early progeny of modern breeding is the simplest way of putting it.
And I include wild stuff in that.
I collect wildflowers and cactuses.
I've got quite a cactus collection.
Most of them got to survive, but I do bring stuff in.
I keep citrus and things like that.
And the house gets pretty crowded in the winter, full of plants.
Cactus are fun.
And one you showed is beautiful, Spinel.
Burbank was the master.
He started out with a potato that went to seed.
He took those seeds and sold those seeds and got enough money from that to, I believe, buy his next project and move west.
He just went after it.
The man would talk to his plants, ask them to produce offspring or transition their own status.
That's how he produced the first spineless cactus.
Literally, he was talking to the mother that he believed would be the one.
And he'd go out and talk to it every day and ask it to produce some spineless.
Plants are pretty awesome.
But if we just totally separate ourselves from it and just go into the grocery store and buy that perfect zucchini every time, it supports your local farmers.
And one way you can tell, look at their hands.
You go to a farmer's market, if their hands are clean and not calloused, and you can tell it's not just somebody that hired to sell their beautiful produce, go to the next booth and support someone who's not bringing stuff in from a commercial farm.
Look for these beautiful flavors.
The flavor intensity is just like the same as a dry farm.
And if you can dry farm these heirlooms, it just takes it to a whole other freaking level of nutritional.
Anyone who grows food and walks into their garden knows exactly what I'm about to say.
You can pick food and eat it or produce a meal from your garden.
And you experience what I call the life force.
And you literally, your body zings.
I don't know how else to put it.
And you cook a meal fresh from the garden where you saute lightly some vegetables or eating a lot of rawness out of there.
That life force is immediate.
You're literally eating living plants and having these heirlooms that haven't been bred.
I talk about this for cannabis as well.
And I talk about it for my studies of forestry breeding.
This stuff is bred specifically to produce these, whatever trade it is they're going for, whether it's uniformity, whether it's color.
But rarely is it the actual flavor that they're looking for.
It's disease resistance and it's ease of harvesting.
And so we've lost so much of this potential for nutrition.
And people complain about it.
It's like, well, if you grow side by side and there's no benefit from organic.
And it's like, well, that's in these trials in these perfect settings.
And these perfect settings aren't necessarily perfect organic settings.
They're not getting the stresses.
Nate was saying how that one plant would do way better when it's dry for producing food and doesn't produce food when it's wet.
And that's not something you're ever going to get as a commercial species adapted or hybrid in a university for disease resistance or anything because it's not going to work.
You can't go to the bank and say, I'm going to water this crop and get my return.
Right. And so it really comes down to that bank homogenization.
These farmers can't get a loan, which means they can't get the subsidy, which is the only way they can profit if they're actually growing in organic heirloom anywhere on their freaking property.
The contract goes null and void.
OK, so it's kind of crazy how the system is set up.
And then that food that we're conditioned to eating is a little bit lower nutritional value.
And 50 years ago, everybody had a garden and they fed and they canned and ate.
The 50, 60 years ago is when the grocery store showed up. Right.
That's also kind of when cancer started going rampant and everybody has it now because we don't have this food in our yard that's adapted to our locality.
That is easy to produce meat disease and bug resistant to the local environment.
So there's real reasons why you should be if you grow cannabis.
Also, you should be growing vegetables and learning what's in your neighborhood.
And this is this food is medicine. This stuff is there's so many levels to why we're passionate about this kind of stuff.
And moving forward as climate change occurs and stuff like said, it's it used to be a six year.
Now it's a seven. That's that's just the reality of it.
And when I showed up for started producing carrots and tomatoes in the spring and the local vendors couldn't even deal with it, they're like, well, the cost of producing that we can't commensurate with what we're bringing in.
But now we have winners farmers market here. Right.
And so when you go out and you'd be an activist and you can really help change that changed with the restaurants are using.
And now there's restaurants that seek out all local.
That's a pretty cool thing, too, if you're in the income bracket, we can support those chefs who are supporting the local farmers.
Right. Producing these heirlooms and lost ancient grains and all that stuff.
The more you the more you can support it, the more it's going to happen. Right.
It's just there's people who are willing to pay me nine dollars a pound for my dry farm and shucked black beans.
You know, that's when you can pay 50 cents a pound for the store, for the commercially produced varieties.
I was getting a dollar a dollar an ear for my corn. Right.
So there's there's people who will happily pay for this stuff.
Not everyone can afford it. And those people, people we had, we had we had food stamp, food chips, wood coins.
And somebody came and brought my tax dollars back to me.
I actually I knew that they were the person that needed this access the most.
And I always gave 10 to 20 percent on additional in their bag after I got those wooden coins.
And they came back and they would spend their money with me, too.
It's a but one thing I did hear a lot that really sucked was, Alex, you have the best produce I've ever eaten in my life.
It's also the most expensive produce. Why is it so much more than Wal-Mart?
Right. Getting up at five in the morning to go pick tomatoes to bring to market.
Amongst other things, but, you know, that Wal-Mart stuff, it literally freaking you get it home and three days later it's rotting.
Right. Because it's been pumped from even their organic stuff.
They like fruit. That's one of my nitpick things in the world.
Like I know lots of lots of big time, you know, fruit producers and things.
And they grow like nectarines, for example. They grow their their their their singular nectarine crop that gets uniform color.
And as soon as it gets the color on it, all of a uniform, they send they send the trucks and the crews out to pick it.
And it's rock hard still. Still has a freaking month left to go on the tree before you get any of that sugar developments.
And they take that stuff, they freeze it, they ship it, sits on the shelf.
You know, you buy you even buy it at Wal-Mart or wherever.
And it was never good from the start. And you never had never had a freaking chance.
You know what I mean? So that's the program.
And but I always tell my kids, you know, we'll go pick out some pick some fruit off the tree or tomatoes.
And we'll be eating something right out of the garden. You know what I mean?
I'll be like, you hear that? And everybody's like, well, it's screaming right now.
It's freaking screaming right now. Doesn't know it's dead.
You swallow it. It doesn't know it's dead yet. You're eating life.
The life force. That's the best thing in the world. You know, when it's screaming at you.
Yeah, it's really it's it's amazing.
So like lettuce can lose 80 percent of its nutritional value in 48 hours from the time it's harvested.
And most most markets there, they're boom. That stuff's out of the field.
It goes it's washed pre-dawn. And by the next day, it's halfway across the country in a market.
Right. It goes through the the the Skid Row area of Los Angeles through the produce market.
Like the entire state rolls through there. And there's guys like this corporate dude I mentioned earlier who are buyers.
And they're there and they've got this all arranged. They know who's the producers and it's that stuff happens.
Right. And but and they're still even for a local small producer, they need it to be conform in enough quantity for their consumers.
That's you can show up with those guys with an amazing product that you have that's uniform for them.
It's different. A lot of those guys are going to that's a that's a money market for for an innovative young person who has a green thumb.
You know, there's all sorts of options. Micro greens is a huge one.
If you don't even have you don't have space to do this and you want good, fresh, nutritional value, a micro greens garden.
And you can use heirloom seeds, support an heirloom seed producer for your micro greens.
You're going to get a slightly different thing. And that that ends up you can have a huge business in a very small space just running micro greens and doing an aspect of what we're discussing here.
You don't have to have. I got a third acre. I got 18 fruit and nut trees, extremely green thumb and I'm OCD, ADD.
So I just nonstop probably more than my body can handle anymore.
Keeping everything clean, proper and et cetera. But yeah, that's definitely it should be in your backyard.
You should be growing heirlooms. You should be living life better than the grocery store produce.
What's what's one of your favorite things to to grow hands down, like your favorite plant, easiest plant out of the seed stock that you keep on the shelf?
Like what is what's your favorite?
Oh, for me, well, sorghum is right up there on high on the list.
I mean, it's drought tolerant. It needs it needs something like a sixth or seventh of the water that corn needs more protein.
It's it's delicious, super easy to grow. But there's a squash that's really probably my my favorite thing.
It's something I've been growing for the longest. It's a it's called the Nanticoke squash.
And it's a it's a heirloom from the indigenous people who live here in South Jersey and in southern Delaware and eastern shore of Maryland.
The Nanticoke people, you know, we're not breeding for uniformity.
So you plant a seed of this squash and you have no idea what it's going to look like.
It's everything sort of a variation on the theme. We know in general what it's going to look like.
But, you know, there there's the diversity of thank you. Good. Good timing there, Peter.
That that's the that's the Nanticoke squash. That's what the population looks like.
And every year we plant it, we see we see different ones come out.
So it's you know, that it's it's such a surprise. And it's a Maxima squash.
And in the southeast, a lot of people say, oh, we can't grow Maxima's here because of the squash vine borer.
This bug that that, you know, digs into the it lays an egg in the base of the squash and then the grub eats its way through the vine.
And it destroys most varieties of squash.
But because this one has, you know, hundreds of years of growing in this area with that squash vine borer, it's adapted to it.
So we you know, we'll see the vine borer in the plant, but it doesn't kill the plant.
It can sometimes bore all the way up the vine and then get lodged in the end of it at the top of a developing fruit.
And, you know, it can't it can't eat very far into the hard flesh of a winter squash.
So it'll just get stuck in the top and you can kill the bug there and the squash will heal over that wound and it'll still ripen, still produce seeds, still produce food for you.
And I've had some of those squash keep for 18 months on the on a kitchen counter.
No refrigeration, just 18 months long.
You know, I'm pretty sure that that is that that squash or that population or one similar to it is what what led to all of the heirloom Maxima squash that exists around the world because they you know, that's a it was actually a South American species.
It was probably.
So, oh, no.
But so we were saying was brought up here for this area and that.
Oh, sorry.
So, yeah, the last part again.
Yeah, so so these you know, these squash originally probably came from South America.
That's where the Maxima species was was domesticated in what's now probably Argentina.
And then they were grown here and adapted to here.
And then with the Chesapeake Bay and the Delaware Bay being centers for global trade in the 16, 1700s and these things, you know, having the ability to keep for a year or two unrefrigerated, they probably traveled around the world and and then became, you know, somebody saw what got one of these off of a boat in a port in Africa or in the Middle East or in New York.
And then that became you know, that was adapted in Australia to became a became a local heirloom.
So you see a squash like the Queensland blue from Australia or the red curry squash from Japan, Hokkaido squash, the Turks, turban squash, which is a French variety.
All of these things, you know, we see the ones that that come out of the.
I was just about to say that this one's eight months.
This has been sitting in my garage for eight months.
There you go.
And it's funny, actually, the Nanticoke after growing this Nanticoke squash for for about 12 years, I've noticed a lot of patterns that do crop up.
And the red ones are one of the are usually the ones that that start rotting first.
So somebody probably said, oh, I really like these red ones, but they don't keep very long.
So they set about adapting it and and ended up with this uniform inbred strain that became an heirloom variety that we all think of as, you know, this is a Japanese variety, but it has roots in the Americas.
And, you know, we there's people who right now who are doing genetic studies to try and unravel the family tree of this of this squash.
And so I just I love growing that one.
And last year, for the first time, I was actually reached out to by somebody from the Nanticoke people who lives just a half an hour from where I am here in South Jersey.
And they said they had they didn't know that squash existed.
They found out about it in a book and then Googled the variety.
And we were the only people selling the seeds.
And we happen to be half an hour down the road.
So I was able to rematriate the seed to to the Nanticoke people and and they're they're growing it now in and some of their tribal lands here in South Jersey.
We did decide to find some of the lost corn for the people and some of the other tribes here in Utah.
And it's it's gone. You can't we can't resuscitate it unless we find some cash buried someplace in a rock cairn or something like that.
Definitely what you're talking about there with that squash for.
That's something I'm going to add to my teaching repertoire.
When I teach the main story I tell is how the Monterey pine was inbred for production and ended up having no disease resistance.
But that the story of the vine borer is freaking amazing because, yeah, every single squash that we grow in our garden is susceptible to these bugs.
And it's hell. I've been literally hand battling squash bug this year.
And it's thought I had them done. And talking to some other gardeners, too, they said they never went away for them.
But they just don't have the resistance once they've been bred towards that uniform fruit production.
And that's that's a really cool story. Thanks for asking the question that brought that one.
We that that squash that when we grew it the first year we were hand pollinating.
We wanted to grow a lot of squash. This is back in 2014.
And we grew this we grew this Bolivian heirloom as well called Yemi from the Ese Asia people who grow it in sandbars in the Amazon in the Bolivian Amazon.
Like sandbars in rivers. That's where they grow their squash.
And we only ended up getting one plant to produce in Jersey.
And we kind of had lost track of it in the weeds already and didn't even notice there was a fruit there until until everything started dying.
And we said, oh, we got we actually got one of these. And it had been open pollinated.
We hadn't managed to you know, we hadn't hand pollinated that flower.
So we figured it was probably crossed up.
And I didn't do anything with the seeds until last year when I decided to grow it out and just see if maybe it had stayed pure.
And we and we had this Bolivian variety. But what we ended up getting were completely different from the parent plant.
But it was totally uniform. And it was very clear to me that this was a cross between Nanticoke,
which was the one we'd been growing the most of that year. And this Yemi squash.
It was they were all pink with a light pink stripe on it.
And so we offered those seeds for sale because we produced a lot of seeds.
So we have this weird F2 from a random cross going. And I figured I should I had to grow it if we're selling it.
I should grow it out myself. And already the diversity that it's displaying in this generation is is just unbelievable.
And it's also seems to be to have gotten the vine borer resistance from the plant.
So we're you know, we're going to we may be able to select some new varieties from that that have have this vine borer resistance and from the Nanticoke parent and have a whole new range of of maximas that have potential for production here in the southeast and other any place where vine borer is a big problem.
I'm excited. I'm going to grab some of those and just see what happens here in the desert and squash.
I know like I'm the only organic farm here. The next next organic micro farm or garden I know of is a friend of mine that's about four miles from me.
There are probably some others around. But the people right next door to me, 100 percent burpee bought plants into store bought soil.
And then when the bug showed up, they started spraying and that but they so overgrew the yard that like I'm like, hey, you guys checking up on your squash bugs and like, oh, we can't even get in through our squash vines because it all just exploded.
So, you know, so it's pretty tough to to deal with that stuff without breeding from resistance. And, you know, you started talking. I was like, man, people really need to start making these hybrids and seeing what happens.
It's like, oh, you've already done it. Just grab some of those F2s he's got and throw them out and see what works in your your area really is.
That's so much what I do with the my my breeding of cannabis, too, is taking these land races and back crossing inbred modern stock to get that resistance stem strength.
Stem strength is a huge one I breed for with cannabis. But it's all that. One of the reasons we're doing this show is because it's so intertwined.
And the more you know about all of it, the more you know about whatever it is that you're doing. And you can see these different aspects. You can see these different results.
You see, hey, it works with this works with that. It's going to work here, too. It's just a bunch of plants. Right. And there's a lot of stuff you can there's stuff that doesn't crossover.
There's a lot of stuff that really does. And so, yeah, it's good. Again, everyone should be growing a victory garden. You should be growing your own anti-cancer garden.
You should be if you are in the medical field, you should be this stuff here that all these heirlooms, they are anti-cancer.
You don't it's like if you've got patients, you've got friends that are fighting. This is all part of the program is having these gardens producing the real good food or knowing a local farmer that produces this stuff.
The colors in the plants, that stuff is cancer killing. Right. Straight up. The purples, the reds, all these different colors. Yeah, that stuff.
The high acids. There's definitely there's there's aspects you don't there's certain things you don't want too much salinia, depending on what you're dealing with.
As far as medicine goes, too much potatoes, tomatoes and peppers can be bad, but the right amount of everything is great. And ugly tomato good. The intense flavor and smell.
Oh, that's a big dandy one right there. This is really good for a live tomato.
I can smell it. It's like my mouth, the back of my mouth. They have this intense musky smell to them that you're never going to get that out of the store bought tomato.
They just even even the heirlooms that you can get in a commercial store. They're grown in a greenhouse in Mexico or picked early and sent and gas just like everything else. Unfortunately, you know, it's very rare that they're going to have a local producer because they can't have that consistency that they want to have the exact same product year round.
The reason I started showing those dark tomatoes is because of that. That color has all those antioxidants in it. And that's why a lot of us potheads look young is because so does we. It has has all those antioxidants in the trichome and all of that. It's same with these tomatoes.
So you can see we have gray hair, but we still have nice looking skin and stuff like that. So it's how we live. So what Hardy was saying is absolutely correct. You see somebody that's eating store bought food and processed meat all the time. It looks like their skin's falling off of them. It's a strange thing.
Well, what what's funny is for, you know, one of the things I'm focused on, like Gemma, my Nate doesn't know who Gemma is, but she's my six year old daughter. So she every time she eats anything that has seeds in it, she'll she'll this like she ate grapes at her mom's house and that says grape.
And then I think she spelled S.E.D.S.S. for seeds. But like she wants to pop everything. And I try to explain to her. Yeah, you got let's see that.
Say same same method. Yeah. But what I was going to say is I try to explain to her is like. Only the best of what you eat, like if you eat something that's delicious because, you know, she always gets the store bought stuff with her mom. So I'm I feel bad being like that's not worth it. So I try to come at it from a different approach.
But I guess like I source a lot of stuff from like the local farmers market where like if I eat something that's amazing, all, you know, root the basil or or get keep the seeds from the the cucumber or whatever it is.
And but for me, the big thing is what you guys all do is is it's. Propagating stuff that's not the mainstream and stuff that has whether it's flavor or, you know, just attributes that aren't kind of the you know, it's like Nate, we talk about weed all the time.
It's like the checkboxes of what sells in a commercial dispensary versus what Elka likes to grow at home. That stuff would never sell on the commercial dispensary, but he he keeps it going. And Alex keeps stuff going. And so I don't know if I had a point there, but.
Yeah, it's stuff that we need to be doing. There's there's and it's not something everyone's going to do. There's there's there's a definitely a mentality of creation protectionism that you really got to have a passion for, I think, and really whatever you think the creation how it happened, if you believe it was magically done in six days, or if you understand it took billions of years from the beginning to the end and the thoughts that go into it.
All of that. It's way bigger than our greed and lust for ease and simplicity in our life. Right. And it's when you have the knowledge and understanding, you end up having the responsibility with great, you know, the knowledge and power, the power and responsibility. We have it in our power. Therefore, it is our responsibility to maintain the diversity.
Gosh, I just seen a thing of Frenchy going off. Diversity is good. Diversity is life. Right. And so without the diversity, something the weather changes and these things aren't going to be able to keep producing the the the Earth's temperature has raised a couple of degrees. And the commercial banana now has a virus in it that they're dying globally. Right. And all of a sudden, you're not gonna be able to afford a fucking banana. Okay.
There's plenty of micro bananas people be growing in their backyards in Southern California. They actually do. I've never gotten a banana heart here.
You guys need bananas. Let me know when it all goes down. I got you covered.
Definitely when we meet up next week, bring me some banana seeds.
It's a heart.
It's a heart. So it's a
I'll bring you some pups. I don't have any seeds. I got some pups. I stopped them from seeding because when bananas set their flower stock, they set their bananas. You know, they're very mathematical. They're cool just to run on a side.
They set their fruit and at the end, you'll have your banana flower. And as that opens, it'll stop producing bananas, but it'll keep opening and running the cycle. And at that point, it's getting pollinated and really sending energy back into the seeds of the banana itself.
So if you cut that flower off before after the bananas have set and as they're before, you know, at right when they start to form really good and they stopped forming, you cut the end of that banana flower off and then it will stop. Stop that seeding process.
So you get less seeds in the center. You won't have so much blackness or toughness. Some most bananas have really tougher seeds and you'd notice some, you know, that they spread out a lot of the seeds in modern bananas.
But by cutting the flower, you stop it from putting nasty seeds in and you make higher quality bananas and in some varieties. So I don't have seeds, but I have pups and I'll bring you some.
You can teach me how to grow bananas. I've never grown before. But Nate, Nate, I'm conscious that you have a these are sometimes marathons and you didn't really know what you're getting yourself into.
But my my last question for you is, you know, we talk a lot about you've sort of hit on stuff that comes from other places. And I know you spent a lot of time in Africa. Can you talk about some crops that you find interesting that you brought over to the US that you'd love for people to explore?
Yeah, and actually I've actually never been to Africa, but we've grown a lot of seeds we've gotten from the government. I've done the activist work around African issues, but we right now we have a relationship with the Palestine Heirloom Seed Library.
So we've got these really interesting heirlooms that that come from from the Middle East that are seem to do really well in southern New Jersey. And they're there. You know, they were bred for a really extreme climate. So they they seem to thrive here. They really like what whatever we're doing.
We have actually there's one one behind me. This is a this is a gourd called a Yaktin gourd that is a really beloved Palestinian heirloom. It's an edible gourd. People eat it when it's small. And we expect to be offering seeds from for that next year. Also, a Palestinian melon that is treated like a cucumber. It's called Fakus.
And it's I don't really like cucumbers very much, but I really like this when it's when it's small and underripe. I'll probably be posting pictures of that on Instagram soon. And then we have that's Experimental Farm Network if you want to follow us. There's a watermelon as well. Jadui watermelon. It's called that's that's a really beloved Palestinian heirloom that was on the verge of extinction when Vivian Sansor, the the.
The founder of the Palestine heirloom seed library found it in a farmer's drawer, like with a bunch of screws on a farm in like a workshop. And she'd been looking for it for years.
And people said, hey, this is this is a dinosaur. You're not going to find it anywhere. And then she she found it and has resurrected it. So we're really excited about that one.
But, you know, the other as as much as I love the the stuff that comes from around the world, you know, you never know what you're going to find growing right in your backyard. When when Dusty and I first got to this farm here in South Jersey, we're farming on the farm that's owned by a couple named the Dietrichs.
And we were living out on the farm in my ex's RV and in a tent and, you know, cooking everything on a on a two burner Coleman stove with propane. And and the Dietrichs said, hey, you should be eating this. Have you have you found the wild broccoli rob growing yet?
And we said, wild broccoli, I've never heard it, never heard of such a thing. And they they said, oh, yeah, well, it grows down by the edge of the hedgerow. There's a patch and there's another patch over here in the hayfield.
And so we we started looking for this wild broccoli rob and it became our staple food that spring. It's one of the earliest earliest crops that's that comes out. And the more we've we've grown and started doing some selection, we've realized that it's a it's a really special plant that most people just think of as a weed in this area.
It's it was a probably a feral leaf turnip, like an Italian leaf turnip, like seven top one of these varieties that went wild in South Jersey maybe 100 years ago, probably from local Italian-American farmers.
And and now it can survive whatever winter throws at it. It's a biennial, so it produces delicious turnip greens all year from late spring when it when the seedlings sprout all the way through the fall.
If we have a mild winter, we can eat the leaves all through the winter. Sometimes if we have a deep freeze, I'll go out there and just pick up pick broken, frozen leaves, break them right off the plant and eat them through the winter. And they're delicious. And then starting as early as March, sometimes when there's still snow on the ground or it's still cold enough to snow, these things start sending up their flower spikes.
So it's the first green vegetable that we eat in the spring. It comes out a month before the asparagus and the rhubarb start popping. It's just it's this beautiful, wonderful hunger gap. And it's become one of our one of our signature seeds. People love it. And they've had success growing it in Alaska and all over the place.
It's something born out of the fields here in in southern New Jersey. And you never know what kind of what kind of things are out there and what wild plants maybe could still be domesticated if somebody put some time and energy into it or plants that have gone feral like this one and could potentially come back into cultivation.
So that's the yeah, I urge people to get out there and just see what's growing in your area. Things that are growing wild. If you bring them into the if you bring them into the field or into the garden, you never know what they're going to do for you. And that's that's how that's how every plant that we eat right now started its life probably.
Well, I know like Tyler, for example, here in SoCal, there's a lot of wild fennel.
Yeah, there's a there's like I have a wild purslane that I use for all my ferments and purslane.
Yeah, I think that's what that's what is underneath all of my corn, all of my everything that gets water like in in my like, you know, planted area.
This is another stupid food. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, all in the bottom.
I first started observing it in my field in the clay and I started realizing like the moist the most moisture in my field was always right before I started growing it. And I realized like, oh, I'm going to have to do something about it.
And I started that that was my first understanding of how we can inter crop and cover crop. And I've always been a French farmer. And I've always been a French farmer. And I've always been a French farmer.
And I started that that was my first understanding of how we can inter crop and cover crop. And I've always been a French intensive. So when you start doing more production, things get spread out and stuff. And that purslane made massive differences.
And when you learn how nutritional that is, and it's a deep accumulator and stuff, it should it should be in every cannabis and food garden. It's delicious. The leaves can actually usually see it in their teeny right. And but they can get they can get like an inch long and a half inch wide.
We started selling seeds this year for a broadleaf purslane that Chris O'Manix has been been breeding. And it's a really, really cool, cool plant. I have it growing out of my sidewalk here and I eat all the time.
Yeah, yeah, no, I've collected the seed and I've been looking for it all year. I can't find my little, they're little micro seeds and I folded it into a piece of paper somewhere. But there's more growing.
Yeah, there's some cool upright varieties, less prostrate than the ones we have that come from from the Middle East and Afghanistan. And we played around with the government has purslane seeds in the seed bank there. You know, even though most people think of it as a weed, somebody in the USDA will recognize. Oh, that's a nice one.
Yeah, these are these are small. These are the this is one that's just a random pot out of my soil pile. I always get random weeds like this popping through. But this is a small one. These leaves get huge. These purslane is nuts. So yeah, little water goes a long way.
How about random question Tyler, how about spurge?
Spurge, definitely. We have, you know, canyons. There's I don't know, I kill a lot of the spurge and the stuff that comes up here. So I don't I don't let it seed or do anything here. But in all the canyons, there's another I can't think of the name, but there's this wild grass that hang on a second.
I've got it. We got a spurge here that's gone feral that's considered a toxic weed. That like actually, you got to wear gloves when you pull it is the staple blinds you if you get it in your eyes. But yeah, it was it was a it was a landscaping plant that they
did somehow escapes. And yeah, so we hear it, but there's definitely there's different kinds of spurge.
Sorry, kids were getting up causing a ruckus there for a second. I had to go.
I thought you were getting more show and sell items.
No, no, no, no. I had to I had to jump in the middle and stop the stop the fight before it got got real. So yeah.
Being dead.
Oh, yeah. It's time to, you know, it's time. That's breakfast time. You know, central everybody's.
My free time is over.
I am going to have to run. Unfortunately, I got to I got to hit the road. I'm driving up to upstate New York to hang out with my cousin for the weekend, but got to pick her up at the airport on the way. So I appreciate.
Thank you.
We got to got to stay in touch. And anybody out there who wants to find our feed, you can find him at EFN seeds.com.
Yeah, link is in the bio and on the experimental farm network on Instagram. And yeah, well, we are new catalog usually dropped in early January and we will have we still have a lot of stuff in stock that we that we launched this this year, including the monkey puzzle tree there.
One of my favorite, favorite long lived perennials and.
I'm happy to have happy to have have this conversation with all you.
Excellent. I will definitely be in touch. I'm glad to Peter through this one together. I have a couple of seeds that variety of my corn needs a distribution point.
Sweet.
As well as a few other things here. Yeah, we always a lot of corn. Everybody. There's not enough good organic corn seed out there. So everybody wants it.
I'll get you as a bunch of my corn. I got I've been breeding rainbow popcorn for the last four generations here on my farm. So popping corn rainbow style. So it's out there, but nobody has it. It's weird. So.
Nice. I developed a multicolored sweet blue corn that is based on Hopi, Navajo and Eastern called the Warriors path and then bred in Mandan red and the walking green. And so it's literally the colors of the morning sky and water.
I call it a blue corn woman sweet blue corn woman.
You should check out our essay there on the on the walk in green that it's probably not really from Oaxaca. That's, that's the big secret about it. It's actually was bred by a guy in Minnesota named Ernest Strew.
I had a hard time keeping it in the field is there's a high Latino population in the area where my farm field was and it wasn't wasn't protected.
And yeah, that stuff would disappear whenever there was a wedding. They'd come in and just help themselves because it's it's a delicious corn and makes the best tamales for wedding parties and stuff. So they never saw me to ask or whatever. I don't know. But that's a good corn. You want to grow good corn.
Cool. Cool. All right.
We'll let you go. Anyone else who can stick around? I think you have a little tour that we're gonna do a little update. Yes, sir. Cool. All right. See you later.
See you. Very nice.
Yeah, I'm gonna roll man, but I'm gonna watch you guys on the road. So I'm gonna be watching watching tour.
Hey, I have a question for you real quick. Can you answer a question for me before you go on?
We're looking to expand a little bit and plant an orchard. And right now I just have apples and I've had so much problems out of these things and I planted them very carefully and dumped a bunch of stuff in a three foot cube hole and all of this.
And I have rust issues with it. And I'm wondering if there's anything that I can do besides me. And just because the only thing that I can do right now is just me all the time. And I hate that stuff and expensive. I'm allergic to it. And it's a big problem for me. So if you could bail me out, I would be very happy.
So your, your rust, your rust issues. I mean, neem during the summer months is hard to use anyway, any oils is going to be tough on your plant in the summer months if you're if you get heat. So I always try to discourage the summer use of neem or any of those oils as much as possible unless you got, you know, a shady place or you know, whatnot.
But like there's different things like there's biological things like like serenades, there's sulfur, you can use sulfur would be would be awesome. It's cheap. You know, it's the top of the you know, it's organic, get some some micronized sulfur and use a little bit of sulfur on there. You can, rust is going to happen a lot of the time, like make sure you have good mulch situation underneath your trees.
You don't have them bare ground under there and make sure your trees are buried too deeply because if you got, you know, if the trunk of your tree hits the ground, and the root crown is right there at the surface of the soil. That's what you're that's what you're looking to see. You don't want to dig next to the trunk of the tree through a bunch of soil before you hit the main root hand or the root crown.
Those that type of stuff causes the fire blights and the and the rust and the stress that causes in those those those issues. So make sure that you know it's it's not it's not buried too deep or getting choked out on the on the on the ground level. But you can use a sulfur you can use.
There's there's stuff that I like that's called organicide. It is an oil, but it's it's less.
It's less sticky than your neem oil. It's not it doesn't heat up as much. It's like sesame oil and fish oil and lecithin. It stinks a little bit but it works really, really good on on the rust and the powdery mildew and and some of them scale.
But if it was me, I would probably just use some sulfur and be done with it.
Is this what we're talking about?
Yep.
Yep.
This winter, this winter when it goes dormant, make sure it's properly pruned. And then when when you prune it, make sure you spray it with you can use a copper fungicide. Copper is great.
You got like a there's an organic copper. So if you have access to like a, you know, like a chain garden center or something like that, they usually have some sort of organic copper soap.
It's called copper soap. And it's it works just fine. It's not not extremely harmful to use. And it works really good on rust and a bunch of other things as well.
But this winter when it goes dormant, make sure it gets pruned and make sure it gets sprayed with like a copper or something like that.
After the pruning so that you get you get those wounds, the blood, you know, you get it sealed off, get some of that stuff on the in the bloodstream of the tree.
A lot of people like peach leaf curl. If you if you do like a three part spray system as soon as it starts to lose its leaves for the wintertime.
And actually, you can like knock the tree a little bit and leaves are actively falling.
The diseases and fungus and everything else is trying to shut down and overwinter as well. It's also most susceptible at that point.
So if you spray then at leaf drop, you can usually kick butt and take names on on some of those things that are that are a little groggy and a little susceptible.
And then during your winter pruning period, you prune and then you spray again to get it into the bloodstream of the tree itself kind of and sterilize it.
You make sure you do it all at that point and then at bud swell.
So as soon as the buds start to push and the flowers are getting ready to open up, the whatever's left over and with peach leaf curls and other little fungus and stuff, it's trying to overwinter.
They're groggy and they're at their weakest point still. Yet again, they're not at full capacity.
They're just trying to reactivate. And that's the time you can knock it out.
If you've done those other previous sprays, you can usually knock out fire blight pretty good and you can knock out peach leaf curl pretty good.
You can knock out some rust and some other fungus pretty good.
If you if you do like a fall, winter and early spring treatment on it.
But this time of year, I'd probably get some organic copper soap and like, you know, a ready to use bottle or get a you can get a concentrate or whatever, depending on how many trees you got.
But or a sulfur and then be done with it because you don't deal with an oil or anything.
So it'd be, you know, organic copper soap or sulfur.
And then this winter or this fall, start knocking it down, going to war on the overwintering of it.
I know there's a lot of...
Is this good advice?
Yeah. Yeah, you'll cook. You'll totally cook your leaves.
Yeah, you don't want to be using neem.
Over 80 degrees. Neem will cook your any leaf over 80 degrees and the sun hits it.
Yeah, and it'll stick there for days. So people say spray it in the morning or spray it at night.
Well, it still sticks there.
Neem cake in the root zone is a whole different thing. Right.
So when I was I did 16 years of arborist work and just two things I know it on as rust is generally a co-host.
It has two different hosts. And so if you find out what your co-host is and deal with that as well.
I killed every juniper tree around me, man. Every one of them. My neighbor would let me get on his land and start killing this.
Yeah, no, but it's a mycenae and those things, the spores blow in the wind pretty far.
So it's pretty tough. They actually had forestry programs where they sent CCC out trying to eradicate all the ribos,
the gooseberries, because it was the codependent species for the rust that was destroying pine trees.
And it was then they realized, like, after 50 years, we can't do this. This ain't going to happen.
But the other thing I in my arborist career, I was certified pesticide applicator for home tree and forest and stuff.
And I kind of left all of that. And I know there's a lot of a lot of contention about what I'm about to say here is I used worm tea.
And it was I think they don't quite call it a tea the way I did it, though.
But basically, I would take I do a five gallon bucket tech and I would take a couple handfuls of vermicompost and drop it in a bucket with the dechlorinated water that sat for a while.
And then every time I walk by that for 24 hours, I'm dumping bucket back to forth to oxygenate it.
Right. And this is like the simplest tech. But you can't let it's got to be done. It's 24 hours.
It's done. If you go past that, if you don't if you don't you know, if it goes six hours, it's starting to come in aerobic in there.
But if you if you're dumping that bucket back and forth, I'm using that as a root drench and I'm doing it as a foliar spray.
And I've had insanely amazing results where I literally stopped utilizing all of the chemicals that were part of my arsenal in treating disease trees.
And I had very little failure with that process for some pretty sick, multi diseased aspens and various fruit trees and stuff.
So it doesn't hurt to utilize the chemistry that he's describing.
But also when you make that that that that worm tea like I just described, it's a super elixir and kicks in all of the plants ability to to defend itself in the overdrive.
And again, as a root drench and as a foliar. And I do probiotic teas of all different kinds is is is a great way to to to slow things down and keep the vacancy down on your leaf surfaces.
So that so that those spores can't land on there and cause a ruckus because they're consumed with all the the multiple biology and all that stuff that's already occupying the space like no vacancy.
So after you after you get a hold of the situation, you got rust really, really bad.
You're not going to be able to kill it with the worm tea, but by killing it with with the chemistry and then doing a probiotic approach to re-inoculate your leaf surfaces to keep your high biology levels up on the leaf surfaces.
You'll keep any further spores from being able to land and germinate and go because they'll be consumed.
You know, well, well into it. If you got really bad disease and really bad things, you'll have to take it through the you know, through it through a you know, through a hospital approach.
And then you're going to have to re-inoculate your body just like taking antibiotics.
You know, you got to fix your gut bacteria on the inside, you know, and you got to fill up all those spaces.
So I always recommend doing different types of compost extracts, you know, like kind of what you're saying.
Not a not a not a brew tea, but a quick kind of extract.
Yeah, yeah. That's the extract.
Yeah. Worm teas, different things like that.
High biological activity so that you can really coat the branches, the leaves, the everything to keep a a probiotic shield, if you will, over over all this.
This is totally is awesome.
It's all micronutrients and stuff, too.
And it totally stimulates the plants and autoimmune system.
And the problem is that you can't reproduce what I'm talking about in a laboratory regularly because you can't you know, you have to have quality compost.
And so this is where the contention with the science comes in.
And it's like I understand that.
So and thank you. The extracts or leachates, not tea.
Tea is the word used for those brewers that end up being anaerobic because they get the pockets or whatever.
Right. So, yeah, but there's so what we just described, though, is like intensive integrated pest management.
IPM. It's not mixing a bunch of things into one jar and throwing it on at once.
It's taking these different approaches that are appropriate for the degree of disease or pests that you're managing and applying the proper stuff at the right time of year.
And that's that's what that's an excellent little mini lesson in IPM for anyone listening.
Yeah. Thank both of you so much. I really appreciate it.
No, no problem, man. Like you got problems or you got questions, you can always send me pictures and stuff on the I.D.
You know, that goes for anybody really, you know, tree wise and stuff.
You can look at stuff. You know, that's all I do.
It's my job to make sure that trees are doing good, man.
It's my duty for this planet and, you know, our people.
So you got a question. You know, I don't mind helping out if I can.
So, you know, my club, you know, I'd like to get you guys some seed.
So don't hit me up, man. Well, you know, we'll do some trading of all kinds.
You know, I might need a banana puff. Yeah.
But I got but I got a role, man. I got to go. I don't chat with you.
Thanks. Yeah. Appreciate you. I see it, Peter.
OK, you got I guess it's you showing us your garden.
OK, let's let's go. Let's hope I can use this phone properly.
All right. I am back. All right. Boots on.
Show you this little little chick. This is my wife's new favorite thing.
See her down there. Oh, yeah. First try to.
This is our first attempt at incubating eggs.
We had a broody chicken last year and she did a much better job than we did.
We had 12. We planted 12 in one pot.
And this is it. And my wife is in love.
Nice. Chirp.
So what what what might be. Can you hear me?
Yeah, I can hear you. What might be. Are you doing the selfie camera, the camera that faces out?
Same camera that I was talking to before, man. I don't know which one that is.
And now it's flipping around on me.
So you want me to flip it or something?
Peter. Peter's gone frozen now.
Oh, shit.
Oh, shit. All right. Well, I'm just going to keep doing it the way I was.
All right. These buckets right here.
This is our early plant. These early and just if they die, they die.
But they made it this year. And the reason why is just so that I can cover them easily for the frost.
So they look like hell because I don't really do much to them.
Look, this one's had a tomato worm on it. You can tell by the damage.
Wonder where that thing is. Anyway, so these these are the shitty tomato plants, but they're still tasty.
And the soil is just out of this worm bin over here.
It's just like everything else.
And this garden emptied this worm bin into it.
And that's basically all I do.
I water the seedlings when they're young. I make sure that they stay hydrated so that they grow up.
But I don't do any more watering. And you got your finger right in front of the lens, buddy.
I won't. There you go.
Sorry. I'll hold it like this. All right.
So I'll just walk around the edge right now. I've had big Japanese beetle problems this year.
And I've really neglected this thing. So it doesn't look its best, but I'm still eating out of it.
These cantaloupes right here, you see they look like hell.
And that was that was a windstorm that did all that. And you see the Japanese beetles on my raspberries here.
So I spray BS for those. And I think it's a bunch of BS. It doesn't really work.
BT didn't really work on them. BS didn't work on them. The only thing that can kill those little motherfuckers is 7.
And I hate spraying that stuff. But really, it's the only thing that can do it.
You got any suggestions there, Hardy?
I've never dealt with them. And I'm trying to think. I just saw recently a video about them.
And I didn't watch it because I don't have them as a pest.
Well, you're a lucky man because they suck.
Yeah, that's what I hear. I'm trying to remember stuff. Shaking the plant knocks them off and they hit the ground. Is that right?
Yeah, they breed and then bore down into the ground and die. And then the larvae comes back the next year.
And I've got ducks that take care of a lot of that. But they can't get everywhere. And they're not on everybody's property around here.
It's a big problem. And I just got to deal with it. I'll show you some of the damage.
They don't touch everything, though. This Tetragonia right here.
This is Tetragonia tetragonioides. And if you don't want to buy store-bought lettuce in the summertime, this is your ticket.
This stuff is delicious. It's called, it's common name is New Zealand spinach. But I like saying Tetragonia tetragonioides.
So we had these last night. And yeah, this stuff is awesome.
It's kind of similar to miner's lettuce, but it's not the same thing.
But if for people who are watching, wondering what it is, it's a tasty plant. It's got a lot of flavor.
There's a local guy around here would call it lemon spinach because it's got that tangy citrusy flavor to it.
It's like, you know, miner's lettuce is a little bit less flavorful, but that's some great stuff for sure.
Yeah. And the Japanese beetles leave it alone. So that's nice, too.
These tomatoes, everything right here is the Juliet's.
I put them by themselves because they get so big. You can see how much taller they are than the rest.
Those Juliet's are really, really good. And that's on the thick, actually.
And nasturtiums. I love that because it tastes like salad or salad.
I put it in my salad when I don't have radishes around because it's got that radish flavor in these leaves.
I'm not not a big fan of the flowers so much. They're tasty, too, but that's not not really my thing.
I like the leaves a little better.
They're excellent for bug repellent.
They're getting destroyed.
The nasturtium itself is a good bug repellent.
And anyone who is contemplating a market garden, you throw those in a few nasturtiums into your salad bags and they sell at a premium fast.
That's definitely something people dig.
I bet it grows everywhere out in your area, like all the time, Peter.
I imagine people in California have this everywhere.
Is this just going to grow all year long?
There's Dipshit. She wants to be part of the show.
That's a little Dipshit.
This corner right here is all mine.
This pepper is mine.
This is a habanero that I've worked on for several years.
I don't even know what generation it is now.
I love this stuff and nobody is ever getting seeds of that.
Because I don't want them to make a sauce company out of my years of work.
Those are my habaneros.
That's definitely something I think about daily.
I know there's people who started seed companies for my seeds.
It's a blessing and a compliment is all I can take it as.
If anybody is going to make a sauce company out of this pepper, it's going to be me.
That's the only thing I won't share.
I'm very generous with everything I do, but that right there isn't going anywhere.
You're loud.
I want to do a Scotch bonnet pepper line.
Right?
Right?
Oh.
Yeah.
It's very similar to that.
This corner is all me.
This is my basil.
I also worked on that for several years.
It's getting killed by the Japanese beetles this year.
It really is amazing to me.
They're really hurting it badly.
The lack of water has also got it looking like shit.
It still smells like heaven.
This stuff, you're not going to get any licorice in this basil at all.
This stuff I'm very proud of.
I'll give it to anybody.
I tried to do what you were talking about with the chef, cook up with the chef.
No chef will try this stuff.
They'd just rather get that sweet basil and deal with the licorice flavor in their tomato sauce,
which I don't really understand, but it must not be much of a chef.
This stuff makes an amazing sauce.
I find the licorice is strongest for me in what's called cinnamon basil when I grow it.
I think the soil and stuff affects the different basil genetics slightly different.
Let's see.
I have holy basil.
I have Genovese sweet.
I have cinnamon.
I do opal and the Thai.
They're all very, very different.
Their flavors in my garden.
Some people like that licoricey-ness and some people do not.
Anise or whatever that you want to call it.
It depends on what you're doing with it.
The licorice stuff isn't so bad in a pesto, but I don't like tasting licorice in my sauce.
That's what I usually do with basil.
I make sauce and pesto.
That's my thing.
I use beat up cantaloupes.
Like I said earlier, these are just F3s, but they are very uniform and consistent.
Like I said, they only look horrible like this because of a windstorm.
One of the things that I like about the smallness of them is that you can grow them on a trellis like this.
It's obviously not working this year, but it usually does.
Next year, I'm going to plant them in a place where there's some wind protection.
I'll probably get some tomatoes and okra and stuff around them because of my wind damage.
But not nearly as much.
Some of these vines that were able to withstand it, I'm going to try to pull some fruit off of them.
There's one right there. That might be a cedar.
That's rotten.
It's still got seeds in it.
This is my little project corner.
It's all of my stuff that I'm slightly proud of.
This is a Paris Island Cause, the Romaine.
This is my first year with it.
It is amazing.
Absolutely amazing.
It took forever to start bolting out like this.
It was mid-June before it finally started to bolt.
Right.
I'm very impressed with that.
That breeding project, whoever did that, they really did something.
It was in South Carolina where the military base is.
I don't think the military had anything to do with it, but I think it was the university.
I didn't research that deeply.
They said that it was very heat tolerant.
If you're a lettuce fan, it might work for you out there, Hardy.
Yeah, I've got an adapted butternut that goes to almost August before it bolts out.
The red oak leaf almost never seeds here.
It's pretty amazing how that is solid.
Nice okra, huh?
My okra is like two inches tall.
It's too far from the house.
It lost its bandwidth.
Yeah, my internet crapped out.
I had to restart everything.
He's back.
What I might do is...
Glad you're back, Pete.
I'm going to shoot you another link in from my phone here.
I'll do the same here if I can figure this out.
Let's see.
Nope, wrong one.
You see, here's this cucumber plant that was protected.
It's in much better shape.
You can see a little bit of wind damage on it.
It got some of the tomatoes.
It was coming from the field next door.
You can't really see it.
I have to go around to the other side to show you that.
I got a lot of tomatoes.
I thought that I wasn't going to have any.
I overreacted and planted a lot more.
I ended up with this mess.
We're going to have plenty.
It's going to make a lot of people happy.
I'll tell you that.
It's really easy to overplant tomatoes.
They start out so small and they get so big.
All right, here we go.
This chocolate cherry plant,
that's probably the only plant that may get as large as those juliettes.
Those juliettes are the largest tomato plant I've ever seen.
They always get that way, always.
Peter, I hope that you planted some of these little purple tomatoes for your kids, man,
because everybody loves them, especially young ones.
They are delicious.
They're really sweet and they explode in your mouth.
Mine aren't real tough.
A lot of the chocolate cherries have leathery skin on them.
Mine are pretty good.
I had a lot of cracking problems with them.
I've done a lot of correction on that.
I don't know if you can hear me,
but every time I need to start your stuff,
I think here tomatoes are the thing that just constantly pop up in my garden.
I never really kill stuff unless I need room for something else.
The tomatoes all grow out.
There we go.
There's Alec.
Look at this.
We have our Utah correspondent,
or somewhere in the Southeast correspondent.
My car blew off in the storm.
I haven't been able to pick up yet.
What I want to show you guys is my corn here, how it multi-tillers.
This is one seed.
We got one, two, three, four, five, six tillers off of one seed.
Not all of them are going to do that.
Because I have a multi-genetic in the corn.
I've bred all these together.
You can see the different heights.
Let's see here.
Here we are at seven feet.
Usually, six, five feet is normal.
Again, there's the second ones come up and put some pollen out.
Here we go.
Look, I got a mantis right here.
Flipping that camera around in the same place where I used earlier.
How's that?
Are you there?
Yes, can you hear me?
I was asking if flipping the camera around is in the same place where I did earlier.
You see cam slash mic in the settings.
If you scroll down a little bit, you'll see a cam.
Down at the bottom here?
Yes.
You'll see cam slash mic.
Yes.
I got settings, camera, and audio is what it's showing me now.
Yes, so do camera.
Then it should give you two choices, front and back or something.
Meanwhile, our Utah correspondent is showing some more corn.
In a mantis here.
Yes, blending in.
What I was going to show on the corn here is how I have the multiple ears popping.
There's another one coming in right here.
The amount of nitrogen, this is one spot where I'll drop in a little bit of ammonia,
salt, or pure nitrogen because I can't control.
I just can't bring enough horseshit in.
I don't have a trailer or anything anymore.
I do very, very little and maybe a teaspoon per plant twice to make sure there's enough nitrogen.
That's where we were getting with the
Something else that can happen with corn is if you don't have enough nitrogen,
your ear only grows halfway or you only get so much silk out.
I've noticed if I was trying to do it all organic and it brings a blood meal in halfway
into the blossom of theyou get a spurt in the growth of the ear.
It's super highly dependent on how much nitrogen it gets.
You can see if there's striping like that, you're short on nitrogen.
It's really hard with my sandy soil to hold it.
I doyou can see I have beans growing up.
My squash, I lost 90% of my squash this year.
I try and keep the three sisters growing.
What are we looking at?
What's that?
I said, what are we looking at?
That's okra and weed.
Did I lose you?
No, we're here.
I can hear you, man.
I can't see anything.
Okra, yeah.
All right.
This is carrots.
These are seed carrots this year.
I'm not going to pluck these up.
I might eat one or two of them.
This is tender sweet carrots.
I sent some of this to Peter.
I don't grow anything else because these are so damn good.
There's really no reason, unless you want color.
You want some purple carrots or something, landrace, something like that.
Those carrots, really good.
Tender sweets are in every garden rack that you can see.
They're abundant, but I like making my own seed because I know that these have been acclimated to me.
What else can II'll take you to the outside.
Oh, before I do that, this is a special tomato.
This is a tomato plant right here.
This is a triploid boxcar willie tomato plant.
I've never seen a triploid tomato plant, and I looked into it.
They don't treat tomato plants with colchicine.
This is a true triploid.
It came out naturally because they don't do this.
It never had colchicine on it because it caused problems when they were trying the experiment a long time ago.
I think it was like the 40s or 50s, and it caused a lot of problems in the genetics.
They just quit messing with it, and they stopped putting colchicine on tomatoes.
This thing isyeah, boxcar has been in our family for a long time.
This isn't from a store.
This one's fromit's been around a while.
There's my parsley.
I love parsley.
I've got both types here.
This is for fresh eating, which I'm going to do right now.
The other is flat.
Flat parsley is for drying.
If you like chicken, you like parsley because it's one of the best things you can season it with.
I grow chicken, so I eat a lot of it.
I'll go over here and show this.
This is horseradish.
I love that stuff.
You like cocktail sauce.
That's the main ingredient in it.
Really, really good stuff.
This is what I was talking about with those chocolate cherries.
Look at these.
They're everywhere.
It's just deep.
Very amazing plant.
I'm impressed with it.
The flavor is delicious.
They get huge.
They don't have issues.
Look how beautiful and healthy that thing is.
That chocolate cherry is something else.
I was going to show you.
See the cucumber?
These are our pickles.
They didn't get beat up by the wind nearly as much.
They've got something else going on with them.
They got a little bit of wind damage, but not nearly as bad as those cantaloupes got it.
These, this section all through here to the end of the fence, is that pink Berkeley crossed with the Roma that I was talking about and showing you all earlier.
So much phenotypical expression in it.
It's amazing.
That lobed thing, hardy.
Here's one on the vine right now.
I was thinking after you mentioned that there's something else out there like that.
It sounded like it had an Italian name.
What was that name again, Hardy?
Costaluta Genovesa.
Okay.
Yeah, that sounds Italian to me.
I bet that expressed from the Roma.
Some old lady over there saw the same thing that I did here.
She selected for that, I bet.
Yeah, yeah.
So I'm wondering, do you have, are these different vines that have different expression?
Are you getting different fruit off of one vine?
No, no, no.
These are all separate vines.
Okay.
See there's a Roma that's got a lot of the pink Berkeley expression in it.
And this is the tastiest one so far.
This is the flavor winner.
It loses all that striping.
Well, it's faint.
It gets really faint.
I showed it on the camera earlier and it just wasn't really showing up.
This is a nice little, like it's the balance between the two.
You can tell.
It looks like a Roma.
It's a little larger.
And it's got that striping and stuff on it like these.
Here's one that's more pink Berkeley, but it's not ripened up yet.
I showed you those earlier.
Those are the dark green one and the red ones.
Some of the funnest stuff is watching the color development and seeing how the stripes and shoulders disappear or blush out.
That's so true.
I've really enjoyed this.
This is my favorite part of breeding right here.
The F2.
The F2 is one.
And it's also, you know, this is why breeders get upset when somebody F2s their stuff and starts selling it under the same name.
Because this is what the customer is going to get.
A bunch of all of this diversity.
Not what that breeder was intending.
You know?
Especially if it's a proper F1 hybrid, it can have a really awesome result.
That's something I try and breed into my corn is having the multiple genetic remain.
And so that it's like an F1 every time.
And that maintains the shrunken quality of the sweet corn quality.
The sweeter corn comes from a hybrid state and not an inbred state.
And so that's kind of stuff I think about.
There's different levels of the cannabis breeding where you can have a proper F1 is going to have that hybrid vigor.
And the F2 is going to have all sorts of scraggly little teeny things and big beastlies that don't have flavor or quality.
And so, yeah, it's the same thing with any kind of plant.
That's where that most diverse section is, that F2 position.
That's where you find the magic.
So I imagine, now that you've taught me that there's a tomato like that out there,
this came out of the Roma.
If it was in a pink Berkeley cross, Brad Gates would have already selected for it.
Because he's the one that inspired me to do this.
I just did what he did with a different starting material.
He's done his with a pink Berkeley times grape, pink Berkeley times Juliet, I believe.
And I decided to do mine with the Roma because I like sauce tomatoes.
I make a lot of sauce.
So I wanted one with that heirloom flavor, but with the sauce capacity of the Roma.
And it's working out well.
I think that my keeper, like I said, is that one right there.
The wife and I both noticed it on the same day.
I picked a couple of them, they ripened up.
She took one with her to work.
And when she came back home, one of the first things she said is,
have you tried one of the, and I like that Roma.
And she said, yep, that's the one.
It is amazing.
When you get it right, when you get an heirloom that's ripe, that's fresh,
and it's properly ripened, and you can ripen them by aging a little bit.
Some of these things are so tender that they only have a 12-hour window or
a five-hour window, especially the German greens.
One of my greatest compliments I ever received was a woman came to me on a
Sunday market and said, I bought a tomato.
You sold me a tomato on Wednesday for a meal on Friday.
And I told you what I was eating.
You selected perfectly for me.
And I had to tell you that I had an existential experience eating that tomato.
I believe it.
Yeah, yeah, no, that's what we're talking about, folks, is like you can do this
and have these literally spiritual experiences from your food.
It's especially after eating store-bought commercial produce for so freaking long.
When you get the difference and you hit that one that resonates with your body
system, it's pretty freaking amazing.
Yeah, boy.
I'll take you all out front and show you what I've got going out front.
You can see my shitty apple trees and my comfrey patch and my beans, my beans
that the Japanese beetles have destroyed.
I've just stopped harvesting.
They're not going to make it.
They look so bad.
I've lost more than 95% of the beans I set this year to the Japanese beetles.
I've lost more than 95% of the beans I set this year to micro skeletonizers and
earwigs primarily.
Oh, man.
I bet having earwigs around is a scary thing.
When I was a little kid, I found one of their hidey holes and thousands of them
poured out when I lifted the lid on a field irrigation pipe.
And I had the willies from them for so freaking long.
Now they just piss me off because they get overpopulated in my wood chips and eat
everything.
Sedan oil traps, they fill up little Dixie cups pretty quick.
And it just adds frass to my compost now.
I just got to keep up on my traps.
They get really, really, really bad.
I'll spray whatever they're eating with phenosad and that knocks them back pretty
good.
Here's the comfrey.
This is the Landrace comfrey.
This is the seedy stuff.
And you see the Japanese beetles are on it, too.
Wow.
I feed this to the chickens.
I feed it to the plants.
This stuff makes the best compost.
It turns black like immediately.
It's amazing.
And mulch.
It makes a great mulch, too.
So I've got a large patch of this stuff and I just harvest it with the mower.
I mulch it all up and do what it is that I'm needing to do with it.
There's a walnut tree just growing itself there.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
Here's the rest on my apples.
Wow.
That is bad.
Yeah.
Exactly what Peter was showing you.
And I can't do anything with it in the summertime with that neem oil.
So I really appreciate you all's advice.
And I'm going to follow every bit of it.
Everything that both of you guys said.
Nice.
It makes a lot of sense and I'm going to war this winter.
Nice.
Yes, sir, Cascadian.
Love you, buddy.
All right.
So, yeah, this comfrey is amazing.
I got a lot of the purple clover in here and I never even planted that stuff.
It just grows wild around here.
Beautiful.
Comfrey dying back.
Just feeding everything.
A lot of goldenrods.
That's an acacia tree.
I think I mowed that down once.
It's coming back nice and hardy.
Yeah, hardy.
You got a cool name, man.
And you do hardy plants.
Like I really enjoyed your dry farming video.
That was amazing.
I do a lot of that, too.
I don't like watering.
So here's my.
My name, the way I present it actually is from my ancestors that grew hemp in
old Russia and Austria.
I had German ancestors that were military officers and farmers under the czar
Alexander and the White Army.
And when they moved here during the Depression, H-E-R-T-I became H-E-R-D-Y
anglicized because they weren't white enough or whatever.
Being there.
But yeah, that's how that's America is like they had this.
It sounded funny and they but there was actually the back of the truck and 100
guys standing around and they're calling out the names for someone to get a job
during the Depression.
And the two brothers, the two guys they were calling for with the
anglicized name didn't answer.
And they're like, yeah, that's us.
And so we went from H-E-R-T-I to H-E-R-D-Y for survival.
But I honor my ancestors who used to grow hemp and utilize the H-E-R-T-I
as a way to get a job.
But I honor my ancestors who used to grow hemp and utilize the H-E-R-T-I.
Beautiful being.
Yeah, that's that's a beautiful story.
I really enjoyed that.
Not white enough.
And they're from the Caucasus.
Yeah, that's America.
That's really strange.
Well, here's.
I think these are land risks.
And I could still harvest some of these beans, but I've kind of disconnected
by the whole thing because I got really busy there for a while and I wasn't
able to keep up with a lot of this stuff.
So, yeah, I got some work to do.
These beans are looking pretty good to me right now.
Here's the Cherokee wax.
So these beans are so beautiful.
You can see some of the distributors concentrate on beans when they
do a display, mixing all the different varieties together.
And it's a real work of art, a still life type of thing when you put a bunch
of beans in a bowl or on a plate and all the mottled coloring and stuff.
And again, that's not stuff you find in commercial production seed stock.
Just some of the like the dragon's tongue or some of the some of the
mottled fava beans are my favorite is I grew some of these beans in the
corn.
And it's a mottled red and white looking thing.
Yeah.
That sounds pretty.
I've seen those in the catalogs, but I've never bought any of those like
stripey mottled, beautiful little beans.
A lot of people know what these are right here.
I make chili with these.
I don't eat these green beans.
I don't eat these green beans.
I don't eat these green beans.
Yeah, they make a great chili bean.
Big old fat thing.
It replaces the kidney and the black bean in a chili.
They're really nice and they dry up really easily.
And yeah, big fan of that stuff.
That's a whole other thing.
Oh, this is scarlet runners for people that don't know what these are.
These are runner beans.
The flavors on some of these things are so amazing.
I mean, I've never seen anything like this.
I've never seen anything like this.
The different textures and cooking them.
The Anasazi bean is just next to a pinto bean, right?
It takes about twice as long to cook the pinto bean and it's still kind of
grainy when you eat it compared to the smooth, creamy flavor and texture of
the Anasazi bean.
It's at my mouth is watering.
Just thinking about it.
Yeah, you got mine going through.
That sounds pretty good.
It's about lunchtime for me, too.
Right, right.
Now, but we started.
I was expecting a later start.
I didn't get Breckey in.
Yeah, no, neither did I.
I grew the dragon tongue last year.
Oh, how'd they turn out, Pete?
They were great.
They were fun.
I mean, I had no idea what to expect.
And my wife and I were like, Oh, you're going to have to do it.
My kids thought they were cool.
They liked eating them.
That's so much of it is you don't know.
You know, adventure.
There's so much of that to it.
And sometimes stuff ain't going to grow one year or if it doesn't grow, learn
everything you can about it and try it again.
It might be just like the pH.
It might prefer sweeter soil.
It might be that it doesn't like quite as much water or needs a little bit of
shade. Right.
So there's a lot of intricacies to some of these things and learning about the
the original to our and or as Nate was talking about earlier, figure out what
grows. You might not think it's going to grow well in your area, but you throw it
out and it's like, Oh, wow, this is amazing.
It has.
It's like it's like they figured out somebody figured out that the camel
actually evolved in the Arctic
zone and the padded feet were to walk on snow, not sand.
Right. But we had glaciation and they moved down with the front of the glaciers.
And then when the glaciers receded, the camel was kind of stuck in the desert.
And if you think about it, the winter snows is a desert as well.
Kind of weird. But there's all sorts of all sorts of evolutionary little
flip overs like that. The you never know what's going to thrive
until you try.
I didn't get to mention it before. Nate mentioned about desert soils being
nutritionally void. And that's very incorrect.
They're actually just they're void of organic matter mostly and then shy on
nitrogen because it leaches out.
But desert soils can be extremely high in nutritional value and they just
become a sort of water.
It's like the entire Southern California desert is irrigated and becomes the
green basket in the wintertime.
Would I assume correctly that they have tons of minerals and things like that?
Yep. Yep. That's the it doesn't go anywhere. It doesn't leach out. Right.
It doesn't you get overland flow. And so you see the barren desert.
And that's why there's just no no organic matter building up. Right.
And so if you can slowly percolate water instead of have it come in in a minute
and wash everything away. That's the rock rose. I think.
Rose of Sharon. Rose of Sharon. Rock rose. Yeah.
OK. I've never heard that name for it before.
This one came from seed. It's got that double flower on it.
It's beautiful. And yeah. And you can see the Japanese beetles don't touch it.
All the other ones that we have, the Japanese beetles chew them up.
Here, I'll show you one that they're working on right now.
That's this other one. You can see it doesn't have any blooms on it
because they're all getting eaten by these Japanese beetles that are all over it.
Do you have the hanging Japanese beetle traps or what do you use?
Just the tracks. All of them, Pete.
It's a pheromone. Yeah. So when you're in this zone,
unless you can put those traps all over the entire property on your perimeter. Right.
This is going to attract all from the middle of your property to the outside of your perimeter.
And then it's going to attract all the ones from off your property to the edge of your property.
So it's a oh wow. That's just brutal.
With just seven of them on there.
And they're mating too, man. Here.
There's making more. They're going to mate and then fall off and die in the soil and turn into larvae.
Sorry, the wind's blowing. I'm trying to keep it still.
But you can see them on top of each other. It's just a big Jap orgy right there.
And this other one not being touched. It's really incredible.
That's a money plant.
Those are the things that we're talking about where you throw that seed out and see what it does
and which ones have the resistance and which ones work. Right.
That's why I'm showing this. You're the man, you know what I'm thinking.
It's amazing. That vine borer thing.
I'm really excited to see if I can get some of those Nantouke squash that are resistant to the squash bug as well.
Keeper squash are great.
I got to stay in Hopi and Navajo 25 years ago.
My best friend who lives up in Yellowstone was studying cultural tourism.
And so we went to Navajo Hopi Summit on cultural tourism.
And oh gosh, was it Black Rock?
Anyhow, we ended up staying in Hogan for several days.
And this fellow who my buddy had been talking to and whatnot.
We got to feed on traditional Navajo fare.
And he was showing us his squash stash and whatnot.
And I was brought up eating squash.
You dump a bunch of brown sugar on to it or whatever to make your kids eat it palatable.
He showed me different ways of cooking it and eating it with very, very little additional anything.
And just really enjoying that subtle palette and textures of the different squashes.
And getting into those long keepers.
You grow plants and you've got food all the way until you're growing that plant again.
You got some sunflowers there?
These are sun chokes.
Sun chokes.
Yeah, you're basically right.
But they're not what the normal sunflowers.
Right now, I was about to say it.
Is sunflower or sun choke?
And I've not actually grown the chokes.
They grow really well here.
And I got a lot of friends who do grow them for market.
Yeah, they're easy to plant.
You just have to grow a piece of one and you'll get tons of them.
Yep.
I've never got one in the ground.
I always eat them.
Yeah, people call them farter chokes.
It doesn't happen to everybody.
If you don't know what a sun choke is, it's a root tuber.
And that stuff's really nutritious and it's long storage capacity as well.
Yeah.
It's basically the Native American potato, right?
Well, North American potato.
Oh, yeah.
Thank you.
Potato comes from the Andes.
And there's hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of varieties of potato in the Andes.
And they grow different elevations and whatnot.
But yeah, potato is not native to Ireland.
That was an import that occurred and a whole bunch of stuff that went into the monocrop.
There was more than just the blight.
It was part of that whole famine.
The entire peasant market was based on that crop and distribution issues, consumption issues,
and overproduction in a small area and then not being able to get them to market to other countries and things like that.
There was a whole lot of dynamics that went into that whole episode that ended up bringing...
Actually, my ancestors came out of Northern Wales.
They're Irish people living in Northern Wales and were brought over by Mormon missionaries
who went over to proselytize to people who were starving.
They brought them over.
This is just one of my family tree branches.
And established them as a bishops of a ward in Western Nevada, Eastern California, right below Tahoe there.
It's kind of interesting when you really study up on history and understand why we all are where we are.
People give me crap.
They look at my social media like, oh, you're from California.
I was like, I can't help it where my grandparents ended up at the end of World War II.
And my parents, you know, it's...
You want to get a lot of crap, be where I'm from, man.
Oh, when I lived in Idaho, my coworkers always thought I was going to be arrested every time they saw me drive away
just because I had my California plates on still.
Oh, thanks for showing the garden.
That's quite a plot you got going there.
Yeah, I appreciate that.
I was working hard on it, but I got to admit, I haven't messed with that thing for weeks now.
Those bugs are...
Those bugs break your heart, man.
It's discouraging.
It puts you into depression.
I literally, as you can see some of my posts where I'm almost crying, basically,
doing my best to be an adult about it and teach people what's going on.
But I had people, it's like, you need to grow stronger plants.
Like, man, they don't matter.
I have...
We have severe drought.
We have...
Commercial farmers are literally losing their entire crops in 24 hours to pests that come through.
We have the cycle of the Mormon cricket and the grasshopper all of a sudden coincided.
One's like a seven year and one's a nine year.
And they both happened the same year when there was extreme drought and mild.
And it's like, you can't get around these pests sometimes no matter what you're throwing at them.
And it really...
Depression and there's farmers on suicide watch here.
It's a real thing.
It's become so attached to...
And then people are like, just replant.
It's like, man, I got three months into what just got eaten last night.
Yeah.
They just don't understand, man.
No, no, no.
Why do you do that?
It's like, well, because when I finally get a freaking piece of fruit,
and I get to eat that and my whole body just goes like Popeye.
Right.
Yeah.
It's...
I remember why as soon as I eat that first tomato and get that year corn.
Saponins is, you know, it definitely is a huge one.
Sometimes the squash bug I learned recently, I used to chase them and squash them all by hand or try and pierce them.
But flicking those squash bugs off into soapy water,
the little saponin and it gets into their pores and they literally drown.
I've tried soaking them with the hose and it doesn't work.
That saponin gets into their pores and it suffocates them, drowns them, suffocates however you want to call it.
Yeah.
It's an excellent...
Like putting Vaseline on a tick.
Yeah.
And, you know, but there's different pests and different approaches and different, you know,
different time of day they're doing their thing.
And sometimes the soap on the plant when it's 100 plus and 12% humidity, you know, you got to...
There's definitely...
And we were describing with the fruit trees earlier with the rust.
There's these different approaches, different time of year, different temperatures all make a huge difference.
Oh, they're fucking evil.
Well, you miss them and they come up and you've got a herd of them and they move like a school of fish.
Yeah.
Another one I've just learned about...
They call them stink bugs around here.
Right. No, I get stink bugs too.
And so those eggs, you got to...
They're usually on the bottom and the predators won't come up because they're so...
The bottom of the leaf is so spiny.
But I've learned you can just flick those...
You can just flick those eggs off with a stick and then whatever bugs are in your soil that are omnivores will come and eat those eggs.
I've had great success with that.
Yeah. So I actually...
I have perythrin.
That's something next I'm probably going to hook up, send them for the seed distribution is...
I grow perythrin flower, actually, mosquito plant and utilize that.
So, yeah.
The one's right here.
Having enough of it.
And there's different varieties are stronger.
Definitely the higher elevation stuff tends to be way stronger.
And so it's not 100% that your chrysanthemum is going to be a pest deterrent, but it's always a good idea to have that as part of your crop intermix.
The nasturtium as well.
Marigolds.
This one's Phoenix here.
Yeah, it's definitely...
Yep.
A mild neem pie.
Utilizing that pyrethrin flower with a neem and has done a great job.
I've killed the squash bug tertiary where I've sprayed the base of the plants and come back and find them dead a couple of days later.
And again, using the natural pie from my own flowers, that stuff degrades in the sun in 24 to 48 hours, as opposed to the synthetic stuff, which...
And here is something that's like I tried this year also, which was just the wrong year to do it.
I tried to do my entire food garden abiding to California cannabis testing standards.
And I told this to the guy at the farm supply a couple of weeks. He just shook his head and laughed.
He's like, yeah, that ain't happening, man. Not here right now.
He deals with all the farmers and stuff that are coming in.
Just like, I'm losing my crop.
And yeah.
So just quickly, I just showed an assassin bug. Someone asked, are those assassin bugs? But no, they're different.
Yeah. So there's something on this. The horns on the shoulders of the identifiers. You want to bring that up? Yeah.
So the assassin bug does not have the little plate and the horn on the shoulders.
You can see that. You see that we just pointed to versus the stink bug family.
It's got that shoulder armor point plate.
And so the...
And I do believe that I never smelled them before, but this year I was getting that awful stink out of the squash bugs.
And I started thinking like, man, this has got to be a stink bug as well.
All right. So you want to kill this one, right?
Yeah. So it's got those two points off the shoulders.
Right. That's the biggest way you can tell is my understanding of these major groups.
Okay.
But if you see this one...
I thought it was just phenotypes. I didn't know they were different like that.
They're completely different bugs. They look so similar.
Yeah. Yeah.
You know, we all...
I don't want to use human race stuff at all, but I was going to...
They all look the same to me. If you're not used to it, if you're not used to anything, they all...
Some people, all marijuana plants smell the same to them, right?
But you grow a few, you realize they don't.
And so when we look at these...
So this doesn't...
This one does seem to have a little bit of that shoulder, but is this an assassin you brought up?
Yeah, this is an assassin.
And that's the stink bug.
So I'm looking at it...
Oh, I think my phone's dying, people. I think I'm gone now. It just...
I wonder what that is.
I'm going to ask my Google real quick.
Identifying shoulder aspects of assassin bug versus stink bug.
Here are some pictures that match.
Yeah, and Japanese beetles, that brings me...
I mean, growing up, that's what we had all the time.
So it's showing a series of spines on the stink bugs.
So it's more of a spiny protrusion on the shoulder.
This is one of those...
This assassin bug here has definitely...
Might be a little bit confusing because it does seem to have that pointy shoulder and knobs and stuff.
But you can totally see it's got that death proboscis on the snots, right?
So on the stink bugs, they don't have that thing that's going to come out and pierce another animal.
Marmot and stink bugs.
Let's see, there's another...
And Chris Guerrero, where is it?
Did you email me or where am I?
This is funny. I found a funny one.
The front end has a soul sucker, which is a little round.
So on the stink bug, it's a little curled thing, proboscis coming out of their mouth.
Oh, this meme is hilarious.
It's got a pistol in one hand and it says,
spots indicate number of perpetrated hate crimes.
Soul sucker on the front.
Beady, calvicating state.
Stabby bits, sticky feet.
Stolen prescription drugs.
This is just like every stereotype about how horrible a stink bug is.
Yeah.
No, I think I've mistakenly killed an assassin bug and afterwards looked at it like,
wait a second, that was the wrong, no, what did I do?
It seems like they're longer and skinnier.
Yeah.
All right.
Thank you so much.
I don't know how you find these guys, but you're doing a hell of a job, man.
I love you for it.
Thank you.
And we'll do it again soon.
No, no.
Appreciate you.
Bye.
I think we can probably wrap on that.
You have any last...
I was just going to see if anyone had any pertinent questions before we do wrap it.
Sure.
Leave it there after.
All right, we will wait for some questions.
Well, all right.
Getting back to my initial blue corn question.
Basically, if I understand, because this came from a plant that was kind of away from the other one.
It was basically self-pollinating, but it didn't have enough pollen to basically finish the job.
Is that kind of...
Yeah, or it was getting some in the wind and not quite enough.
There's also...
It can be a slight amount of...
See, that's a little bit of curl into it.
A little bit light on the nitrogen in the soil can be there.
It could be an effect that adds to that.
You can see the kernels are definitely swollen.
Hold that back up, though.
There's something I want to show.
The end of that, that's over the palm of your hand.
The end that's sticking out of there.
That is a rudimentary genetic aspect that comes from the soot-silly.
You're talking about this thing?
That thing right there.
What's really neat about this corn is that it will actually throw pollen out of the top of an ear.
That's part of the ancient genetic heritage of corn that I was really stoked to see come back out as I was breeding this.
It's super rudimentary.
The origin of corn was the soot-silly.
It didn't have husk.
It was an open flower with both the male and female in the same bract or racine.
That's what that is sticking out of the top of those.
If you ever end up growing some of this corn, you'll start seeing that stuff in that genetic.
That's something I'm personally really happy to have there.
It tells me that we have this.
It's something that's removed from the inbreeding.
It's the commercial strains.
It's something that can adapt and possibly even go back to wild.
It could possibly feralize with that trait.
Corn has been bred to the point where it needs man to propagate.
It cannot self-sustain itself.
You leave your corn out in the field, it's not going to seed and grow again.
It requires man to open it up, separate those kernels, and put them in the ground when the moisture and temperature is correct.
Here's my other question.
For example, if I had this going out there and then I had some other corn, they'd be cross-pollinating, right?
They do cross-pollinate in the wind.
That's the whole Monsanto, you stole my genetics because it's in your farm and we just sued you out of your organic farm and there's no more organic farms.
I was less than three years away from that happening to me.
They were moving down the Wasatch Front from Idaho, coming down in and there were farms at our farmer's market.
They were being sued for growing organic corn and having Monsanto genetic blown in.
We all know the reality of that is that's like if you have a nice white Ferrari in your front yard and somebody paints their house purple in the wind next door to you and destroys your white Ferrari.
That's basically what happened.
Then the guy painting the house sues you for taking their paint and putting it on your Ferrari.
That's essentially what Monsanto was doing to people.
It was like we just blew paint on your house or your car and I'm suing you for having my paint on your car or house.
Kind of nuts.
It's like you got an emergency.
Go on for a second.
The wife has something to say.
Go on for a second.
I was literally about that point when I lost my farm.
The way I lost my farm was a crazy neighbor who didn't like the long hair freak artist next door sprayed Roundup on what I'd spent eight years breeding this sweet blue corn.
The entire crop she was flooding my driveway daily with her sprinklers.
I'd ask her to please but she was intentionally trying to push my button so she could have me removed.
She told police that she didn't want me for a neighbor anymore.
I was going to have me removed any way she possibly could.
She sprayed my eight year breeding project with Roundup.
It's something that they touch on for seed breeders of all sorts.
Luckily I had my previous stock that I was able to go back into and years and years later I've gotten that project back to where it was.
I lost the contracts I had to align.
That was worth millions of dollars to me and the people who owned the distillery that was going to contract with me sold it so I don't have those opportunities anymore.
I guess my question when I was asking that was more like you're not on a massive property but you're breeding lots of corn, lots of other cannabis obviously.
When you're working on this and you have a bunch of other genetics, how are you controlling?
Timing is huge.
Especially with the corn.
I've been concentrating on that.
I don't even plant any of these other.
I have some pretty amazing.
I probably have a dozen or 15 corn varieties in my stash.
I probably ought to start growing some of those that seed.
I've got some insects that I've been losing a bunch of my old cash.
Timing is huge.
It comes up and it blows by.
Timing is huge.
It comes up and it blows pollen and then it doesn't.
I was talking about earlier you can collect if you have very small amounts of corn.
You can plant a circle of corn around with your beans and squash or whatever in your mound and just collect that pollen.
Especially if you're growing sweet corn and stuff.
I showed my multi-tillers and the pollen comes up out of all other tillers later.
With the cannabis, I'm moving towards using these pollen bags.
Or lots of small plants and then multiple positions.
I use a lot of spritzers when I'm working with the pollen.
A lot of water wall, a lot of water safety.
Constantly, I'll go out and grab my hose and spray the air down if I have to open a door in the house or something.
Or paying attention to which way the wind's blowing.
Pressurized air systems.
Utilizing my swamp cooler and charcoal filter systems and changing the pressure and air gradient movement through the house.
When you're working with pollen, all that stuff.
You're going in your bathroom and utilizing the exhaust fan in there.
Paying attention to which way that's going to blow out if it does.
All that stuff.
Total situational awareness.
I don't know how else to put that.
That's what I taught my daughter when she's driving.
Be aware of everything.
You can literally see the pollen.
You can see how much air disturbance needs to lift and move.
How far it moves and things like that.
Plants don't crop rotate.
Breeding my corn.
I move around in the yard where I plant the corn.
I've got two major planting for vegetables and some drip lines and some raised beds for my vegetables.
There's a balance of expanding out and how much food I can eat and how much management time I can do.
Plus, the vegetables don't make me money.
I'm concentrating on the cannabis breeding.
I'm looking at some people.
The Europeans.
No, it can't be that late.
I know.
They're not talking about going to bed.
Never mind.
For example, for me with basil, I want to get a couple different varietals going.
Then I also want to grow the seeds out.
Now I'm just like, well, do I want to plant the seeds?
I have basil in a couple different spots.
Basil self-pollinates.
You would have to slice open the flower and get the pollen to hybridize manually.
I'm good with basil.
If I have one great basil, like a Thai basil, but then something else, I don't have to worry about them cross-pollinating?
I've never experienced them cross-pollinating.
I do a lot of seed saving from them.
That's awesome.
I really don't notice.
I have never seen that.
A tomato doesn't need a pollinator.
You can grow it in a closed greenhouse in the wintertime without even much air movement.
If you have them close together when there are pollinators, they can cross-pollinate inadvertently.
If you want to save, there's distances that you want to have.
Like Nate was saying, number of plants required for that intersex to keep your gene pool where it's at.
That's constant.
With tomatoes, how far do different varietals have to be from each other so you're not cross-pollinating?
I think it's 10 yards.
If you're doing 40 feet, it's about an okay distance.
The other is these pollen bags.
You can slip a pollen bag over a fluorescence as it starts before it opens.
That'll prevent any cross-pollination from occurring.
Then you can pop it as the fruit develops and you mark that one.
You can do that with a brown paper sack.
That's something people do quite a bit.
You want really nice fruit, for instance, like the Asian pears.
You put a paper sack on it after they set and let that thing finish up in total protected state.
That's where those $5 pears come in.
You can do that with a brown paper sack.
You put a brown paper sack on it after they set and let that thing finish up in total protected state.
That's where those $5 pears come from.
Here are Chris Guerrero's assassin bugs.
What are they eating on?
Are they got some aphids in there they're feeding?
Chris can chime in in the chat.
I don't have chat flowing.
Yeah, I'll let you know.
That was on your tomatoes. Were they eating aphids?
Which is the main pest on tomato.
Besides the hornworms.
They just hatched.
Ah, so the parent had probably been eating tomatoes and laid eggs.
Or did you? I'm guessing.
These are assassin bugs.
Baby assassin bugs.
Just coming out of their hatch.
Did he place those eggs?
No, I think that's where they hatched.
That's great.
When the praying mantis comes out, it's like the quickening.
There's hundreds of them.
They're literally expanding.
They come out and they're compressed.
They don't eat or drink nothing.
They just open up.
But it's weird because there's so many of them.
Miniatures.
Like spiders too, right?
Yeah.
I found one of those spiders where it has all the babies on the back.
It was running across my basement kitchen floor one time.
I was like, what the hell is that?
I flicked it or something.
It was like Nelson 700 spiders running everywhere.
That's freaky.
In the garage, I always have the door open.
So pretty much everything comes in here.
I had a bunch of hats on the shelves over here.
A spider laid its eggs and all the eggs hatched in all my hats.
It took a while to clean that shit out.
Nice.
Soldier bug looks more like the sting.
Yeah, a little bit.
They look a lot similar.
Nice.
Spine soldier bug.
Yeah.
All right.
I think we went strong for three hours.
A whole new topic that blends right in with all the topics we've been discussing.
I want to do a ton of just straight up vegetarian stuff.
I want to do a ton of just straight up vegetable conversations.
The kid on Living Soil said it so well.
He was like, I learned more about growing cannabis the day I stopped listening to people teaching about growing cannabis and listening to people who grow plants.
Yeah.
Of all sorts.
Listen to the farmer, listen to the gardener.
I have a...
It's kind of part of how I have this command of knowledge.
It's a very broad spectrum knowledge of forestry, boericulture, horticulture, all these different plants and how and what it takes to make each given one.
I've been doing cannabis along the whole time.
But yeah, I was six years old when I first worked on an organic farm of any sort.
It was figs primarily.
And he did cut flowers as well.
Here, let me stop screen.
Let me quickly show what's going on outside for me right now.
Downloads.
All right, let's see if this works.
Oh, you mothered.
This video uses a unique codec that your browser doesn't support.
All right, never mind.
I will actually, you know what?
Hold on, let me try one last thing and then we'll.
Yeah, well, he's looking.
I mentioned earlier and I haven't posted on it forever on Facebook.
Sadie's Pride Senegro.
Organic spelled backwards.
And you can see what I was doing on that five acre farm back, whatever, 10 years ago, eight years ago.
Someone asked, and if that person is still listening, about the mining of something in Utah.
Gosh, there's so much.
You don't you probably don't have a garden that doesn't have inputs from Utah.
The azomite is a huge one.
Lingbanite.
There's anyone who uses the grow cache, right?
The probiotic farmers alliance grow cache that all that wheat germ comes from here.
That azomite comes from here.
Gosh, if you're if you're a professional hash maker, your freeze dryer was built here.
All right, let me see.
I could maybe do it from my phone.
I'm working on slowly.
I haven't got the funds for the for the laboratory test yet, but I'm working on product from the Great Salt Lake for gardens and again, funds and time.
I've been looking at phosphate.
So we do have we have one of the three major rock phosphate deposits in the world here in eastern Utah.
We've got some other deposits of phosphate that they have to mine in for.
And that's one of the ones I'm going to look for is a smaller one.
I can operate as a hand or a small, not surface mine, but going in the small style, though.
I don't know. Not a huge machinery.
There's some old ones that were started and abandoned because of the time frames and whatnot.
But it's there's it's mixed in with light.
The the phosphorus layer and the lights are calcium carbonate.
And so I think it would make a really awesome specific amendment.
Having the high calcium carbonate with the phosphorus is a soil amendment product.
And it'd be specific. It wouldn't be something you just everyone dumps in their garden.
But if you have particular overfeeding necessities, but we hit peak phosphorus.
And so that's a major concern that everyone should think about is how do we cycle phosphorus?
It doesn't really move so well.
It's not something we can just produce.
You know, we used to be it was bird guano.
And then that ended up becoming used for explosives.
And then they started figuring out we can do petroleum salt and reverse engineering from explosives to fertilizers.
And now everything is either petroleum distillate fertilizer or to mine phosphate rock.
And that stuff is quite often it's got to be concentrated for it to be utilized properly.
They want like 30 percent, I think.
All right. Unfortunately, you can't hear the audio, but yeah, that's just passed by some daikon.
That's obviously strawberry.
These are two sweet potato or like a blue.
That took over. That's your blue corn right there.
That's another blue corn.
There's some kale in there.
There's this is a daikon.
So if you if you were to like get some blood meal and then like spike blood meal around those corns, they would swell up and ears would squeeze, you know, scream out of them.
They're just such heavy feeders.
That's cauliflower.
That's shard.
So the shard had already bolted.
I mean, they were huge.
I cut everything down and then they bolted again.
And it's a two year cycle.
So your first year, you're going to be your greens off of it.
In the second year, you'll get some greens until it bolts and then it goes full bore and the seed.
That's some tatsoi in there.
That's carrot.
That's Elka's.
Some of his cannabis seeds.
Nice.
That's you see this white squash.
Oh, little beauty.
And then in the same one, I had some Han Sai Thai, which is that stuff that I chopped.
And then there's some basil in there.
This is some more Han Sai Thai.
So my in-laws are Chinese.
So it's got lots of Asian greens.
Yeah.
No, those are all they're all the same thing as cabbage or wild mustard.
It's all the same thing that's been in her bread.
Right.
And that's Ajuain right there that is blue by.
And then this stuff is all the seeds from like the Asian greens, the the choy sum, the tatsoi, the Han Sai Thai that fell all around.
That's dicandra on the outside.
So I just planted I just sprinkled seeds all around the outside.
So that'll come and like hang over the edge.
That's some Australian bastard cannabis seeds that are about to pop out.
I like the squares.
So some of space efficient and temperature.
Well, also the white.
I mean, yeah, in Southern California, I don't know why anyone would have a black.
All my pots are black because they're all secondhand.
I pick them all up from from landscapers.
That's parsley.
That one.
So basically, in all these things, I bury my home compost at the bottom because I, you know, it's still hot.
But I figure like if I put something that's not going to go deep that so that's she so asparagus.
That's your blue. That's the blue corn that I picked this one off of.
Yeah. And then that's tomato in the two by four.
And that's mints up on the side.
But yeah, I think that may be the last of.
Yeah. So anyway, that's like a regular gone to see there.
There's a room of the flowers themselves are excellent edible flowers.
Eating the flower itself is is a wonderful nutty flavor, but they're excellent addition to your salad as well.
Edible flowers are key if you want to do some market is the.
So so this is that other part.
So that's asparagus.
Right. And I think it's three years before you're eating off of it.
And that's all. So.
Yeah, that's I put asparagus around your corn.
Yeah, it's like I have so much stuff I want to grow that I'm kind of like, all right, what should I put where?
And what's going to like not overwhelm something else?
Right. So that's a weed that I just let go.
And actually, yeah, I'm going to show you here.
This is last year. I did some shaman tobacco.
Oh, the seeds fell all over.
And this is actually one of the seeds that that fell in the crack.
Nice. And it's great. So that's tobacco growing.
And but these tomatoes are awesome.
That's the other thing. Like, I want to grow.
I want to check out Elka's tomatoes.
Yeah. But then these ones are just rocking and everybody loves them.
It's kind of hard to beat Cherokee purple.
That's that's my go to.
And yeah, so this is the that's some basil flowering out.
Those seeds are almost ready in there, right?
This little plate's kind of brown out.
Yeah. It didn't hold the seed pretty good, though.
Once it goes dead, you kind of kind of crumple it up to get it out.
They don't tend to self fall until it gets moist again and the whole thing softens.
How do I use my shiso? I mean, shiso is awesome.
It's like one would be like at my mother or my wife's parents house.
They live a mile away from us.
We do like kohlrabi, like a salad, like a vinegar salad.
What's that? I love kohlrabi.
And and like sliced shiso leaves and like baby shiso leaves.
Obviously, those ones are huge.
Oh, yeah. Look at that. Kohlrabi.
So this is the this is the one of the cabbage family, one of the mustard green, whatever.
But it's it's like a big giant broccoli stalk when you when you eat that inside.
It's so good. And then you've got all the greens and everything.
That's kohlrabi if you've never had it. And they come in purple as well.
So it's basically the main the main produce is this bulb.
And it's just a bulb of stalk.
Really good stuff.
I'm trying to hold on.
That's something you'll ever find in a grocery store.
Unless it's a specialty store with local farmers.
We got milkweed and ajwain.
Bring the monarchs in milkweed.
It's the craziest thing, a monarch butterfly.
And they like eradicate milkweed.
And here we have comfrey, creeping time, cilantro.
Cilantro is a tough one in the heat.
So, yeah, I guess I'll go ahead.
I'm saying cilantro is tough in the heat.
I try and grow it in the shade and keep it really moist.
It's it's really hard to get the bolt in the summer unless you've got it.
Some sort of structure system.
Something I've done to keep stuff from bolting is like I'll grow sunflowers and then under plant lettuce underneath it.
Right. And then you as long as there's moisture in there and or in French intensive, I've done the same where I'll let hemp stalks grow up over my lettuce.
And so it's 100 degrees in the ambient air.
But as long as I spray that vegetation a couple of times in the day, it acts as a swamp cooler and evaporates and keeps everything kind of cool down in the shade there.
So those things that tend to bolt fast can can keep growing.
You know, if you live in some place moist, that's not going to work the same way.
Right. But is what's making the lettuce what's triggering the lettuce to bolt is is what the 70 degrees.
Oh, really? Yeah.
It's a fast, fast temperature change.
And or, you know, but basically 70 degrees, 80 degrees, it's bolting.
Cilantro is kind of the same thing.
Which is three hundred and sixty five days a year in SoCal.
Right. Right. Right. So so you come up with you come up with strategies to create micro micro environments.
Thanks, Elka. And the other is then you select the ones that bolt last.
Right. For your seed saving. And that's how you adapt is you pay as the tenant.
It might only be a day or two difference. Right.
But those are the ones you really want to look at is your your seed saving in each one.
If it's the next year or the next go around, you have some that bolt a little bit later.
That's the one you keep selecting for.
And eventually you're going to have something that that's heat tolerant.
Yeah, I'm going to do a bunch of lettuce next and just keep it going all year because I mean, we eat salad every day.
So yeah. So so a shade cloth in a misting system where it kicks on every once in a cycle and keeps that.
The root zone is really, I think, the biggest thing as far as these greens bolting.
The temperature in the root zone.
Yeah. I'm I'm pretty sure that's really the main aspect of what triggers that stuff.
Temperature trigger bolting in Brassica for the most part, too.
And again, it can be it can be things like I notice a huge difference in bolting time from stuff I start in a greenhouse and plugs and move out.
Right. So you've got you got that steady state and you set it out.
You got cold nights and hot days and versus the stuff that I direct seeded.
It takes a lot longer for it to get going in our cooler spring.
But once the severe heat hits, it's less fast to bolt.
It's you know, it's got that kind of like we were talking in the dry farm.
If you keep watering stuff, it doesn't actually transition and has a harder time making it.
So it's it's dealt with those temperature swings already and things like that.
So there's a different triggering mechanism.
You can add that kind of stuff can affect with cannabis and whatnot, too.
When you kind of stress a teen can affect it later on in the life cycle.
That's why I was kind of freaking this morning.
My tarp blew off in the middle of the night from the thunderstorm.
And I couldn't pull them back on because they're wet and you get friction.
But I have a bunch of stuff that's just in the first week or so of flip and further in your flip.
It doesn't matter as much, but right at the beginning, even the stable strain,
when you like your light cycle, it can cause issues.
And yeah, so that kind of stuff.
That's what I was talking about.
When you grow more things, you can you can see it and more things or what's going on.
You can see that bigger picture.
I'm just looking.
Are there any last comments?
No, this is great.
I haven't been able to teach this stuff.
This isn't something that there's not a whole lot of forums that get me excited on Facebook to go teach in this.
And that stuff I would throw out once in a while, for instance, in future cannabis project.
But sitting there at Farmer's Market, I did 17 years of Farmer's Markets between my artwork and vegetables.
And it's really, really, really rewarding to be able to teach this stuff to people.
And that's why I spent a lot of time at the market was just literally teaching and inspiring other folks and incubating a couple of other farmers.
You know, there's different kinds of cabbages.
Look for a winter cabbage.
I had excellent success this year with a generic all season cabbage.
And it's generally a smaller head.
But definitely at the transition point when it got really fucking hot early,
I was spraying them down three or four times a day and I had a frost cover over them with a crack in it to keep the blow through to keep that cooling down.
The cabbages actually for them to bolt need to head first.
I've never had any go up to flower.
They just kind of don't head or they don't end up bulk.
But they form head and the head cracks and then that floret comes out to the cracked head.
And I've actually got one going to do that right now in my garden.
You can cut cabbages.
If you cut them high, they'll regrow and you can get four or six or eight.
You can keep getting heads off of a cabbage plant if you keep cutting those heads properly and pay attention to it.
That's kind of exciting.
You can get a spring and summer and a fall head off of a single seed.
There's different but there's definitely there's these huge Dutch flat ones that need more cool temperatures and you plant them in the early or late spring and then they harvest them in late fall.
There's these ones that are any season.
There's spring cabbages.
There's overwintered cabbages.
Look at the seed offering and what its particular breeding point, what it was bred for when you're looking at these cabbages.
I struggle for them.
This year I had an amazing crop but I planted like 150 or more seed and then I probably got like 45 head.
After the plugs and all the bugs and all the issues.
This is Chris Guerrero.
That's a cilantro.
Nice.
An heirloom variety.
For me, one of the interesting things coming from New England, like Tyler was talking about it earlier, there's no winter.
Everything just keeps going.
One of the things I'm just trying to learn is when plants do what in SoCal.
It's very confusing.
For example, when does plant A flower?
Then throw off all the Asian, like the tatsoi and the choy sum and all that stuff.
If I had started it at a different time, would it have started flowering at a different time?
Those things are really temperature based more than anything.
Those are all mustards.
It's Nebraska's temperature regime.
You can figure out a shade cloth and misting system to keep those types of greens cooler.
I know people who produce cilantro for market here make a killing because nobody else has it.
In order to do that, they have a large hoop house that's shaded with misting and swamp cooler cranking through it the whole time to keep it down.
It's kind of neat though.
I experienced something in a local.
It was a production nursery.
They were putting out landscaping and retail.
I was walking around their facilities one day and just looking in the greenhouses to see how they were doing stuff.
They had a greenhouse that was set up on a slight angle.
There were pallets all over the floor.
It was really dark.
It was triple shaded in there.
I didn't like to really see.
They had ladies doing production line potting up for mini plugs flowers into four inch pots.
The thing I noticed most about there was everything was wet.
There was a passive breeze because of the slight angle of the greenhouse.
The floor door was large open on one end.
On the high end, on the far side, was an open space window.
It literally would suck air in.
It would act as a swamp cooler.
It shaded and cooled.
The wood floor was a cooler radiating coolness.
Any amount of heat that was there was blowing out that upper window.
There are definitely ways of manipulating and creating these micro climates.
The shade cloth for me makes a huge difference in prolonging, keeping plants from bolting or stretching out in the spring when the heat comes in.
It keeps the humidity up in those zones and regulates the temperatures.
It doesn't have the swings in the day and the night.
If you think about what your situation is and what you're trying to adapt towards,
there are different ways of pushing it.
Drier, hotter, cooler, warmer.
People use red underneath their tomatoes to reflect that red light up.
It can produce 2-5% and even 10% more tomatoes having that red underneath.
I've used paper mulching to make a difference.
Instead of black mulching or plastic.
All these different ways of manipulating things.
The way you really figure it out is to study what other people are doing, think about it, see what you have to work with, and apply it to your situation.
Observe the results.
Try it again and observe the results.
Try something else and observe the results.
Solve the equation.
I forgot that when my wife leaves the house, I can smoke weed at home.
Epic.
There's the rarity.
Nice.
Yeah, because she never leaves.
We never see you smoking on the show, but people are always in chat going,
Come on, Peter, take a break.
No, sometimes I run outside and then come back in.
All right, well, why don't we call it on that?
Cool.
Now that I am smoking and it's sunny out and my plants are outside.
I've got some work cycles to take care of too.
I don't think Chad has any.
I don't know if Chad left, but he hasn't said anything, so I don't think we have something tomorrow.
People were talking earlier with Gemma.
I do let her pop.
I try to gently move her around.
For example, this is milkweed and she wanted to plant it in this little...
I don't know if you can see it sprouted.
Yeah, barely.
Yeah, sort of.
Yeah, so I was like, not what I would have sprouted, but I was like,
I don't know if I would have sprouted.
I don't know if I would have sprouted.
I don't know if I would have sprouted.
Yeah, no.
So I was like, not what I would have sprouted it in,
because now I got to get it out of this thing at some point.
But she's happy.
Let it dry a little bit, enough to where it constricts down and then just kind of turn it,
reforce over and tap the edge.
I usually tip it over.
I try and put my fingers around the plant itself, right?
Where the plant's sticking through there and then the roots in this.
And then if you knock it out, you've got that root wall that doesn't hang out or whatever.
And actually, this is Mega Babe from Tyler.
So family tree seeds.
It's very satisfying.
But anyway, all right.
With that, thank you all for watching.
Steve, have you been here the whole time?
This is a guy we need to bring on, too.
So I will see if he's down to come on.
I've been calling my student Robin in Central California, she.
And it's Mr. Robin, not Ms.
What's Robin's last name?
Oh, fuck.
I'm sorry.
Right off the top here, I have to.
Just because there's a Robin in the chat.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Is that Robin?
I don't think that's the Robin.
I got it.
It's a Robin.
Yeah.
I'm so terrible with fucking names.
I have to look and check there.
It's.
Yeah, no, there.
But I did want to get on.
Possibly we do a homegrow show with Robin in Central Coast with the dry farm because it's the second year.
I'm following my advice and working with my genetics, doing that in this backyard in an extreme.
We have multiple Robins on today.
Excellent.
Excellent.
It is not any of them that you're talking about.
No, no.
But the the the thing, you know, it's Facebook or social media at all.
It's like I don't there's a little there's a little moniker and I don't know.
It's a pretty girl.
I don't know if that's the person or if that's some guy with a pretty girl for the face.
I don't know.
You know, you never know who you're really talking to behind that little avatar.
Well, actually, we could do a eclectic elegance.
Ask me if we've done anything on curing so we could do a curing conversation.
Sure.
Yeah, it's just popping into my head.
Yeah, that's that's going to be coming up soon here.
Excellent.
Cool.
Thanks, everyone, for learning with us today.
Appreciate you.
Grow on.
Thank you, everyone.
Have a good one.
Peace out.
