Hello everybody, we have some comments. Major General, hi everybody, hope you're doing well, looking forward to the show today.
Hey, I'm gonna pass you a moderator if you want to mod everybody else that automatically comes up onto the stage for me.
Brother, I appreciate that, while I set up the YouTube side.
Hello everybody, how are we doing? Hopefully you are well. I am currently ready to go and setting up the room in Clubhouse for another amazing conversation with Nick.
I'm super excited about this one and we're gonna have a deep dive into a ridiculously easy fucking subject.
So I'm really excited to jump into this and it's gonna be a fun one for sure.
So without any further ado, here is the start of the show.
Not as good as the first one.
Check, check, check, check, check.
I was able to hear you there and there was a little bit of feedback coming through as well.
That was so loud, so loud.
That officially means that I'm up and running. The initial echo of hell resumes means that my audio is coming through perfectly.
I'm gonna make the rest of you all a moderator. So I'm really excited.
Welcome Nick to today's awesome show. But like always, we like to just give a round of introductions to everybody.
Then I'll give a summary of the show. Hopefully everybody is doing well on the Future Cannabis Project side.
I'm really excited to jump into this subject.
But because we're gonna focus on you very heavily this evening, because you are our special guest Nick, I'm not gonna make you introduce yourself first.
We're gonna go through the rest of the panelists and come to you last.
So you can have a little bit more time and then we can start rolling into today's subject.
I'm sure everybody's really excited to get into this.
We've all been big fans and I'll plug your show on Thursday nights as well.
Make sure you come in at Thursday nights on 6pm PST to Future Cannabis Project Club to join Nick and Hota Herb on All Things Cannabis and Grow & Tell.
It's an awesome show, so don't miss out on that one. It's really important to check out these things.
There's an amazing community of people here to be involved in, so make sure to follow and do all the chats.
I'm gonna let everybody introduce themselves real quick.
Johnny, starting with you. Johnny, Ashley, Dr. Anna, Josh, Corey, Anita in the usual PTR order.
And then we'll get right into today's subject as people kind of pile in and get things rolling.
Thanks again Nick. Johnny, take it away.
Hey, good evening everybody. I'm Johnny Gilligan. I'm a cultivator at a one acre organic dry farm in middle Humboldt County.
Big fan of the cannabis plant. Big fan of the knowledge that everybody's going to drop on here.
Looking forward to Nick blowing my mind here. On to you, Ashley.
I feel the same exact way, Johnny. My name is Ashley Hubbard.
I am the Director of Cultivation for Foley Aeroponic Indoor Facility in Michigan.
I'm really excited about this topic. I'm sure as everybody else is, because there's a thousand ways you can grow.
And so really excited to learn how, you know, one of the most critical things can be used in everybody's growth style.
And that's nutrients. Anna?
Hey, everyone. I'm having technical issues. Am I coming through OK?
Sounds great.
Perfect. Yeah. So Dr. Anna Biss. I have a PhD in cannabis genetics, studying variation in the cannabis plant and how genetics and phenotypes and all that stuff works.
Background in population genetics.
Bachelor's in cellular and molecular biology.
Studied a shit ton of human anatomy and physiology, and I don't know a dick shit about plant nutrients.
I'm just here to listen. Josh.
Hey, everyone. I'm Josh Burke. I'm a grower, breeder and researcher. And currently, well, more recently, I've been getting back to my roots with making some hash.
Yeah. So all those things require cannabis that was grown with nutrients one way or the other.
So definitely interested to learn about what we can today.
Anita. Hi, everyone. I'm Anita. I am in the cannabis marketing sales part of the industry in Ontario, Canada.
For this, I get me too. I'm just here to learn. I'm an amateur grower. I grow my own medicine for.
I have a small license for my grow, but I'm loving all this learning and I'm really looking forward to applying it in the springtime.
Last summer, I had a lot of problems with nutrient lockout. So this topic, especially I'm super interested in.
So, yeah, looking forward to it. I don't know who's next because I don't have my screen here, but I got Corey up next.
Hey, everybody. My name is Corey Russell. I am currently over at Pier Sun Farms, which is the second largest cannabis greenhouse in the world, making our way to be the first largest.
I'm currently running the nursery over in that space for two point two million square feet.
Last year as a consultant, I went around through the United States, Colombia and Portugal, setting up indoor and greenhouse operations.
I hold a horticulture diploma and I am just, yeah, extremely excited to be here for this one.
This has been a topic of discussion, you know, especially working in the greenhouse space with people who have primarily a tomato background in tomatoes and other large scale vegetable crops.
It's really interesting, you know, pinging back and forth nutrient ideas and what they did for those and, you know, kind of how it's different with the cannabis plant.
So very excited to be here for that. I also, of course, host Resonate Radio podcast and we're broadcasting the Dank Hour live to YouTube as well.
So hello, resonators over there in the community. It's wonderful, as always, to see you.
And I'll be in the chat as soon as I get home and I'm out of traffic. So, Nick, I think it is on you now.
That's the last I checked as I'm driving. And as always, much love to everybody. It's good to see you all. Nick, let's rock and roll, brother.
Hey, everyone. It's good to see both familiar faces and meet some new folks.
And I'm the CEO of Rooted Leaf Agrotech. We're a manufacturer of carbon based fertilizers and we're making nutrients basically out of about four dozen species of plants.
And we're trying to isolate and identify some of the more interesting and biologically active molecules that are going to be interesting in the context of agriculture.
You know, how do we improve soil health? How do we improve plant performance? Things like that.
So, you know, there's a little bit of everything that we do that I'm excited to kind of share with you all tonight. So I'm definitely looking forward to it.
I am pumped and excited and we've all been talking about this one a little bit in the back chat for a bit.
You bring in a really interesting viewpoint and aspect that I think is really refreshing in this space.
So we're going to just get the ball rolling and I'm going to throw you under the giant bus with the big fat starter question.
And we'll start from there and explore this whole idea of what the fuck do plants eat and what do they consume exactly?
And maybe you can begin with kind of micro, macro nutrients.
Because we've had a few discussions now and you have a very interesting view at this.
So I'd love to just dive right into it and let you get rolling.
Yeah. And the way that I perceive macro and micronutrients is, you know, almost like intentionally disruptive in the sense that I want to challenge people to think a little bit differently about what plants are doing.
You know, if you look at photosynthesis as a process, the leaves are basically like giant solar panels that are capturing light energy.
And it's kind of, you know, the internal mechanics of the plant are converting that light energy into useful chemical energy.
And that useful chemical energy is sort of, you know, saved up kind of like a bank account.
And it's spent much like currency. You know, plants have a chemical currency.
And really what they're trying to do for the most part, if you look at it at the end of the day, by and large, the name of the game for them is to convert oxidized elements into reduced elements.
You see this happen with the conversion of CO2 from the air and its fully oxidized monomer form into things like monoturbines, which are C10H16.
So they're fully reduced. You could consider them to be polymers of carbon at that point because there's 10 units.
And the plants have to start off with just a single. So it sort of reflects the difference between reduction and oxidation chemistry.
And then same thing is true with nitrates. If you look at nitrates in the conversion process, they end up going from fully oxidized NO3 into fully reduced ammoniacal units that get plugged back into organic acid residues and carbon skeletons to make amino acids.
So that's at the point that they become biologically relevant. Sulfur, obviously no different. You start off with fully oxidized sulfate, end up with a thiol group inside of cysteine, which is the terminal metabolite at which sulfate reduction ceases.
And then from there, you have this transfer of cysteine to methionine and then maybe to glutathione.
And that thiol group can be converted into other molecules. It can be transferred to all the other molecules. And that's where you start to see some of this functionality.
So, you know, the point that I wanted to focus on today was when we're looking at these various elements, you know, think about your NPKs and your CalMAGs and things like that.
Those are tools that plants are just going to use to capture more carbon. And a lot of it does get complex, but a lot of it can also come back to something that's kind of simple to demonstrate, which is like, look, if your plants become deficient in nitrogen, the first thing you're going to notice is that the leaves yellow up.
Well, why are they yellowing up? Because your chlorophyll biosynthesis is starting to decrease. In other words, that's the first spot you would visually see a nitrogen deficiency is in that chlorophyll pigment.
You would also maybe see an invisible, you know, if you had CO2 sensors in the room, you'd see, for instance, that your plants don't metabolize CO2 out of there as fast.
And this is a reflection of a nitrogen deficiency affecting the rate of rubisco biosynthesis.
And rubisco is an enzyme that basically has one job and that job is to suck CO2 out of the air and convert it into a soluble sugar.
In cannabis plants, they follow C3 metabolism. So, you know, they're capable of producing these six carbon sugars that are quickly cleaved and they produce the three carbon more stable intermediates, hence the name C3 metabolism.
So, you know, there's a certain amount of energy that the plants have to sort of spend to process these elements.
And really what we're trying to do at the end of the day is dedicate the largest energy flux that the plant has from the light that it, you know, takes in from the lights, obviously, and then the water that it pulls up with the minerals.
We're trying to take all of the load off, you know, having to reduce things like nitrogen and sulfur and so on and so forth and give more of that reductive power towards the terpene and cannabinoid biosynthesis pathways.
Partially because those, you know, all of your monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes are about 90% carbon by weight.
And then all of your cannabinoids are going to be about 80% carbon by weight.
So, the availability of reduced carbon is definitely going to be one of the limiting factors as far as the biosynthetic pathways go.
And if you can eliminate that as a limiting obstacle or eliminating factor, you know, the nice thing about carbon is that there's hundreds of thousands of different metabolites that can be produced.
So, you really get a chance to see what the plants are truly capable of if they're given a resource pool that is basically unlimited forms of chemically reduced carbon.
So, yeah, I think I'll stop there and just kind of, you know, let other people hop in if someone's got a question or, yeah.
I think that's an excellent base point and aspect to look at, which is quite a bit different.
I know, Ashley, I'm going to call on you forward a little bit here.
You're using an interesting point and that I've always kind of wondered is like what creates the systems in which that speed this particular thing up?
I know we can get an increased rate of growth in things like aquaponics or hydroponics as well.
I know, Ashley, you work in aeroponics and you have quite an accelerated growth rate in the flowering space and quite a bit in the vegetative stage.
So, like, what does this provoke and thought wise for you when it comes to, you know, the plant sequestering carbon and having that as a macro nutrient?
Well, I think that that's a really, really interesting background on that.
But, you know, knowing and correct me if I'm wrong, Nick, but, you know, carbon, hydrogen and oxygen make up about 90 percent of your plant tissue.
So the fact that, you know, carbon is so essential to all of those processes makes a hell of a lot of sense.
But like for us and, you know, accelerated plant growth in our aeroponic system, you can definitely see just how fast they grow.
Now, I kind of correlate that to their, you know, endless supply of available oxygen at their roots.
But for us with our nutrient system, we actually can pre-plan grow plans that kind of dose things according to whatever we put, you know, put in that recipe.
But we just to make sure that everything is dialed in and to learn our strains and what they're asking for as far as their recipe, we do a lot of additional testing.
So I'll test my reservoir for actual contents on day one versus day seven so I can see actually what those strains are uptaking throughout the week.
And then we do some other analyses through analyzing exactly what our plant tissues have uptaken.
So we can kind of compare this is what our tables are dosing them.
This is what they're starting and finishing at.
So we can really try to make educated decisions on, you know, what each plant and cultivar, each strain, excuse me, is really asking for week by week in their process.
But it's still always really challenging.
You know, like I said, you know, there's a thousand ways that you can grow.
And for us, you know, we have this really cool ability to see exactly how the plants are eating through their EC graphs.
We get a data point charted every five seconds so we can really see the changes in what we're applying, you know, changes in room temps and all of that, how that affects nutrient uptake.
But it's a really interesting topic because, you know, nutrients are one of the nine things that plants need and, you know, they're all critical.
One of those things is out of whack and everything else is can't fully function as they could if it was all optimized.
So nutrients is always a really interesting one because, you know, in a big commercial facility, you want to grow good variety, but make sure that it suits you, your customers, all of that.
So dialing your nutrients is always a very, very, very important aspect to it because it also controls how much input you're putting into things.
Are you wasting nutrients? Making sure they're all balanced. So it's a really cool topic.
Awesome. So what, like, what is, because that's what the lowest denomination, denominating factor is the rate of which, you know, the most needed element is available at.
So what would be, you know, the nutrient that that regulates or is kind of the overall control factor? Is it oxygen? Is it carbon?
What element is it that kind of is the plant that prevents the plant or slows the plant's growth that we can never really get enough of?
Maybe it's carbon, as Nick was mentioning earlier. So does this, what would your thoughts be on it, Nick?
Carbon is one of those elements where it's kind of evident to see in the dry mass.
Like if you take the molecular weight of all the mono and sesquiterpenes and the cannabinoids and you kind of crunch the numbers, let's say you get some flour that tests around 30 to 35 percent total cannabinoids and above 5 percent terpenes.
You know, you're looking at somewhere about 33 percent of the dry weight of that is just a single element.
So you could take all of the nitrogen you ever fed the plant, all the phosphorus, all the potassium, calcium, magnesium.
You can take all of the micro and macronutrients. You can add them together.
You can multiply that number by five and you still have more carbon working its way into the dry mass of the plant.
And I'm talking about specifically for some of these crops like cannabis, whose quality is dictated by the availability of carbon as a substrate for plants to act on.
You know, as I mentioned earlier with nitrogen deficiencies, it's easy to see because the plants tell you right away that they're yellow and you can kind of walk in and visually see that right off the bat.
But on the flip side, you'd be hard pressed in certain cases to feel like your plants are deficient in carbon if you get test results back saying that you have, you know, three to four percent terpenes.
I mean, what's the sign? You know, how do you know if your plants are capable of producing 8 percent terpenes and 35 percent total cannabinoids in the same run?
That type of thing is only possible if you understand how carbon almost all the time happens to be a limiting factor for the production of terpenes and cannabinoids, especially with a system that's otherwise well dialed in where you have that reduction power going towards converting carbon and maybe less on processing nitrates or reducing sulfates or something like that.
You know, if you have your nitrogen to carbon ratio and you have your nitrogen to sulfur ratio and all of your cations in balance, too, you're going to have, you know, pretty good result overall.
And you can afford to do certain things like you can feed a little bit heavier overall on the amount of potassium that you give plants, you know, if you're exposing them to a higher CO2 load.
Because part of the thing that plants do to regulate the uptake of certain minerals like potassium, for instance, is use organic acids, which you can think about like just, you know, pools of stored energy in transitionary states.
You know, these organic acids are just kind of being shuttled across the plant throughout various pathways.
Some of them get funneled down into terminal metabolites, you know, through the phenylpropanoid pathway that makes cellulose, for instance, or fatty acids or things like that, you know.
But then on the flip side, you have the plant has the ability to turn like a valve, you know, where these pools of organic acids may be going to.
And in the instance of your transpiration stream being very high in salt and very low in carbon, the plant needs to buffer out what is otherwise going to be a very large, like electrochemical charge introduced to the plant all at once.
And so it treats carbon specifically in the form of these organic acids as a buffering compound, if you will, to kind of counterbalance a cationic mineral like potassium, for instance.
And that way it remains, you know, more or less balanced out. That charge balance is maintained in the plants and it's capable of, you know, doing a lot more with it.
And then as the night progresses, you know, as the lights turn off, for instance, and you have these valves kind of closing back in, like the citrate valve closes back into a more or less closed state, the plant sort of, you know, is able to process things like nitrates, which are counterbalanced against potassium, for instance, in some cases.
Or if you have organic acids present, you know, there's a lot of different pathways that start to open up metabolically for the plants to kind of, you know, let them do this stuff.
So, yeah, I would say that, you know, nine times out of 10, the availability of carbon and more specifically reduced, chemically reduced carbon.
This is, you know, not only something that defines plant activity in terms of what photosynthesis is and what plants are capable of doing.
I mean, there's over 70,000 different terpenes that are known and characterized so far.
So there's a remarkable degree of precision and efficiency that plants have at converting CO2 out of the air into some of these compounds, some of which have profound biological impacts, you know, on different kingdoms altogether, like the human nervous system, for instance.
So I think there's something to be said in the fact that those molecules have no NPK or CalMag or anything like that.
But rather on the flip side, they're almost entirely carbon by weight.
So it sort of stands to reason from a purely mechanical standpoint that if you put more carbon into the system, that the system will return to you more products that are mostly carbon by weight anyways.
And that's, I think, a good way of looking at holistically what plant nutrition is all about is how do I get more carbon inside of this?
And the answer to that, although complex, does revolve around learning how to balance carbon against some elements like nitrogen and potassium and calcium and magnesium.
And then the more that you look at these elements for what they are and what they're used for in plants, the more you realize that nitrogen is just a tool that plants use to capture more carbon.
Same thing with phosphorus, you know, in the form of phosphate sugars and nitrogen, obviously, you know, most of the nitrogen that you give your plants is going to get squeezed back out in the form of either chlorophyll or rubisco.
We're talking about over 50 percent of over the nitrogen that you could ever give your plants will basically be converted into tools that help the plant capture carbon.
And that's kind of specifically what they've, you know, evolved this perfect mechanism to do.
So there's a little bit of a story to be told about these macronutrients and how they fit into carbon metabolism.
And that's really the glue that kind of holds everything together as far as, you know, how the plants take up these elements, how they process them and how that ultimately impacts both primary and secondary metabolic pathways in plants.
So I'll pass that back, Mike, back to you, London.
Awesome. I'm playing a little bit with changing up kind of how the screen is done because we have the opportunity.
Nick has been gracious enough to hop on the YouTube side and be visibly available.
So I'm playing with that a little bit.
Thank you. You can see Nick trying to dodge.
If you guys want to see something really funny, you want to watch Nick dodge my branding when I throw it up, when I put it up there at the wrong page back.
It's fucking hilarious. But without segueing too much away from that, I wanted to touch on a word that we've said a lot here.
And I would love you to go into a little bit more of a breakdown and understanding of it in this term.
It's nitrogen. And maybe, you know, just a point of example, I got an awesome message here in the background before the show that it's just so on point for what we're discussing today from Potaherb.
And there was a 6,000 urge to evacuate as fertilizer plant fire threatens ammonium nitrate explosion.
Now, I mean, like, could you, I mean, this is terrible to make this thing, but this is a great opportunity to kind of discuss like this problem and factor that we have and our thought process and kind of clarifying what exactly ammonium nitrate is and how plants take it up.
Because I think we need to understand that better as a community and as a whole.
Yeah. So with respect to natural biological processes, the atmosphere that we live in on this planet is very rich in oxygen.
And as a result, you have, you know, aerobic microbes in the soil that tend to readily convert things into their most oxidized states.
This is no different with nitrogen. And although nitrogen does exist, it's sort of like, like I said, the first sort of biological process that we have in the world.
The biologically relevant forms of nitrogen are those forms which condense in with carbon skeletons to make amino acids.
Prior to that, all of the nitrogen that we're talking about exists more or less in a transitionary state.
And the transitionary state is, I think, where people can get kind of tripped up a little bit because you have all of these different sort of redox states that nitrogen can exist in, you know, like fully oxidized, like nitrates, for example.
Nitrates can get reduced eventually to ammoniacal form and it can get, you know, have in the form of NH3, it can be absorbed by the leaves and NH2.
And there's a bunch of different forms. And not only these different forms, but also a broad amount, broad pH range in particular.
Because you have the nitrates that are really soluble for the most part. Most of these mineral nitrates like calcium nitrate, magnesium nitrate, potassium nitrate, they're very, very soluble in water.
In a lot of ways, nitrates, it makes sense why they're, you know, more or less present.
But at the same time, I think there's a very good reason why plants have developed the kinds of mechanisms that they have, you know, over the period of time that they have specifically to process nitrates and to chemically reduce them.
So, you know, that being said, there are enzymes inside of plants that will absorb nitrates and then they will use whatever kind of chemical reduction power they generated through the data, then process those nitrates and fully reduce it.
This does require a large amount of energy expenditure. In fact, it's so great that this is one of the reasons that nitrogen represents a limiting factor for crop productivity, specifically the amount of energy that it takes.
In fact, it's so great that I think it has created this sort of, not to get into a side topic, but for C3 plants, there's this idea that rubisco because of photorespiration that it's a little bit inefficient.
And, you know, if you look on the back end in the wake of this misfire, what happens is that there's a little bit of malate that's forced out of the chloroplasts and it's basically metabolized into something that commits the reduction power necessary for nitrate reduction.
And so certain plants, C3 plants in particular, have evolved over time this way of taking up nitrates, which, you know, by and large in the environment, microbes in certain cases don't really take them up.
I think certain species of algae like chlorella and spirulina may only utilize nitrates in the absolute total absence of ammoniacal forms.
And then certainly once we get into plant-microbe relationships, like with rhizobia, for example, we're looking at, you know, these symbiotic relationships that have developed over time such that the plants, which are masters of carbon chemistry,
are up there scrubbing carbon out of the air and converting it into carbohydrates and specific types of sugars and phenolic compounds and flavonoids and so on and so forth.
And they're exchanging that with the microbes, which on the flip side have more or less developed their own sets of specialty tools to take nitrogen out of the air.
Maybe it's in the form of dinitrogen gas, for instance, or maybe it exists, you know, in a form that the microbes can somehow take it and then chemically convert it.
That presents a huge energy savings for the plant because instead of spending, I think it's something like 18 ATP to chemically reduce a nitrate into its ammoniacal form, that's a large amount of energy for the plant.
You know, so if there's a microbe that can come along and do it at a fraction of the overall cost and energy expenditure for the plant, then there's a good potential that a strong relationship can form.
And I think the interesting thing about nitrogen is, you know, you have entire genuses of microbes, in certain cases microorganisms, that have evolved in tandem with plants over a very, very long period of time to specifically exploit these dynamic relationships.
I think legumes are a great example of, you know, a species of plant that its own sort of internal carbon metabolism.
And if you look at like malate being one of the most accumulated organic acids in all legumes and how those malate residues work their way out through the roots and how they specifically participate in creating those carbon skeletons for the amino acids to be biosynthesized by the microbes and then passed back to the plant.
Or in some cases, it's just the ammoniacal forms, the head group itself comes in and it can kind of share the same uptake channels as a potassium.
So, yeah, you know, by and large, I think naturally speaking, plants have evolved.
C3 plants like cannabis have evolved certainly to process nitrates predominantly and they do a really good job of it.
That's the one thing that I think people who can be a little bit overly esoteric don't necessarily appreciate the actual mechanics, the nuts and bolts that are under the hood, the way that rubisco actually works as an enzyme.
Crazy enigmatic enzyme that has been the subject of debate for decades because researchers are, you know, some on the one hand, people are of the opinion that it's a slow turnover and, you know, has a very low turnover rate.
It's slow and it has dual specificity.
And so we need to genetically modify it and engineer it so that it's a little bit more like C4 plants, which have a sort of different mechanism altogether.
And then on the flip side, you know, guys like me are kind of looking in the wake on the back end of how some of these reactions occur and sort of what the benefits are for the plants.
And there's this, you know, very strong reason to suggest that nitrate metabolism is fundamentally tied to the way that C3 plants operate and specifically how rubisco works in oxygenation sometimes.
So, yeah, I hope that's a good place for us to start.
Can I ask a question?
Absolutely.
So earlier you mentioned, you know, kind of about thinking about, you know, nutrients not necessary as like macro or micro.
And so I kind of want to pinpoint that a little bit because of the current kind of in my journey where I'm kind of like fusing stoner science with real science.
You know, I've come across things like, you know, Mulder's chart, for example, right.
And so where I'm really like breaking down those, you know, antagonistic and stimulating relationships between them.
And so the thing that I'm not connecting right now that I would really love to have explained is kind of the in that sort of form is basically just kind of seeing this as carbon.
You know, is there something that we as cannabis growers are doing just kind of inherently that limits, you know, carbon?
And then ergo, you know, what do we have the ability to do that kind of change that?
And I'm kind of talking specifically, not kind of, I'm specifically talking about, you know, hydroponic settings where, you know, we're forced to use salts or, you know, and kind of make that balance of things work and kind of have that availability.
Because I was just, you know, I'm just going down the rabbit hole of ATP and, you know, understanding that availability and what the kind of magic of that is.
And, you know, I just kind of want to put that, you know, on a bookmark and see where this kind of fits into that whole role.
So, yeah, what can we, you know, do, you know, if I walked in tomorrow to my nursery, you know, and tried to address this problem of, you know, making sure that I do have, you know, kind of maximum carbon, you know, I guess availability.
Because I think uptake is the wrong word, you know, maximum availability of carbon to my plant.
How can I do that with a nutrition program in that kind of hydroponic setting?
Thanks, Nick.
Yeah, thanks. That's a good question there.
You know, I think that the internal mechanics of what I'm talking about are actually pretty easy to understand if you're just used to more or less what I would consider to be the traditional cultivation model.
And I've been around for a long time in the cannabis industry.
The sort of direction that I've seen most guys go in is that they end up with sealed flowering rooms where they dump a bunch of CO2 gas, high light intensity, and then a high EC fertilizer mix.
And so really what they're doing is they're providing minerals, they're providing carbon in the form of CO2.
Obviously, the water gets split and the water gets transpired and that goes through its metabolic processes.
And then you have a large amount of light intensity coming in to make that whole system work.
And so one of the things that professional cultivators find out real fast is that if you learn how to work with added CO2 levels, that you really do get an increase in yield and you get an increase in quality and it's noticeable.
I mean, it's noticeable enough for people to sink a lot of money into creating rooms that are sealed and have a whole bunch of air conditioners and dehumidifiers and all of these systems that otherwise are working against each other.
They try to create some harmony and balance to artificially create an environment where there's a large amount of CO2.
And I think to some extent, temperature regulation and humidity control and staying really in that VPD curve are sort of byproducts of it because I've never met anybody across the 10, 12 years that I've been doing this.
I've never met anybody that had a sealed flowering room without having added CO2.
Again, that added CO2 is a game changer.
So if you're looking at these individual elements as a professional grower, what I would say is create a chart, look at your light intensity, look at the EC going into the plants, look at the EC coming back out and obviously take measurement of the pH as well.
Because it's going to give you a good understanding of what kind of nutrient load your plants can turn over on a daily basis.
And then from there, I think what you're going to find is like, hey, when you up the light intensity, the plant starts to drink water a little bit more rapidly and that EC, whatever is built up in the medium, doesn't matter what kind of medium, even if you're in rockwool.
Let's say you have an EC of 2.0 coming out, 1000 ppm or so, you're going to notice that as the light intensity goes up, that the demand for mineral nutrients goes up too.
So the plants start to eat through that a lot faster.
And you can kind of play this game to try to figure out how intense can the lights get before the plants start to get burned.
On the flip side, you can do the same thing with the nutrients.
You can start to feed the plants more and more heavily.
And what you're going to find is that they have an increased appetite for more CO2 or they have an increased demand for more light intensity.
And as you adjust these variables, you realize that they're all in proportion to one another.
The electrical energy coming in from the lights is definitely hardwired and tapped into, directly fused to carbon metabolism.
So there's your lights and your CO2.
And then carbon metabolism depends on some of these elements that are coming up from the transpiration stream.
But again, those are just like enzymes and protein complexes that plants use to then, they're like gateways that allow large amounts of carbon through various metabolic processes that then ultimately store and sink that carbon.
Because it's used as the most abundant food source in all of nature.
I mean, glucose feeds microbes in the soil and is obviously beyond just simple sugars.
There's so many different compounds that plants produce that are useful for a remarkable variety of things.
So yeah, with that being said, I hope that answered the question.
How did you do, brother?
Corey, did he give you your answer?
I think that was pretty solid.
Yeah, and I don't mind going on a little bit further.
There's something about commercial cultivation that exposes the, sort of what I would perceive to be the weak sides of cannabis cultivation, which is all of the really expensive and high intensity operations at the end of the day are just,
they're systems that are designed to load the plants up with as much carbon as they can get.
And in a lot of cases, commercial producers may max out somewhere around 1500 to 2000 ppm CO2.
I know a guy that is pretty intense.
He goes up to about 3000 ppm of CO2.
Obviously, that's not normal.
That's not something that all commercial producers do.
But the point is ultimately that when you build these systems out, then you end up with low carbon coming in from the rhizosphere in the feedwater with high carbon that's fully oxidized being loaded in the air.
You end up with systems that more or less have the same physical constraints on them.
You just, you have to now worry about rubisco.
Like it's a mathematical operation.
You look at the density of rubisco on the leaf surface, and then you can calculate how much carbon would have to be loaded in terms of ppm saturation in the air.
And then what that turnover rate of rubisco looks like in terms of, you know, thermodynamic efficiencies and all this stuff.
I mean, it's possible to do, but the point is ultimately that you're in most cases putting the same limiting constraints on yourself as a commercial producer.
If you're not using something like a carbon-based fertilizer, you know, our full product line can basically deliver the equivalent of more than 3000 ppm of, you know, CO2.
And that's instead of being fully oxidized carbon, ours is chemically reduced and we're using it to make chelates that are native to plant metabolic pathways.
So they're indifferent.
They're impossible to, you know, a plant couldn't tell the difference between the calcium chelates that we make and some kind of compound that it would make to create a cell wall and it just needs calcium to plug into it.
So, you know, in other words, if you sort of learn how to speak the language of limiting factors for plants, you can kind of remove some of those obstacles.
And you realize the plants do sink a lot more into what are otherwise some pretty rare and conserved, you know, terpenes and flavonoids and esters and, you know, compounds like that.
You just basically get more out of the plants overall.
Awesome. Now, I think, Corey, if you're there, I know it takes you a little bit to get to your mic because it can be a little bit funky when you're working two devices, but you're also driving.
So that could be a factor too.
So we'll give that a little bit of a break.
Now, I just wanted to jump over to Josh and ask you a little bit about kind of how carbon plays into your system as you've been jumping from a salt based system into organic living soil system.
This change of dynamic and how you look at things can be very adaptive.
And I'd love to hear a little bit of your insight in that and how this play in and discussion on carbon might factor in to how you develop your growth.
Well, I've always kind of paid attention to the limiting factors and I grow and have always kind of described it as, you know, making a pizza.
And if you don't have enough pepperoni, for example, you can only make so many pizzas and plants can only make so much blood or pizza is you give it ingredients.
I never really looked at carbon itself as a nutrient source, but I have with going over to the organic started using amino acids like soy based amino acids.
It might grow quite a bit.
So I mean, they're packed full with carbon.
So I feel like that's probably kind of helping tip that balance.
I am, you know, when I'm growing organically, I'm growing at home.
So I am in a small home environment where adding carbon is not really that easy to do in an effective way.
And I know you can have little bags and stuff, but actually bring that CO2 level up.
It's just basically sucking it out with the exhaust fan.
But, yeah, so, you know, I think it'd be very interesting to see different sources of carbon based nutrients like that.
You're just using different chelates to be able to introduce that carbon into the soil.
Yeah. Yeah. And, you know, like we were talking about earlier, carbon as a substrate is the sort of the bread and butter of what terpenes and cannabinoids are made out of.
And it just seems like, you know, in most production environments, you end up with a slippery slope if you're in a sealed flowering room and you end up trying to figure out how high can you go.
Eventually, you're going to run into dehumidification capacity as your limiting factor is how quickly can you remove, you know, the water that you're putting into your plants.
The thing about carbon chemistry versus, let's just say the non-carbon chemistry and organic chemistry, the more basic elements like the NPKs and the calcium and magnesium, those behave in a lot more predictable ways.
They're a little bit more straightforward with each other.
The thing about carbon is that it's like once we start talking about carbon chemistry and organic chemistry, it's like opening a Pandora's box.
I mean, there's so many instances where it's like the rules are one way, but not quite the other way another time.
And then this third way, there's another modification of the plans to and, you know, so on and so forth.
So I think it's very easy to kind of, or it can be very easy to get lost in the conversations regarding like specifically how, you know, organic versus more traditional or salt-based approaches would work.
The carbon-based approach, you know, that we're taking is one that specifically our chelates are less than 10 carbon units long, 10 carbon atoms.
And these are ultra low molecular weight, and they're freely capable of passing across cell walls.
And they represent stored forms of energy like these organic acids, for instance, that happen to fit into basically every single pathway.
I mean, the very first dedicated step to terpene biosynthesis requires the chelating agent that we use to make our cow maggots, basically, you know, acetyl coenzyme A.
So we have acetate residues that are the byproduct of fermentation science.
You know, we're using orange peels, we're using stevia leaves, and we've got some other plants in the mix.
But these plants are contributing the types of compounds that, you know, make the chelation chemistry very native to plant biology overall.
So the, you know, if you feed your plants calcium nitrate, for instance, versus our calcium chelate, the calcium chelate we make is going to be something that provides the plants with a net energy gain, because they don't have to process it whatsoever.
They can just quite literally take it up passively and plug it into whatever metabolic pathway they want.
They can even continue to, you know, break it down in certain cases, and they can export the breakdown of those products into other pathways immediately.
And oftentimes there's like diffusion limited enzymes, for instance, involved in the mix.
So the breakdown takes no time at all.
It's almost so fast that it would, in certain cases, seem to violate the laws of physics.
But, you know, the whole point here is like plants spend time and energy reducing carbon.
This is clear because they soak up a lot of energy from the light, and it costs a lot of money to keep these facilities open and running.
So the amount of energy is extremely intense, and a lot of it comes down to, well, how much carbon do the plant get across its lifespan?
Because that is going to be directly proportionate to how many terpenes and how many cannabinoids were produced and how large that yield was, which is going to, you know, inform the business owner of if he has a viable business or not.
So ultimately, at the end of the day, finding ways to sink more carbon into your plants is the name, and, you know, it's the name of the game for every producer.
And if you can find ways to feed your plants chemically reduced carbon, then you're going to effectively do the same work that they were doing.
You're just going to do it for them, and you're going to provide them with an energy source for free.
So, you know, practically speaking, I would say, you know, the best advice is to try to figure out how to, you know, feed your soil and always understand that the microbes and the fungi participate in this process of, you know, accepting carbon and passing back carbon.
You know, like siderophores are a good example of microbe-chelated flavors of iron that also happen to be organic acid residues, too.
So there's all of these, like everywhere you turn and go, you see the fingerprint of carbon chemistry is involved in everything that plants are trying to achieve.
And, you know, you need no better example of, again, with the nitrogen, it's useless until it meets carbon in the form of an amino acid.
And then from there, you have endless possibilities, technically, within plants.
So, yeah, that being said, I'll pass the mic back to you, Elamit.
Awesome. Well, you know, if, I'll just use your mic if anybody has a follow-up to that one, and I'll let you guys go into that.
But before we, because I really wanted to jump into, like, kind of your product line and what you do specifically, because as much information as you put out there on a very regular basis on Hota Herb and tonight on this channel, I think we should talk a little bit about your products.
Because they're fucking cool and it gives you an opportunity to chat about them because they're probably the newest nutrients I've ever really heard of.
But there's something that I want to just get you to touch on before we go into that direction.
And it's a term I'm not super comfortable or knowledgeable in.
And I would love to know a little bit more about is the Rabisco systems in plants.
Like, I've heard this term thrown around a bit before. I'm sure there's a couple of people, like, even in the chat now, they're like, what are you talking about? You haven't heard about Rabisco?
It's not something or a term that I'm familiar with. So, could you laymanize this process a little bit?
You know, you could throw a metaphor in there if you want, but I think it would be helpful for everybody in general.
Yeah, Rabisco, it's the most abundant protein on earth by far. And it only has one job.
And that job is to take CO2 out of the air and to allow it to basically be smashed into a variety of different flavors of sugar, if you will.
And those flavors kind of represent the distinctions or the differences between the various types of plants.
Like C3 plants, for instance, C4 plants, and then plants like CAM plants.
They're more or less differentiated by how they effectively smash the CO2 out of the air and transform it into a sugar.
With C3 plants like cannabis, there's a six-carbon sugar that's pretty unstable that once it's formed, it kind of breaks down into these two three-carbon sugars, hence the term C3 pathway.
There's a cycle that's involved where, again, with the valves that open and close in terms of carbon metabolism, nitrogen metabolism with plants,
plants have to be aware of how energy flows within them in order to process various elements.
Because suppose, for example, the plant had a deficiency in some organic acid or some carbon skeletons, and it couldn't make an amino acid.
And it instead diverted reduction power away from creating that organic acid to reducing nitrate into an aminoical form.
Well, at the terminal end of that, that aminoical head has nowhere to plug into.
So the plant just made like this oopsie-daisy moment, and that doesn't happen.
These systems are so tightly regulated with one another, they're constantly passing information back and forth.
It's like two wheels connected on an axle.
You can't separate nitrate reduction and or nitrogen metabolism in general away from carbon metabolism.
So, yeah.
Can you ask your question one more time real quick?
Because I feel like I had some very specific answer that seems to escape me right now, but maybe I'll jog my memory.
It was more of like a what the fuck's Rubisco type of question.
Like, how can we laymanize it for the person that is just like maybe listening in and taking their first dive deep into it and where to kind of learn on that?
But I think you touched that pretty good.
Yeah, you know, Rubisco participates in cycles just like so many other things in plants.
And there's a regeneration step that I wanted to, now that you mentioned that, I kind of jogged my memory.
There's a regeneration of Rubisco step that I kind of want to highlight here because it seems to me this very interesting property that's often overlooked of beneficial fungi, or bruscular mycorrhizal fungi.
You know, they can help alleviate phosphorus deficiencies in plants and they can help certainly increase the overall phosphorus metabolism in plants.
And, you know, the sort of interesting connective tissue there is that during this regeneration phase where the phosphate sugar that accepts the CO2 molecules through Rubisco,
the regeneration of that phosphate sugar is specifically what the bruscular mycorrhizal fungi can help achieve.
Because if that regeneration is really slow, then the export of sugars to become fatty acids to the fungi is decreased.
And so these fungi in certain cases have figured out a really, really good way to exploit what is otherwise a rate limiting step.
In other words, if they can pass more phosphorus and get that plant to use it to regenerate that ribulose phosphate sugar into that Rubisco cycle,
then they're going to end up with more additional sugars for themselves.
And like 20 to 25% of all the carbon that's photosynthetically reduced can actually end up going to microbes and fungi in the soil specifically
for reasons like that.
So I wanted to bring that up because it's an interesting little topic that, again, I think that people who appreciate AMF and beneficial fungi can now have some connective tissue to understand how the phosphorus system actually works in plants.
Awesome. Now, I did want to touch on something that I think is really interesting.
I think we've mentioned it. I don't know if we mentioned it in the show today or in the show or earlier when we had the quick live and we're talking.
But we're chatting a little bit. Oh, shit. I've totally faded on it.
But I have my other subject, which is foliar feeding.
Now, we often think about plants in a way of what actually, yes, no, I got it back.
Thank God. Thank God.
Anyways, so Dr. Anubis, I'm going to call over to you on this one.
And maybe I'm throwing you under a bus with a question, but we'll see.
So as our resident geneticist and DNA expert, I wanted to just throw out like kind of what's your take on carbon in when it comes to kind of the elements of these type of things.
And if you have a point of reference for that, maybe you do, maybe you don't.
I look forward to always hearing from you.
Go ahead, Dr. Anubis.
LOL.
So here's my wonderful answer.
Carbon is a molecule that is part of the DNA molecule.
No, honestly, I have no fucking idea.
Nutrient uptake in plants is not my...
I don't fucking know.
This whole conversation is like, what?
I don't even get it.
It's over my head.
It's really intense.
I ain't got nothing for you.
Oh, good.
My more question was kind of like, carbon is like we're all stacks of hydrocarbons, essentially what DNA is made up of.
So I thought it might be a good spin off.
But yeah, we appreciate it.
I mean, yeah, I mean, carbon is part of a DNA molecule, but.
It's part of the building block of, I mean, it's one of the essential building blocks of life.
You need carbon and nitrogen to make all the molecules in your body, in the amino acids and the proteins.
But honestly, the way that it gets from the outside of the thing to the inside of the thing, to the amino acids and the DNA molecules, like I am very weak on how all of that happens.
Which is why it's awesome to have Nick here for a visit.
We call it magic.
Or, um, I don't know, biochemistry, physiology.
Yeah, there's lots of, but not genetics.
Thank you, Dr. Adet.
So I'm going to do this because I think we're at an interesting point here.
We usually come around to about an hour, then we start offering people to come up and ask questions.
We'd like to kind of focus.
So we are ready in the hour mark.
So if you are interested in coming up and joining the conversation or in a future cannabis project and want to come over and join the conversation, go ahead and do so.
And come up with your questions, no matter how deep or how light they are.
I'm sure we're going to try and dig into them and probably at least try and over answer one of them.
But I think we're going to do a great job of really trying to bring the best we can to everybody today.
So hopefully you're enjoying that.
So I did see a question in the chat that was in reference to kind of what we were talking about a moment ago.
So I did want to take the opportunity.
Now, you did answer it in chat, but I think it's relative to some of the other people that might be listening here.
And again, if you are in the audience and you're tuning in, make sure to follow and like all these people.
They're fantastic minds in the cannabis space.
Every single one of them works very hard to help drive the community forward in general.
So please, please, please, like, follow, do all the jazz because they appreciate it.
Now, Nick, here's the big question that we're throwing out there.
Now, if any of the other speakers want to jump into, don't hesitate as well.
In salt hydroponics, do plants take carbon only from the leaves?
I don't see where the roots would be, where they would find available carbon.
So, Nick, you're on the hot seat.
I think that was interesting as a point of reference.
Was that the actual question?
Yes, it was.
Yes, there you go.
Yeah.
So, you know, like in natural systems, plants do excrete organic acids out of the roots.
And some of these organic acids do things like help the plants find additional nutrients.
You know, it's very understood, for example, how metabolites coming out of the citric acid cycle in plants can participate in phosphorus dislodging in the soils.
So what happens is if there's a need for phosphorus that the plant can't fulfill, one of the first things that it starts to do is produce certain flavors of organic acids that can be secreted by the roots.
And these organic acids, you know, have a slightly stronger what's called a stability constant, like the binding power.
You know, how strong of an attraction are we talking about here?
Well, citric acid can attract certain minerals like calcium, for example, that would otherwise adversely, you know, tie up with, say, phosphorus, for example.
And so phosphorus is effectively displaced.
There's no actual physical interaction between these anions like these organic acid residues that are secreted from root hairs and phosphorus itself.
It's rather that the phosphate group becomes the bond that holds it, you know, away from the plant roots in an insoluble form.
That bond itself is physically acted on.
The stability constant of citric acid, for example, is greater than most of the forms that you may find in the soil where phosphorus is tied up and locked out.
And therefore, the plants have this evolutionary tool, this advantage, this carbon based mechanism for increasing the availability of nutrients.
Now, so having said that, in a commercial environment, if you're running grain to waste and none of the water gets recirculated and the plants don't really have a chance to interact with their own metabolites that are coming out of the roots that, you know, typically function to make nutrients available for the plants,
then really what you're doing is you're depending on getting to a spot where all of those elements are soluble.
You know, you're talking about something like highly soluble salts.
And in a lot of cases, these are already the name of the game for indoor producers.
They're already following these methodologies of using just straight salts with no additional carbon.
So that's not to say that the plants will not absorb carbon from the roots, because, again, they've developed these evolutionary tactics and mechanisms across millions and millions of years.
They're not going to get bred out overnight in cannabis plants.
And then, you know, I guess on the flip side, too, you know, when you allow for some of these natural metabolic processes to occur, really what you find is that the plants do a remarkable job of recycling certain types of nutrients like phosphorus, for example.
And there's even to some extent evidence that proves pretty conclusively that potassium, highly mobile like it is for the plants, does get recycled at the rate of about 50 percent.
And then, you know, to some extent, like I mentioned earlier, some of these organic acids that are produced as intermediates of carbon metabolism in the plant, those can exist to buffer what is otherwise a very high load of minerals coming in from, you know, the feed water.
So if you're a commercial producer and you're feeding just salt-based fertilizer, let's say one of your guys, instead of feeding an ECF 2.0, he feeds an ECF 3.0.
You may say to yourself, oh, crap, the plants are going to get burned.
But what you could do is crank up the CO2 on those plants, up the light intensity, and the equation will balance itself out.
That high EC will only burn the plants if there's no carbon to buffer out the change.
And if that carbon does not come in fast enough as a result of the light intensity not being high enough, then you're going to catch up with these limiting factors and they'll start to, you know, create some pretty damaging effects within the plants.
But there are ways, there are these tools that you can use, you know, specifically as a sort of carbon as a buffer against everything else.
So, yeah.
Yeah, I hope that answers the question.
Hey, Nick, I have a kind of a simple question, I suppose.
It has to do with just water and the necessity of it to make these nutrients available in the root zone.
Something that I've noticed using living soil systems is even if the plant is seemingly hydrated, as in it's not wilting, it looks, you know, fine, having kind of nutrient issues stemming from the fact that the media is too dry out and making some of those nutrients kind of seemingly locked into place in the soil where they're at.
And kind of if you could give a little bit of a rundown on that.
Yeah, and I think part of a good way to think about it is one of the functions of the root system is to dehydrate whatever medium they're in.
I like to use the soil term because it comes to me naturally.
So, but just know that when I say soil, what I really just refer to is either the rhizosphere or whatever medium the roots are growing in.
So that being said, the function, one function of the roots is to dehydrate the soil that they're in.
And so if you put a nutrient solution that has a fixed volume, let's say you make up your feed water mix and you know that each plant at this stage in its life, it's drinking about half a gallon per plant every day pretty consistently.
You know the concentration of nutrients in that volume of water, but as the roots effectively dehydrate the soil, that volume of water goes down.
And part of what I think happens is the sort of the chemistries that happen in the soil or the medium, those as the volume of water goes down, the likelihood that salt formation kind of goes up is proportionate to one another.
You know, the less water you have, obviously the higher the likelihood of forming some kind of insoluble precipitants because where's all the water?
There's no water there.
So of course they're going to be, if there's anything that's kind of left behind, you know, it's going to get caught and filtered out by the media.
You know, there's chemical interactions.
In some cases, there's physical interactions that occur.
There's some microscopic interactions.
Like if you have a living soil that's very rich in organic matter, you may have some of these functional groups in the humic substances that function to kind of catch and strip minerals and chelate them and to make them a little bit more available.
And in other cases, if you've got some heavy metals or stuff that maybe you don't want, some of these same organic complexes can kind of, you know, scaffold around and fold around these heavy metals and thereby render them unavailable for plants.
This is more or less specifically how humic acids work to help kind of detoxify soils and prevent plants from being adversely affected by heavy metals and things like that.
So, you know, part of it is just the way that nutrients flow in terms of like through, obviously, you know, plants have to have soluble forms of nutrition.
And then once that transpiration stream works its way up, they have all these, you know, enzymes that have been perfected and developed over time that function to convert, you know, these elements from whatever form they're naturally present in the soils into the ones that are most relevant for the biological processes of plants.
And again, there's a super supercomputer, a quantum brain on the back end of these plants that understands that light energy as it comes in from the sun.
There are very specific processes where that light energy gets partitioned to carbon reduction, nitrogen reduction, sulfate reduction.
You know, that's where cysteine, that beautiful amino acid kind of comes in and represents that convergent point of nitrate, sulfate and carbon reduction.
It's a very interesting amino acid for that reason specifically.
But yeah, I hope that answered the question.
Yes, it did. Thank you very much, Nick. Appreciate it.
Awesome. Well, I did want to take a moment as we're going to get on to a little bit of what your offerings are from your company in a second.
Go ahead and if you're enjoying the conversation so far, make sure to click the link and check out what's going on there.
But I just want to say, pot talk. Welcome to the stage.
Do you have a question, comment or concern for today for our experts?
Question. Yes.
I'm a licensed producer processor in Washington state.
My business is producing and selling clones and feminized seeds.
I aspire to one day in the future be able to sell every plant out of our farm from a seed start.
And and I'm Nick, your vernacular is mind blowing.
I'm a business major, so I'll have to go back and read the site for everything you spoke about 15, 20 minutes.
But I guess my question is, do an observations of starting plants from seeds.
This is in reference to nutrient update starting plants from seed versus clones.
Through observation, we're noticing that a start from seed plant outgrows a clone almost like by three to one.
And like to give a more direct example, we could take a clone, that's it outside for two months, put a seed in the ground.
And within a month, that from seed plant will outgrow.
That clone plant and what we also notice is.
A from seed plant has a hollow stock, if you will, we refer to it as an evaporative chamber, forget about the lack of industry,
technology returns for it, but has this open core to it or versus a clone does not.
So what does that have to do or if anything, with the nutrient uptake and the plants yield and growth and over?
It helps seems to be an overall benefit as well.
Well, you know, interestingly enough, we're also in Washington state, so let's make it a point to connect on the back end.
After this conversation, our manufacturing plant is in Arlington.
I know what you're talking about and you know what I will say without getting too far into the genetic side of it,
because a lot of the stuff, honestly, it's a little bit speculative and hypothetical as far as what's actually going on at the end of the day.
But specifically to that hollow stem thing, I've always or for the most part, looked at hollow stems like that to be an indication of slightly disbalanced growth in the sense that a normal and very healthy plant, in my opinion, should have some pith.
And because that pith itself has a pretty special function in plants, it can it can sort of act like a great big giant sponge that helps the plants hold on to a significantly larger volume.
Volume of water during times of dehydration and then also more metabolites from carbon metabolism throughout the day can get sunk back into the pith and it can actually function like a store for reducing equivalents that can be used to neutralize those minerals coming up from the transpiration stream.
Because, again, I mean, think about plants like they're just giant calculators and supercomputers.
They're always just trying to create balance in their dynamic. That's the one thing they're always trying to pursue.
They don't have the luxury of, you know, being able to stand up and walk away if they don't like how much phosphorus they have in the soil or if they don't like how hot it is or if, you know, the angle of the sun just doesn't do it for them.
They don't have a choice. They have to deal with it. Otherwise, they're going to die.
And so they have these tools that they've developed over time to allow them to adapt to their circumstances.
And so this is one of the things that the plants can kind of adapt to is if they're really efficient during the day, they can store that carbon in the stocks.
You find that actually kind of is an analogy, I'll say, not as a specific translational thing, but I'm going to say as an analogy, C4 plants like sugar cane are so efficient at carbon metabolism that you could quite literally juice the stocks.
And there's so much sugar you can drink that cane juice.
And you're going to be like, wow, there's a lot of sugar here. So they just happen to be ridiculously efficient carbon pumps.
You know, they create a bunch of sugar and they transport that sugar back down into the roots.
And during that process, you can harvest the sugar cane at the right time, juice it and drink it.
This is how we basically want to make our cannabis plants operate.
We want them to be so efficient at metabolizing carbon that they can sink a lot of that carbon back into the form and flavor of, you know, their specific choice.
And cannabis plants happen to be masters of terpeno-phenolic chemistry.
They take, you know, a branch of the terpene pathway and a branch of the phenylpropanoid pathway and they make a nice little biochemical sandwich.
And that's what cannabinoids are. They're half terpenes and half phenolic compounds.
So this class of terpeno-phenolic compounds is something cannabis plants really specialize in.
And I mean, if you just think about like the, just think about how much weight actually goes into filling those trichrome heads, you know, it's at this point, I think even something that tests at 25% total cannabinoids is no one's going to question that.
But then just hold on a second and think to yourself, well, that's 25% of the weight of the flowers.
25% of the weight of the flowers is concentrated in something that's a head.
That's the size of basically on the end that would fit on the end of a pin.
You know, the rest of the flower is like fluff, it's baggage, it's styrofoam that's along for the ride.
Most of the, you know, the magic sauce and the wizard juice to use a familiar term, most of that stuff gets concentrated in the resinous trichrome heads.
And so there's a massive amount of carbon that's sunk.
I mean, it can define a third of the weight of the plant and it can appear so small that you need like a pocket microscope to actually be able to look in on the inside and see what's going on.
You know, think about it like a size to density ratio. This is incredible stuff that we're talking about here.
And again, as I mentioned, cannabis plants happen to be masters of these terpeneo phenolic pathways.
The one ubiquitous thing across all of these compounds is that they require a massive draw of carbon into the plants.
Massive, absolutely massive draw of carbon into the plants.
And that's specifically why if you're in a sealed flowering room, you can crank up that CO2 and watch your plants make more terpenes and make more cannabinoids.
It is a mechanical system like that. But along with that mechanical system comes this understanding that there's other processes that power it, like the light energy, you know, from the light being converted into chemical energy and then that chemical energy being funneled down the correct pathways.
Throughout the lifespan of the plant, there are certain things that you can introduce them to that will sort of upregulate the genetic expression of certain enzymes that are associated with certain types of activity, for example.
You know, like introducing your plants to seed plant extracts, for example, is a good way to elicit certain types of activity out of their genotype that may otherwise be a little bit more muted and a little bit more suppressed had they not been exposed to some of these, you know, broader metabolites that come out of a wider variety of sources.
Rather than just something like a, you know, 1226-32 bagged salt, you know, that just doesn't really have any flavor of carbon, so to speak, inside of it.
So, yeah, I hope that answered your question there. And definitely let's connect on the back end. Send me a message on Instagram.
For sure, we'll do. Yeah, we're in Buckley just filling up. Yeah, we'll do for sure.
Hey, Nick, have you ever heard the hollow stem phenomenon being linked to a boron deficiency? That is something I've heard in the last few months that it tends to show a boron deficiency in like a leaf tissue analysis along with the hollow stem frequently.
You know if there's any merit to that?
I would say generally speaking, as far as limiting factors go for the biosynthesis of that pith, I would say, yeah, the bulk of that material is going to be made up of carbon anyway.
So, again, it's like the carbon is both the mechanical thing that we're looking for and also that chemical thing we have to constantly process.
So, if you're looking at boron as an element, boron is not going to be an element that plants take up in such a large quantity that it would inform the physical structure of that pith.
It may be involved to some extent in the biosynthetic reactions that are involved in making that.
But even that, I would say that the extent to which boron could be involved in something like that, I don't know.
I don't know if I can see it as great of it just being an indication that it's a physical deficiency of carbon.
It's one of those things where you can look and there's a visual characteristic of it.
Much like if you're deficient in nitrogen, you can look at your leaves because they're going to be yellow.
And if it's not the nitrogen, it's the magnesium. And if it's not that, then sulfur.
And let's just say eventually you realize to kind of build this connective tissue visually to say, hey, I've seen that before.
I've seen that in my garden. That looks like a potassium deficiency.
Let me check and see what the transpiration rates are like.
And you notice, hey, the plants are drinking less water or they're drinking less rapidly than usual.
And it looks like I have the early signs of potassium deficiency in the leaves.
Eventually you start to build these kind of visual patterns and you can kind of recognize deficiencies.
But having said that, boron is one of those that it's required in such small amounts that maybe it'd be a little bit more difficult to see such a large manifestation occur as a result of what is otherwise going to probably be a pretty small deficiency overall.
I would say it could contribute greatly to it, but it would not be the make or break element if that helps.
Does it, Johnny?
Yes, it does. And, you know, another thing that, don't quote me on this and correct me if I'm wrong, but that boron and calcium, they have some kind of complex interplay.
And that was kind of what the person who made this post was kind of getting at, that the boron deficiency led to a calcium deficiency, which had this manifestation of hollow stems and they had noticed it quite frequently.
So, but yes, it does. And yeah, definitely. Thank you for clearing that up.
Definitely. I wanted to ask with you, Nick, because I, you know, I kind of treat you as an authority on this type of stuff.
Yeah. And what I will say, too, is that a lot of times you have, you know, you have these elements that interact in very interesting ways with each other.
So as you start to experience deficiencies of one element, you do start to experience deficiencies in other elements because they're tied together.
I mean, just as one kind of professional example, we learned with our CalMag fuel that the six to one ratio of calcium to magnesium is actually really important.
And when we remove magnesium, the efficiency of the calcium response actually goes down.
And part of what we learned was that that calcium response that we want the plants to have requires some phosphorylation activity on an enzymatic level.
And, you know, I believe someone here mentioned that they were getting into ATP earlier.
And this is one of those things where there's actually no such thing as ATP. It's actually magnesium ATP.
And so you need magnesium for the phosphorylation types of events that occur within plants in response to being exposed to soluble forms of calcium that can kind of plug into these calcium signaling pathways.
So it is kind of a very complex response where everything does come together.
And in a lot of cases, you know, as you mentioned, if the calcium is tied to boron, for example, and you have a boron deficiency, then you can have a structural deficiency in the calcium.
And if you have the calcium deficiency, your carbon metabolism starts to get all wonky and out of balance.
And so you have this sort of chain reaction that occurs where, you know, a small deficiency in a micronutrient can actually create a big problem at the end of that biosynthetic pathway where the plant needs something that it can't otherwise get.
So, yeah, with respect to that, I will say that, you know, some of these micronutrients are very, very important, but they're also important in small amounts because they regulate a small amount of enzymes.
But again, they're still critical.
Awesome. Well, I would like to throw this out there. And I think this is actually a good segue because you mentioned calcium and magnesium.
And I think you have a really... we spoke the other day.
Sorry guys, I just had to talk now. I'm like struggling to talk. Thank you, Nick, for conversing so I could do that.
But I wanted to ask about your CalMag product because it's one of those things that everybody just throws into their system. It's something that's always present.
Everybody's using it. And I think you have a really interesting one. So would you be open to talking about that here with us today?
Yeah, yeah. Our CalMag product, you know, it's very interesting. I think it's kind of unique on the market in the sense that it's the only CalMag that I've seen that has no nitrates, no phosphates, no sulfates, no carbonates, no animal products inside of it.
It's more or less a plant-derived, plant and fermentation chemistry-derived calcium and magnesium supplement.
And the two chelates themselves that we're making are designed with respect to how plants would naturally take calcium.
And like when we're looking at certain things, as I mentioned earlier with nitrogen, for example, you know, you look at most of the nitrogen sinks in plants.
And I know that, you know, amino acids, this and proteins, that, but at the end of the day, over half of the nitrogen you give your plants is going to go into two protein complexes.
It's going to chlorophyll and it's going to be rubisco. So the moment you have a nitrogen deficiency, that's the places where you're going to start to realize it.
So, you know, it's kind of one of those things where you have to look with respect to where a particular element is going to get diverted and what's its main role going to be.
So, you know, as a fertilizer manufacturer, obviously we've got guys that run LED lights and very, very high intensity setups.
And one of the things we learned a very long time ago was that plants grown under LED lights have this inherently higher appetite for calcium.
And it specifically goes into, you know, as a constituent of the cell walls, for example, even to some extent, it can help with the types of signaling cascades that are required for trichome biosynthesis.
Even in the early stages of veg, you can get resinous trichome production. We've seen it happen with plants a couple of times, but that seems to be a function of calcium.
And, you know, what we're doing basically is trying to find these, you know, based on the understandings of plants and how they naturally metabolize elements,
we're trying to take the natural chemistries that are either found within the soils that represent these symbiotic relationships between plants and microbes,
because a lot of times they represent the most chemically efficient and thermodynamically efficient ways of converting elements that are otherwise useless and irrelevant to plants
into something that is utterly essential and required, like nitrogen and nucleic acid biosynthesis, for example.
You know, there's a conversion or phosphorus in the form of a phosphate salt or in the form of a phospholipid bilayer.
That's a cell wall, you know, there's a remarkable differences between the two of them.
So the idea is basically to allow for the conversion of these elements, you know, with the chelates that we're making into something that's fundamental and relevant to the throughput of that particular element.
So, you know, if I gave plants calcium nitrate, for instance, the amount of enzymes involved in breaking down that calcium nitrate and transporting the nitrate down and going through this process of production
and then finding the appropriate, you know, 2-oxoglutarate coming from the citrate valve to plug in and make that, you know, glutamate and then use that as a template for other amino acid biosynthesis.
That stuff can get really complicated really fast and the plant has to, again, it takes time and it takes energy.
So if we can find ways, you know, at the end of that path, after it takes time and energy, there's something that the plant produces that will ultimately be useful to interact with that element.
So if we can go through and make these useful substances for the plants on the behalf of plants, following the chemistries that they would otherwise follow or following the chemistries that the microbes in the soil or the fungi in the soil would follow,
we can create elements that are what I call biologically relevant for plants.
You know, there's sort of like insoluble forms of elements like calcium sulfate, not very soluble. It's drywall.
You can water your drywall all day. It's never really going to release a significant amount of calcium to your plants.
I think something like 2.6 grams of calcium per gallon of feed water is going to get released.
And that's if you're like, you don't have anything else going on in that feed water.
And then you start looking at some more soluble forms like calcium nitrate.
Now you're talking about being able to fit, you know, a couple of pounds realistically.
You know, maybe of that couple of pounds, you may find like an actual quarter pound of calcium or something like that.
And then you look at a calcium chelate like ours and we can do about three quarters of a pound of elemental calcium can be released to the plants and the transpiration stream.
So there's this interesting dynamic that we can put through a lot more calcium to the plants directly and have it specifically be in a form that they recognize like, hey, I would take this and I would make a cell wall out of it.
Because the pectic acid residues we're getting from orange peels that are kind of fermented and then complex back in with calcium.
Those give plants a second chance to make another cell wall.
Because again, if you look at plants naturally, they would take acetylated polysaccharides and sugars and use those to make cell walls and complex that with calcium and get some pectic acid involved.
And maybe there's, let's say, a half dozen or so other types of sugars that are all kind of cross linked together to make this complex soup that ends up being the cell wall.
So we're looking at that and saying, well, I bet you we could make something that's like one step away.
That way, when you do a foliar spray of our CalMag on the plant, it automatically recognizes, hey, this is perfect for a cell wall building block.
So the conversion of our calcium chelate requires almost no chemical expenditure because we've done about 95% of the work.
It's that last little step to solidify that chelate in place and have it be either a structural element, as is the case with calcium or magnesium.
It's useful for its electrochemical properties.
We're looking at things like the biosynthesis of chlorophyll and what it takes for a plant to physically and chemically insert magnesium into that porphyrin ring that is chlorophyll.
It's a very energy intensive process and it's actually kind of counterproductive in a lot of ways.
It takes a large amount of energy for this enzyme called magnesium chelatase to insert magnesium and create a molecule of chlorophyll.
So what we're looking at is specifically that thermodynamic system and trying to find ways to make, just like enzymes and cofactors operate in biology,
we're trying to be enzymes and cofactors and reduce the overall amount of energy expenditure that plants have that is, you know,
diverted away from things like terpene and cannabinoid biosynthesis and diverted into things that are, in my opinion, unnecessary, like the chemical reduction of macronutrients.
You know, we can do that stuff in a lab following natural processes that plants have perfected over time, that microbes and fungi have perfected over time.
It obviously requires us to look at plant nutrition in a different way. It kind of requires us to understand how and why carbon is the number one most important macronutrient.
But when we start applying these concepts, what we're finding is that really the system allows for us to push through a larger amount of minerals overall.
You know, with our CalMag, for instance, one milliliter per gallon is the same thing as an additional hundred ppms of CO2.
And for those of you who are, you know, maybe salt-based growers that have some experience throttling carbon in the form of CO2 with EC levels and light intensity,
you kind of know what I'm talking about. If you start to up the EC load and you up the CO2 and the light intensity,
that's a really good system that's going to work really well for you if you balance and you find the balance points for that.
So imagine just basically being able to take the CO2 meter and the EC meter and adjusting them in proportion to each other at the same time
with the type of feed water that you're giving them. And, you know, as I mentioned, this type of chemistry is still novel.
There's not many companies out there that are doing it. I think we're actually the only company as of today, February 1st, 2022,
we are the only company that's actually guaranteeing carbon on our labels.
And that carbon that we're guaranteeing is elemental carbon, and it's specifically in a low molecular weight fraction.
So you're going to get these compounds that happen to be the most abundant metabolites in nature, like acetates, for example, fulvates.
We have a lot of fulvic fractions. You know, the CalMag is made with a calcium fulvate.
Our flagship product, Solar Rain, is made with a magnesium fulvate. And then for our resin enhancer, we have a potassium fulvate.
So these are all organic acid fractions that are, again, based on plant, you know, plant biochemistry that's native to the plants.
That represents, you know, transitionary states of, you know, fixed energy that they would produce.
Or, you know, on the flip side, it's the microbes and the fungi that are in the soil have sort of inspired our chemical reactions and our processes that we can better supply,
you know, the type of nutrient that is ultimately the most effective possible to the plants.
I think a good example of that real quick before I finish up and pass it back to you is our PK Booster Peak Bloom.
That one is made with an artichoke-based molasses that has some moringa in there as well.
Moringa, by the way, is a phenomenal biostimulant to encourage the production of what I, you know, perceive to be volatile sulfur compounds off cannabis.
We've definitely seen that there's a strong relationship there.
So it's one of those plants that if you learn how to use it in flowering, the extracts of moringa leaf can absolutely bring out some good quality and good characteristics in your plants.
And then same thing with the use of artichoke. Artichoke produces prebiotic sugars, fructooligosaccharides that are commonly used, you know, on humans who have digestive issues.
Because as it turns out, if you take these prebiotic fibers, they can stimulate the growth of beneficial microbes inside of your own gut.
And so when you have these beneficial microbes present, any food that you digest, all of a sudden, you know, doesn't feel so heavy on you because these microbes are doing the work.
They're breaking it down for you. They're passing the solubilized nutrients onto you.
And so there's not this huge energy draw associated with digesting your own food.
This is exactly the same for plants in the soil.
You know, there's otherwise an energy draw that's possible to measure in terms of electrons that move around, you know, from ferredoxin and across the electron transport chain.
And then the ATP and NADPH, they get plugged into the Calvin Benson cycle and CO2 that gets shuttled out to rubisco.
All this stuff, plants are hyper aware of how much energy is going into which process and what needs to happen at the end of all this stuff to kind of maintain that level of balance with an environment that, you know, again, it's constantly changing.
So, yeah, I kind of lost my train of thought there, but that's probably OK.
I'll pass the mic back to you, Landon.
Landon. Oh.
Landon, you got me with the Landon, brother. I appreciate you a little bit.
I wish there was another room that I was in the other.
If people look at it and my name and they see London and they something happens in people's mind, they're like, it can't be fucking London.
No way that people do that all the time.
It's not good. But so I wanted to jump into another subject.
And I think this is interesting. Before we kind of we usually try and run about an hour and a half.
I mean, we've had a couple of of our earlier experts come to.
So if you guys have any questions, let me know, Johnny and Ashley and everybody in the audience as well.
If you. I wanted to touch on one of the forgotten micronutrient and and which is really interesting, and it's also like up until, you know, recently, it wasn't considered a necessary micronutrient of the 17 needed to build plant material.
And that's silica, silica. Silicate, silica.
Can you I know you have a product based on that.
Can you talk about that a little bit? Because it's very interesting.
And a lot of people don't really see this as something that they're putting in their rotation or in their setup or or or system.
Yeah, yeah. Silicon is an interesting element. We actually did a whole episode on it with Poterbs.
And, you know, one of the primary reasons.
Like there's two basic sort of categories of benefits associated with silicon.
One is that, you know, if you just look at a periodic table, look where silicon is relative to carbon and you'll quickly find out that the two share some properties.
Silicon is like a bigger, fatter version of carbon.
And so in certain cases, the plants.
They can almost use silicon for certain structural benefits that take the place of carbon.
And as I mentioned, one of the biggest energy draws that is associated with normal plant metabolism is this conversion of light energy into chemical energy that's ultimately used to capture and store carbon.
So the more carbon that plants have access to in terms of like their buffer, the reservoir, the more free energy they have that's present for them to just kind of open up that buffer reservoir and allow some of those carbon containing molecules to kind of get exported out and become actual metabolites rather than in the forms of these transitionary like pools like organic acids that we were talking about, for instance.
So, you know, in a lot of ways, plants are constantly looking at the amount of work that they've done to get the amount of carbon that they have.
And the more carbon they have, the better their chances are of being able to do things like create defensive compounds, for instance, to ward off predators and pathogens.
So in comes silicon, an interesting element that can almost take the place of carbon.
You know, it's coming in passively through the aquaporins, it's coming in through basically the water transduction pathways of the plants and silicon can kind of structurally fit into places where carbon might fit in.
So the plant has this choice that's like, OK, I can take this element that kind of came passively from the water and I can insert it into a place where I could use an element that required a large amount of time and effort and energy to break down into process.
And this is one of what I call the invisible benefits associated with silicon is that there is a net energy gain that the plants have in the presence of silicon because they can use silicon for its structural benefits that would otherwise create a carbon draw in the plants and represent a sink of energy.
So this also helps explain why silicon is present in some of the structural areas and it can do certain things like with wheatgrass, it can prevent lodging, which is like, hey, as the plants, you know, they have vacuoles inside of each cell.
So as the plants dehydrate, they can kind of shrivel up and during this whole shriveling up thing, the leaves will actually physically collapse, they'll fall over.
They don't have the ability to maintain that internal pressure that's needed to kind of elevate them up and lift them outward.
So if you have silicon as a constituent of, you know, your cell walls or, you know, your stocks or your stems or something like that, the silicon being basically a larger, fatter version, an overweight version of carbon, for lack of a better phrase, it's going to prevent the plants physically from lodging because it will physically hold the plants upright.
And this energy gain thing is where I think you start to see some of the other benefits of silicon, which is that because the plants have access to, you know, they can divert more of that carbon away from the thing that silicon can come along and do for a very low energy cost.
This is why you see silicon when it's applied to plants induces secondary metabolite biosynthesis is because the plants now have this ability.
You know, silicon does interface directly with the DNA of plants and it allows for certain, you know, transcription factors to kind of come in and regulate post translational events to, you know, basically wake up the whole plant and say, hey, there's, you know, a bunch of silica just came in.
Now we have these building blocks to do this thing with.
And then, you know, the salicylic pathways and jasmonic acid pathways also kind of gets stimulated in the presence of silicon.
So you have an element that functions both structurally in terms of being able to have a structural role inside of the cells and the cell walls of plants.
And then it has this more or less electrochemical role where it can stimulate or help participate in processes that stimulate like a whole plant response to stressor or something like that.
But, you know, again, just in terms of the, you know, mechanical benefits and structural benefits, there's something going on with silicon replacing the need for carbon that provides a massive energy benefit and massive energy gain.
And then also there is something to say about how silicon interacts directly with the DNA of the plants to almost let them know that, hey, there's this free energy that's available now.
And I will say something about silicon too with in terms of just the agricultural, its history in the agricultural context.
A lot of studies were done initially in like the late 1800s that didn't identify silica as being an essential element for growth.
And so a lot of researchers lost interest in it until like the late 1960s, 1970s.
And even at that time, one of the earliest like you can dig through the literature if you want to try to find like how old is this information get about silicon and going back to like 1961 or 1962 is probably where you start to see people that are.
I think the study came out of the University of Hawaii.
They were growing sugar cane or something like that.
And they noticed the application of potassium silicate reduced aluminum related stress.
And it allowed the plants to be more tolerant of heavy metals.
And I forget what the reason that they came to in that initial article was, but they basically tried to, you know, shove their heads up their ass for lack of a better phrase.
And they tried to like talk away or dismiss the benefits associated with with silicon.
And they ended up just attributing those benefits to something else altogether.
So even back then in the 1960s, the research that was being done didn't really, you know, point out some of these benefits of silicon.
And more recently, certainly over the past 10 to 20 years as researchers have been studying these, you know, interactions that silicon has both with the DNA of the plant now that they're capable of doing it and also with the structural components of the plant.
One of the things that they're finding is that there's a lot more to silicon than was initially thought.
So I hope that answered the question on silicon.
You know what? I totally didn't. I had the mic on mute.
I'm totally, totally messed that up. Sorry, everybody.
But what I was trying to say is, is I think that this actually arrives kind of to where the tail end of the conversation where I really wanted to lead this and finish it out.
And your aspect of the way you view it.
We've always we we've had this rigidity in our style of understanding and learning over, you know, a very long period of time that it feels like for us over the last 40, 50, 60 years.
We've we've strived and learned a lot, but we've learned a lot more in the last 20 than we did over the period of time before that.
So it's it's it's an interesting aspect.
And we always thought about MPK and this understanding that these are the most important factors of it.
And I love the way that you bring carbon forward because that's kind of the modern way that people are starting to think about this subject a lot more.
And I think there's like almost an evaluation that we need to take is like, how do do we need to look at, you know, what are the three numbers on the front of the front of the bottle actually mean in relevance to what they are?
Because we've all seen products that have this and that in them.
And I think the context of what's in them and how they're produced is so important.
And there's this evaluation that we need to do as a group and look at things like how are we producing these?
What are we producing them with and what's the result and the imprint when it comes to the final product?
So I think this has been awesome and enlightening conversation.
And as always, these conversations kind of just always keep going and never really stop because there's so much more to talk about.
We've barely touched on anything when it comes to the actual question at hand.
So I want to say thank you, Nick.
Did you want to I'd love you to give a little plug out before you go of you yourself and where everybody get hold of you.
And Johnny, do you have anything?
My last remaining panelist before we let Nick close out the room.
No, no. Thank you.
And I really appreciate you being here, Nick, and laying that down.
This is one of those episodes like most of your other episodes where I'm going to be able to have some rewatch and re-listen ability.
I'm really looking forward to it.
And I appreciate you coming in here and just dropping the knowledge bombs that you do, brother.
You know what?
I would like to before you do your little I'd like to ask you beforehand, just if somebody wanted to get started in the world of thought that kind of instigated this thought process and deep dive, where would you point them?
For a lot of people like what I want to talk about is like for a lot of people living.
So teeming with microbes is that first jump foray into the exploration of this.
And you're very interested in biochemistry.
Is there a person or a point of reference or a book that you would point us in to get diving into this row a little bit deeper?
You know, I wish that there was.
But at the end of the day, I think what we're doing is pretty novel.
Like if you look at the species of plants that we're working with, a lot of guys that are out there that make fertilizer that would be considered our competitors,
they've never even heard of these species of plants, let alone understand some of their benefits in agriculture.
The Moringa thing, the artichoke thing, you know, we've got certainly species of plants that are pretty rare and exotic.
And overall, I think the understanding of how they can fit into agriculture at large is still something that like if you want to get inspired by.
You know, half of what we do, I'd say focus on, you know, the the use of plants as bio stimulants.
And there's obviously a wealth of information around kelp and seed plants as bio stimulants.
I think a lot of people are and have been researching kelp for almost 100 years now.
I think Maxi Crop came out with their initial formula in 1939.
And so it's been a very long time that people have had a chance to look at, like the mechanics, you know, look under the hood of kelp extracts and kind of ask themselves, like, what's going on here?
Because the macronutrient load of kelp, you know, the even the minerals that it has, the trace elements, all that stuff, those quantities are not sufficient to adequately describe the types of profound responses that plants have.
And so it's less a question of, hey, do plants actually respond to kelp extracts and to plant based bio stimulants and more a function of let's try to figure out what's going on.
Because clearly there's a response and the response is so significant that the amount of whatever we're finding inside of whatever we're looking at isn't adequately describing the profound nature of the response.
And a lot of cases you have this like weird sideways thing that happens, you know, with like kelp extracts, for instance, has been shown that it's not necessarily the actual presence of hormones in kelp.
It's how the whole thing kind of comes together on these compounds that are found in the kelp synergistically act together to then facilitate this hormone like response that ends up being a complex thing.
And so, you know, a lot of different compounds and enzymes come together, they converge on a small number of pathways and they execute a response in the plant that's all very tightly regulated and tightly controlled.
So I would say, you know, for people that are out there that are interested, you know, some of the other episodes that I've done on Hota Herbs, Hota Grow Show, the Grow and Tell Show, I should say, you know, those are pretty good sources of information for you guys that are more interested in what we're doing here specifically.
And then, like I mentioned, you know, research on, you know, that type of stuff.
And besides plant based bio stimulants, I'd say natural farming techniques in general, you know, what plants have been used in which schools of thought.
At the end of the day, we're taking about four dozen species of plants and these plants have very biologically active molecules that are great in the context of agriculture.
And they can do a lot of cool things that would otherwise be lacking from, you know, a system that doesn't have those metabolized or doesn't have that flavor of carbon.
And I just would challenge people to consider, you know, the nature of your own nervous system, like how many milligrams of cannabinoids does it take you to basically achieve whatever effect you want, whether it's therapeutic or even recreational.
If you're just trying to have a good time, you know, chances are that somewhere between 50 and 100 milligrams, even if you're a full grown human being, if you're 200 pounds, 100 milligrams is probably going to do you pretty good, even if your tolerance is fairly high.
And so the point I'm trying to get at is if you did like the ratio there, you know, convert your 200 pound body mass into milligrams and then compare that to the 100 milligrams of cannabinoids that it took to move your entire nervous system to that kind of level.
So the idea there is that even when we're dealing with compounds that are present in very small quantities, parts per million or parts per billion in some cases, that they can nevertheless unlock things within plants that are otherwise hidden, buried.
They're like gems that you have to really dig for.
And the only way to dig for it is to try to find what else is out there in nature, what else is missing from the equation.
And so the whole idea is to like open up and to broaden the range of metabolites that we're exposing cannabis plants to, because I'll tell you right now we have, you know, terpene test results that I'd be happy to send to people.
We have flower coming back at about 8.2% terpenes on dry flower and about 34% total cannabinoids and the weights, the biomass itself, you know, follows suit.
It's pretty profound too.
But again, if you just look at that and do the math, it's a function of carbon, you know, how much carbon was input to the system and what form was that carbon.
If it made it into the right forms, the plant's going to take that and it's going to move it down the pathway of making more cannabinoids and making more terpenes because that's ultimately what cannabis plants are highly specialized and have evolved over the course of millions of years to do.
And if we can help them do it better by understanding that they just need more carbon, carbon, carbon, carbon, they're obsessed with carbon.
It's always going to be the number one most important thing.
You give them nitrogen, great.
They're going to find a way to use that to capture more carbon.
Same thing with magnesium.
They're going to find a way to capture more carbon.
Magnesium is at the center of chlorophyll.
It's at the center of hibiscus too.
So it's like you have all of these, it doesn't matter where you go, what element you look at, all these elements eventually come back to carbon metabolism.
Again, phosphorus with the sugar phosphates, those represent the first soluble form of carbon for the plants from CO2 into a sugar phosphate.
Phosphorus has everything to do with carbon metabolism.
The more phosphorus you give your plants, the more sugar they're capable of making.
That's a little evolutionary trick that our muscular mycorrhizal fungi figured out a couple hundred million years ago.
They said, hey, we can get more carbon from the plants if we feed them with a little bit more phosphorus because it'll plug into that ribulose phosphate cycle.
With that being said, I think I'll pass the mic back to you.
I could go on forever about this.
This is my life.
I think you're muted again.
Oh, fuck off.
Damn it.
I was going to say, I can tell because one of the biggest things is trying to get you to actually plug yourself is hard because you just get into what you're talking about.
It's so hard.
And I appreciate the hell of it.
So you guys got to make sure to check out the description and the links and all the clicking and the stuff and the doodads because I appreciate each and every one of you for coming in.
Thank you, Johnny.
Thank you for the rest of the panel.
I know there was something that went on earlier and a couple of the panelists needed to go.
But we look forward to all sorts of great conversations.
We look forward to having you back on the panel.
Hopefully later this year.
I'm sure we could dig into and find another fun subject for us to get into if you'd be interested in coming back.
But I'm going to do this.
If you're in the audience or in this stage here, make sure to follow in like the people on the stage or in the audience in the upper area.
I'll leave the room open for a moment while I shut down the YouTube side.
But thank you again, Nick.
We appreciate it.
Absolutely.
It was great to meet everybody here.
Just so you guys know, we have a coupon code FCP 20.
You guys want to check out our products.
It'll give you 20% off in the car.
Just apply that coupon code.
So, yeah.
And send us an email if you guys have questions.
Follow us on Instagram.
Send us a message if you have any questions about the content for tonight or if you just want some additional resources to kind of keep learning about this stuff.
It's a very complex series of topics.
And I think the whole industry is helped when all of us have access to the same kind of knowledge.
And really when this knowledge is a little bit more digestible for people, if they can kind of understand.
And, you know, real quick, one of the points I wanted to make earlier about carbon and the importance of it was you can just look at how many ppms of nitrates you would apply to your plants versus how many ppms of CO2 you would apply to the plants and the air.
And you quickly realize like, oh, yeah, the plants can take, you know, 2,000 ppms of CO2.
And at the worst, I might just be wasting money because they're not going to accept the rest of that carbon.
But 150 ppms of nitrates is pretty high.
So once you get up to like 200 ppms of nitrates, like you better have your system dialed in.
Otherwise, you're going to burn those plants up.
And then anything closer to about 300 ppms is like really, really dangerous territory.
But again, you know, 300 ppms of nitrates versus 2,000 ppms of CO2.
Phosphorus is the elemental phosphorus loads of cannabis plants optimized somewhere around 50 to 100 ppms.
Again, versus how many thousands of ppms of carbon.
Just looking at these little very basic things that I think are evident to most growers and just making them look at the same things in a different perspective is ultimately what we're trying to achieve.
You know, it's not like there's some mysterious magical snake oil associated with this.
At the end of the day, it's, you know, if you want more turbines, you want more cannabinoids.
You have to find a way to get more carbon in the system.
It is no different than running a high horsepower motor.
You have to find a way to supplement the energy there.
And it doesn't matter if it's an electric motor or a combustion motor.
There's input that's required in order to produce a large amount of output.
And the input in this case for cannabis plants, again, it happens to be 80 to 90% carbon, these molecules that we're talking about.
So it makes the mechanics very bulletproof.
It makes the logic so simple that you can break it even if you wanted to.
You don't need a PhD to understand it because it's so simple and straightforward.
You know, you give your plants more carbon, they give you back something that's mostly carbon.
Make sense?
So with that being said, I appreciate the time and definitely looking forward to conversations like this in the future.
