Give me one second, uh, I'm, uh, now live on YouTube, but what I thought would be cool
for tonight's Breeder Roundtable, which is typically just on YouTube, was to have a conversation
about kind of what you saw or what you smelled, tasted, smoked this year at the Emerald Cup
in terms of entries, uh, kind of what you noticed trend-wise, uh, and then relative
to past years, and then, um, maybe bring some breeders in to kind of get their thoughts
on, you know, if something wins the Emerald Cup, what's kind of the ripple effect in terms
of what we're going to see rolled out into the markets the following years, both obviously,
uh, cultivation, but also, you know, where breeders are heading with their breeding efforts.
Yeah, uh, I'm just pinging a few people. Oh, so down below in the, uh, if you want to make
me a moderator, I can help pull some people up too. There's a few more pages in the room.
I'm gonna make a moderator. There we go. I'm gonna bring a few people up. I'm gonna, uh, at least
invite them up. Bam, bam. Yeah, there's a few breeders showing up. Hey, what up, Kev? I see Kev down there.
Okay, hopefully, hopefully, Prebs, you can come up if you want, if you get a chance.
Yo, yo. What's up, Joe? How you doing? Hey, Eric, thanks for the invite, man. Good to be talking to you guys this evening.
Yeah, man. Awesome. Glad you're in the clubhouse. Thanks, dude. Yeah, this is literally, it took me a few minutes to figure this out.
Um, this is the first time me really using it. So, um, like I said, I appreciate the invite and, uh, look forward to the conversation.
Cool. I'm just pinging a few more people into the room if I can real quick. I'm just pinging away.
And the YouTube audience can hear us. Okay, YouTubers, that's sick. Everyone's good on all fronts.
So, Mr. Toad, who's gonna come in on the YouTube side, uh, we may, we may, I mean, you can jump on at nine,
but we may start that side a little bit later, uh, and listen to what these guys have to say.
Yeah, if you got to move around, we'll hold it down for you. There's a couple more judges. I'll ping those guys a couple more.
All right. Um, yeah. So, uh, maybe Joe, you want to introduce yourself real quick, just so everybody, uh, can say hi.
Sure. Yeah. Uh, my name is Joe Sullivan. I'm the buyer and product manager, uh, for Mercy Wellness here in Cotati and Santa Rosa, Sonoma County,
as well as the host of Can I Help You on KSRO. Um, it's a local talk radio show. It's a cannabis education talk show.
I have, uh, over a little about 20 years in the cannabis industry and just happy to be here. I've been an Emerald Cup judge for the last couple of years now.
Got to know Eric over the course of these last few years and can't wait to talk.
That's awesome. Yeah. It's great. Uh, it's been great judging with you, Joe. I got to tell you. And so basically I think the way, uh, Peter's kicking this off.
And if there's any other judges in the room, let me know. I know Prebs is in there. I sent him an invite. I'll do it again just to make sure.
If I miss anybody, let me know. But, uh, you know, he's going to have a breeder's round table on YouTube.
Knowledge of what, uh, what they've seen over the years.
Yeah. And so, I mean, Joe, Joe and I are fairly new, but, um, why don't you tell them what you've experienced over the trends of the last couple of years, especially from the cup, uh, and how it ends up on the market.
Yeah, that's, that's probably where I could speak the most to it is just how it affects the retail side. Like I said, I've been in the industry a little over 20 years.
I've been on legal, you know, new side of this on the retail aspect for a little over six. And for two of those, I've been able to be an Emerald cup judge.
You know, pick and choose from all of these farmers who we, you know, we love so much and all of their hard work and we get to pass judgment on it. So I just think, you know, it's such an honor.
You know, as far as like what we kind of determine is that top dog, we see it disseminated down.
Um, all the way through the supply chain. And so for my, what I could speak to, at least from the last couple of years was the bronze cup.
Um, and there were, you know, it's all blind and you don't, you don't know what you're getting, but the judges kind of separate it by the number.
And so, um, and I think that, you know, it's, it's a, it's a good example.
All the way through the supply chain and so for my what I could speak to at least from the last couple years was
The bronze craze, right? We were part of a panel and there were you know
It's all blind and you don't you don't know what you're getting
but the judges kind of separated by the nose and you kind of get a sense of the cultivars from your experience there and
You just know that if something places within that top ten top twenty it's gonna
Reverberate, you know kind of like that pawn that that little pebble in the pond effect and everyone's gonna start trying to matriculate down
And so what we saw when the Brunt's hit
We saw that all the way through at least on my end as soon as the word got out when Ridgeline was
Voted the winner again, which shout out to bridge line for one in two years in a row
But that that changed the game all of a sudden it went from
And Eric can speak to this too and especially in the personal use there was a lot of gas strains
You got a lot of that old-school
southern Humboldt
Really sweet old-school gas, you know, you get that whole feel from that Appalachia and this year
You know just from the Brunt's going on it can it dissipated completely and so kind of what I've started to see
Especially with the terpene trends that are going on and as we started testing for terpenes
You start seeing more of the gassy strains went into that kind of dessert strain realm and now we're coming right back
Into this kind of lemon lemon gas field, and I don't know Eric
I mean, that's that's kind of what I've my I could just start to scrape the surface of that
but you know, it's kind of what I have seen in the last couple years and
As soon as work comes down, I mean you see everyone looking for those cuts
You see the seed drops and then sure enough, you know that next cycle
You start to see it reverberate through the market
No, you're right and it's crazy because if you think about last year in particular like the personal category was an LA Kush cake that
one
And then in the mixed light category
I think it was an ice cream cake that took the clothes if it was, you know, I might be close within the top three and
Then the Sun Grown was that Ridgeline runs and so all three categories were this dessert
Cakey, you know that cake in their names pretty much
Yeah, and you know
What's funny is that what we saw there too and even if you know get more specific with the Green Lantern or you work your
Way down with green chalk and some of the other farms
You solve the trends
Coming their way through the top 20
so as
The gas and the desserts might have been on the back end of those top 20s in the previous years even when I would go
Venture the cup just as you know guessed you would see those kind of you could see a matriculating their way to the top
And then as soon as they made it up there, I mean, it was just once your life up, you know
Yeah, it's amazing and so, you know like yeah
Understand this was the first year that they separated the
entries into their most dominant
Terpene profile and so basically, you know in the mixed light
personal use
Sun Grown and third-party certification was dominated by
karyophylline and the indoor category was dominated by limiting but karyophylline was right up behind that and
basically
osamine and
Terpene those two were in the 1% maybe 2 percentile of entries into the cup, but I mean, I think you know
Soon we'll see the results, but I don't believe that
You know, it was a it was it was a another cakey year another year full of
Karyophylline, let's put it that way. Yeah, you know they by doing the studies with the terpenes and one of the
Advantages we had with that was you know, for those of you that are listening
There are five main terpene groups that cannabis is part of that
Into and then you have your mono terpenes
Which are kind of like your secondary terpenes that burn off at the lowest degree
So when you open the jar and that first smell you get that's your mono terpene
And so with the testing we test they tested for the top three and shout out to Alec Dixon both SC labs and Josh over
There but they test for the top three terpenes and then they were separated by the terpene and we were able to go in and judge
Based on that and so
Yeah, Eric, I'm with you, you know, and we'll see who who comes out on top
but you know, it was I believe it was the consensus of the judges, especially knowing that the
majority of samples tested at least with SC labs the majority of the
Component is myrcene and so to see the beta karyophylline and to see limonene
osamine and terpene
Place, you know
It was really special to see the tide turn and we saw that like I was saying that in the back end of the top
20 my first year that I got to meet with you guys were those the pog
you know that passion orange guava and the Green Lantern and in those types of strains and see them kind of take front stage front
Center as a buyer for a dispensary and someone who services Sonoma County. I'm excited for the diversity
Yeah, that's definitely crucial and you know, it's kind of kind of amazing, you know, how
Yeah, I feel like it's so much different this year with the indoor category been thrown into the mix and you know
I know a lot of judges were you know fans of indoor in general and you know
Not that I'm against it, but you know me. I'm kind of the mix like plan sun-grown is my
favorite, you know tight way to grow basically and
The indoor category was funny because I remember being at the judges meeting and Swami goes, how do we how do you judge indoor flowers?
And
I think he figured it out. But you know, the indoor category was definitely interesting and overall
I thought there were some good entries
But it was just such a different high compared to some of the sun-grown
But I think the hardest category for me was infused pre-rolls like I'm not an infused pre-roll guy
Like I'm not an infused pre-roll smoker. And so that one definitely was probably the hardest for me to do
What was the hardest for you?
Uh, you know, honestly for myself and and that's so what's so great about the judges, right?
It's the diversity of the panel myself. I was brought in one obviously
Um, i'm local here in sonoma county and and tim and taylor were so gracious and giving me the invite
But I specialize in indoor purchasing. That's what i've done for the last six years
I see roughly 200 cultivars a month
And so I specialize in that but I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for sun-grown. I'm third generation farmer
You know, that's where I was raised in in those hills
And so the reverence always goes back to that and so it was funny when you bring that up. I remember
Uh that first day of judging we found ourselves. Uh,
Kind of separated on the outs, right?
Like certain judges went straight to the indoor other judges went straight to the sun-grown
And then towards the the end of that process we kind of had co-mingled by then but
the hardest one for me personally
was
the pre-rolls
Because as a buyer I have a preconceived bias towards them
And so when you are really trying to judge something for what it is truly and you're trying to give
People or companies a fair shake you need to have your bias checked at the door
And so for me as someone who constantly sees these pre-rolls and different companies and different iterations
I can't let that seep into what it is
I'm doing when i'm judging them based on their merits when we get them in the sample case
So I'd have to agree to you. I agree with you. I think the infused pre-rolls were the toughest
Um, I think if in the future we were able to get two samples of each pre-roll
Like I suggested in our previous zooms and we could actually break one open and really kind of examine it
You know, I mean that's a whole other bag of worms we can get into with pre-rolls and infused on the market
But i'm with eric that was definitely the toughest for me, you know, um, and i'll shout this out
I mean my favorite across I think they had the best the best showing across the whole panel was mixed light
I think you get the best of both worlds and people that have honed in their craft. It's it gives you a really great expression
Yeah, for sure the uh, yeah, that's my favorite category for sure it's funny
um, you know the the
last year's judges meeting was 14 hours that we sat at area 101 going over all that stuff and
I don't remember anyone actually tapping out but this year, you know, we didn't do it at area 101. We were at a location in
petaluma
and we went 10 hours strong of you know, just smoking and debating and going over stuff and
I mean I think uh, you know for the most part there was people tapping out and leaving but I know joe you and a couple
of us and
and
I I don't think you know, you would I mean you wouldn't give up until it was over type of thing
And so that's one thing I admire about the judges even swami and nikki like nobody, you know
a lot of that you can see who's pretty hardcore and not by the fact that you know, nobody taps out
and uh those samples get dealt with
It was uh, thank you eric and I I feel the same way man because like, you know myself
It's only my second year judging and when you're with people who've been there five ten years
Um, you at first you're kind of learning and kind of feeling off the ropes and you realize like wait a minute
There's a reason why i'm here and you settle in pretty quickly. And like I said earlier
It's we owe it to the farmer and we owe it to the competition
To make sure that we're giving it our best and and we're being serious about it and I feel the same way like
um
You know there were new judges. There's new new
New a new way of doing things this year and I just think you know when you're rolling
Bats like that and you're not used to smoking, you know a few ounces within that time frame
Uh, yeah, you get people like that last day that were falling asleep on chairs. I personally
Um, and I shout out sensei you swami, I mean there's jess from frosty I mean like
Straight champions, you know, and we were there with the damn spotlight trying to make it happen. So it's what is um deserved
And what's what's expected from us? And so I love it man. I you know
It was there was a lot of trials we had
You know, we had coveted this last year. We had the fires that just decimated a lot of
Um what we'd normally see with high praise high showing so for all the adaptations
Um, yeah, it was it we couldn't ask for better in my opinion. I think I think we had all in all
It was a great showing and everyone's going to be proud of that top 20
Yeah, man, that's awesome. Well, uh
yeah, I pulled uh bam and dan both up here bam, uh is a breeder and he's uh,
been an emerald cup judge and emerald cup winner dan
Also has been a emerald cup winner and so since we're talking about trends real quick, you know, um, you know bam
I know that you and i've been on the same farm for a little bit now and working on
I know you're working on some new things and I feel like it's
perfect timing with the way, you know, some of this emerald cup judging or
Or the way that you know, the terpenes have been broken down and how you know
Carey offalene has been really popular, but a lot of people are craving some of those other things and
Uh, it seems like right now you've been doing a lot of that work
of bringing some of those back
Sometimes it's hard to find your phone when it's in your pocket and unneeded, uh, but oh there he is
Big up big up
Uh
Thank you for having me on stage, yeah, it's an exciting time in the industry
I'm sorry. I thought she was originally for dan not for me dan and bam so close
It does kind of rhyme. But yeah, since you were a judge of the carts, too. You might as well give us a little
possible
We're doing some big pheno hunts
Of some hazes we're doing like the a5 and the c5
By the cuban black haze as well as the cuban black haze self-done itself
You know, those are all like legendary hazes
um in my mind the three most legendary hazes
and it's just
To be able to to run them in such huge populations. We're doing like
1200 of the cuban black hazes and then like
650
Of the a5 c5 crosses
Joe you better holler
Mercy's gonna want some of that haze
Oh, you already know you already know i'm a i'm a haze, uh, i'm a haze a holic and
one of the things um, that's been kind of the hardest part of the transition at least for myself as a
You know legacy operator is watching all these cultivars kind of fall to the wait side as you know
Things that maybe be preconceived as not a tester
Or something that may not yield as long as much or something that takes a little longer to run
And you know the the processes for supply chain, which I know we talked so much about eric this year
um, you know, it's been broken in a lot of ways and so
Yeah
I personally have some beef with some of like the
The market criteria that that sort of defines and drives
The way that decisions are made, you know, like and I think a lot of that has to do with like regulation
Gone are the days where you can open up the bag and then like let the loud hit you in the face
And make a decision based on like a smell that that you're attracted to
or or or get a feel of the bud like now you're getting something that's
Slapped and labeled and sure you can see what the nugs look like, but
You're not smelling them
and so a lot of decisions are being driven by test results as
based on
What your test percentage is is going to determine what the market value?
for the strain is and I think that's really important for us as breeders and
And and judges and and members of the community to really like rewrite that story
Because there is so much that's being lost
I'm
blessed to be at a company that
has the foresight and the vision to
invest the time in in growing out some of these
Ogre legendary strains even if they take more time and don't necessarily hit
The high numbers but that's because we're able to leverage the stories that come along with them. That's I think that's really
One of the most powerful ways that we as members of this community can help to preserve our culture is to continue to tell that
story and to emphasize
That there are there is so much more to the story than just the thc number
um
I really look forward to the
Yeah, bam. I'm, sorry. I just want to let you know. I could not agree more
Um for a little background a little further into myself as far as what we're doing over
We're at my company at mercy
We partnered we were one of the first dispensaries, uh in the medical era to require testing now
Obviously, we're on the thc game. It's been driving me insane
Luckily for myself being vertically integrated
with distribution
I'm able to source flour and use the relationships that i've had over my 20 years in cannabis to continue to source
Flour from the source and we try to deliver a farm-to-table experience and we is
To my knowledge, I believe we're the first and only dispensary as of right now to be categorizing our flour by terpene profile
So we obviously want to let people know about the thc content
But for us it's more about the effects of the terpenes and the science behind terpenes
And so we partnered with sc labs and we've been doing it now for almost a year
Um just solely based on terpenes and so
That what i've been what's allowed me to do as a buyer is all of a sudden instead of sourcing the same
Bx1 cross or the same, you know the same strain that's five different names on the shelf
I can actually go by terpene profile and source
Actual cultivars that are different in experience and effect and I can create a diverse menu and so it's been an uphill battle
Um, but I try to use the radio show I try to use my advocacy as a judge to to really uh
Try to spearhead the training when it comes to that and it's allowed us to purchase cultivars that would not normally
work in what you're saying whereas
A buyer might be just buying off of what the fits their budget and with the thc percentage criteria, right?
So I i'm totally with you on that and and i'm i'm in the fight for it
So yeah, like like eric said I definitely want to connect with you
Yeah, man, that's awesome my buddy I appreciate you
uh taking that step and like leveraging your position to really open up minds and you know, it just makes me
Excited like, you know for a long time. I took the position where like I didn't want to
spend money in the rec market primarily because of like
What I saw it do to different communities the way the regulation was rolled out
but uh lately i've had a change of heart about that because when there are places like
your spot that you're working at
And other dispensaries that are out there that are actually pushing the boundaries and helping to like write the narrative
that really pays homage to and tips the hat to
uh the culture that that we were before all this regulation came along, you know, it's like
suddenly, I feel like I can vote with my dollars in a manner that really like makes sense and i'm
spending that money
There are people that care enough to curate things the way that they should be
There's just I can't say enough but mad props to you for
It's all respect man, it's about you know paying it forward honestly
There's still I mean you can go on and on about you know
People still being locked up and all of those things, but I think it's it's our responsibility to use
You know the platform we've been given to affect change and in sonoma county as you know
A leader in this community as far as the the retail world goes it's up to us
And so for me, it's that i'm going to leverage my position i'm going to leverage my relationships
To really bring the truth to the people. I think it helps when you have a relationship established like we do with our customer
You know, we've been there 11 years and so we you know, we started out as a medical club
It was a club you had to be a part of a group to be there
And so
That didn't change just because regulation hit you never know who's coming to that door. It could be someone who's sick
It could be someone who's just coming to grab a joint
but you have to be you have to be there for them every single time and
That wouldn't happen without good partners and you got it and you got to you got to write the narrative
And so that's what I feel like we're doing here tonight. And that's why I appreciate being invited
So i'm very happy to have connected with you
Yeah, it's all about the turps for sure because you know consumers that just aren't educated enough, you know
because the bud tenders and they're not going to dispensaries maybe like yours and
And you know only have the thc to go off of and so now the brands want high thc as a way to you know
Forward the brand but you know, then if we start, you know
Doing everything in the terpene profiles and having the test results that way one of the things that turns into a little bit of
a problem is is that you know, maybe the farm gets a coa and it has all these terpenes, but then the
Distribution van shows up with a you know, that's um
Not temperature controlled. And so you got hot jars going down the hill or hot packs
And depending on how the distribution processing handles it as well. And so as things degrade
And lose that, you know, one of the fearful things that farmers or people do have is that you know
when you open that jar that report isn't going to be as valid as it was, you know at time of coa and so
You know a lot of vertically integrated places that have their own processing and good storage and things like that
Making sure the distribution has temperature controlled vans to move this stuff around would really help protect the integrity of the flower
So that everybody can enjoy it how it's intended to be and we can actually consider it medicine
Rather than you know, this, you know, this recreational THC we're chasing because truly if people were able to get something
um, you know
Full spectrum, let's say they would find those medical benefits that they'd once had before possibly and so
um, it's really cool and you know
Dan, I I know Kevin's up here and now Dan
I wanted to jump over to you because one of the things we've been talking about at the Emerald Cup
Judges meetings this year is that you know, there isn't any ogs really like there was one or two og
It seemed like entries that might have been
You know a true og of some kind or a chem og or something
But you know for the most parts it was a lot of fatsos and peanut butter breasts and you know
That was the close to gas we could get
Are you changing your breeding practices or things that you're doing because i'm a big fan of your you know
your work over the years and
I think it's a good time for
A lot of what you've done since it's lacking
Sure. Yeah. Well, hey, hey everybody a lot of a lot of good people and all friends up here
Really nice to everyone. Thanks for letting me speak
Um, yeah, we we entered some some double og cam. It's it's the same cut that was 12th place in uh in 2018
And the breeding practices it's this simple if it wasn't for the you know, I agree with everything that bam said
About the market and what becomes marketable
There's a lot of amazing cannabis out there that isn't getting presented because it doesn't have the right name and it's just you know
It's it's it's the brokers and the consumers that are you know, not properly educated but in terms of my breeding program
You know, I just got a huge monkey wrench because of regulations and not able to have my own
You know nursery license it was as soon as I knew it was coming
I said I have to do whatever it takes sacrifice anything to make sure that I don't get left out of this
And so I have a cultivation license, but no nursery license
So we do small scale breeding on site and then I have smaller breeding programs set up with everybody else and trying to find
you know the right partners and so
Last year we did some really good
work on some of our og lines and some of our chem lines and actually made
Really big strides and improvements and going back a generation and reselecting things
Um, and I went through a bunch of older lines as well
And just did kind of open pollinations like, you know, I took my old blueberry muffins, you know, it's an 11 year old variety
Um that not that many people have seen it and so, you know, I I took the f3 and grew out
You know 60 something females
And then you know, I open pollinate them and then at the end of that I kind of categorize the females
You know like okay. This is what i'm looking for
It it fits in the category of the original breeding mom the f1
You know females that I love so much or the f2 phenotypes that I was breeding for everything else is out of that stock
um
and so
So yeah, I did did some good breeding work, especially on the og chem lines and look we grow on our farm
You know, we we've been trying to put out brand and product and it's it's just so complicated
With the supply chain which also goes to what you were saying it's like we didn't place in 2019
And we thought that the weed that we entered was 10 times better than the year before that we won the breeders cup
And you know when it left our farm
Nobody had touched a flower with their fingers. It was it was not allowed. They were all trimmed directly into jars perfectly cured
But then you know a distribution company we had no control over the supply chain. They repackaged it to branded eighths
We don't know who touched it how long it took and it eventually got delivered
and
My guess is it dried out or something, right? And um,
Another another farmer we gave clones who did place with the double og chem last year is fourth place
And uh, and the second place winner of the personal category last year
It was it was called a sour a sour cookies, but that was our rebel cookies line
But I mean look 70 of what we grow on the farm is three different cuts of the double og chem
And it's because at the end of the year, you know, like humboldt county understands the commercial market and I
Apologize if i'm kind of going on a stone rant
But you know humboldt growers have always had the most valuable weed and we understand the market
And so the real ogs are growing the real ogs
And right now the buyers are banging the doors down saying who's got the real og and that's what we got. Hey dan
Dan, that's what's up. Hey dan. This is joe. Um
All the love homie and you're not wrong, you know, I mean we were begging for the gas, uh, even as judges and um
I'm looking forward to seeing what's going on
but as far as supply chain goes it's a problem and
Luckily, you know, I I see it as a broker
but I'm a buyer for a retailer because we have distribution i'm allowed to go and source and
You know from farm to table from cure to our doors with a three-day rush
I can have it packaged and on our shelf which is walked literally over the manifest straight to the retail
Within you know, 10 to 12 days
and you know, it's it's it's a huge advantage and it's one where we can kind of highlight the grower in a way that I
I feel is necessary, especially
Um, you know and dan we've had this conversation about bulk versus prepack, right?
Like wanting to support a brand and wanting to help really put that brand on but wanting also to make sure that
You are controlling that supply and that you are giving the best of the that representation the flower has to the consumer
And supply chain is a big part of it control temps for
Transportation and also storage which a lot of dispensaries cannot afford. I understand that but I think it's imperative when you're telling the story
of the cultivar especially from a breeder and a grower such as yourself who
Like you said ogs grow the real ogs you're putting in the work, right?
Yeah, man, and I appreciate that the effort that you guys have always taken in
I mean, that's the reason why you guys have a lot of volume at your shop
You know because you guys have always been working on quality control and having a huge menu and all types of great products there
But you know i'm making a pivot as you know, and so we're ready, you know
I spent the last six years saying how do I get longevity?
Oh, I just want to tell my story and now i'm gonna have that chance
So i'll have that that shit coming but this year is the the year of sour i'm actually going to pop some of the same
seeds that bam did um
Much smaller scale and i'm going back to all of my sour hybrids
in crosses back crosses
And i'm going to back cross everything to the original sour and the original diesel kind of like pre
Before they had names like aj's and east coast hours. Just the ones that I used to grow back in 2012
Or sorry 2002 2002 2003
and uh
So i'm gonna i'm gonna hopefully do a lot of selections and find some really cool stuff in sours this year
And try to bring back a sour that you know kind of goes up there with with some of the other folks that offer the best
You know sour dominant hybrids
Damn, that's sick. Uh, I look forward to uh seeing your work
Um as always and uh, yeah to back up to what you were saying about the emerald cup
after the I remember getting
after the awards ceremony walking by and you were fucking like what the fuck like
That was the best. Oh my god. You were kind of in shock and
You know, I was too in some ways, but at the same time. Yeah, the supply chain
Can destroy shit instantly and that part has to stop well, bro
I mean that double og chem that we entered the coa from our cup entry last year was
37.73 percent cannabinoids 35 percent thc
And three and a half percent terpenes and we had never gotten that cut at three and a half percent terpenes
For over 40 percent and terps and cannabinoids and we did
We entered a cookie one two, which it's not the terpias, but it was fucking 39
cannabinoids with like a ton of chcbg
And cbc and it was like it didn't look like outdoor it looked like space weed, you know
and i'm just convinced it must have gotten dried out, but at the same time dude, it's
The whole reason I got into the emerald cup is to have the honor of entering it in the first place
I still remember the first one that I got to go to in 2011
So it was just like
You know the coolest thing about the emerald cup last year was listening to tommy chong
Go on like an activism rant
And most of the young people there like didn't even understand like why it was significant or really the depth of what he was saying
but it was like
Some real shit to listen to tommy chong, you know talk cannabis activism and and speak from the heart
That's the truth. He's that was badass
I met tommy chong one time and took I went to take a picture with him and we're all standing around we're like
Hey, we're gonna take a picture and we stood there and smiled and took a picture and a few seconds later
He looked at us and he goes are we gonna take a picture?
And I was like, what the fuck the dudes and he doesn't really act
he's really that you know, like cool and spaced out at the same time, but
uh
Shoot I was just gonna go to kevin and he ended up leaving I think
Uh, dang, I was just gonna give uh kevin a little what up, but uh since we're uh
Hijacking peter's room here for a little bit. Does anybody have any questions?
Uh, anybody want to raise hands and ask any questions for the judges make a comment. I know phoebe's in here and
I saw reba's part of the cup and I I got a question for bam if you want a question bam
I'm open man. Go ahead. What's up?
Cool so these really
Amazing, you know selection rounds that you're doing like you got enough plants that you're gonna see a lot of what's in there
What's the criteria for like?
What you're cutting for for females?
Are you cutting the clones off of every female or are there standouts that need to like make a cut to like?
You know be checked out
A lot of that has to do with um
Availability of space etc, etc, right?
On the sky covers we took cuts off of every single one due to like different permits
And delays with other things
We had on on this round of hazes
We only wound up cutting
like uh
I'd say like five to ten percent
Of the seed
And clone forms, but we also did that knowing that
We were following up both rounds of hazes
with another
Batch of seeds equally as big
um
Which will go through and have the space to take cuts off of every single one for me. That's actually like a blessing in disguise
because now not only have we
Run through the entire populations and like large volumes
But taking notes and identifying really what it is
Having the second go around again
Makes selection that much easier. It's one thing to select
um
On your first round of running the strain. It's so much more powerful when you're doing it on the second
or third
But yeah, the goal is basically the catalog of the single
Clone get through the flowering cycle
look at each
Strain determine which ones have different
Market spec and criteria that that needs to be filled what works well in our greenhouse what's going to be
Impervious to the elements
Different times of the year
um
The goal is to narrow down from 1200
That's going to take probably a couple generations
Um, so we'll probably narrow it like on the sky cobblers the first time we popped 1200
Then we narrowed down to 800
In three four weeks. We're narrowing down to 50
And I assume that by the time we narrow down to 50 we're going to figure out who's the one
Well, yo, I can't wait to see what you find out of the
The the cuban haze s1s my my experience really quick with that that you know
That cut goes back
I had this friend
He had this really cool house on a hill with like a trap door into this basement grow room under the rug
And whenever he'd go to new york for fish shows
He would take a limousine back and he'd bring an ounce of diesel and an ounce of the black haze
And he was paying like seven eight hundred dollars an ounce and i'm like I was a younger kid
You know taking care of his plants and be like this is crazy, man. How are you taking a limo?
You know like how are you paying for that? Why is it worth it 700 bucks an ounce?
He's like just just taste it man
Just go ahead and his buddy was this og grower who had like 14 years experience and he bred
All his own haze varieties. I was so broke then he'd come over and load a bong load
He'd take one hit cash it out in my sink
And so I would clean the sink before he came over because there'd be so many full bong packs that he just took a little
corner hit and i'd smoke that shit, but um
anyway
the the black haze
Yeah, I mean with yo, you know, it's like this these dudes I was growing their weed and they would drop off like an eighth
Or a quarter when they'd see me, but you know i'd be isolated in the winter
So all that fire heady weed and he takes one little corner hit and i'd clean my sink so I could collect it when he left
But yeah, the black haze it just had this unbelievable high that just lasted all day long
All day long. I was outside playing with my neighbor's cows and shit
And the flavor and that incense smell, you know, I I hope you find it and I can't wait to smoke it
well said
Yeah, I agree with that
This year I had the opportunity first time in my life
that actually
I the c5 and the cuban black haze
All within a day of each other, you know, I had all the bags with me
and
I was like, all right, i'm gonna settle the score like who has the best haze. What is the best days was it?
uh neville selections or was it the cuban selections and hands down to me, it's definitely the
The cuban selection that's like it's the only other strain that I put up there with the urkel and if anybody knows anything about my
Preferences in my ballot
There's almost nothing that I hold up there in regard
As I do with the urkel but the cuban black definitely
Made it there surprisingly
from what i'm seeing
seems like the c5
by the cuban black haze is
Was the champion out the gate, but
Damn, can I ask you a question?
What uh with the urkel and the haze? Let me ask you because i'm i mean, I love urkel
What what about those two? I mean, they're so to me. They're so different as far as
What what is it about them that you that you hold them in such high reverence together like
um as far as uh
effect like high or or
You know taste or just that i'm all the high guy. I don't care what something looks like. I don't care what it tests like
Obviously now definitely has something to do with like the high because there are certain
effects that I haven't been able to
What the terpene is because simply?
Because none of the labs actually test for whatever that terpene is but then like my nose will tell you exactly
Whether it's there or not
um
as far as like the urkel and like
the cuban black goes
I like
So I I don't like to get stoned. That's like not my thing. I like to get high. I like
Methamphetamine I like I want to smoke a joint and have some wings
But I I also don't want something that's necessarily like super racy
Right. I like I like energy on tap. That's there. It's like a calm energy that when I need it and both
the urkel
And the cuban black haze are that like i'm fully alert. I'm fully
Awake, it's almost like i'm more than alert. I'm i'm very
mentally activated
When I smoke those and that's the kind of
weed that I like I like
Weed that's inspirational and since inspiring and it has that kind of good energy
So anything that slows me down automatically goes to the bottom of the barrel
I'm a i'm a terpene lean guy and I find myself finding myself
That's what you find those a lot in the hay strains the kind of those jack strains
Um, I you know that I I kind of call it my concert weed or like my hiking weed like I like, you know
Get in tune. Um
I feel like there's a time and place for the other thing, but I feel you on. Um, I feel you on that
Well
I love other stuff as well. I mean
Just it's not it's not the same like it like both the purple urkel and the c5. I'm, sorry the cuban black
or like
any time any
anywhere
Like it's on i'm down that's what's up. I don't quite that's what's up
What up phoebe
Eric's always calling me out. Um, okay, so i'm just whispering
I'm kind of just whispering because i'm in the other room and tim's sleeping but um
No joke. I was just gonna make a song request. I don't know if it's appropriate for this conversation, but dan
If it's possible at all if you wanted to just
Flow on some beats that that might be really cool right now
It's it's up to you though. Yeah
Well, you know what phoebe? I really appreciate that. You're super supportive
You know, I really need that and I appreciate that. You're always shouting out my music. It's it's really cool. Um
it's up to these guys i'll always play music but
Um, you know if we're if we're here to talk about cup winners and cup stuff and genetics, you know
I'd love to talk about that
um
We can take a detour
Yeah, I won't say no I got I got a lot of shit right in front of me that's what i've been doing
Do it do it
All right, i'm gonna roll one up
All right, i'm packing one too, let's go. Okay, you got to incorporate the word compassion
Oh and haze their freestyle. I thought you wanted me to play one of my joints
Somebody else throwing a word or something
Hold on a minute
Phoebe you're on the beatbox then you on the rhymes drop it
Well, I was just trying to see I would
Consider your consideration to the the conversation
Maybe like you'd freestyle
Like it's conversation integrates genetics or something. But yeah, if you want to play music, that would be cool, too
i'm, just a geek for
Cultivators that
Yeah, i'm a bit stoned to freestyle
A recorded thing, but i'll i'll play a song or I mean, I suppose I could freestyle
Hit him with the beat gotta get it
Dan it's dealer's choice
I want to hear some mob deep inspired, uh beats
Yo, I actually have several that are mob mob deep inspired. Hold on
Shit let's go. Oh shit. Hey, Rima
and then after after dan's musical interlude, we have a uh,
Actually, the question is uh from the youtube audience of uh
what uh
Sour, did you choose for your breeding?
But that'll be after the musical interlude which which sour did I choose?
Yeah
Well when I when I moved out to california
I brought a couple clones with me and one of them was a sour diesel clone
I just knew it as sour diesel and I asked you know
Some other people is it the same as what they call the east coast sour?
It's just just a cut that I had and um, and what I did was I made some hybrids with probably 12 different things and then
Over the next few years just start testing out those hybrids and seeing
Which ones bred more towards the sour and which ones had just more like
You know mixed ratio of of the genetics of the combinations
And you know, I made some good progress and sometimes I make good progress and I and I backstep
You know if I breed in too much like sweetness into it or something
But i've got some good good lines that are really good
You know where the the best stuff in there is amazing and the worst stuff in there is still pretty good
But not what i'm looking for and so i'm going to pop some seeds from some of those
um back crossings and in crosses and and breed them back into the
original diesel and sour diesel clones
All right break us off
Yeah, let's go
Hey, by the way, dan just so shout out though
The last that last little bit of double candy dropped off with that rebel cookies. Let's just let's just call what it is, man
That shit is straight
Burnt rubber on asphalt gas. I love it, bro. It's so fire. Thank you for that
I can't wait to see it. I can't wait to see it
I really really appreciate that
Should I still play one of these
Feel like i'm
Yeah, that's what we're all waiting for all right, i'm a bull pack let's go i'm just trying to find and play the right version
All right, give me one second
Thank you
Life liberty
In the skies it ain't a joke for real with the ganja you don't even really know everybody take it
When you're listening to this with your bombs in your list, we gon' we gon' take a lift now i'm slow
Finally feeling my mind is open and fall into the state of mind that I was hoping that my raps are spoken
It's truly potent the smoke is poetic. I feel deeper with the universe. I might live and I won't regret it
Now what you knowing about the gauntlet you'll be blazing a little more the values in your life be changing
I'm living in the mountains where the valleys are
I'm just trying to survive
Let's go. Oh, yeah, damn
Dope man
Yeah, that's a little sample of something i'm working on I love the creativity man
You gotta holler at benzino man rep for the beat town
Yeah, you know bam so much dan
Yeah, you know bam so much dan
Yeah, thank you. Phoebe. I I really appreciate you inspiring me to to share and shit like that
Um, but you know bam and I we we met, you know, maybe like a handful of years ago
But we actually grew up one town away from each other
That's what's up, hey, let me ask you a question
Let me ask a question kind of getting back on track just a little bit something that i'm seeing that i'm curious about
I mean we're talking about and dan i'm so happy to hear you going back to the roots man with the sours
And you know, we all know how special southern humbled is and the people that really know how to harness that area
Bring out bring out all that expression in the plant what i'm what i'm starting to see
And tell me if i'm wrong i'm starting to see this transition though
And we saw it when we're talking about trends and eric you saw this as well
With limonene coming making that making that uh that breakthrough this year. You've seen a lot of that lemon gas
Lemon dessert and what i'm starting to see now is a transition from the runs
To kind of that skittles
Kind of gas flavor. You see the georgia pies. You see the z41s. You see kind of like those the gelato
Skittles. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, let me know what you think about that. But I mean what i'm starting to see at least on my end
From you know, the traditional market kind of always sets the tone for what we see on on our end
Is those kind of things and with the cup
Like we said, I saw them kind of trickling down the line. I mean the limonene had one of the best showings
Eric, I mean, what would you say about that?
Yeah, that was my favorite category, even though the cariapolian is
You know, like I don't know something pulled me into these desserts over the last couple years
Like I started feeling the hype or the suck, you know suckered into it or I don't even know i'm og gas
straight up every day all day
And uh, you know to get into these desserts was interesting but the limonene category for sure was
Definitely, you know like my favorite
um, and
I mean, honestly
The indoor category was dominated by it
And so to see the indoor category that favors the limonene versus, you know
All the sun-grown versions and entries being dominated by the cariapolian
It's almost like you know, and then you hear distributors asking for og and people saying where's the og and so I don't I don't
Really, you know, like understand like it seems like there's never enough og
and then you know, we get to this year where there's not much around but it's like I know a lot of farms that strictly go
and uh, I don't know if
I don't know what happens, but it definitely
It's definitely changed
Oh, man, it was a trip. I remember
2015 2016, you know medical era. I couldn't buy og
Uh, just because everyone and their mother had it here, you know, everyone was growing it. Everybody had it
Um, I as a as a buyer for the club for some reason, um that market they just that's not what they were into
They were they were into more of those with you know, the exotic the exotics and then as soon as
Regulation hit
Um all of a sudden you started seeing a demand for the sfvs and some of those true ogs and some of that
but the problem is
Is those those cultivars, you know, they're few and far between the growers that grow those strings
um, you know, there's not a lot of dans out there and so
Trying to source that flower for this market has been tough and you're not wrong man. We're asking for it
I mean if sensei was here, he'd tell you too, you know, he's fellow judge and a buyer, you know, he
We're all looking for it. So I I feel that
I pinged him but he didn't uh, he didn't come but I wanted to recognize reba real quick reba's here in the room and
uh for all those if she can introduce herself, but
she's the one that packs up all the samples and gets all the packs ready for us and
You know, honestly probably the coolest job besides judging is to be able to go through all the big jars, you know
We get a little sample and we get to see the big jars, but I think reba you get to see some cool behind the stuff
Action, uh, can you tell us a little bit about it?
Hey guys, thanks for the introduction
Um, yeah, my name is reba. This is actually my second year with the emerald cup. So it's pretty new
It's a lot of learning every day something new
um
there's tons of
crazy things going on behind the scenes and
Somehow we make it work every time
Yeah, that's awesome it's amazing because you know, it's new for everybody this year
So even though you've been doing it two years this year is the first year it's been broken up into these different terpenes. So
Um, you know, it's all we're all kind of learning together this year
Totally helped actually having that something new for everyone
Yeah, i'll say thank you reba because um, like eric's saying
it's it's one thing and
It was brought up earlier bam. I think you said it like there's there's terpenes that that they don't test for that
That you know that you can smell it's like the nose nose and we'd separate them by that anyways
And so you guys did a great job. I want to say thank you for um
For to everyone on the emerald cup team that that prepped those for us and made sure that everything was designated in the proper space
So thanks reba
Thank you guys
Also real quick. I want to plug that we have um some
rooms coming up this week on the emerald cup, uh
Clubhouse group. So if you guys search the emerald club or emerald house
I can't talk
Emerald cup on clubhouse. Um, you can join our calls for the cartridge team and the hydrocarbon
It's amazing how at 9 45 at night some things can be tongue twisters because we've said them all day
A few balls and a couple wraps and that's it
Absolutely, do you uh, want to
Field any more questions from the comments or is anybody down below? I see there people in the room
Maybe you want to ask any questions or just make a comment about cannabis
You know judging related cannabis related growing related
Related cannabis related growing related. I see we have jeff jones in the room
Um, okay, what's up? Okay, if anybody has any trevor sungrown mids
Uh
It's a quiet crowd
Okay, well eric I I want to hear from you from what you smoked, uh, what do you hope wins?
What are you calling for?
Go ahead eric
well, I mean
Honestly, I mean just to give you an idea of my process the judge every judge has you know
In a sense their own process. It might be kind of the same but everybody has their unique
Characteristics of what they're maybe looking at and looking for and so for me
I like to smoke everything in a small joint
and so I I
Think the grind is really important step and so I take it and put it in the grinder
And I see what it does when I grind it and you know the sun grown category
I could grind really easily but the indoor category I could barely even twist the grinder. It was so gummy and
I don't necessarily look at that as a great characteristic because sometimes in my opinion, it's a little too wet
I like things to be a tiny bit on the drier side
so the grinder test is really important along with the fact that
You know, sometimes you can see if it's too dry
And that really brings up the smell, you know for me I really get a
You know big whiff of the terpenes at that point when i'm able to grind it
and and you know pull it all together on the tray and give that a couple whiffs and I mean
To me, there's nothing like that moment and then I roll it up and give the smoke test and you know
When i'm smoking it i'm looking for how it lights. Of course i'm starting with the dry hit first
How does the dry hit taste does it you know
Translate to the smell at all or are we getting something different and then lighting it after a couple tokes?
um, sometimes you got to let some of the joints burn down a little ways so you make sure you give it a fair chance and
you know the best joints really taste the same from the
Beginning to the end and you can put it out and revite it again and it still tastes good. So I mean
really for me that's
You know my my process and so along the way i'm looking also at the structure i'm looking at the quality of the trim i'm looking for
crow's feet so i'm cracking them open looking for bud rot i'm you know, even looking for
powdery mildew spores that might fly up and
I mean before covet a year ago
Joe and I used to sit next to each other and because he's a buyer and he was saying at the beginning of this
Some people that maybe didn't hear he looks at 200 samples a month
You said a month right joe and and that's like an emerald cup for your job like that
I mean your job is to be a judge of the ongoing like mercy wellness cup. I guess you can call it
And so sitting next to you I got to learn a lot, you know, I mean, I guess I got to enjoy, you know
breaking these things apart and really going piece by piece and so
You know, we were super critical. And so I mean if there's a hair in the sample, it's tough. I mean it might not
I don't know
Right now I I honestly I feel like we bonded
You know, we bonded over that and and and you're right. It's I mean on a good month. It's 200 plus a month
i'm looking at and you have to treat each pound because
You're you're procuring this for people to smoke as medicine and or as wellness or as
recreation, whatever it may be and so you you have to take it serious and
Um, you know my process. I mean you you named them eric a lot of those things
I think it's imperative to smoke a joint right and and we do a lot of that
You know and but try hitting it. How does it burn all the way through?
How does it burn? I think you even said it once, you know sign of good a good joint is
You know being able to put it out and come back to it an hour later lighten it up and have it still taste good
You know and and that's right. You're right. That has something to do with the cure
It has something to do with how it was grown and the whole way through and every judge has their own process
and and I I think that's important and that's why the meetings are important because
we then all come together and
And sometimes it's not easy, you know
and then there's those smoke offs and then it really comes down to that like blind pepsi challenge like
Yes structure how it was grown looking. I mean we can dq a lot of things
But until you smoke it you really don't know and sometimes you'd look at something and you'd have a judge present
Their case and and you would have a good counter and this happened last saturday
We we we rolled up one that there was a little bit of an argument on and everyone agreed. Oh, okay
Never mind, we were wrong
This was this was the one and and that's important to have the dialogue and and I think that's what like we talked about earlier
I think it's the least we owe the the grower and
You know and and the people that are waiting to hear what we pass judgment on. So yeah, it's an honor and
Really ultimately it comes down to the smoke and that never lies
the
My favorite and I know peter you asked in the beginning of the question kind of what were we hoping to win?
Um, I wanted for me. I wanted the best flower to win sometimes
um preconceived notions of
Strains or biases can get in the way and that didn't happen this year
So I feel like the best strain won and that made me happy. So I can't wait for them to
To announce the winner. I have no clue who grew it. I have an idea of what the cultivar is, but
It uh, it was one of those ones that stood out from the day from the first day and best show did the same thing
Um, it was identified first day. It stood out to several of the judges
And so the cream always rises to the top and I cannot wait to do this again. So, thank you guys
Yeah, that's awesome, uh
Yeah, and I gotta shout out my buddy eric down below
I invited him up to speak if he wants to but I I also when i'm at home you have a judging partner
buddy with me and
Um, I know down below earlier wade laughter was down there
I went to his house one day and had him help me judge but my real
Homie, eric down below actually comes to my house and we sit in my little
Spot out back and we actually go through these, you know night after night
Um week after week this last time and he vapes and so he actually packs a little vape when I grind it up
And I roll the rest into the joint
And he doesn't you know smoke joints or do it that way
He only uses a pack to vape and so, you know, he's able and I don't vape I just smoke the joint
so
he gives me a little bit of feedback and then you know, like
You know smelling the smoke when it's in the air even as a sometimes a big giveaway or telltale sign of things
And so we try to go through all of it
ash
Does it stay lit? How did it hit the back of the throat when it's in the
joint or the vape and so I mean I feel like we really you know spend a lot of time and and take a lot of
pride and trying to
Go through all these things and I definitely get turned on to
terpenes and things that I normally wouldn't probably
imagine myself like maybe purchasing or maybe growing personally or something, but all of a sudden I
I come across things and with the
Judges letting me know like oh my god, you gotta check this out because it can be overwhelming and that's why I appreciate
Oh, there's eric right on
um, but uh, yeah, uh
Uh, db, did you have a question or so?
Yeah, I have a quick question
I I don't know too much about the emerald cup cup
So I was hoping maybe someone could talk about that as far as like if you're a grower
do you guys
judge on the same strain of genetics or does do growers bring their own genetics and then you
um test them all together or you know, if you guys could talk a little bit about that and then
maybe uh
Also mentioned after the fact, uh, what's your favorite like seed companies that are selling seeds now seeds nowadays?
Oh, yeah, so basically, uh to start out with your question it probably is best answered by
Reba or maybe even dan because dan is a cultivator that enters the emerald cup and I i'm
I mean, maybe even joe knows but for the most part
um, you know, it isn't like it used to be unless it's the personal category, I think because of
distribution and all the different chains of command that these things go through the farmer isn't able to like
Walk up to the emerald cup anymore and hand deliver it like they used to
And so that's why the quality control is such a big topic and an issue right now
Not only for the consumer but for the farmer
Um to be able to have their product represented how it how it left the farm for the most part so
How how do you guys receive the or who does pick the entries for the emerald cup?
Does the farm actually have the choice or does the distribution just show up and grab handfuls?
Uh, this stuff has a word
Yeah, I mean the producer always has the choice. So, you know db just to answer your question
I mean any of us could the emerald cup is probably the most legendary cannabis competition
in the world because while it's a competition of like
Probably the best judging practices the most passionate people. It's really just about the real cannabis community coming together
And it was started by you know, the founder having you know
His his neighbors just get together for a dinner party to see who grew the best weed in their neighborhood for fun
And it really spiraled into this incredible
Thing that that brought I think the most passionate people in cannabis culture together to share the plant
But the answer is that the growers, you know, there's different categories, but for cultivation the growers can choose whatever they want
Unfortunately because of compliance it's a bit more complicated now
Well said then yeah i'll chime into um
It's it's a problem with the third party being involved
I mean obviously like from someone that used to purchase in the different, you know
Different era you're dealing directly with the farmer and now with the distributor depending on how they care for it
Uh, and how they hold it. Um, you're subject to a large gray area there db and so
um, it is unfortunate as far as the large the larger producers go and I think more so, um,
Even bigger problem than that and I know eric could speak to this as well
is
Just the fact that these commercial grows the cure that's done on the product, right?
Like you can tell by the look the nose the trichomes the burn on the flower the the machine trim
Um exactly what's going on and and it's short changing the consumer and short changing us and so it's an issue
Um, but it's something that needs to be talked about in forums like this so we can get out there and get ed
Get people educated and uh, hopefully affect the change in the supply chain that's needed
Yeah, unfortunately lost coast plant therapy isn't a terpene
uh, so
To uh to um add a little bit more context to it there for you db is the
Emerald cup normally was held in december the middle of december and so everything, you know
And originally if you really trace it back was a fully sun-grown outdoor
Let's put it that way outdoor
Competition and now with sun-grown licenses you have people that can use hoop houses and different things as long as there's no electricity
So we have these other
Ways of looking at sun grown and then we have the mixed light category
And so the categories keep growing just like the cup does
And now that it was the year of covet the the event obviously was canceled in december
And so what that meant was that everybody?
From you know sun-grown indoor to outdoor
However, you want to look at it was able to prepare themselves and get their entries or get you know
a good selection and chance at drying and curing and
Even getting the testing that was required before the deadlines
So that everybody had you know a fair chance and so yeah, there was a lot of smoke damage and things this year, but
you know, uh
There wasn't a lot of you know
I met a lot of farms in the december years that weren't able to get their stuff entered in time just because of the
drying and coa process and so
um, the times are definitely changing and in some ways, you know, I mean
Covid definitely sucks, but I think that you know, if we want to look to a bright side of it
You know finally making the emerald cup having to move to this timeline
Is what a lot of people have been saying over the years. I mean tim admits it
It's not like i'm speaking out of turn at all. I don't think and and
You know for me personally speaking. I think it's been great
Um just to be able to give everybody that fair shot
and uh, and and we definitely like I said had a lot of
Good cured entries. Um, it was the indoor ones that I had a tough time running through my grinder
Yep. Hey eric. I'm i'm with you a hundred percent, man. That's what I love
so I love about our conversations those days is that um,
When you go back and like for the listeners, it's it's a trip even for me
and I know eric you can speak to this or anyone that's been a judge in the past is like
You you might you know, and at least for me in my first year, I would kind of question
Okay. Well, this is what I really think is is just standing out and then you take your notes back to the panel
And and you start everyone starts saying the same number and you're like, okay, like everyone kind of had that same idea
And so that it always shines through and the ones that were that are cured great
They're those ones that you're talking about. You can put out the print. You can put out the joint
You can light it back up. It's going to taste just as good
Um the one the winners this year same thing in in all the categories mixed light especially and in sun grown
When you lit that joint or when you dry hit that joint when you got all the way down to the end when you were down
To the end it still tastes that good and that's saying something when you're passing that thing around you're having a good time with it
so
um
I'm, i'm with you on that eric. I I just think that um
It that there's a reason why it's that that that stands out and i'm happy the indoor
I was disappointed as someone who sees as many as I do
Um, I think it was a poor showing and so
Uh, the cure is important. I think it's an important part of the contest and i'm happy that it was highlighted this year more than ever
Um, even though it might not have been under the most ideal circumstances
It it's happy. I'm happy that it brought it to the front
Yeah
too bad indoor
You had your chance. Yeah
You had your chance
Yo, big up this is eric yo joey, I just want to give you props
I don't know if you remember me from the meeting on saturday. I'm eric's friend. Yeah
Had a question for you. Um
Yeah, the indoor the stuff that I was looking at it was like alien weed
I mean it was out of this world kind of looking weed, but the thing that eric and I both found was
Once you rolled it up once you grinded it
I mean he was doing he was getting a lot of lot what I was calling lockout on the grinders where he was trying
To grind it. It would just lock up
and
Once we would vape it or smoke it
no flavor
kind of this weird high like ceiling high it was it was like
Really awkward. We spent one night just focusing on indoor and we saw a huge difference in the high
versus mixed light and sun grown, I mean
When you're that sensitive as I know you are joey bam dan a lot of the listeners riva
I mean peter the whole crew real herbalist
You're sensitive to those things. You can feel that
and
We were seeing like a lot of it had no turf
Like you were just squeezing the nug wanting it to smell wanting it to have that turf because the look was like
Insane out of this world. Yeah, and it's so funny. I think because as a buyer
a retail buyer
Maybe people are just getting into cannabis. I've had my my 215 since 99
Been puffing since 14. So I I mean I just love herb. It saved my life. I'm a two-time cancer survivor
um huge advocate for the herb and I know you joey like meeting you was such an honor because it's like boom right in it like
I was like damn joey's like one of the most passionate people I know about herb that i've ever met
And you could just tell it in the meeting he just cared so much I mean this is the academy
Academy awards of herb
We don't take this shit lightly
This is like big big big stuff
Like I was sitting back because I was kind of considered like an assistant judge, I guess because i've been helping eric for a couple years
but
I was like kind of back like I wasn't even putting in my input really I was listening a lot
And then if it was time for me to maybe say something I would say something
But I just want to see your your thoughts joey like on the indoor if i'm right like some of it just looked
Insane and you wanted it to have that chirp you wanted to have that flavor
You even wanted to have that high and it was just phone short versus like the mixed light joey
I remember I called out. I don't know if i'm allowed to say numbers, but
um
16 I did I said numbers already
I'm, like joey. Okay, because we we've started with the indoor on saturday and we moved to mixed light
I'm, like joey m16. He's like, yeah, dude. That's the one in eight two or something
Our notes just lined up and like that's the shit and like I think the picture
And my profile is number 16
but um
Yeah, yeah, I just want to know your thoughts on that. Sorry for ranting on no, it's dude, bro. I'm stoned man. Hey, first of all
Um, it was an honor to meet you too, bro
Like anyone that has a love for the plant, I will have a place in my heart, you know
And that and that's what it comes down to is that everyone there cares and for myself
It's this simple you can you can start by just looking at the structure of the bud
most of those um are indicative of what
We hate is pgrs is premium growth and growth regulators, right?
That's it's basically something that takes that plant and eric knows it just swells it up that becomes
It looks crazy, right you get this crazy contrast of hairs you get to you might get the nice frost
I mean, it's all that stuff that you look at. It looks great commercially
It looks like a photo you want on your wall, but the minute you bust it down, there's no substance
There's no I like to say it's like no personality. It's just it's just a picture. There's no personality behind that and unfortunately
um because the indoor that side was commercial that's what you saw and
It was few and far between of actually seeing that structure and I had a lot of my notes
You know when I when I see the characteristic of a cultivar
I know the way it's supposed to look that that counts for myself, you know, I don't
When you see everything look like a popcorn ball and it's rounded out and bulbous and gummy
And you get that kind of lock on there. That's what you get
and unfortunately
Um what we saw like you said Eric is a joke but like nice, you know
it was a poor showing and I was disappointed just because
As someone who's a sonoma county native and someone that knows the roots of indoor in our community
Um, it's out there, but they're not they didn't enter it was commercial and you can see what it's done
It is quick turnover time
It is
What you can get the most yield on and it is what sells with bag appeal and the nose does not matter as bam said
Because most of it is just pre-packed and that that choice has been taken away from the consumer
so, um eric
Thank you for the kind words and it was awesome to to judge with you, man
But yeah, that that's really to me
It was it was indicative of the whole class and you could see with the sun grown even though
With the the tribulations that they had with the fires and everything else and you could definitely tell
That there was some that had been definitely damaged and smoke damage, you know, um
They still had a better showing still had a truer characteristic of what the cultivars supposed to be
And that is what the root at least what what it was always to me
even when I was walking around younger just
as a guest was like that's the heart of it and so
Um shout out to all of the farmers that that held it down this year and
Um, i'm proud of the judges and like eric said, you know, there were some
um, you know, maybe it's because it was their first year or they just weren't ready yet, but
you know, they kept out and they left or they fell asleep or whatever it might be but
um, we owe it to everybody to to see it through and so
I appreciate taylor and tim and everybody for just allowing us to make that happen
You know, I I I just have a quick question for uh, vaporizer eric what temperature range do you like to
Do you have a range you you prefer?
Okay, so real quick with that
2012 bluegrass festival in grass valley my buddy jeff
Shows up with this vaporizer
It's the first time packs came out with their one and I tried all sorts of vaporizers and I don't get anything free from packs
But I grinded up some herb and it was the second time i'd gone through cancer and I grinded it up and I smoked
I was like damn I can taste it
It gets me iry
And it works
And so from that point on I converted like five or six of my close buddies that were hardcore smokers into getting at least a packs
Go on for it
I got the two and now the three and I converted my wife into you know, she was a hardcore just bong every day
But now she vapes but I like personally she likes it up at like a three or four setting which is the top setting
It burns it more. It's like I think that hovers around
450 maybe or like 420
But I like the the one level and they call it the flavor level on the app
They have an app for the iphone the packs three
And you can dial it in and to like different settings like are you going for high going for flavor?
Are you going for you know, they have all
I like flavor. That's what i'm going for. So it's like the lowest one of the lowest settings
It cools off super quick when you take your mouth off the vaporizer
And it warms up when you take your draw real quick and
That's what i'm looking for. So i'm so i'm vaping eric would grind it up
I'm vaping i'm giving him kind of the pre-game roll
And he's still rolling by the time i've already taken two draws three draws on my vape and i'm kind of talking i'm going oh shit
You know, it's doing this thing to the back of my throat
I don't like it. It's it's like biting my throat or oh shit
It's not translating into flavor from the smell that we got
And you go, okay, and then he would try it and you go. Oh, fuck. Yeah, or he'd go
No, keep going on it. See if it changes and sometimes it would change through the vape process like
Fourth hit fifth hit maybe it gets better or smoother
Or it's a different kind of expand like you're hitting it and it's like expanding
You know that we all look for where you're like damn that feels good. Like that's that old shit, you know that old
classic herb
That would just kind of like expand and really hit you, you know the way you like it
So it was rad to do that with eric because like
I would do the vape thing he would do the smoke thing
And we could exchange notes and really break it down. And
Like I said, we we really didn't take it. You know, it's like eric asked me last year
We really didn't take it, you know, it's like eric asked me last year
to come by and he had a shit ton of samples to go through and I was like
all right, dude, like this is for real, you know, like
We're about to break this shit down. It's not like
Eric rolls up his sleeves. Yeah. No, really. I mean it's fun and it's like
Fuck. Yeah owner but like joey was saying like we owe it to the farmers
Like I see craig in the audience, you know craig satori and I know bam and dan
I mean all these farmers that have given
sweat and tears literally
This really isn't a joke thing it's a life passion kind of thing
And it's not just a get rich kind of scheme or oh, yeah
we're in herb now because it's legal and this is my bio and this is what I do and
Check me out and give me a follow it's no not really
It's early until we die, you know, it's like plant for life, you know, so
Big up. Yeah. Thanks
Sorry, man, I was just gonna make a quick observation on the indoor when you guys were saying that it's alien weed
You know these new led lights
You know, it's a big advancement in technology and what it does to the plant and you know from from what i've been
You know hearing, you know, it's it's
When you grow under these leds and you have that intensity
You're also supposed to grow in higher humidity and the flower can take much more humidity without without molding
And so I think that a lot of the people transitioning into these commercial indoors with the new led technologies
Are growing at too low humidity and that's probably why it's lacking in terpenes
And and also just because that shit is some technology
I mean people hand me alien indoor weed all the time. Check out this fucking yield
I got on these new leds and you know, I just put it in the jar politely, but I can't I don't smoke it
I've tried it a time or two. It looks it looks neon, you know, and that's cool, but it tastes like cardboard
yeah, dan, you know, it's funny you say that I
And and a lot of us in this room can attest to this we we we walk we travel we see other grows
And and you know, you like you want to be polite
We're part of something. We have a 10 000 square foot commercial cultivation. I know eric's toward it
Um led with craft farmer and stuff like that and you're right
You have to grow at the higher you have to grow at the higher point with humidity and I think with this
um
With this though, this was more indicative at least with the cup this year
which i'm not disagreeing with you on the led stuff, um was more indicative of supply chain and
The fact that it's all about the quick turnover and and it's all about this yields and there were some strains
I mean you can tell a lot of it's just hps's, you know, something like that, but
it there were some stuff that that stood out, but it was few and far between and
Most of the stuff that's being grown on the craft scale is not represented in the cup when it came to indoor
And that's what I think ultimately led to the poor showing
They had their chance no i'm joking joke just a joke
Hey
Mixed light all i'm saying is like I would say about 74 hot 75 of the mixed light
I smoked all the way through and I can't say that about
I'm growing. It was like 100. I can't say that about the others and so yeah, um, you know shout out to mixed light
We were stoked and i'm excited. You know what I mean? Like that's
I can't wait. That's the best. Well, I want to do a quick reset of the room here and uh, and just uh,
Recognize some of the people that have come in. Um
Uh, this this is the future cannabis projects room peter. You're holding it down
And he got together to do the emerald cup winners and future breeding trends and here on the stage we have
fellow judges
We have breeders. We have emerald cup winners. We have emerald cup behind the scenes people
and uh, priscilla
Priscilla from the original breeders league. She also moderates the rooms for the oakster dam
uh clubhouse, uh
Rooms that we do. So did you have a question or a comment you want to make it's good to hear from you?
Oh, i'm happy to be here. Sorry if uh, it's a little loud. We just jumped jumped in the
the hot tub and um
Anyway, loving the conversation of where it's going and I just wanted to add to the comments of like future breeding trends
Um, you know, we're working a lot with uh with with some of the renaissance streams so to speak
uh working a lot with um different african sativas and
Just excited to kind of bring some of that stuff to the market because it seems like
More and more people are having the conversation around terpenes
and obviously the education and the knowledge around
Different cannabinoid profiles and how it's not just about the highest
You know thc percentages in your weed anymore. It's just really exciting to have people start talking about
Uh, you know those different topics and seeing that work actually
Uh come out in the market
Good to hear
um, it sounds like everybody's trying to bring it back and and get out of this hurry up and
See what the thc result is type of growing and and really get some true
uh
Keepers that everybody asks for and talks about but it's always like the elephant in the room
Uh, thank you for that priscilla. It's good seeing you and uh
Um avion, do you have a question or a comment you'd like to uh make
Well first i'd like to
Really really appreciate priscilla
Um, I feel like it's so important that we start to educate on a higher level for you know
Type two plants especially like mixed ratio and enhanced cultivars
Um, but the reason I came up, um, thanks for hosting peter and i'm yeah, I know the emerald cup
I'm in oregon. So, you know, I I love the cup
Down there just such an iconic thing and I learned in northern california how to grow
But I have concerns about what joe's saying about the pgrs
I mean, obviously there's lots of different pgrs within the industry
And i'm, you know, if it's that obvious that they're like chemical pgrs coming through
um, I would just be curious like what you're seeing or what you're hearing or what I know a lot of them are
Sure, but i've also you know, I know plenty of growers, you know, but
You know
Yeah, I just would like to clarify that you're talking about chemical pgrs and and um, what yeah
Sure, yeah, no problem. Yeah, that's exactly what i'm talking about
And it's it's essentially and you have to and this is things these are things that have passed testing by the way
This is things that are um, you know by the law of california can be sold in retail
They just they tend to show characteristics indicative of premium growth regulators used in
feeding of the plants and so
Normally tends to take away from the structure of the plant
Um, it kind of creates what people call those pretender
Kind of alien looking weed where that looks really killer and then there's just not a lot
Like I said not a lot of personality to it. Um, not a lot of depth and um
It's mostly just a look that ends up coming out about the plant and so
The flowers are are unique and they're supposed to look different and when they all look the same
Um, it's indicative of it could be just overfeeding and so i'll clarify that a little bit
Right on what's up craig, uh
For those of you that don't know craig down here satori
Uh was the emerald cup winner of the pre-roll last year. It was a
Great pre-roll. How you doing, bro?
Hey, what's up eric, uh, i'm doing good
Craig just listening in checking it out
um
Yeah, man stoked for em stuck for the emerald cup
Right on I definitely resonate with everything you guys are saying kind of indoor tip and
You know, my motto is I prefer giving my plants sugars more than salt. It's concentrated
and so
Growing organic you get
It's more sugar than salt and I think you get that better taste that better burn in the end
So hopefully there was a few that stood out in that indoor category from us
But who knows?
But who knows
I got a question though is like compared to last year and just the previous years
Like what was the entry level like this year? Was there?
good entry, uh
across like all the categories like
Joe answer that first
yeah, I mean I would say as far as
What the quality was in each entry? I think there was what three over 300 entries across all categories
I I feel like just if we're being
I mean i'm going to be 100 honest
And you know disappointed in a lot of the the entries this year
Um, I think a lot of people didn't really understand the rules. There was some confusion with um
You know what licenses?
Uh pertain to what entries and then also just with the fires and everything. It was just a lot of obstacles and so
um, you know, it was tough I I would say
Overall though and that's why we keep bringing it up with the mix light. I mean
To me that was the one that had the best showing because overall it was the most entries that I that I could enjoy their
third party
certified
um, unfortunately, they just did not
Did not
Have a good showing and and that was unfortunate. You would have high hopes
Uh for for for that because it's important to to highlight that, you know
I think that's that's an important thing you're talking about sustainable farming and then with the personal use
um, it's crapshoot and so
um, they're just there was a lot of things there that I think
Really inhibited what what could have been a better showing for all the farmers and I think it's a big
point of conversation when we're talking about
Supply chain with the distributors who have control over the the the contestants entry
So it's definitely something we've been talking about. Yeah, that's that's the biggest thing is the supply chain and and you know
um
One of the toughest parts of being the judge is you know, weeding through the ones that aren't going to make the cut
You know, sometimes that process is easy by just smelling it and looking at it and just go. Oh shit, you know, and so
After judging a few years. Yeah, I'll agree with joe like there's a lot of you know
And kovid might have got the best of a lot of people for one reason or another of things the fires
I mean the fires alone like I mean there was
There was a good portion of entries that I had that's you know in the sun grown that smelled like smoke and I mean
You know, I I live in california. I I know what it was like and so
There's no getting around some of these things. And so basically, yeah
the third party certification for anybody that maybe is wondering um is stuff that would be certified by
Somebody like clean green certified just for a lack of a better example. There's plenty of certifiers that
Certify for different reasons or another but I think just for
example purposes the easiest one that people might identify with it's been around quite a long time is the clean green certified and
you know, maybe it's
other certifications, but nevertheless that that category in particular was a little tough and
Personal last year the personal category was actually the heat was the fires
Of all super heat it was a super let down and I was kind of bummed and so
No gas
It's yeah, it's crazy how it goes from year to year
And so the pre-rolls were better like we said at the beginning
Uh for those of you aren't here
I think joe and I both agreed that the infused pre-rolls were the most difficult for us to judge just as judges
It's not my thing, but
I can make shit work
And uh the regular pre-rolls were actually surprisingly
pretty pretty good I I
like joe was saying have a bias against pre-rolls a lot of times just because
Um, I do agree and said we should get two of each, you know
so that we can tear one open and smoke one or tear two open and smoke whatever but
The tearing open is really important to me to be able to get a look at things because I can already tell at the dry
hit what's going to happen, but
You're trying to give things the benefit of the doubt so
um anyway, um, I hope that answered your question craig
Well, not exactly I guess okay definitely it did but I was I was uh,
My question was overall entries, which I think I heard was about 300. So
That's pretty much on par with like a usual yearly
Uh emerald cup. So like, you know, there was I think it was
Yeah, he said tim said it was down a couple on the flower but up in another cat like hash was up and flower was
Down a couple like not much but a little
Yeah, there was yeah a good amount of entries. Yeah. Great. Yeah, exactly
There's the most so let me I can break it down for you a little bit more the the biggest showing obviously was sun grown
um second was mixed light followed by indoor personal use and then um, third third party certified so
Um, that's kind of how it was broken down the lion's share though was was sun grown
Which was still great to see especially when these new entries came in place
I think one of the things that we were talking about and one of the reasons why I said i'm disappointed with the indoor was
um, maybe it was because the cup was pushed back or whatever but and because of covid but
Um, I was expecting to see a lot more entries and a lot more people. Um trying to get their name
Out there for for their hard work. And so maybe we'll see
Uh an influx next year as people understand there's these new categories and um, i'm looking forward to it man
That's what we're here for
I mean, yeah, let's be honest people have been talking shit for years saying they want to put
Why is it indoor allowed? Why is it?
Happens and everybody shits them or not everybody. I'm, sorry, not a good portion of it kind of shit the bed
Yeah
Well, no, my biggest thing is the changing the date man. I've been pushing on tim for years like dude
December is too early. Yeah, anyway, it's so I mean
Just changing the date changes the game like because you can get something properly ready and store it for
Rather than have to rush to get something ready in december. So I think people should be submitting better entries
If they know what they're doing I I think so, too
I would I would have hoped so too on that same sentiment and that's where it lies some of this licensing thing, too
You know what? I mean like a sungrown license can pull some tarps. And so
You know
Where does you know, where does that fall?
So these categories are tough and the emerald cup has a tough
tough job of being able to distinguish all these things and break them up into the now the
Top terpenes and for those of the people that weren't here all the
entries were dominated by beta cariophylline except for indoor was dominated by limonene and
One to barely two percent of the entries were awesomene and terpenylene
Actually the least was pinene in all of them
And I think there was two entries in the entire cup that fell in the pinene category
And then we had a few of each category that were the osomposamine and terpenylene and so
It's crazy to see like we started this conversation with the trends of where cannabis was gone based on the winners because again
The winners last year for the emerald cup for those of you that might not remember was ridgeline runs
For sun grown the ice cream cake. I believe it was from josh d
And the personal category up in nevada county grass valley area was a
La cush cake
And so you can see where the cup entries have lied, you know
We're at place this year
But you know where the where the winners lie and what categories for the terpene dominance will be this year. Um,
Tune in april 11th. Um, but uh k
Uh k is a homie. That's always
What's up, how you doing i'm really well, um, i'm pretty high so if I fuck this up, please apologize, please forgive me
But hey
I have a question about judging on the indoor because that's really interesting to me and it is really ironic that
Forever people are like, oh, we got the best we got the best
And now you're saying no way you don't um
All right is the mic is the indoor personal?
And indoor commercial the same
And do you know the medium when you're judging it or can you tell the medium when you're judging it
Eric, you want me to take this or you can?
Or I was going to say yeah, even reba because I don't technically know the answer. So yeah, what do I have to handle it?
Um, our indoor category is just sun grown
So I answered half that question. Sorry. I'm actually working on emerald cup stuff right now
So, yeah, I guess what um
so for the indoor category as far as judges are concerned, we don't know the medium as far as uh,
But you can hypothesize on it like oh, I think this was growing a wok war or this was growing cocoa or this was growing soil
um, and that just comes from the experience of being a judge and kind of looking at um,
The traits of the plant and what what you've seen from going into different grows
Uh, right, so
so what I would say to that is
Are you seeing anybody who's at scale?
Really running how we used to run rooms with um soil indoors
So I think or is it all pretty much rockwell or is it all cocoa? I guess
I mean, I guess the best way I could describe I guess the answer that is craft by design does not scale and so
Exactly. So isn't that why your category sucks now?
Well, the I still run soil indoors. Yeah, the the end of the indoor category there were um, some really really
Really nice entries. It's just if you're talking about overall if you're talking about overall
They just didn't have the best showing that does not yeah, they didn't have some fire ass entries, which they did
So not to mislead anybody by joking around like the winning it the winning indoor
Entry yeah, we're fucking fire and the jars were ridiculous
Yeah, exactly exactly so
Um, yeah, not to don't get misconstrued. It's just when we're talking about like
What you said, right? Okay, like all the shit talk all the all the bravado
We would have hoped that overall it would have had a stronger showing right but just like any other
Category the top of the top. I mean we have the best overall
Category okay, and that's the top winner from each category and it was legitimately a slugfest like
The lights went out we we argued until the lights went out and then we had to
Go eat dinner and then having that two more meetings after that just to decide it. So
it was
It was uh, it's not easy. And so yeah, let's not let's I don't want to mislead anybody that it's just you know overall
Um as a sonoma county native some of those that's you know
In my generation i'm happy to see that mixed light and sun grows stayed strong overall
Well, okay, so that just really made me think about you know
It's probably just we're not dealing with the same mediums
As we traditionally did and that as everybody scales up and they have to switch over to rockwell or whatever
Something's lost in the indoor
So, yeah, I I think it's a lot of things I think it's I think it's if you don't have sound sops
Uh the fact that they're only running cultivars that need to be on quick, you know, six return times
They're not and I have a question about that
Don't you think that a lot of the ogs are kind of with the people who are considered ogs?
And they might not be running them commercially right now because yeah that time frame and also
Because those people haven't all been allowed to scale up yet
They're still
Them like running, you know big grows necessarily right now like other people
But there's a couple farms up in humboldt to definitely bang out the ogs
Not there usually every year that we're dan's dan's of you know, one of them is plenty of there's a couple other big ones
that every year people are like you shouldn't do og and they do like five different ogs and that's all they do and
Yeah, they only do two or three runs a year they're not a year-round a lot of humble farms aren't as year-round as
Maybe some of the other ones that we would associate with I was kind of talking indoor and I totally appreciate
You know them doing that and also I would love to know bam more because I wanted sky color for a few years
And it's it sounds you know, I want to grow that plant so bad, but anyways
Um, yeah, no i'm talking mostly indoor
And bigger bigger cultivation that's scaling up indoor. Yeah
Yeah, I don't know the indoor ones are indoor for indoor there's not i'll answer that there's not a lot of people doing it
There's just not
And the people that are doing it
Um are not making it
Accessible or do not have the supply chain to reach a large audience. And so it's I don't think they're legal yet
I literally think they're waiting. No
No, there's there's several there's there's there's a few people that are doing good work even down south like source says
There's good genetics down there. They have um, so a couple different ogs
It's just a matter of the supply chain and getting it to you in a manner
Um that that that it should be um, even as a buyer who gets a sample sent to me
when a sample gets sent to me, it's
Minimum two and a half three months old and so it's you know, and so that's a big part of it
And and you're not wrong. Okay, like yeah, most of a lot of them are still
By uh the zoning in their town or by whatever happenstance. They didn't go
into uh
That new market and so a lot of them aren't there but like eric said there's there's plenty if you know where to look
Thank you, well the weed in the weed in the south doesn't always come north
rarely
Exactly. That's what I mean. It's a supply chain issue
There was a huge law passed that made a billion dollar industry legal with the snap of a finger with no supply chain
and so when you have
Distribution set up for every other commodity and then you take something that goes into the top two three commodity in the state with no infrastructure
You're going to run into issues like this. And so it's a grind and we all signed up for it
And so it's just a matter. Oh, well, I have a bigger question. I mean this isn't about the cup, but I mean going forward next year
What are we going to do with all this weed that california's producing and we have like what how many clubs open 800 or something?
Like there's hardly any clubs open
and we have
We have like two facilities. They're like a million acres under glass
There's a lot of fresh frozen believe it or not, is that what the deal is? Okay. Well, I gotta be honest
I see. I mean, maybe I know too much. This isn't the place for it, but not everybody
Is gonna end up on the shelf. I mean, yeah, I'd end up in a vape cart or something, but it ain't
Not not everything is the flower that instagram intends it to be so I mean
uh
And and you get to these facilities and that's all they are is they look good on paper to be honest and so
Uh, I don't want to get too far off while we got a couple more. Yeah in here
uh
Patrick, do you uh, do you have a question or a comment you want to make?
Um, nothing really just listening in seeing what knowledge I can absorb and uh, staying grateful
Got a lot of thank yous to send to each and every one of you guys. You're the best out there
Right on. Well, thank you. Thank you. Hey, uh big greece. I just started following you the other night. I heard you in a room and
Yeah
How's how you doing? And do you got a question or a comment you want to make to the room?
Yeah, how you doing, uh again, yeah, I just want to say thank you for you guys holding this room and uh, everyone here's amazing
um, yeah, just uh, just
Is it's uh, obviously, uh, probably too late to enter anything
I just want to say I do want to show up and bring some flower just for everyone to smoke. That's
If that's cool, but yeah, that's about it. I just hope everyone's having a great night
That's awesome hell yeah
Well, cool we've held this down for a little over an hour and 40 minutes and uh, peter, do you have any
Well, why don't we uh
Go ahead. Is that craig? I'm just gonna circle back around to the earlier conversation you're having about
The entry and where the quality lies
is uh
You know, we just did the grow off competition with uh,
Is you get like everybody gets two clones of the same strain and you grow it out and then it's a test
In the competition based on the terpene and thc results
So we got our two clones. And of course, like as soon as we
First thing we do is take cuttings off it and throw it into different environments. So
We took that clone
Grew it in two different indoors
A mix live and a mix live and a mix live and a mix live and a mix live and a mix live
And we grew it in two different indoors a mix light environment in the sun grown
And the entry we wound up putting into the cup was the sun grown because it had the most terpenes in highest thc
Compared to the indoors in the mixed light. So we put we grew it in
So well, so you're saying this is like a pre this is like a pregame like you do a little pre-show to fucking
Wow
Putting all the secrets out when you get something you want to play with it, right?
So you just try it out in all different environments and you have the opportunity to see where it's going to thrive
You know some strains do better in an outdoor setting some strains do better in an indoor setting some strains do better in a mixed light setting
Craig is a fucking player in the game
Yeah, I do want to say hey, I do want to say though. I want to take an opportunity because there are
uh a lot of growers on this, uh
On this panel right now that I really do hold in high esteem. I just want to say thank you
um, you know for continuing to do what you guys are doing and
And sticking together, you know, it's a it's up to us to tell these stories, you know, we're
We're talking a lot about tonight about you know
those thc warriors and we need to we need to uh be able to teach them that
You know, the terpenes are kind of that steering wheel, you know, there's there's all the whole effects, you know
I'll take something that has a higher cannabinoid to thc ratio than
than biomass any day and so
You know, it's kind of up to us to tell that and I look forward to continuing to do this with you guys
I really do appreciate it. Um
So, thank you
Well, I have another I have another question. Do you guys ever run across anything that you're like, I don't even want to smoke it
All the time, yeah
Judges that smoke everything and and I doubt because I don't have the lungs to like fuck my shit up on some hay
I honestly gotta be able to save myself for things that are
You know questionable or you know, and that's honestly
the judges meetings aren't about going there and finding
Your favorite everybody knows which one is pretty the favorite and we do smoke it
But the ones that we smoke the most of and have to deal with are the ones that are
uh
questionable and the ones that we can't decide or the whole group is kind of maybe a tiebreaker in some categories or
Whatever and so there's a lot of smoking that goes on on all kinds of stuff that you're trying to just sort out and so
um, it isn't like we're just sitting back smoking the best of the best and
Uh, one of the things before I just saw I had rybiz came in but before we get to rybiz real quick bam
uh for those of you that haven't been in here earlier, maybe
bam didn't talk about it. He's a
cartridge judge
And so we've been talking about a lot about judging flowers bam
Do you want to take a moment and just tell us what it's like to judge?
vape carts
Uh, sure, I mean I think it's
Vet cart as a as a category to judge as a whole
there's so much nuance to it, but I think what I can really say that I I appreciated this year the most about the cup is
That all the judges really cared and like having been the past competitor
uh
You know, you always have the question in your mind. Are you being judged fairly? Uh,
What are the criteria that is are being evaluated and we had some amazing in-depth conversations
about
And it was really great because
There was a lot of discussion before we came to our final decisions
About what those factors were and I can say that as a past competitor
and a judge that uh, it
It all sort of went beyond my expectations
It was awesome to be with such a diverse group
Of judges that come from all different aspects of the industry
And and that kind of showed everybody's bias and i'm not saying that it was biased. It's just
as a
extractor or a grower
I'm going to have a certain perspective about
What makes something great versus somebody who is
A purchaser a buyer or a retailer. We all come from different walks of life. And so the color
And the lens that we use world is going to be slightly different and it was really amazing to see the passion
Angles that came together and
And
Judging in itself just wound up becoming an educational and experience beyond being an opportunity to educate
And I felt there was like some really meaningful dialogue and some great ideas that came out of it
I honestly feel like as a judges panel
It'd be awesome if we
Published
some of the discussions
That were had almost into like a
best practices manual because if if you're a brand
And and you are trying to come up in this space and you are trying to understand
the breadth and depth of
Opinion that you need to like navigate in order to like make it
I can say that i'm truly honored to have been a part of what I consider to be one of those
Panels that's qualified
To to give you that information and I say I say that particularly because of how inclusive
uh judging
the the judges were and and accepting of each other's opinions, so
That's what I gotta say about that
Yeah, this is eric. Can I just say something real quick to what bam said? Um
You probably saw this joey arriba eric at the saturday finals judges meeting they had like a red camera going around
And they were filming different judges talking to each other
I really hope we get to see that footage because like bam said that's some gold right there
you know, you really get to break down the passion and what they're looking at and
You know you get to hear kind of inside and then on a second note
I was going to say earlier about do we smoke all the samples? It's like
The first thing eric and I do and we we agree upon this I think a lot of people on this panel can agree
upon this is
What's the first thing you do as an herbalist? You know, you put that nug to your nose
That's like your first instinct when you pick up a nug go straight to your nose
And you go to smell it and if you're not getting anything off that
If it just smells like hay, then we're not going to touch it
I mean it could look pretty decent
But if it doesn't have any terp at all, we kind of let it go
So I just wanted to put two cents in on that. But yeah, that's that footage from that saturday meeting
I hope they put in that on social club tv this week or
On the 11th or in the awards ceremony online because it'd be really rad to kind of hear that because there's definitely some gold in there
That the public or you know, it'd be a privilege for everyone to to experience. Thank you
Yeah, man, I don't know that's some super secret shit right there, I don't know man, but
That's the stuff that we need to elevate things right because
You're an editor and you're going into the competition to be able to hear those factors and you want to win next year
you're
Then it's a great place to start right? And and I think that's where like the power of these cups
Uh really lays like i'm obviously all about
I i'm infatuated with the idea of education being able to change the world
and so
I see this as just an opportunity for for everyone customers
Producers manufacturers and regulators to actually all step their game up
well, I I think that's what's so cool about a forum like this is that
it's uh
It's teaching and showing people a new way to engage and learn
I remember my first year
um
All as the emerald cup judge in in the booth area where they ask you to be
For people to come and maybe ask questions or growers come and there's not a whole lot of people that come
Um, they're just maybe they come say hi, but no one's coming to actually like listen or ask the questions
And so when you present a forum like this
It gives us all an opportunity to to do what you just said and so I think um, you know
It's turning a you know, a negative into a positive
Um, it's it's having something cool like this be born out of it. So i'm looking forward to the future
Right on uh, rye is uh, I I uh wanted to just uh, welcome you up
Do you have a question or comment you got? Uh
for us tonight
Hey guys, it's peter. My name is
I'm from czech republic and it's really nice to hear you how you're talking about the cannabis. I really love this plant
I'm smoking for 20 years already
And i've been planting the plants since my 15th for my ankle. I get the first seed
and now i'm
I'm doing the indoor as well
And every time just one plant
Just indoor, you know because about the legalization here and stuff like that
but what I want to say that uh, if I make some cuts from the
Indoor and i'm putting on my grandfather's garden and on my cottage on the mountains the same strain
The taste and the effects are every time really different from any place
That's the point what what I want to say and the curing is the most
Important thing for the for everything and we can grow
very nicely and
You can fuck it up on the end. Sorry for my english, but it's very nice to be with busy to hear guys
And i'm done with speaking
Hello. Well, man, thanks
Nice to meet you. Yeah, good having you here
That's so badass. You've got someone from on the other side of the world
Saying what you want to say to some new growers all the time
Dope as fuck. Thank you
Yeah clubhouse is awesome. Uh, I love this platform
you guys are locked in this room and
We want to keep it going a little bit ping some people
Follow some people
Make sure we all stay connected one way or the other
everybody in here contributes good content and I know a lot of these people pop around to different cool rooms and
Clubhouse the thing is the more people you follow the more access you have so it's not about getting followers. It's about
Make you know following other things and people and interests that you have so that you can have more rooms
available to you in the first place and so
everybody in here
there's a diverse group following different things and people and business and
wellness and all kinds of things so
Uh, definitely when you get a chance check profiles follow people bm on instagram if you need to link up
um, but
pedro
welcome
Well, do you have a question or a comment for the room tonight?
Yeah. Hello eric peter joe. Thank you so much for having this room
And for letting me come and speak a little bit. My name is pedro. I'm from colombia
And I am a cannabis entrepreneur
Here in colombia, I just got the licensing for
cultivating cannabis and hemp
and yeah, we're gonna start our
activities
like to set up
our lineup for
The agricultural trial so we can start like getting our seeds registered our cultivars registered
So I saw the title of this room and I felt compelled to come in and and and just listen
And and come up and say hello and invite you to join
our club
cannabis in espanol, we are creating a
a community on on cannabis and for spanish speakers, but also we're having some rooms to connect
both
spanish speaking and english speaking cannabis spaces
so
We can connect your expertise and all the inputs that you might have
For growing a worldwide stronger
community
and also an industry that can you know rely on the
expertises
from different sides and
And yeah trying to make the best out of that of this. I also share what you were saying
about
my thoughts on clubhouse, I think it's
Absolutely disruptive and allows to to you know to go
get across the
the hurdles, you know, uh and and get directly to connect with people that
Otherwise would be very very difficult to find and and to connect and to speak and so
yeah, i'm very glad about that and and anything that you might find interesting or
I can help you with just feel free to reach me. I
I can talk about
Latin america cannabis
Spaces and regulations and we have this interesting room called latam cannabis embassy
the idea is to hold conversations in english, but with the
people from latin america and you so we can connect both of
You
So
Can you hear me I can hear you
Okay, I can hear you yeah, okay for a minute there and and can't can you hear me
That that was yeah that that was my very uh,
not graceful transition because I had yeah, it's too long to explain but
When that guy was when that guy was rambling about uh, his english to spanish, uh stuff. I was like maybe we can just
So so that that was in two hours what I uh
was thinking would be like a 15 20 minutes setting the table of like
What gets entered into the emerald cup and then obviously when you have a winner it's like oh shit
Like every dispensary is like we need to carry that and every consumer is like I want to smoke that and then is every
Obviously not every breeder but it's like it definitely influences future
breeding trends and like
so that was kind of
my contribution to your conversation about breeding of like
And even like hash contests like dabidu right like when the
The banana papaya, you know stuff starts racking up awards like suddenly
These things take off
Yeah, yeah
that happened with when the
Skittles fucking won everything that one year at the emerald cup in the hash division like they swept every part of the damn thing
next thing, you know
Everybody that's heard of the competition and heard of who's won wants part of that planet somehow from smoking it
To breeding it because if you're going to be a commercial entity, you've got to do something that brings people towards your uh brand
Otherwise
You're just out there floating around until you disappear with the way things are these days
If you don't try to go that direction at some point while you're still doing your side stuff
You're just going to end up floating away and you're never going to make it, you know
Or you're just going to turn into a small time guy that's doing it for yourself and for special
Uh types of things but if you're going to become a commercialized cannabis brand you kind of have to get into
That side of the business you have to be into the trends ahead of everything
You have to start listening to what every breeder's saying. You need to be in all the forums
Listen, even if you're not in there
That's even better just reading what everybody else is talking about
What when they say that what they want to start staring towards what you're breeding your own garden is great
like with my angeline and with trees, uh
Pam and shit like that, but like if people don't know it
They're not going to go after it once they they've heard of a strain it stays forever man
Like the chem lines are proof of that
They've been here for 30 years all because of a story and some herb that can carry the weight
It gets all the way down the line. So you either got to prove through multiple breeding generations
Or you got to put in everybody's hands
You got like me and gene, you know in the black lime reserve. We got eric's, you know, chili verde you got, you know, eric
You know, I mean the list
List goes on and on, you know of all the emerald cup winners and then that next year the year after you got the trickle down
you know people still chase the shit out of
every single one of those, you know, so
Uh, but it takes a lot to win one of those and that's like, you know, you go through you know
You go through a lot of the you know
In a fair competition, you know for the most part it takes a lot takes a lot to to shine above so many entries
so
You know says the fucking says a lot about winning competitions, you know
So oh yeah a lot with the you know, the the numbers game. I dig that that's a cool fucking way to look at it
You know a whole nother whole nother ombre, you know
um
i'd love to
You know this this
Pandemic year
Was the year that I was hoping we could do I could do more competitions and enter a lot of the stuff
I was I was all prepared and ready to roll and everything gets shut down, you know, so it's like
Yeah, I hope we can have some you know, we can have this shit open up, you know
So we've already entered some stuff and put some shit on the board, you know what I mean?
Fucking hitting that motherfucker, you know
Yeah, yeah, that's the goal
When it comes back, we just wait
You know
There you go
Wait till the new stuff comes out from what everybody's been sitting on because they couldn't go to competitions
Just imagine the new shit that some people are fucking trying to work on to put out there instead of just what's already been there
Because that's another way to make yourself known in the communities if you can win one of these with something
No one's ever heard about they're coming straight for you
Like you don't even have to have that market recognition
That like jeans black lime reserve did that as soon as they seen that people were all over it
Like the plant pulled away. I mean it it does what it says
But until everybody had seen it like right out in the open and they're like what the fuck is this?
They wanted over and over again like the first time I smoked that black lime reserve man. I was like damn dude
This is old school weeds like time travel herb. It's the kind of shit that makes you go back to high school
You start remembering shit. You totally forgot about all because of a terpene profile on a plant
And gene does that shit with you man? He's he's like the pot at the end of the rainbow and shit, right?
He's got a prize for everybody and you smoke that shit and somehow his herb
But one of them somehow takes you back somewhere because of the palette and the diversity of what he's breeding and shit out there
You know, he the the cats knows what he's doing when it comes to putting terpene profiles on plants
And then you know
Fucking putting that root beer spin on it out there. So everybody knows but you know
I mean, you got to put that meme gene spin on it these days, but you can't just have some
Funky ass. Hey, like homeboy was talking about earlier that that fucking he-ha
In high school we called hey he-ha man
That shit will get you fucking nowhere, but busted and shit. Don't don't carry it in your pocket. It ain't getting you high
It's just gonna get you a ride downtown and shit. If you get caught with it, that's a he-ha man. Fuck that shit
That's it
They're gonna come out, you know all the new ideas like like the freak like a freak competition
I don't know who you know, that's a free one for anybody wants to put together like the freaks, you know, like the bastard
The freak show. Yeah, that'd be sick
Other mutants like the mutant competition, you know something like that, you know, you got the airman competition
You know something with like, you know, just just outdoor stock
The big stock we have more of those, you know, there's a couple of those but we need to have more of that
I think that's fucking pretty cool, you know, but i'm looking forward to seeing
You know the weird
new competition ideas, you know or categories, you know stuff like that, you know, but I definitely think
We have to go, you know
That'd be a killer category dude a mutant category because there's all kinds of different mutants out there. You got variegated plants
Because for real variegated then you got the mutated leaf structures
some plants are
you know, you're just gonna have to figure out where you cut them off at with the mutations because some people are gonna
They're gonna be like I got an auto flower. Well, that that's not the kind of mutant we're talking about, brother
Everybody's throwing everything in the game, but I think that would be a good one for sure for sure. Yeah, that's
That's a pretty good idea
Yeah, i'm working on that i'm like back on me, you know, i'm working on that abc91, you know, or the 91 abc so
I should you know, get me get me all excited for the mutant stuff, you know
I haven't grown much mutant mutant stuff or funky. Uh, you know, I don't pretend i'm growing any freak show or
Actually need to get you that smv and put that as the
Are the uh, the skywalker that skywalker? Um put that on that abc man
She's a stretchy ass girl she grows like the triangle
She grows a lot like the triangle and especially in veg
We're gonna see what she's gonna do in flower here pretty soon. We're gonna put her up against the fire and the triangle
I'm, probably gonna put the sfv in there
and um the ghost og
I'm, probably just gonna throw all the ogs in that i'm doing a little outdoor tent outside that i'm going to use to
allow the sun to bring in the
Actual drive the epigenetics of the plant because there's so many different traits
In the plant that are just never showing up when you try to breed indoors
Unless you put a lot of money into specific lighting and shit in there
There's just no spectrum and it's so peak in specific spectrums. You're just you're starting to tailor that plan for an indoor
environment all the time
And when it's not that environment that you actually bred it in which it's always going to be in all the time because you have
A setup that doesn't change, you know, even if it's a large
Facility they they're going to have one type of light in that facility unless there's a place that's doing. Um
Mixed spectrum with outdoor and indoor light. That'd be the only way you're going to be able to drive that
With a full uh epigenetic potential that plan
Is by putting that thing under yeah put it under sun
You need infrared light and you need to have some uh, uv light in that plant and you don't need it spiking
Like um these artificial lights do like getting
660 so fucking high
Just so it does an artificial steroid type drive on the plant with photosynthesis
In the plant all they're trying to do is push both photosynthesis one and photosynthesis two in the plant
And they can do that with the spectrum
But it doesn't turn on all the traits that we're looking for in the plant
You can do this through stress factors and the sun is one of the most major
Uh important those fact
It's going to do what we're after when we're breeding
So, uh, I always like to take my plants whenever I can and put them indoor
When I have to and outdoor when I it's the very you know
If it's a possibility like every year they get reset outside before I was injured. I used to do that all the time
I put them in hoops outside
Before anybody was doing that shit in my area people out here. I don't going all the way back to the 90s
That's what we did. You do have them indoors stash them
But whenever you could get them outside you would reset them plants man, yeah
You gotta overwinter them, you know, that's that's you know, that's good. I put I put my pants out every year
I'm making a list, you know, all right, who's
Where who's who are the elites who who needs to who needs the sun reset?
You know what? I mean and every year, you know those those ones have to go under the sun, you know
Get their full spectrum and I try to put them in the ground if I can, you know, like in the actual earth
You know itself, you know and and then
You know grow the fuck and you it they come fucking they come roaring like a whole new fucking roll back every fucking time
right, you get the killer clones right off the
You know take take your pick of all, you know
The new fresh beauties that are coming up there and not a wink of problems and then in in for winter
They go, you know what I mean? And you've got to completely
Reset lovey happy plant, you know, and then you just got to keep it alive through the winter, you know
So every year that's like man, when can I put them out looking at the sun cycle, you know, when when the fuck can I push it?
Can I push it? You know, you know, so yeah now with the old one
I learned no more pushing it with the old ones, you know, it'll fuck you. It'll fuck you every time, you know
so
Gotta have the sun though
Yeah, the sun is so much better man
Put your plants now that you should become illegal put it in the most south facing space you can if you're in our hemisphere
And let that as much as you can if you want to put them in a veg cycle
Just add a very small amount of light and you can keep multiple plants
Like I used to do a 10 by 20 area and I could keep that thing in the veg cycle
With 45 watts of fluorescent bulbs and that's all I needed in the whole fucking thing
It would keep I could keep as many plants as could fit in there in a veg cycle all the time
You could do that every year
Then you can start picking the best part of the plant to clone off of get the uh, all the brand new shoots
They're gonna have the the new maryston tips off of there and the plant's gonna try to reset itself
UV alone can start to reset the plant with different, uh pathogens that could be on the plant
You could also take some time and start spraying on light levels of uh, silver thiosulfate
They actually use that in a tissue culture and it's also i've posted some information about this where they use that to
Get rid of viroids and plants
so
If you spray that early and before you're any time you're about to go into flower
You could actually use that in veg to kill off different pathogens on the plant on a very micro level
And just stop that way the plant resets
And you don't have to have to deal with the effect of the hormones that that's done to the plant because it wears off
We all know that
Silver thiosulfate will wear off on the plant
Especially on the fresh growth. Yeah
With the fresh growth growing out of it and you're putting that silver on there
you could wipe out uh powdery mildew on the plant you could get rid of uh,
possible, uh some of the I seen that what is it the
lettuce chlorus virus that they were doing and um
I think one in hops latent hops thyroid
Those two were the ones that we haven't heard about that. That's that's cool, man. I'll do some tries, you know, I got some extra
Sts, you know, we can we can start spraying on some stuff, you know
Hopefully we can I could find some problems to hit it with that's fucking mad. That's that ass actually
You know, I posted some of the peer review studies on facebook
Huh?
It'll help dude i'm telling you that they um, i'm trying to find the studies where they're using it in
Tissue culture to actually clean the the cuttings before they put them into the the agar and get them to start to root
It's a way to clean off any pathogens besides using just bleach and alcohol and shit
Like most cats would think they're gonna do with the little thing. They've seen on fucking facebook, but in a real tissue culture system
they're actually using
um
a lot of different chemicals that
Most people wouldn't think they would be using on it
And all it's doing with cannabis is altering the ethylene pathways in the plant. So the silver, uh,
Replaces the copper so the ethylene isn't produced in the plant at the same rate as soon as that shit wears off
Your plant grows back. So if you can get that clone after it's worn off and cleaned, you should be good to go
You know, you know, you know, I've been playing a lot with that sts lately doing all kinds of stuff
Things, you know, it's fucking you know, i've seen your pictures man. Yeah, they're working man. It works. Yeah
So that's the thing. I always you know, it's like they're trying to get you just wearing off that taught me a long time ago
You know, you don't spray that fucker enough and then it just doesn't make you make the problem, you know, so
You know grows out of it. You do it too early too late, dude, you know
It's just so you know, it's definitely the truth there for sure
for sure
So but on the plant outside note like you, you know, I run a lot of seeds and stuff, you know
during the during the winter time you run some seeds in the winter time and
you know have your friends run some seeds in the winter time or whatever and
The ones that you pull out, you know that are you know extra special or look good do well in the indoor environment
You know, those are the ones those are the clones that get to go outside and see how they handle the outdoors
You know what I mean?
So you can kind of get it get it both ways on the inside and the outside just to degrade it
you know inside and it's a new little seed thing you were willing to
throw it outside or you can get the opportunity you can kind of test it out both ways and
You know the ones that shine or the one you'll find out. Whoa, fuck it shined way way more inside than outside or vice versa
but you know, I always wanted to do a test like
Start the seeds inside
flower them inside
Take the clone outdoor to see the sun for the first time, right?
See what its expression is better or worse and then do the reverse of that, you know
Start that start start a group of those seeds outside under the sun first
Then bring it into the inside and then flower it out and then see
you know
See if it makes a fucking difference
You know what I mean? Like quality wise or if it if it shines where it starts life
You know what I mean if where it starts life if that's where it's going to shine, you know what I mean and it's you know
expression
Or i've done that with two of mine for sure
Huh? Yeah
I've done that with my space cush for sure and that thing it likes to be outside
But people prefer the way it looks grown indoor. Yeah, but the plant shines
Completely shines more outdoors
But even when you just pop and see because i've popped so many of those seeds indoor and outdoor
Whenever I pop those seeds outdoor I get a plant that always roots better. Oh, yeah all the time
Even the clones that come off of that plant continue to root better for some reason. I can't figure that out
The plant seems to have a better structure for me, um, like it'll have
The stems are going to be more target all the time
I don't know it has something to do with the sun that is out there and the
And I think it has to do with the fungal mass that's actually in the soil not the bacterial mass because bacteria is easy to
fucking make
but the fungal mass
we can't replicate a fungal mass in any size bed that we can fucking put unless it's actually in the earth because
Like the largest living mass on earth that we know of is a fungal mass, right up here like and they're like
Huge huge square miles is fucking mass of fucking fungal mass the mycelial growth underground that's speaking
To a plant in the earth compared to one that's just in a pot is insane
Like it's getting nutrients
and enzymes and hormones that you can't put into a fucking pot no matter how many different teas or
amendments or worms
Or shit from a bottle that you can you can concoct. It's not going to happen if you can grow a plant in earth
It's just so much better if it can talk to the ground
that's why you see those sometimes you get them plants that people are putting in the uh, the um,
Smart pots that are huge
but when you uh
Ever look underneath them the roots have grown straight into the ground and shit and those plants after a few years start to get bigger
Yeah, like after five years, they're so fucking big you you're like where we we got to build a barn to dry this shit
Like what's going on here?
Like the first year didn't grow that great
But second third and fourth year they start to explode and like we're not having to do nothing to the soil
It's talking to everything all around the whole fucking area, you know
That's when you start to start slowing down how you walk around it and only make certain paths
So you it's like going to the redwoods and shit. So you don't fucking stomp down all the fucking
masses that
That's why the hugo cultures are great, yeah
Hugo cultures are great like that because then you're not walking on top of the hugo culture
You're just walking down the sides of it. You're keeping a lot of that fucking
Root mass and mycelial growth undisturbed
Talking to each other how much it's gotta go in the ground, you know, it's like that's like
Oh, yeah, you know what? I mean?
To reset them and keep those oldies
They gotta just at least have some time plugged in to the system, you know, and that's just I mean it's just like
Nothing like it when it when it acts when you actually take an old sickly
Cold and winterized fucking
Clone just needs to go outside and fucking see the sun for a fucking couple weeks. You know what I mean?
It's fucking it's nothing like it. It's crazy
So the sour d I just put out there in that raised bed is exactly like that
That plant looks like a completely different plant grown
outside of the sun
I mean, it's so much more turgid
Clones coming off it. Oh, yeah, it's 100 better. Yeah, that thing's just feening for light. It's feening for uh
It's much nutrients like micronutrients I can give it it wants a ton of iron and magnesium and zinc
It likes a ton of amino acids
And once I put that into a very large area instead of a tiny-ass spot that thing went ape shit, you know
you know
Little extra space, you know
Always always try to you know
space green space
Char, yeah
Fucking loving it
I just popped a bunch of
Pandemics, uh recently we've got we're gonna go through and do do the f3s man the tk chem 91 pan dude
fucking
I'd like to make batches of seed
outside
Plugged into the ground under the sun, you know if weather allows, you know for as much as we can
so i'm gonna try to get i'll try to get some seed and i'm gonna sacrifice some some
some
You know some smoke and i'm gonna do a big old, you know pan pan selection or pandemic selection so and get big
Jake cd. We're gonna see we're gonna see the monster. So we're gonna see how big you can get it to the seed
It's gonna be a challenge
But it'll be fun. That's what I did with that. Hayes a couple years ago. What is it last year year before?
That thing was uh 25 feet when I uh, and I pollinated it man, I must have got 50 000 seeds off that plant
Large plant pollinations fun as hell man. Yeah, you can't fit the whole plan on the fucking instagram, but
In real life in real life this shit is is exhilarating sometimes
I
Large plant pollinate and the craziest part what I like out there is watching the bees come to the male plants bees love male plant
It's insane man. I'm hoping they start popping off out here
I've got a bunch of my space cheese males outside because i'm doing some breeding right now
I like to breed early in the year because it's gonna give me the automatic flowering
Um, I don't have to do much of shit
And then i'll do something at the end of the season also when nature's gonna allow me to do it
but early in the season bees are going to start show up to my males and
You can tell which males, uh are like extremely turpy and uh, oily
and what I consider the most vigorous because a bee's going for uh, the pollen that has the most amount of uh,
Amino acids in it. That's what it's after. It needs that pollen to have a source of amino acids
So if that bee goes to a specific male
Then to my mind you got a male that's going to be able to pass more
vigorous genes
That's just the thing and that i've had that's a way i've been able to genetic
Considering some of the male selections that I do outside. That's cool. Be selective. I like that man. That's fucking awesome, man
That's cool. That's interesting. I haven't I haven't done that. I like selected males, man
It's one of my passions is like finding weird ways, you know, checking your roots checking your roots, you know
Breaking stuff doing weird stuff, you know, like I love doing stuff to males, you know
But i'm never i'm never let the bees decide, you know what I mean? Like watching, you know, that's pretty fucking cool
It's just like bees, um
Will go after specific plants at specific time of the year right based on the food source that they're after
So they might go to a daisy even though there's a rose right next to it
And it's because it needs a specific type of sugar and amino acid that that pollen's producing
So if you have a male that you're trying to produce in an area that maybe like right now i'm doing it in colder time
It's early spring
If I put a male out right now and I get bees to go into one of the space cheese males
But not to uh, they like the ghost of port royale
This is telling me maybe I have a plant that that uh is
More conductive for that bee at that time. So maybe it's producing more sugars. It's got more amino acids in the uh,
Available uh pollen that's coming off that plant
There's a specific reason that the bees want to go to that plant first than any other plant in the garden. So
like
For me, that's a way uh with the eye without being educated. You would want to look at something like if you're looking for terpenes
What are bees are going after what stinks and what looks pretty because they can see ultraviolet and they can see uv
And they can tell what the fuck stinks they're looking for by the smell. So if it's stronger to a bee
Even if I can't smell it, there's something in that plant
That
Lost in the mountain
He'll be back i'm back i'm back
My internet this is how I decide if my internet's gonna work it's rock paper scissors over here, man
That's right
That's right. I taught my kids. What what is it? It's uh, it's
It's that it's that stupid way from that 70s show. It's uh, it's cockroach nuclear bomb
and
You know what? I mean, you know
And you can work it out that way, you know, nothing beats cockroach though. I don't think you know, nothing beats cockroach
The foot beats the cockroach, you know what I mean, but it lives through the nuclear bomb, you know
but
That's a fun one, that's pretty fun
So
Man, yeah, man. I like to do that too. I like doing the breeding in the off seasons
You know so that you know, you don't you don't fuck anybody else up who's trying to do their crop or whatever, you know, and
kind of you know, it doesn't
Once the plant is pollinated, it doesn't give a fuck about a life cycle
So you can be
You can put it back in 18 hours, you know and just fucking finish those things up quick
you can do all kinds of funny stuff, so
That's a funny trick. You ever do that?
You ever you ever pollinate a plant and just throw it back in veg and just finish it in veg?
I've pollinated plants while they were in veg when you have plants that start to show preflowers because they're aging
I've i've pollinated plants like that just so I can get 10 or 20 plants off or seeds off of that one plant
Without having to risk any other plants in the garden. I've done that plenty of times. Yeah, the cannabis plant
like I said cannabis is a c4 plant it sequesters carbon whenever it's got light and
Carbon dioxide and it can produce seeds during that whole time
So all you needed to do is hit bud set which is where it starts to produce
More pistillet formation instead of going through that stretch that way. It's it set its hormones
Pollinate it on one time and then throw that thing back into an 18 hour cycle
and just then then use high humidity or moisture to kill any kind of uh,
hermorphodite expression that might pipe out from that fucking light switch because that's just a um,
It's gonna be a bad. Uh
A bad expression if you start letting those seeds pop off because some strains will start to do that
I have i've seen uh, yeah, i've seen very few like I can probably count like, you know
If I really think about it, maybe one or two and and that's
Fuck man. I mean, yeah, it seems i've seen some plants so
They that after they've been pollinated
That they do a hermaphroditic thing like like after they've got what they wanted, you know
Usually like when the plant gets what it wants, you know what I mean? It's like, okay
I'm just gonna fucking take care of these seeds and like dude do my business, you know what I mean? So
like I was you know, it's uh
That's something to think about because I don't always run them back into you know 18, you know right afterwards
But I pollinate the whole plants and then just put them back in 18 hours and finish them finish them early
They stretch out killer seeds. Nothing's wrong with them. Yeah, the seeds will finish faster, too. Yeah. Yeah a lot faster
Yeah, it's crazy. Yeah, they'll finish almost like two weeks faster because you're putting more light
You know the dli on that plant just went completely up the seed isn't
Doesn't give a damn how many uh light uh hours are on the plant since you stop making flower
The photochrome red and photochrome far red levels don't matter. So the that's going to stop the flowering
So all that shit doesn't matter once the seeds pollinate it's trying to go into only reproduction levels
so
You put that thing back under 18
All you don't want to do is start pumping a bunch of nitrogen back through her
At that point because that that will induce some hermaphrodite expressions
Single source nitrogen pumped on that plant. Yeah that can make that plant start to drop a pollen from some of the lowers
Especially if you're gonna throw that in there as a like a top dress and that gets like a real fast release nitrogen
some of the lowers at that point when you switch over are gonna throw a lot of pollen like something like the gmo would
Specifically probably do that to you and if you don't go in there and watch it
You could end up with seed mixing
So you might have some hermaphrodite seeds from
The room that you didn't want to have in there
So you need to go in there and actually check that room or know your know your cultivar or sprayer it with a specific
You know hit it with some ethylene that way it'll stop the stamina flower production because you can buy
Ethafon and ethafon is like what you use on fruit trees. You spray that on a female plant
It'll stop fucking stamina formation. So if you know, you have a plant that produces a
hermaphrodite expression like on day 21
Spray that sucker on day 15 or something
And it won't produce that stamina flower anymore because you've increased the amount of ethylene
In that female and she won't produce that
If you just sprayed like the trunk like it's like if you cleaned up her legs, you know what I mean?
And just sprayed just like the trunk right down, you know, it didn't get anything on the actual plant itself
You know, but like some of the lower nodes if that would be enough
To keep it from flipping and not throw anything on on your potential flower sites, you know, I mean, I don't know it should
It you know, I would think it would you know, because most of them I think it would
But I don't know on the lower part
Yeah
I haven't tried specific spraying and i've tried spraying the whole plant because I know it was coming like the old grape wreck we used
To have we knew it it would throw hermaphrodites on day 56. No matter what
So when we were running long flower shit in the same room with it, we would spray that plant on a specific day
just in case
That's what some of the cats were doing using and they didn't you know
There was a few other products on the market that they used to sell specifically for the same thing for stopping hermaphrodites in the room
All it was with ethyl ethylene in there at the fun
Yeah, I just pollinated that gmo, uh with uh with my bacon grease male so
Damn yeah, so that'll be uh, that would be interesting. It's already a stretchy motherfucker, right?
You know gmo's already got some legs to her, you know, she's got some serious legs to her but
It's got it's got something
It's got something different than the gmo, you know, and the gmo has got fuck is just nasty. It's fucking great
I fucking love that thing
It's a beauty
Um, but I just pollinated that with the with with that bacon grease so that would be fun just to
Throw in the chest and pull out one of these days, you know, so
Got to keep it around, you know
With my little twist somehow, you know
So kind of a weird back cross too because the bacon grease has got a do-si-do in there and not too do-si-do
like, you know
Back in the you know with the cookie side, you know, you know what I mean the same
So you got that? Yeah, it's kind of a distant back cross there, you know
So it'll be cool to see what kind of bud structure comes out of there the if you end up with some of the cookie
uh calyxes that uh brax that are um, almost so no pissed or no, uh, no, um,
No pistols that come out of the flowers, you know what I mean on the cookies?
Yeah, that cookie looks like the uh
You know, I don't know I don't know well, you know, that'll be interesting you know, it's uh
The bacon grease has a lot of them rock hard. It has these rock hard pine cone nubs like most of the generation
It's like it's like fucking tall
Frankie fucking plants with just like fucking rock hard little resin
Fucking pine cones, you know or golf balls just
All the way up with the fucking fat, you know little pine cone on the top, you know, but it's super fucking dense
You know surprisingly so because pan 15 is a little bit more open, you know what I mean?
But her bud structure is really
That that's that's her bud structure type like on the frame
But it's dense as fuck, you know, so that cookie added a lot of density, you know a lot of density
You know, yeah
That's what's good for breeding in it
Yeah, like people someone says cookie hermes in here
Like if you know how to breed you can get rid of hermaphrodite hermaphrodite is a recessive genetic 100
So it's not it's not a genetic hermaphrodite or the plant would be showing menosus traits
Which means it would have perfect flowers, which means every time you grew it on a specific day
You'd get a stamina flower in that flower. That's not what that plan is. It has a
propensity to show a stamina flower
Because somebody has fucked up the hormone levels in the plant through environmental issues
So if you can lock in an environment that that plant likes
Not because you've all your other plants like it
All the other plants aren't the same as the cookie plant if you dial it in for this room
You're gonna have a plant that's not throwing any stamina flowers. You ain't gonna have to fuck around in the room
You ain't gonna have seeds in the goddamn, but we've all grown cookie buds that didn't have no seeds in it
Do we know why this happened?
it's because somebody understood how to grow a plant better than somebody else or maybe because
Somebody didn't have their electricity turned out four times in the middle of a grow because of pg knees fucking up or something
There are different reasons you could have stress in the room
Just because you've dialed the environment in for the shit
You've been growing for six years and you get a new plant and it starts to morphodite the first three months you ever grow it
And now you're claiming it's this and that and you never put it in your room for five years to find out on
Year two it decides it's not going to morphodite no more on you because it's locked into the expression
It's going to give in the environment that you have and now this is the phenotypical expression of the genotype that you're carrying around
It's not a true morphodite or it would morphodite every time at the specific date every damn time
There's a reason everyone's breeding with that plant and putting it into stuff that has a potential to bring terpene profiles
Density it has a bud quality. So bag of peel pops up in there
It becomes something that you can add to a line
That will change its structure and give the ability now to carry a different terpene profile that you used to have
Into a bud structure that everybody wants and now you have something unique
And through breeding and real breeding and not just some bullshit like
My friend did this and he sent me some of the pollen to do that
Like you decided to sit down and select some shit over time
Like he said put some plants into like I do the rule of three breed it inside once
Breed it outside once breed it inside again put them under different life spectrums each time
and see what comes out of the progeny out of there or
Like if you're really going to test it send the mothers when you send the clones out like i've been doing to people
And find out what comes from there
Really let the breeder
Send what he's worked on over to that person and then that person goes well shit
I did fucking pull a strawberry flavor out of a plant that's crossed to the strawberry diesel
Or that never showed up in none of the shit you sent me, right?
And all I got was the shit that tastes like perfume and cat piss, right?
That well, that ain't what I bred it for but that's what's coming out of it, right?
So, what do we do? Do we release it? Anyway, or do I
Rethink how i'm breeding because nothing came out of what my educated guest told me would come out of it
After a while if you breed with enough plants, you know, what's coming from a female
No matter what the new male is that you cross to it. Some of the cross is going to represent this
terpene profile this structure
this flower time just because that's how
breeding plants works
Yeah, man, it's a I uh
The selection is is is the key and all that stuff
I mean you can you can pick plants that you can't fucking get to fucking harm
You can pick plants. You can't get the bitch to reverse using, you know, normal techniques
You can pick plants that don't want to flip or or or dump them
Or you can take plants and not care, you know, it's just kind of what you're selecting through but you can
You know perfect example is that I grew a whole bunch of uh cookie s1s
Uh from inspector csi, you know humble
You know s1 king
He uh, yeah, he put yeah, he put the you know, um and out of all those
cookie s1s
And kind of a shitty cold winter type, you know cycle not a lot of care, you know
Kind of looking for the ones that will be more tendency to harm so I could get them cold out of there
um
Surprisingly low, I mean a surprisingly low number, you know in there, you know, so there were some that did but
What I expected was way
Way worse than than what I saw and what I saw was fucking awesome
like the just looking at the s1 females like the
Fucking awesome, you know, like really fucking cool really fucking tasty
Uh, really fucking dense really fucking really fucking cookie, you know, uh, but it was like
really
Good quality ones, but there was a lot of
a lot of cool variation and some really short stouty like
Slow to root mac style growth like, you know versions and then there was some taller branchier type versions
You know that came through but they all are fucking
You know really good, you know quality. There was just a couple of fucking shit bags in there that I was like, okay
You know, that's not not not something that I would keep around but I was surprised, you know, so
um
Proof is in the smoke for sure, but you can definitely you know
Find things that don't and I think I thank herms because pam's mother
long ago was
Was long overdue in her ripening period after I'd done a big major harvest and left her last little branches to rot
you know to nature and thank god that fucking shit hermed or got pollinated or what what have you because
You know, that's how
It's uh
What a thankful
You know and plus it's a survival instinct too, right?
They're all plants are with their program to fucking survive and fucking reproduce and do their thing and it's like, you know
You don't you know
So you gotta have rules, but it's all about selection and looking at them, you know, actually taking the time, you know
Get those fucking seeds
It's a good job, you know
It's funny a bunch of herbs and dank weed
I'm like, okay, you got it boss
So i'm down with that
You know fucking a
You know, I don't know what I'm gonna do with it. I don't know what I'm gonna do. I don't know
I don't know what I'm gonna do with it. I don't know what I'm gonna do with it. I don't know what I'm gonna do
I'm down with that
Fucking a
Long pipes back I I I yeah now I i'm yeah that that was
That transition
from it was like
DJing and like not beat matching like
Your left and right turntable
uh
But it but it was like good song followed by a good song so it didn't really matter
uh
The turntables might wobble but they don't fall down, right?
So I was trying my technical degree of difficulty broadcasting the clubhouse to youtube and then flipping
And then like half the people who were supposed to be on this like I think rob fell asleep. I I guarantee rob is asleep
Either in his bed or on his couch right now
uh trevor
Probably also went to sleep trevor was in the in the clubhouse and he was supposed to jump on here
um
But anyway, yeah, you know it's late
it's
fucking
beginning of the week
shit
I was doing mulberries and shit today man mulberries man pakistani mulberries salute to you
Uh, i've been i've been to three or four places and they're already ripening up man, they're keeping me fed today and uh,
They're delicious. Is it the season right now?
Yeah, they're just starting to come on, you know, so for me i'm starting, you know, we're starting to get
a couple cups a day off of the
Off of this one that I got here and then I went to a couple places that
They had a couple of farms and they had a couple near their their property that that were just starting to start coming
Right, too. I'm like goddamn. They're early man. This is great. You know, so
so
Does socal produce good mulberry
Fuck. Yeah, beautiful. Okay
Yeah, well now i'm asking so my brother and his wife, uh, his wife's persian. They have a yogurt company called white mustache
um
and they do a lot of seasonal stuff so like
when mulberries are in season they
Yeah, suddenly that's on the like like it totally that's the bomb in new york it's in um,
Like whole foods and eataly and then in la where I am
It's that they have a kitchen in eataly
that eataly
They gave them free kitchen space because the owners of eataly love white mustache
and basically
As much yogurt as you can make we will sell on our shelves
um
which is kind of cool like to have free kitchen space to just mint money and
And put out fire but the yogurt's amazing
and uh
and so i've been talking to them about like
I'm looking at farmland and one of the ideas is to grow stuff for them
Like, you know if I have 20 acres I could carve out a portion of it to
kind of
persian herbs that are kind of
not common here in the u.s. And then just bring them down to
the eataly facility to process but
Mulberry is definitely one of the uh
the goats
You set it up so that you know every month you've got something coming right
You know what? I mean so that they can use their seasonal their seasonal foods and it changes kind of drastically, you know
So like you're you're first on deck, you know, it's going to be of like the fruits
You know, like here it'll be your mulberries. Some of those pakistanis will start coming and then we're coming into
Coming into may so you're going to have some cherries some of the royals, you know cherries
Okay, so cherries are coming cherries are on deck cherries are early. They're they're going to be may, you know right into may
Cherries will start going some into june but may and then after your cherries we get you get into the peaches and that kind of
stuff, so you got your june peaches and your
Um, your apricots will start coming in in that period in time apricots apriums, which is like an apricot plum cross
what
I I love all all. Yeah. No, I I I love like the the like interspecies
Gang banging that they've forced
To do that, you know, give me a football field
It's done, you know, but like you can do things like jujubees, you know what I mean like those
Um, you know, that's that's probably something that they'll be familiar with they want to eat, you know different things like that
You got um, I mean there's so many cool things that you can well what's cool with yogurt
It is is you can go fruity, but you can also go totally savory
Yeah, oh, yeah, there's tree so you can go in a totally other direction
You can't you can't and especially where we are like, you know that whole so cow this so cow belt
Like as soon as you get above you
Like things change, you know, there's you you lose opportunity for
The diversity, you know what I mean? You start getting too cold or you start getting too different
You start losing your avocados and you can do it up to santa barbara and it's it just gets more challenging
You know right as you go north so where we are
We really we can go all the way from friggin cherries and apples like, you know, anna's and dorsets and
gordon's and I mean we have
Fucking 50 different apples. It'll just kick ass here. You know what I mean? People say you can't throw apples here
You can grow apples like an sob, you know, you can grow cherries you can grow mulberries we can grow more
Plants and more diversity almost anywhere else. Yeah. No, I I said I was talking to my brother
It's like we are yeah, no everywhere else like
Winter right like in so cal there's just no I mean even in in like where you know
There are places in so cal to get snow or are different depends on where you buy that type of 20 acres or get to you
Know that that actual property but in general
Like where we kind of occupy and and probably think about is like we can grow anything we want
You know, there's like the gates are open, you know, so so I I don't know if this is for you
But uh, do you see that question?
Do you know dave wilson nursery dave wilson nursery? Yeah. I I yeah, I do lots of fun stuff with dave wilson
Nursery, I mean i've always a lot of my own lots of my trees
you know that are that I have planted are from dave wilson, but I used to be a
You know a manager at one of the biggest nurseries down in san diego and point longo where
Where we sold the most fruit trees and all kinds?
Of years and I met tom bellman who's like the west coast guys. He's you know, he's a buddy of mine
Uh, if you look up dave wilson nursery or questions on youtube tom spellman will come up, you know
He does all the videos. He's the guy with the cowboy hat, you know, very similar type of guy to myself, you know, and
and and you know
Done fruit tree talks and you know all kinds of stuff with with with that type of stuff
but a sad thing like
dave wilson
and then there was another company called ellie cook and like dave wilson is like the cool like
They do all the pioneering cool trees like the pluots and the nectar plums and uh,
They breed all the new school cherries and all the cool cool shit, you know
So the new radical things they're like the pioneers of that and then ellie cook is like the heirloom type company
The cool like the old shit
the heirloom fucking like methylene plums the hundred-year-old fucking things that nobody grows anymore though
The tropical apricot one of my favorite ones for us and they went out of business, you know, uh, right
This this this year or last year and and all the trees that they grew
Uh, we couldn't get so like we can get I can get dave wilson trees like crazy, you know, which is great
but they don't grow all the things that
That that ellie cook used to grow. So i'm wondering if they will so wait is dave's like the exotics
And uh, la is like the land race. Uh
Old school, you know, yeah, it's a good way to look at I mean they do, you know, dave wilson does
Some standard stuff but not
Not as much as ellie ellie cook did, you know, so it's just interesting
It's just it's just weird that I hope that they pick up some of those trees and if they don't
Then i'm gonna pick up some of those trees because I have lots of ellie cook's old stock, you know
Planted here at my house. I got tropical apricots. I got fucking you know, different mulberries
I got things that dave wilson doesn't grow
We can start making those and I you know, I got other nursery friends and people that work in that shit
We're like, all right, let's just propagate these ones
And you know, there are a lot of those are their contracts are off because their heirlooms and are ancient and they're free
there's no trademarks, there's no nothing we can
you can propagate those pretty freely in most cases not all but
Um, if nobody picks them up, there's something to pick up, you know, that's for sure
So it's a weird thing but cool cool outside thing like
Yeah, I know about dave wilson nursery. I you know, I get all kinds of stuff up. I've undid probably
you know
A half a million trees in bundles that went in very time. They send big bundles
plums and peaches
Specific varieties mid prize and eva's prize and august prize and you know
That's probably unbundled and packed and counted and stacked and pruned and cleaned with fucking half a million or more trees
from that exact place, you know, so all right, so
If I pulled the trigger on 27 acres in somis, would you want to plant some?
some citrus leaning
acreage
Yeah, man. Yeah, we could do it
Yeah, we have to see it, you know, I have to see the spot, you know, I feel like taste the ground and
Feel the wind and snap a couple twigs, you know, but yeah, you should be solid
You should be solid sun is sun is your friend
And you don't want places to get lots of heavy frost if you want to do citrus
So if you want to do citrus avocados
uh light cheese
Mango
Uh all that cool stuff either a have a have hillside that stays warm we can plant
you know plan on a nice warm high hillside, you know, and
and or
Stay away from heavy head and frost zones or possible
You know snow snow zones and then we can get away with fucking murder, dude, you know
If it's more desert than the other then we're solid, you know
That's that's always a good thing for
You know
the cold
is the avocado and citrus
And evergreens and you know for sure
So prolonged cold citrus can take us down to like 28 20 to 28 30 degrees
I don't like going any fucking colder than that for very long. Maybe a couple days
I mean, we're we're talking kind of like near the valley so I can't imagine it gets
Yeah, so it's overly overly cold
Like elevation because you gotta you gotta dip
If all the cold will settle down low, you know on higher ground rather than lower ground, you know, but yeah 27 acres
I'm, sure we can find a place to plant some fucking
It's prime acreage for the cult. We're gonna start the fcp cult
But we can have like my vision is kind of like
a working farm, but also to have like events and like
Yeah, like you could have a 200 person
festival or event there and
Classes and seminars and do research and gotta do gotta do permaculture type setup have like
And make sure we set the thing up and like dig the trenches and move the fucking soil and catch the fucking water
What we hardly ever get and all that stuff make sure that you know, we do all those silly things, you know, and and and take that
Dude, that's like that's the dream, you know, so that's easily done but we can we can
That'd be cool
We can do like the breeder steve. Uh,
like like all the genetics from everyone just like
plant shit
Get it going
Yeah
that's the shit like I always thought it'd be cool to have kind of like the
Like, um the animal sanctuary kind of like the sanctuary for like
Stray and unwanted genetics that kind of like are actually like have value
People are like i've had this and I don't know what to do with it. Can you keep it going?
It's like we'll take it. We'll
killer pumpkins
It's a way to do a uh, like um
An apprentice program too for people that want to learn in that area. They can come down and learn to clone
Like and learn how to do a living soil how to set up a garden that gives people a way to go from being
Nothing to a way to consult the people man, you know
It's
There we gotta watch out but until then we're good to go I I I had a uh a strong mullet when I was uh,
Maybe 12 or 13
Oh, you should have seen my mother brother. Yeah, dude. I grew up in may gorgeous
You know what? That is and i'm, sorry
but
That's when I got to move here to socal I realized that I better cut the fucking mullet, you know what I mean, so
You moved north to socal, huh?
It's fucked up I left socal and came here I went real north
But I grew up down there brother new world
Yeah, i'm gonna see if uh
If I can quickly dig up a mullet shot, but oh damn it may be for a future
Good god
Why you let me grow because I'm
Still you still love me, you know
Oh, we lost him talked about your mullet and I lost the signal he's sorted back
I think his audio is here. I'm here. I'm here
Tyler are you there? Oh tyler
No video
Yeah, mate boy, you know how like like styles come back like the john river shoulder pads maybe mullets will come back
There we go. They're it's they're coming back
Everyone's got one because of the pandemic though
That's the 70s mullet's gonna be what's coming back here
I've gotten real good hair, dude
I and I I've cut my own hair for like
15 years. I I basically say I take an electric razor and I have like
The longest setting which I do to everything
And then I go down one and I yeah, there we go. Look at that
Yeah, and and on the sides, it's like the shortest setting and then I like go up the back
Yeah, yeah monster
They got them you gotta get that you gotta get the you gotta get the rooster crow though
You gotta get that. I gotta go a little shorter back here and then you could go a little bit longer up here
You take those just like peter does
Little side thing, you know
Uh, so what is today monday maybe tomorrow i'll uh
I'll i'll go i'll i'll hit the
I I like to let my uh, so jemma likes to cut my hair now, so
I let her I unleash her with the like the electric razor on my head
Yeah, you look like cristiano ronaldo
Oh man, no mullet at least
Yeah, I can trim better than my mohawk it was cut I promise that my buds look better than my hair
So someone's asking how to send seeds to breeder steve
I would just hit him up on instagram and ask him how to send them seeds
That way he is on instagram and
Um
That man has a baritone voice he's blessed with
The cool man
With some baritone pipes
So and so I got some of mr. Toad's, uh, um
Totally pure
Uh beans gonna go. I'm gonna cut through those under the thing during the full moon
So we're we're gonna look at some of them totally pure we're gonna get some total gas
Stuff happening just get some mr. Toad, you know
Yeah, those are the kim dog special
Yeah, the ghost og kim dog special reserve mail crosses right there. Yeah, so it was uh, you went to
You just sure to ghost og or ghost og and the fuel and the kim dog special
Special reserve
Same plant together or those two?
Yeah, the ghost og kim dog special reserve are seeds that came to me from kevin. Chaudhry. That's a cross that he made
He made okay. Yeah. Yeah, so and it's the ghost og kim dog special reserve
number four
Which is the most fuel mail that he found out of all of them
And that's the one he uses to breed fuel in the other lines
He found a few one and he found one. That was a mango mail
So i've got crosses that use both of those
So but the only one he did to the ghost was the fuel mail because it parts nothing but fuel that plant
It's just it's like fuel and lime
um
it's there's
a little bit of a um, like earthy cush in the back, but it's like
Real close to like sfv kind of profile that mail the way it comes across
um, a lot of ghost just basically
um
It grows a lot like goes to shoot straight up. It doesn't shoot straight out really
Um, and then I took that and crossed it to that pure cush which is that short, uh pure cush
That's a lot of bubba influence looking
Um, i've shown pictures of both of those together. They look almost identical besides that pure cush has a little bit of a
Bigger leaf in general and it has a more of a extended center
Uh leaf that
Gets smaller as it goes out. The bubbles are almost all the same size
It's more of a rounder leaf that pure cush is killer across to that. Um,
Kim dog special reserve. I call it the ghost of port royale the mail
I kind of named it in honor of kevin's uh, port royale spot. So
Yeah
I made a few crosses with that mail
That pure cush that thing is very
Very tight very, you know, very stout, right? You know
Uh, you know, it's it's funny like all the you know, all the names all the all the controversy
You know all the different stuff like this pure cush that pure cush this pure cush. Yeah, this one's called like all the fucking confusion
Yeah, there's different pure cushions, too
Yeah, so i'm excited. I'm i'm uh, you know, i'm i'm you know
I'm looking forward to flowering that one out, you know, but it's that yeah, it's more like
And it's tight
You know, yeah
that's the one kev that he had for like 15 years, I think he told me when I
when I was at his house in uh at the um
the
Wonderland seed series he had me and my partner eric over for dinner and
He broke down that plan how long he'd had it with him and the medicinal powers of that plant that plant's killer for
Any kind of like neurological issues, yeah, extremely great breath. Yeah
Yeah, that plant breeds it across too. Yeah shakes or um
man
really any kind of muscle spasms, um
Uh traumatic brain injuries and stuff
Uh, it works killer for that kind of stuff and it will impart across to when it's breeding
I use that with my angel which is uh
Uh pure angel and then i've got the totally pure which is the pure kush crossed the uh goes to port royale
I use that male on the gmo
The uh, I made a ghost og back cross, which is the ghost of boneyard
There's the jungle toad that's crossed to the roberts creek congo
Mary's cherry crossed the cherry pie
um
Toads 91 the 91 came across to that plant
Uh, what else did I do on there man? I did a bunch of them on there
It's like 12 different crosses using that mail
Um, i'm gonna do some more work with that mail. Also. Um, i'm just waiting. I just i'm on the space cheese right now. So
But I like that mail because it imparts a lot of what people will uh when you're smoking ogs
That's what comes across in that line. If you if you
Never, uh knew that og you're really not getting it in seed form regularly
You know back in the day you had to get the cut
You weren't going to go buy seeds of og or like sour diesel and shit
You weren't buying that you were supposed to you got to get the cut to have the real shit
But now we got the ability to start having breeders that are dropping off
Like a rebel on here that was early with his double og kim
If you're looking to breed those type of profiles into your lines that stuff's in his gear. He's done the work
It's coming across and put it on whatever you want and half your progeny's gonna pop off with those terpene profiles
There's other guys doing that stuff. So
Kevin passing me those seeds
He's done that with a few other people with some of that cross
And it's to be able to impart that into some other lines that are going to bring some og dominant
profiles into seed forms for folks to be able to start line breeding that stuff
Into more seeds because that's what we really need
We need to be able to take stuff and line bring it in the directions that more people want
Instead of just what we have been told we need, right?
So we take some of those older lines that take the terpene profiles
we want it and put it on the uh plants that bear the anthocyanins we're looking for
and the uh
Other cannabinoids that we're after like cbg and thcv
And we can start to impart the flavors that we were after on a whole new varietal that we can breed into a different
chemo bar for ourselves
make true medicine
Yeah, like you said you're on the space to snail, you know, like it's funny like I don't like having more
male around
at a time, you know in general, you know, it's like you got one male you gotta work on you gotta take care of this one
And like you don't want to have like too many fucking dicks in the kitchen that are different, you know
So, you know always well one male at a time, you know one
one male at a time
Well, i'm only breeding with one male at a time
But i'll keep a male around that i've used like I had my angel male for 15 years. I had the uh guapo d male
I had for eight years
I used the um
The 88g13 hash plant for uh, almost eight years also in some breeding
But i'd keep them around in veg state
But like when i'm breeding that's the only plant that i've got going in
Into any type of a veg and flower state at the same time that way there's no chance of
You know mixing up pollen when you start mixing up pollen
There's nothing you can do but throw those seeds away or give them away if you're really cool
you know you can give them away because they might be something but
You shouldn't be selling them for something that they just are not just because you get some extra cash
you know
We all know that shit's happening out there with some of these cats that are hustling everyone that's stealing
someone's when you go on instagram and there's a brand new dude with the
Capulators photo trying to push off some seeds that he's done fucking made in his fucking closet and shit
You know, he's there for two hours taking fucking orders and then he gets reported and he's gone
You know, there's dudes out there doing this shit, man. I'm telling you
Facebook groups were filled with people like that man dropping seeds on people
Like they're buying some hemp seeds off of fucking ebay
And dropping them on people and bouncing and you never see the dude again if you even get some seeds from them
You're like what the fuck is this shit, dude?
A bunch of bullshit. I bought off this dude
drives me nuts man, like
Like i'm a lineage. I'm a lineage junkie, you know, I'm asking you questions about shit, you know
I want to know like I want to know like where these things are. What's the thing? You know the truth?
so like when it's like
That's that's crazy not to know and just wasting wasting time and effort
That's bad karma. My kids wouldn't wouldn't like that. Nobody liked that
Nobody liked that shit, man
I wish more people would ask about fucking lineages like breeders like ourselves and people that are really after it aren't afraid to go man
I don't know what this is. Do do you guys know what's up?
And they'll have the conversation even if it's in open or even if it's behind closed doors
They still have the conversation a lot of people when they first start
They don't even start to talk about it because they think it makes them look like they don't understand or are
Uneducated about the plant and this is the only way we all learned how to to get to this point
like we we learned how to clone and
which plant was going to show purple in the garden and finish at what time because
We asked somebody like we didn't just go grow a hundred plants in a room and go
Oh, okay. That one's doing it and then keep that one around forever
You've got to talk to people and ask questions man
Do more than just read one forum page talk to as many people you can about the stuff that you're looking for
And don't be afraid to say you don't know nothing. Yeah, no matter what no matter how good you get either like even like like
Like all the fruit tree shit all those fucking things, you know, there's a million things about that shit
I feel like I've forgotten more than I you know, then you know, then
Then I need to ever know like I know so much shit about fruit trees
That's just useless, but it always comes up at random things, you know, but you can always learn more shit
You know, there's always more shit. You need to learn that. We're like, we don't know. We know no shit
Humankind doesn't know shit, you know, so really there's always more shit to learn. That's a fucking bad
Is your wife is your wife turned on by your fruit tree knowledge? No
No
It's wasted on her tell me
What kind of lemon tree I have?
Yeah, I have a lemon tree that's been in my family for 65 years and I don't know what kind it is because my godfather died
and I didn't get to know what it was and
I got a cutting from anything back from him. You travel anywhere. Is he from anywhere and said like a
He's he lived in fontana
He lived in fontana his whole life dude until he went to uh,
Until he went to korea and then came back
So nine out of ten nine out of ten like 90
Right off the bat. It's probably a eureka lemon like hands down
No questions asked and it probably grows like more straight up and down
And it has like more of a kind of a straight up and down habit. It's not like weepy. It doesn't grow like
Yeah, yeah more straight up and downish, you know ish
And it probably has like really big really big lemons, you know, sometimes they're really big pretty big lemons, yeah
You know, um and with a with a fairly thick rind
Uh, but really really acidic and just fucking dank and always fucking cranking them always cranking them out as long as they don't get frozen
out, you know, um, yeah, I keep it in a five gallon for like, uh,
Almost 20 years now and it puts out like 30. It puts out like 30 lemons every year, dude
I've had it in there and I clone off it every year and keep i'll try to keep some cuttings of it alive indoor
And then I move those outdoor but i've had that same plant in a five gallon like stone pod for almost 25 years now
That's good. That's good. No, send me a picture of one of the lemons in the tree, man
I'll tell you what kind of it could be lisbon
Lisbon lemon and eureka lemon are carbon copies of each other and they're from the old like, you know from 30
30 years ago four years ago 50 years ago. Those were the those were the fucking tree, you know
I mean that was the tree that you would buy like, you know around here. It's one of those right there's santa marta
Huh
What was that?
As far as I know it was in the yard of the house
He bought when he was when he got married
Like him and my godmother when they got married they bought a house and as far as I know that tree was in the yard
I don't know if he bought it and planted it
All I know is he carved his initials and shit in that tree and before he died
Like no one ever thought to ask him about the tree
And like I didn't either at the time because like I was too high most of the time
And then once he passed away
I didn't get to ask him the specifics of the tree other than I know it's been in his yard since him and my godmother
Were married and we dated that back to 65 years as long as we know that i've got a strawberry plant that old, too
I got a strawberry plant that's 65 years old
I came out humble. Yeah, that's fishing dude. That's fishing now
Send me a picture of that thing, but chances are if I had to put my money on it, it would be eureka lemon
You know, that's like the most common common one like back in the day. That's like the solid bitchin
Standard that's the one that like
That like holds that one in the lisbon. They're like, like I said, they're like the same lemon
Um, but the lisbon is the commercial one and then the eureka is the one that the home home owners got right?
So it's less common for the home people to have the lisbon
It's just a commercial home thing. I don't know why that's weird, but you can do it now
No problem, but back then that's kind of the way it worked
So chances are it's a eureka, but there are others but I can tell you by looking at the motherfucker and seeing the tree like
Yeah
I want you to drop knowledge on yuzu
Like what what's the market for it? What's the?
The because it's it's expensive right like
Or it fetches like around the top dollar
It's a it's so yuzu's is like one of those like
It's it's like it's like the the asian orange for cooking and other things like that
It's like a sour orange, you know the yuzu
so
To my knowledge, it's a sour
It's all it's all japan I mean
Every japanese restaurant uses it
Yeah
It's like they use it for like the peel and like all these other things for flavoring dishes and things like that the tree itself
I've worked on hundreds of them. They're really nasty
Fucking crazy fucking extra gnarly thorns on these kind of dishes
I I well I have one. I'm very specific with why i'm asking because I have a user
And
It is like I always tell my daughters like do not go near that thing like that thing is gonna fuck you up
And they're like what like like reaching for it
Yeah, no, you gotta be careful with those. Those are super dangerous. Like those are like that's like the old school like
I'll fucking kill you you want to plant some a row of uses where you want no one
Across you know what I mean?
Like you can't like damn nasty fucking and the and they're like
They're like the kind of thorns that like jump out at you and grab you almost if you're too close
They're that sharp. They're like really fucking sharp thorns, you know
they don't grab you that it's like a uh
The running of the bulls like a bull's horn just like piercing through your skin like it's so nasty
You're so sharp. They're nasty, but the the fruit itself is is prized
Uh, like all the asian markets like it just fetches like a super high price and all the restaurants
it's like more of a fad, but like
I have personally I have a fuckload of trees, you know, and I've planted a lot of trees. I love a lot of trees and
Yuzu unless you are culturally
Like grown up with it in your yard or in a specific meal or something like that that you have to have
Like, you know from your youth to remind you of something like it's a very hard tree for me to recommend because of the thorns
And because of it's like not like
but easily
Edible characteristics, you know, I mean you got to do a lot of stuff to it, you know
so
Part two of where I was going it is like all all my uh yuzu like
Every time I cut one open to like hopefully use it i'm like
No, like i'm just gonna throw this out
and i'm like I
I need to be better with my
Care taking of this plant and I just really suck at it right now
So like and then my hope for myself was like maybe it takes years to get good
And it's not me
But it definitely does get better with time so like like in fruit competitions like they
A young tree like a few-year-old tree has never entered. It's always the older heirloom
20 40 60 100 year old tree that they enter into the competition like this is 100 year old fucking
Santa rosa plum, you know what I mean? Fucking shit will blow anything out of the water
We used to build fellows bitching relationships all the fungal minerals. Everything's been plugged in
It's like a well-oiled machine and all it has to do is do that, you know
But when they're young, they're just like they're like young gum and full of cum, you know
they're just easy to kind of just just get the get the job done and like do a shitty quick job and they're like
Just get as many done out as possible just to kind of get their seed out and they need practice
And they need to develop relationships
Especially more fungal relationships because that's how it's going to get the majority of its minerals and things like that
Which is going to make the fruit
most fruit sweet and edible and rinds shrink down so to where they're small and you get more meatiness and more
textures and things like that
That's like the allure of an older woman
She's like I can't I can't compete with the physical attributes of a 20 year old but like I make up for it with skill
And you're like
I'm intrigued
I'm leaning in
Tell me more. No, that was what you were missing. You were like, oh this is what I wanted
You need to build your your your soil to be
More alive, you know, you need to improve your soil
fungal attributes so it needs to have at least three inches of protective layer from uv
The mulch layer the forest floor called forest floor
So you actually get worms to start coming up to the surface and working the fucking land and then you can get those
Those actual beneficial like, you know mycelium to start forming and breaking down that material
Without being fucked up, you know
So like once you start getting those things happening, then the plant it starts getting what it needs at the ratios
As opposed to you going to home depot and giving it vigoro, which is putting all that shit on hold
you know what I mean and and not giving it the ratios and stuff that it exactly wants and
That other way will make that yuzu to the best of its ability
but usually
From planting a citrus tree takes a little bit of time to get rolling down the hill and by year four
to six you're like four
You know usually you're four to six somewhere in there depending on the tree is when they turn on and they start they start
Going if they're going to if they're already happy, they have that opportunity, but they usually are kind of rough
the fruit is kind of
You know iffy some tangerines are great some meyer lemons are great
They're programmed to kind of do that earlier, but most of the time it takes them a few years to get settled
Build some good relationships and put on a good crop but but my takeaway here is I should not feel bad about my own skills
Related to my parenting of my yuzu tree. That's about three years old
And and it's terrible
Do you have lots of you got good branching on it? Do you is it thin?
It's small. It's it's like
tiny
I I was gonna if it wasn't night time
I like it's in a big pot and I could bring it inside and do a show and tell
It's in a big pot
I know
But I don't have like I I it's almost like i'm keeping it there until I can find ground
To put it in permanently, but I don't have it. So
Yeah, so I lived in a I lived in a one-bedroom apartment like it was basically a studio but we call it a one-bedroom
Because it kind of had a little extra like space
Uh when I when I was living with my wife before my kids were born years ago
And we had a little slide patio kids change a lot of things
ocean beach
OB little patio like it's like fucking six by fucking whatever like super small
Like I had like 50 something trees all in pot like hanging over the thing on every ledge there was a pot pot pot
The point where you opened up was your and I couldn't walk outside. I want to I want to talk to your wife
and be like, okay, so he was
You guys were living together in a one-bedroom and he had like he was like you're like the cat lady
Yeah, I was the cat lady with fruit trees. It was insane. I called my mobile
So I met this girl she has like 13 cats
But she's awesome
Trust me in the ground and and I did man. It took me a little while
But one day I got to a place and I gotta fucking plant all those trees, you know what I mean?
Which is where you live now?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
And they love me and i'm yeah, so so that plan
i'm in the equivalent of like your bachelor pad and waiting to find the because I don't just want to like
Drop it in the ground anywhere because it's stuck like i'm like, all right, i'm moving on you're staying here. Good luck with the new owners
So then you have to give it extra space. You have to charge its battery. So it's got ample room to kind of
like
like occupy time and grow like like, you know
And search for a job to do and pretty good soil to buy actually what I could I could put it in a four by four
raised bed and bring it to like
Tom's backyard
Actually my own. Yeah, I could fit it here. But
At least with that you can move it
Yeah. Well, yeah if it was if it yeah, if it didn't have a it's hard because it'll go and it'll go down
you know, it'll go down through most pots and through the ground and once it's in the ground the citrus like
I can't like just recently just the other day. I dug up a fucking
15 year old pluot tree with a trunk fucking this big
And badass branch and things been producing like a fucking hog for fucking years
It was a bitching ass tree and the guy's like, you know, I just don't like the fruit. I couldn't fucking believe it like
It's an amazing. It's an amazing fucking plant. Like the fruit is delicious
It just didn't like how crunchy it was, you know, and and like softer fruit and i'm like, okay
He's like I want this one gone and we're gonna put in a couple others and i'm like, all right
So we'll do that man. And uh, he's got the big this big orchard and all kinds of stuff
And he's like he's not gonna waste time growing that variety and it was the only one and he just didn't like it
It was a test and I was like, okay, so i'm like I can't i'm not gonna kill this thing
So i'm like i'm gonna i'm gonna try to dig this fucker up. So I
I fucking cut it out of the fucking ground
And dug it up this winter when it was asleep because it lost all of its leaves
It went dormant the sap and everything wasn't flowing. He was in a completely chill
State with all this energy stored inside of his core and I cut the shit out of him hurt myself broke two shovels
and got the son of a bitch out and fucking
Into my truck and home and planted in the orchard the things leaping out and fucking flower and like a motherfucker, you know
I mean, it's a great thing, right?
Fucking thing would cost 2000 bucks. It was a fucking bitching tree and it didn't know the difference as soon as it woke up
It had no idea that that had happened for the most part and it was just like, okay
And it went and got the citrus
Never goes to sleep
So you're going to put that thing wide awake on the operating table, right?
You ever put it someplace where it's going to get jumped into the ground?
And you're going to cut it out while it's alive and wet looking at you
And it's wearing a face and all the fucking leaves are going to fucking droop and sag and get pissed at you
And it's going to lose most of them and you know, it might live and it might not it just depends on you know
The heart of the tree and the health of the tree and you know, how good you are
But that's a 50 50 shot as opposed to like it's like almost a hundred percent when you do it when they're sleeping
It's a different type. So
Don't put it in the ground until you're ready
If you're gonna, you know count on this music for the future, you know
But the plum apricot world family you can
Yeah, you can't
It's not like I don't I don't advise you do that like in a regular basis
But if you got to it definitely can do it
I've done it with heirloom trees too. Like once it's been around in the ground for 50 years
we've gone with big tools and like
Pulled them out because they lived at this property
for like
50 years and they had all their trees and like these were the ones that they were bringing with them to their new property
You know what? I mean?
Like no questions asked and they were gonna they were gonna die doing it or it was a try, you know
So by the way, how far how far off camera is your uh, edward scissorhands robocop?
uh
That's pretty far
Well, we need to do that. Yeah that
Can you put up a video of the felco a20?
Well, I want to put it up that part with you
remember when I was like just give me give me like a demo of this thing and you're like
Uh, it's electronic backpack pruner, it's my it's my right. Yeah, maybe next time i'll have that video queued up
The likelihood that I can I can get it. I can get it. I'll bring it up with me one of these days
And i'll set it up. It's fun to wear anyway, so, you know, i'm getting ready
You know getting ready to do some more stuff, but it's my right hand and it's it's badass. It does the job
Do you bring that do you bring that outfit into bedroom role playing
With this outfit
You and the felco like
like pneumatic, uh
Clippers
No, i'm not gonna do it for some girls
Not not mine. I gotta work it in different ways. I gotta play different
She likes a different role play
But
Yeah, man uses fucking citrus
Gotta, you know gotta go don't plant a whole bunch of uses like I don't want 27 acres of youtube or something
That would be like
Now I want to do a lot of aloe and then make like aloe powder
Uh with this guy mick
We've been talking about basically like drying aloe
And then making products out of it but like grown in the usa organically
Yeah, that's that's right aloe aloe is a weed man. I break up little pups all the time. I plant them all around everywhere
Everywhere I go, you know aloes are just fucking weeds. They're so easy
So if you got the climate for them, it's like no
They'll just jump out which which we do
Yeah
Yeah, man, I mean there's all kinds of cool stuff cut them little colors and they'll root
Yeah
Yeah, just break them off. I mean you can some of them some of them if you get them like
there's like if you if you break them off and they got a lot of the
The green liquid and the their their sap and stuff come out
You want to let them callous off and harden off and then you can plant them and be radical real quick
But sometimes if you break off some of them
They're the more the woody material like on other types of succulents and it's got like kind of a woody stem like a like a
Dragon for example, right? They got this little woody stem kind of connector to the next section
If you cut it right at that woody stem fucking plant that thing today
And you don't have to worry about it callusing over because there's not a big wound or anything like that
And it's a smaller woodier stem opening and stuff and it'll root like nobody's business
So I make all kinds of dragon friends too. You just fucking throw those on the ground
They'll root they'll root any way you throw them, you know, those are the best things around here people have that's that's something that
That fetches a high price is dragon fruit. You get some pinks some purples
Uh some other, you know colors like that, uh other dragon fruit varieties
Fuck those those things sell like hotcakes it, you know, you know like at high dollars, you know
They grow like
Big though
And they taste good
Yeah, they taste good. Yeah, I got some cactus apples. It's like this, uh
It's like a tree growing type cactus, uh blue
It's beautiful and put on this killer dragon fruit-esque
Like fruit without all the the frills on the outside
and they're
It may look ugly on the outside, but it's the same thing on the inside
Exactly
It's just as good. Nope. Yep. This doesn't look as cool
But it just doesn't look as cool, but they're actually like, you know, i'd argue they're they're tastier, you know
So they're really you got a little bit more sugar. I mean, it's hard cactus fruit is very
mild on the sugar but some of those
some varieties of those, uh dragon fruit like the
The the deep purples and then the some of that cactus apple fruit man, they got some sugar man
They got a little bit more, you know, but but is that literally from a cactus?
Yeah, literally. Yeah, so so so the soil environment that that would like though would be
Something that's not always watered really yeah, um cactus will grow
in a variety of
Clay they want well-draining soil, right? They want like something that's got, you know rocks and gravel and sand
fun shit like that right in a perfect world, but
realistically speaking like
If your soil drains and it's not just like a fucking bog, you know what I mean holds water
You can pretty much grow a cactus there. No problem, you know without the the cold and the climate, you know in our area
We can grow a cactus in in the clear type soils and the sandier type soils
It's all a matter of how much moisture it's getting and what you're planting nearby and all those other things and some of those cactus
Actually appreciate a little bit extra water, you know, just because they don't get it and you know, they never gotten it
It doesn't mean that they don't fucking like it, you know
You know some of them are like oh this is way really with us
Flower and be really pretty and be a little bit more, you know, like a fucking cool-ass plant, you know with a little extra
But you could forget about it. No problem survive and do their thing, you know what I mean? But yeah
It just depends
Yeah, they're definitely a cactus the cactus apples like a tall saguaro like those arizona cactuses, you know
The classic cactus you see the big-ass motherfuckers kind of looks like that
Smaller
And then the dragon fruit they climb and they root into anything
I actually have them rooting into my fucking house all the time trying to come through the window
They root into the stucco and shit. Like you set them next to you. They'll fucking just come after
Their roots will like envelop your head and start sucking the nutrients out of your face
a slow slow death
But we've come through the screen like the window was open and the screens that we had pushed through the screen
We're coming into the house and i'm like you're a motherfucker, you know, so I had to go set him down
But they're actually trying to they'll come for you
Watch out
It's like that, uh
That scene in uh, what what's the mike myers movie?
Um halloween
Or mike myers
Good god, why am I blanking austin powers?
Yes, austin powers the uh, like the cement truck going at super slow-mo speed
It's like the roots coming at at your face to exactly suck the life out of you
He's coming for you
So what what
What would be like?
a plant that's totally
Endemic to somewhere else that you'd like to
explore in socal
Um
Most plants like in like are pretty uh
Invasive
And robust and
Easily replicated here in socal. So it's nice that you know, you bring something here. That's not really
you know
Aggressive and it can become aggressive because it's like perfect, you know
But some plants that I would like to do more exploring with are like
Lychee, so I want to do some more air layering on different lychee varieties
And get more people kind of
Turned on to some lychee lychee world because i'm i'm breeding mangoes right now mangoes are like my favorite thing in the world
but I
I'm with you on that
A good mango. I will crush
Over anything else any other fruit? No, no question
It's the thing that I will fucking buy if I don't really have them and I really a fucking I have to have mango
I love the fucking mangoes, you know, there's coconut creams and alfonsos and fucking keats and glens and fucking
all kinds of thousands thousands of varieties of mangoes, but fucking thousands and thousands and thousands and
There is the hardest thing for me
Those and lychee to grow where I am because I get little frost dips and I get a little colder where I am
And the mangoes and not all of them will tolerate that like i've lost some killer killer killer varieties that I can't get again
Like I can't get them again. They fucking came from far away
And they had to pass all kinds of shit cost a fucking fortune and it was like a one-time thing
Are are you at elevation where you live or why why does it dip so low?
I'm in uh, i'm in a weird i'm i'm
I'm, not in elevation
Okay, because because i'm north of you which you know, you would think is like colder
But I have like this weird belt where I like where I grow like where where I live it's like really close to like
like
all the avocados all the
the agricultural
Stuff of strawberries the blackberries poison berries. There's just acres and acres and acres of
Avocados and citrus and and and stuff like that and it's the hills that push in from the coast
So like I I live in kind of this
This this valley that funnels all the weather so like in san diego when it says it's gonna rain
You know in san diego like eight out of ten times
It won't rain downtown and it will definitely rain up in the north part where I am, you know
It always passes through me like I always catch the the extra weather
And that attributes to everybody wanting to grow the avocados here
Because it gets a little bit extra water to have the hillside to have this perfect weather climate
You know, it's the right heat and the right moisture content because we're close enough to the ocean, but we're not at the ocean
We're slight elevation
But we're pushing and funneling most of this weather and this and the water and all of this
Cool stuff is happening right where I am, you know
Well, so is it cool because it's pulling like what I always find interesting coming from the east coast where the water is coming up
from the gulf of mexico
You put your toes in the water in la and it's like fucking freezing like my
My daughter always wants to run in and i'm like damn you because I have to go in with you
But I really don't feel like going in
Yeah
so my
Is it because?
You have just that cold ocean air
I have yeah, I have to I have i'm just far enough from the ocean like 10 miles or so
You know 10 8 to 10 miles or so from the ocean, you know, and then i'm kind of in this
like mountainous
Area where all of the fucking clouds want to want to get pushed and from that ocean current
They want to get pushed right into my area. So
it's like this it's like the perfect storm for like the weather in in socal so
Um, I used to live i've lived in like every city from from fucking chula vista down by tijuana border all the way north
To fucking oceanside and then orange county a little bit of oc for a little while and then i've been back
You know, i'm i'm back down in like like the fall brook
um
area like
Do you ever watch straight out of malibu
No, I didn't what
No
jamie kennedy, uh straight out of malibu, I think no my wife my wife hates me because I don't know fucking
Actors names. I don't know celebrities names. I don't know tv shows. I don't know music like like current music
I know like how to use a computer
but but i'm like so
I'm so turned off to that. So I always feel so fucking dumb when like people are like, oh, you know that show or that thing
I don't I don't fucking know
So i'm sorry, but I know some of the people you know
But i'm terrible with that shit, dude. My wife's a tv nut. I'm like the complete opposite. I'm like outside all the time
I don't know
But yeah, i'm a weird place man and we grow all kinds of shit so it's like the
it's the perfect kind of little
Climactic little place but mangoes
are a bitch and it gets some of the cold and some of those valleys like I was telling you before when
You don't want to buy something that sits down and has a big big low spot
You want to get get a little bit up on the higher ground because those low areas in some places even by the coast
Can fucking get cold dude in the winter like in the low 30s like
And like carlsbad on the ocean like on the fucking shore if you're you know
If you're you can get in some cold cold little nooks and crannies
There's places where you're up a little bit and you just have these little
little cold spots where the cold falls and sinks and settles in you know, so
um
You always want to plant those mangoes on high ground. I've lost a lot of them to not covering young ones and
Fucking cold spills and fucking hail and crazy shit, but I persevered, you know
So and and people on the chat, uh, it wasn't straight out of malibu. It's malibu's most wanted
Oh, there you go
Okay, i've heard of that one at least but he is straight out of malibu
He grew up on the mean streets of malibu, yeah
No, no
There's some nasty little spots down there fucking chula vista and escondido and
fucking oceanside
You know people know what i'm talking about
But they're not nasty nasty, you know, it ain't it ain't uh
It ain't like fucking detroit or anything like that, you know, so we're lucky that we're lucky like that
Shit, there's some streets that I wasn't allowed to walk down when I was a little kid
Like I could walk down this one, but if I walk down that one
And you know some would happen. I don't know what but some would happen
Just a little kid and they're like, you know, I walk down that road, you know, it's fucking true
The time my cousin got in the goddamn head man
Go down the wrong street
Walk down
My cousin got capped in the goddamn head down there. The bangs ain't fucking around down in socal, man
No, man, there's some spots where you just yeah
You know, you know and they're cleaning up a lot of stuff too, which is nice a lot of places are getting, you know cleaned up
You know, they're trying to there's places they'll never get cleaned up but they want to but
You know
I'm up in LA
I'm in those i'm in those hot pockets in LA and shit all the time too, you know in there
There there ain't no work, you know, they're bad places everywhere you go, you know, texas
Certain streets you just stay out
Yeah
Texas the only fucking place I wouldn't take no herb with me man when I went there I was dry as a motherfucker
I wasn't trying to go to jail in texas
It's the only state you drive through that's got signs that says don't mess
Yeah, you can do 100
There's a glitch there in the matrix
Three two, so one
Hammer time, can we get a hoe?
Can we get a hacksaw jim duggan
You got to take my shirt off and get a two by four yeah, I was gonna say you need the two by four
Yeah, I was gonna say you need the two by four
Yeah, I don't have a two by four in every
And I ain't smoking no rolled up wood so I can't reach for mary jane and take his place
What do I got I got nothing I got nothing I just got the old crutch oh shit
I got a couple bowls left in this jar. I've seen another jar, but i'm looking good
So I just smoked uh
Mega babe
Oh, yeah, you got something you got some mega babes sitting in there some nice stuff. Yeah, it's the last of it
man
That one that's an interesting one
There's some nastiness to that and there's some there it depends on which one you got
I don't remember which one which one it gave you. I know it was the outdoor stuff, but
um
I don't know what I think about those those mega babes yet, you know
A lot of people in alaska were growing mega babes and loving loving it. They're they're growing it again
And they're putting it in and stuff. They're in the alaska
uh space there's a couple people in out in the
Prohibition land out east they're throwing the mega babe. They really are
Loving the mega babe wait, but in alaska are they doing it outdoor like
Greenhouses
Yeah, yeah. Yeah
Yeah, you can't yeah, it's real alaska, you know for sure
so
But my point is it's like something that needs to finish fast, right?
For most for them. Yes, they need something that's going to finish on the faster side
It was the last one of their of their stuff to finish, you know, but it's the one that you know
Was the shiny one that really kind of made made the impression
um, so that's
It's always nice and it did finish compared to other ones that they were growing that
That couldn't hack it didn't make it through or never did what they were supposed to so
um, that was a good that was a good thing, uh,
to know but it is I mean the parent the parental stock of that is pretty cool like the
the
The mother of that is the caramel cream, which which was the humble seed companies
It's one of their their ten thousand mega hunt their first ten thousand mega hunt
Uh plant and went from all the farms and collaboration when they got the ten thousand
Plants and they they pulled out the one percent or whatever. Um, pull out like ten plants or eight plans or whatever
um
That was one of the that was one of the plants
That they pulled out with the caramel cream
and then that was also one of the
Competition plans where I got it from the grow up. I got it in the throw-off competition and that's that's how they revealed what it was
During that whole that whole shebang
Uh, I hated how it grew it was such a fucking it was a such as it was needy for me
It didn't like my it didn't like the leds and it didn't like the you know
It was one of the more
Fucking plants that i'd have to fucking do shit with and I hated doing that
So i'm like, you know what?
I love this fucking dank that smoked amazing had killer turps
And I think the one of the winners, uh tested like five or seven percent. So I think it was five and a half percent
From the memory of the turps was that caramel cream. It was fucking
And he's like the theory and that was why I had more turps
I keep forgetting you were at the socal grow off event
And you always remember you're like, yeah, I was the dude with the hat and I was like, oh, yeah
Yeah, that's me. I was up there for that one
But then I was in the humble one the north the norcal one with the caramel cream
And the winner of that one, you know was the five and a half percent and that was the plant, you know
so I took that plant and I crossed it to the to the pam the original, um
Seed stock male that I had and and that made the mega babe
and uh, it's it's a
It's a tall just like a fucking you know, just like pam, you know to get that that tallness to it
Um, but it had such a wide
Fucking throw like from that caramel cream. It had all kinds of shit in it. It was just a crazy polyhybrid, you know
there was a royal highness was in there the uh
Off the top of my head fucking stone thinking about all the shit that was in there it was uh
I can't remember all the things that were in it
but it was uh
It it was like three or four different things that they had worked into the into the caramel cream
and it was just a fucking you know f1 polyhybrid type thing and so
When I hit pam had pam's dominance on there with all the structure
All of her like characteristics and features, but it just fucking threw
Fucking every turkey and fucking the sink, you know, uh from every you know, all kinds of spectrums and stuff
So there's some really cool stuff that was coming out of those and there's some fucking funky ass like hazy
Fucking stuff coming out of those like it was a pretty pretty wild
pretty wild batch and I picked out a couple of them that
I'm still you know, i'm still unsure about them that I like and lots of people like them, but i'm not like
I'm not in love with them, which is why I know there's no scenes out of any of that mega day yet
You know for anybody so i'm not ready for that one yet. It's not ready
There was a so
Do you see that I was just reading that question
Yeah, I just was reading that was gonna bring up some
Seed drying, uh when you when you're gonna drive for seeds, uh, at least on cannabis
You want them to reach a specific, uh moisture level fast?
So you want them to hit between nine and twelve percent and you want that to do that rapidly. So, um
Most people are gonna hate what i'm gonna say
But this is how you're gonna care for seeds at least I do is you want to cure around 85 to 90 degrees
You want the plant to be warm, but not cooking you're not trying to preserve any type of terpenes
You don't give a damn if there's chlorophyll locked in the plant
You want moisture removed from the seeds so you can start to initiate seed dormancy
The first way you're doing that is by removing moisture so that the enzymes inside shut off and don't start to try to reproduce
Because the seed with enough moisture if it imbibes moisture from a living bud
They'll they'll pop out right in the flower so you need to lock in that
That moisture level quickly
So I myself I try to dry at a minimum at 70 degrees
But I shoot for 85 when i'm drying and I will de-leaf as much of the plant as I can
So I call it big leafing you take all the big leaves off
You don't worry about removing the little ones, but you want the big ones
Off the plant so that moisture comes out you want as much moisture out of the plant as possible
That's how I do yeah, man, I uh
With seeds, you don't you you can't care about like the plant itself
uh
You're not growing it for the weed or the the material so and when i'm done with it
There's nothing fucking left. It's fucking powder and you know complete trash
It's all in your fucking hands or in your fucking on your fucking tool or whatever the fuck you're doing or however many seeds you're using
but yeah, it's absolutely right like it usually
it
Doesn't I don't take it into a slow cure or a low cure like you would regular ganja that you're gonna smoke
The higher is fine and it's always hot here. It's always 70 or fucking higher here
Anyway, if I put it in the garage or something it's fucking
Fucking hot, you know a shed or a fucking giant fucking, you know, it's just hot here
So it's always above 70. But yeah, you can you run them
I usually if I really wanted to drive faster and I need to like get them get them out and I want to like
hurry it up, which I don't recommend because
Number one it hurts your germ rates fucking with it and like all this other stuff
like if you're just like if it doesn't have enough time to rest and kind of settle and really be dry then
You're you know stuff suckers, you know, and you can rush it and you can pull them out of some plants and plant them
And they'll they'll germ right away. Others. They'll say fuck you. I need I need I need a common period, you know
um
Others you can get them cold, but essentially if I wanted to drive
Yeah, you got fucking you hang them get off as many of the leaves as humanly fucking possible
uh
if it's hotter hotter space 70 plus 75 80, you know 85, that's fine, but
After the first day or two i'll
Cut them i'll come take them down and i'll actually cut them off of the main stock like fuck them off of the the main stock
or at least
Shorten up the pieces, you know, and then i'll put those in in paper bags
um, and
And i'll and i'll I won't like pack them
So they're really full and they're like cramming each other down and eliminating airflow
I'll strategically pack a couple of paper bags with some different different, you know
Nug sites and stuff so that
They're off the off the plant the paper bag will wick the air and keep them keep them going and keep them in that warmer
Environment still and they crisp up in that paper bag a little bit quick
If it's not crumbling to dust close to it in your hand
And you're trying to take the seeds out. You'll you'll you'll you'll take off the shells of the seeds
You'll ruin the striping of the seeds you'll do all kinds of things to make your seeds, you know
less lesser quality and
Look shitty
So if you really want to fucking look good and fucking germ and like be awesome
You don't fuck with them until it's completely completely completely fucking crispy crispy crispy dry
And then once you do that and whatever you do, they'll come out and they'll be hard that those stripes will be fixated
And hardened onto the onto the plant, you know a lot easier you'll lose less of them
they'll look nice and they'll germ but you can cut it down keep it in a warmer place and I
I'll chop it down sooner and break it down for the trim bins paper bags, whatever just to
Speed it up, you know, but I try not to do that
Ever because that's when the seeds aren't as good
But if it's a project you need to kind of hurry along or you need to get something going for yourself
You like that?
You definitely like that
And also, uh
Whoa, where'd it go here, man, I lost it
The weird question
No, i'm on my phone
So I have to push the chat and then it covers up the video and all the chat comes up and they're about this fucking
Big so i'm over here squinting at it like a blind weasel
no fucking
Dumbass over here, but yeah with seeds. I was also going to say after I dry them at that point
I stratify them by sticking in a cold environment for two weeks, which helps and help also induce
seed dormancy in the plant
The way to get that out of there is the way we soak them imbibe in the seeds
So some seeds are going to be easier to soak up moisture than others
So what was that last question you just popped up? Yeah, it was a weird the weird question one. What was that?
Yeah
I had a weird question, but what about cutting them down versus letting them dry out and still in the soil
Um, you could let them dry it on the soil if you want
But then you're gonna risk having volunteers all over your garden that like if you're a breeder
You don't want to have random shit just popping up
Some plants like pan will the more sativa ones in my experience
Well, the pods will actually open up and it'll start fucking puking out dropping seeds when they're ready
You know just start dropping out all the seeds you work to keep so
The haze does that man?
Yeah, you gotta don't flip don't flip that plant over when she's dry the seeds will fall out like a rain stick
It literally will do that
You know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah, it's really um
How to be totally family tree you gotta test your males for selection depends on the line and what i'm looking for
Like I went to earlier talking about with the bees
I used the bees to select which male I wanted to use at the final selection when I did the haze for day's land
I literally took a few of the males and put them outside and seeing which one they would go to all the time
And that's the one I let pollinate
After I went through selecting everything then I went I bred with him indoor and outdoor
You know, I needed to represent what I wanted out of the line
So there's different ways you could test your male if you're going for a male that needs to produce cbd
You're gonna have to get it tested for cannabinoids if you're looking for something that produces a specific terpene profile
You should know
Genetically if it's passing that as a homozygous trait, or is it a double recessive heterozygous trait?
That just ain't showing up and you got lucky on this exact phenotype, right?
It just depends on where you're staring towards. Are you looking for structure?
pest
Resistance, are you looking for something that grows in the cold?
Each one of those different breeding projects is going to have a different way that you would select for the plant
But in general I go for uh, like if i'm breeding
if i'm live breeding a one
genetic
um, like say i'm looking for a male and female in that line and I would start with uh structure and branching
Are they similar?
Do they inner flower roughly around the same time?
Um, I also like to count serrations on leaves or if the leaf shows any type of double or triple serration
is that showing repeatedly in either one of the
Parents that i'm going to choose in one of the p1s
I'm also looking for do they root similarly the males and the female that i'm going to use if I put them into
Uh my chosen medium that i've usually used do I get roots to drop at the same time?
On these lines or is like one of them not going to root ever and the female always roots, right?
I might have issues with progeny that show up with rooting issues which could show up with small mutated little plants that don't
process
as quickly
It'd be something that's getting passed through on the a plant that doesn't want to root quickly
Uh, i'm also looking for like if i'm on a line that's uh mold or
Uh cold resistant or something that uh is going to withstand a lot of harsh elements. I try to introduce that to the
parental line
Before I use it to go into breeding to know if that's going to actually
Be something that's a trait in the line. Am I able to activate this?
Through uh environmental conditions like I did with my space line
I used to always take
That plant when I put it outside and bury the bottom branches to see if they would root into the soil
And continue to grow out without getting any kind of mold issues
Or any kind of uh different pathogens popping up on the plant. Was it healthy enough to withstand that type of stress?
I always went outside here to uh, get my plants show me which ones would take the heat better because I get hot as shit
here
Like i've shown it get to a hundred and twenty two outside here in the shade
Um, it gets hot as hell when i'm at
A
So I can breed for plants that can withstand heat extremely well
Um, they can also take a lower amount of moisture
So if you're in an area that is conducted to that you could use some of the plants that i've been breeding with in my
area for a long time
To epigenetically steer the stuff you're looking for for that same type of trait because it's already in my line
It's been activated through the breeding that i've done on them
Because it didn't just do it one time like the space line for 15 years growing in my environment indoor and out
I have induced traits to come out of that line
That would not show and somewhere that's colder
That may be in a higher elevation because i'm gonna
I'm in a very low elevation
So when my plant's grown different does
Elevation like 10 000 feet or 7 000 it produces completely different
Hell yeah, man. Hell yeah
I uh, I don't I've never really counted serrations. That was one of the things I know I was like hanging out
I was like, oh shit. That's that's cool. I do lots of funny things. Uh
With my mails, but like you said man
It really just depends on what you're doing and especially if you're going for weird cannabinoids and stuff
Like you can't do it without testing, you know
So you gotta do leaf samples you can test your mail and actually do you know terpene and potency testing on those things
So that you can know if it has cbd or cbg or whatever the fuck you're looking for because you can't visually kind of
See that uh, but other than that fucking I always like to look at
Like clone cloning is really important to me. I like shit that
roots
really easily and you know
The truth is like the good shit always doesn't root as easily doesn't
It's like fucking it's just inherent it's like if it's good it's gonna fucking take longer to root. I don't know why
That's the way it's gonna be temperamental
Yeah, I can name them I mean I can go out the fucking devil god damn it, you know, but
but really like there are that's a trait that like
It's good
Did I feel that I can I can make so I always take my mails?
And I pull them out of the pot and I look how massive the root system is after i'm done
Kind of growing them out
But rule number one is you're growing a male or looking for a male and don't gotta flower them all out
You have to fucking yeah, like let them go all the way to their you know death
We're damn near close
Yeah, so you can kind of see how much resin will show up if any
To see if it's gonna throw pistols later laid on and have those intersect type things
If it does those things you just fucking you gotta actually fucking you can't tell if a male's any good
Until you fucking breathe with it. And if you flower it all the fucking way out to the to the to the end, you know, so
Um
Aren't even like super super super resin males like they're
If you just let them go long enough, you'll start seeing some and it's like yeah, okay
We're getting something on there, you know, so but you know
I like looking for the ones that show resin really early on so like
Early in flower or before like right on having a crazy tacky stem
um
Early glitz you're like oh shit. That's a resin male. He wants resin all day long
Hopefully he doesn't turn into being a her you know or one of her later on because he was so early to the party there
Maybe he'll be early to party. So flowering them out is critical
I always pull them out at the end and look at the roots
If his root system is way deeper and more massive than this one's root system, then there has to be
That has to go into a debate, you know there for me on the quality of which one i'm going to select
I usually always select the heavier rooted one because I think that that would transfer over to a healthier plant and a better cloner
Maybe it doesn't
But that's kind of what I look at
And smell is super important. Some people say it doesn't fucking matter
Sometimes it does sometimes it fucking doesn't and that's just that's just the way it is, you know what I mean?
So it's something I always take into account, but I always like
Breaking off like a family but a big ass fucking family the biggest one on your planet, right? Like one of the most main
Fucking functioning solar panels at its at kind of, you know at its peak
Effectiveness when it's praying up, you know at this time early on in the day before I know what you are
Or if I know what you are
I like to break off one of those big ass fucking leaves and I like to smell the smell the chlorophyll or the blood
Coming out the petiole like the stem right there and usually it goes away real quick
Some will stick around for a little longer and some you got to coax it out
but usually
If you break it off and you smell like something like pam 15 does it and it's like this crazy
like sharp
peppery
gas like
Tang some some sort of like thing that's really sour in your mouth and like it like feels weird
Have you tried chewing it when you do that instantly?
Yeah, you can taste it too. You can taste it too
And then there are lines that will actually bleed red blood like bodies dragon blood
Will actually bleed bleed different colors and stuff
so I always break off those main prominent leaves and I always smell and if it has a has a
An out of the ordinary that stuff
Is
But there's a million things that I do
that I don't know what i'm doing and i've been just doing it and they just do it but like
Those are things that I always kind of do
uh, and the rooting is important
And flowering them all the way out is like super important, you know
um, but
And like I never take the most aggressive male either. I always take the more dainty
Female
So that was him right there
That's the space he's male after he's been outside for an extremely long time to see how he would do
Fully flowering out and then going through a cold spell to see if he would die from freezing
And then I eventually seen if I could start to re-veg him which he started to do
But I had the other plants out there. So I killed him off
But that shows you some of the resin production that'll come off a plant
And that's a male those are some magnificent purple balls, you know, that's the male
Yeah, you can revenge a male 100%
Yeah, that's great. You have to
Yeah, absolutely. I've taken them out of death. Yeah, I keep them for years. It's like girls, you know, no problem, you know
But it's just about the hormone levels that re-veg really easily. I like those. That's another trait. I like, you know, if I can
If I can flower you all the way out and don't die
And then I can fucking re-veg you, you know
That's pretty cool
That's a good plant to keep around some cases, you know
At least half of the criteria, you know
That's a beautiful male, man
I was you know, I have one at my my uh, my mr. Frosty was a citrus farmer cross
uh male, um
That one was fucking pretty purple and had that resin similar to that it was one of those
like that, you know, I lost him to the
the great brood aphids of
Man, I just so i'm thinking about reversing this one
You know, I couldn't take the cut a few of them and it was like, you know, that was his day
He had bothered enough
And it was his day, you know, but
He he passed on a lot he did a lot of good and I kind of wish I had still you know
So but he worked for a couple years for me
But that's a beauty. That's what that reminds me of last night
Unless you're gonna clone your male clone
Is he cheesy or go ahead?
Uh, yeah, he's um
It tastes like a peppery parmesan
With a like this
It's a weird mint flavor
And a fermented, uh, grape berry on the back like a fermented cheese plate
That's as close as I get it. Um
I shared this with a bunch of people back in um, the 2015 at the emerald cup, but everybody was like
Like cheese and figs, you know
He's nice man this plant gets me high as shit I smoke this plant dude and I get
I start looking like a clown and shit. I gotta force my eyebrows up and shit so I can see
It it it lays me out. The space cheese lays me out
So i've been thinking about reversing this plant and showing everybody that process like I did with the icarus
So reverse the male and show everyone how to do that
going how to uh
Possibly get some seeds off and because not all males will give you seeds if you they reverse
They might just continue to throw fucking stamina flower with just random pistols that just will not take any uh pollen
So we'll see what's up
I just need a little bit of ethylene and some time and you can reverse a male pretty uh, you know, it's not hard
some ethylene a male produces a
Higher a ratio of gibberellic acid
So if you can alter the ethylene level in your mail, it will start to produce pistilette flowers
That can usually
Accept some pollen. It's not going to make a ton of them
It's not going to make a big old giant bud like the females
You might end up with a bunch of male
Sacks like that that have pistols coming out randomly
It all depends on that male's uh
Ability to produce ethylene and gibberellic acid along with some copper, which is what's used to make the ethylene
Uh productive in its system to produce that uh pistilette flower formation
Yeah, that's where they'll make a a regular seed line from a male because you can get male and female seeds from a male
that even verse
That's my uh, that's my next project is uh
pollinate
having the male pollinate itself
and growing out some of the progeny and
Seeing what kind of selections I can make if any and and what's going on with that
Tells me that's something that i've never done all the way, you know, i'd love to do it
I've never done it all the way. So
That's that's cool
I did that with angels, but I could see the uh cannabinoid profile because back in that time
They weren't testing for terpenes and all that shit. They were testing for uh, thc and cbd and cbn
And that's all they were doing for the cheap tests unless we wanted to pay for
full uh fungal pathogen test the place that I was able to get to was only
offering these small tests, so
The day ended up getting my male test
We had to test 27 plants to get a price that we could afford at that time
When I was working at the uh club the club I worked at was
Was called family tree
That was the that was the name of the that's the name of the place. I used to um,
I used to manage for four years, man. So
Yeah, man
By the way
Tyler when you saw this seinfeld episode with um
Um
What is it like the mr
The doc the doctor with a vanity license plate. He's like a either a proctologist or something
What what's his license plate?
Oh my god, butt man, or wasn't it wasn't it something like yeah
Ass man, ass man, ass man
Is it was that the inspiration for the mr. Trees
It's uh, so yeah something something along those lines right like like when I was working at the nursery, um
Doing trees, right? Like they used to call me like I have
Hundreds of customers would come out of time. They call me. Mr. Trees or the skinny tree. Mr
Trees, and I would get skinny tree. Mr. Tree the
The skinny tree guy the the tree guy the tall skinny guy the tree that mr. Tree
Always call me. Mr. Trees, you know, so when I when I was working there towards the end of my my tenure
I worked there for a lot of years and um
Towards the end when I was ready when they couldn't pay me anymore and I was having my my first kids and stuff
I'm like i'm gonna do my own thing 100%
Fuck you guys i'm out. Um, I I
I was starting my business and uh, i'm like fuck man. I wanna
I got a new truck and I was all stoked
I was like i'm gonna I want to put something on the truck
So I I have always had a sign on my truck that told like, you know
Fruit tree stuff and they call my number or whatever and i'm like i'm gonna put a i'm gonna put a person where i've left
So i'm gonna see what they got. Mr. Tree
And like everybody said there's no way that they'll have mr. Trees dude. Like there's just no way like in california
Like there's no way i'm like i'm gonna check I checked fucking they had mr. Trees. It was like meant for me
Holy shit, I didn't have to do anything for it. It was fully available. I was like, oh my god, that's amazing. Fuck that dude. So
um
Yeah, man, i've been that for years. That's just it's funny. Everybody loves it
Everybody cracks it by people pull up next to me like like youngsters. Oh, mr. Tree
And they'll have like old people are like mr. Tree, you know, it's like so funny it's like it it plays all
It plays everywhere and then I always got trees hanging out the back, you know, there's always fucking tools
There's always fucking trees. There's always shit going. I mean it says and just it just that it is it's me, man
It's funny. It's kind of shit
But yeah, it's just something that nobody said was gonna be there. It was there. It was like it was always there
It's like it was loud call forever, you know, it's so funny
Destiny was speaking out like that. I gotta have it now. I looked it up. It's like fucking
You know, but you need you you need the hydraulics and the bounce on the f-150
And like a big-ass like sound system in the back
You know my truck. I just blew up my transmission again for the third time, dude. I was at 300 000 almost
fucking third time transmission
yesterday, so
I'm, uh, i'm down my truck and getting ready. I'm gonna have to retire the old truck, dude
So it might get retired soon forever. So it's uh
It it might be time. It might not be time. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know what's gonna happen
Yeah, we'll see if I can keep it or not, you know
Transfer dnd hustle
I feel like magma seeds had a question. Yeah
Magma asked if we had any holy grails we were looking for. Oh, yeah. Yeah. That was the one I was looking for
An old-fashioned coffee pot had a question right after him that asked about if they could use tomato
Um spray to uh reverse a female plant and that's exactly what it is. It's at the fun
It's um ethylene
That's used ethylene is used. Um
On a male you can spray that on a male to reverse a male
It doesn't work on female
I don't know. Um
Blossom set for the tomato
Some that would be have ethylene in it
Yeah, I don't know I don't know what the hell I know some of the heavier calcium base
So i'm gonna look i'm gonna check that out, you know, because we used to sell blossoms
So it's time with the old nursery and stuff
I didn't know that that was that was the ethylene or the one that I used to get had ethylene in it
You know, there's a shitload of calcium in there
Um that helps with the fruit set as well, but I don't know what the plus was in the other ingredients. That's cool
Well, the blossom is
Blocked it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's bitching. That's cool
Yeah
So you got and then as for holy grails, let's see. Holy grails. I got what I was looking for back
Really? I was looking from my the fire og cut
I held that plant for so long. I've been wanting it back and I just recently got it back
And the triangle push that I got back
uh
Got the ghost og back a couple years ago. So i've kind of picked up all the holy grails except for
like
Except for the stuff that I made that got that I lost
When I lost my leg that I can't never get back because I never gave out
I've got them all back except for uh
The bubba kush and that's on its way back here already
And then uh, the loompas in the head are the uh, louis 13th, which are two other ones
i'm getting everything back that I was looking for so
that's for me that's
I got them all back
That's this shit i've been looking for
I've been looking for it's san diego stuff. So it's not as worldwide, but when I was a youngster
We had we had we had the san diego bull rider and it was the fucking rider. It was like
supposedly fucking you know
all kinds of stories circulate around the bull rider and then then there's the afghan bull rider and then there's the
Story of like when the bull rider got shut down or whatever
The guy who took it the last one read it to the afghan because it was too long flowering, you know
It was like 11 week flower 12 week flower, right?
They wanted to shorten it up. So then it got made into the afghan bull rider that went into canada
but that
original bull rider if i'm not mistaken
It's just fucking stupid little kid
But all the shit that I remember
and all the shit that I know about plants and the way that that fucking burns a fucking hole in my head and like
What I used to see and what I used to get like like it
It is what it is that makes perfect sense
What I just said that story makes the most sense out of any of the stories i've ever heard, you know
but it was this old fucking
Longer flowering fucking dark
Limey it was like a dark green with a lime green and fucking neon red hair. It's actually in the
cannabis bible like the old cannabis bible like uh, yeah
They have a picture of the bull rider and that actual nug picture. That is the fucking bull rider that that one's
It's like i'm like that's it like that's it like that's what it is
and people have showed me pictures of other stuff and i've seen other stuff and
And it's like god damn it and and it's like that's one of the ones that I wish that
I could see or I could have and then the p91 the poway 91
You know the real real one. Um, I don't think that
I don't know, but there's a lot of people that
That have have had the p91
uh respected and not and and or and I don't know that
I
I I don't when I was a kid like
the
My best friend his older sister was tied into the group
And we actually got seeds from some of that p91 and they were all these badass fucking short squatty half
Danny, we threw them outside his little bedroom window and there were some of the fucking dankest fucking plants I'd ever seen in my life
It was like the actual cut that they would circle around we used to get wet batches of and it was just like some of
the best
We were driving with a half pound car one time of some other shit
We're smoking weed being dumb kids and I had an eight of the fucking p91 in my pocket and we get pulled over
and
Fried chicken and I put the fried chicken up in the thing and opened it up
And um, like we're we're fucked right and like he walks up in my
P91 is just singing dude. It was just fucking
It's just lit up outside the car and everything. It's just like you walk up
And he didn't even ask me questions he just asked where is it like literally like no shit
And i'm like, oh i'm sorry officer. He just picked me up. Here it is. I'm the asshole. It's ruined
I handed him my fucking eight of the p91 son of a bitch fucking
Like had it like fucking smelled it to the back and he's like i'll be right back
And he took my my buddy's id and he went back there and sat back for a while
And he came back and told us he said you guys were getting away with murder. He says he says, uh
Get out of here. And he's like don't be fucking running that whatever. I don't know what he did wrong get pulled over
Wherever he goes don't do that again
Fuck out of here and go out of here and he kept my dank
and fucking
Like dude, I just saved your life dude, I didn't have a half pound in the car. I just gave up my own
Like I didn't have any money. I'm like you better fuck it up. Yeah, so he looked me up with a big bad-ass fucking
Bag, it was like a great day. We were fishing shit. We're like dude, I wish I had that p91 right now
It was like nothing to do with nothing. That was the last time I saw that one
Um, and I actually got some seeds from the last batch of bull rider
Uh that we got in town when the last batch
It hermeted out or got seeded and it was all shitty and everybody was complaining about how much the packs cost
And my my buddy was like dude, we're gonna go get a refund. This is bullshit
We're not paying for fucking all these seeds and and i'm like, yeah
You're like one two three four
And uh my buddy he's like he's like i'm gonna keep some so so he kept a bunch of them over the years
We kept them really shitty in this warm-ass fucking drawer
In poway and I didn't give a fuck and then like recently he gave them back to me
Um, I called him up like dude, I need those fucking seeds. You still have them like that
I got them dude
They're sitting right here and i'm like, oh my god, and I tried to pop them
It won't pop I can get them to kind of open some of them sometimes and they die off no matter what I use
No matter how i've done it like i've wasted that fucking I did
I did 50 of these beans and i'm down to like 25 of them and i'm like i'm just gonna keep these for the lab
One day i'll be able to give them to somebody who's gonna be like I can open these no problem
And then we can hopefully open them up and see what that is because that's the bull rider
That's the bull. I don't know tissue culture from the scenes. So I need I need that. I need some help with that
You know legit way but bull rider and p91
lime and salt
fucking
The old betsy the old betsy was up for a while lots of people have used the old betsy obsolete
um
Csi had it for a little bit. It's popped up here. They're the old betsy, you know, that was fun
That was from my youth. We used to get wet back
You know back in the day
um early 2000s
You know stuff like that
Um, I you know, that's a fucking cool and the old
And there's some cool ones that i'd love to have ever see
that I never got to see because you know, that wasn't I wasn't tied into that at that point, you know, but
man, the bull rider popped up or
The the old the real fucking p91 no fucking bullshit, you know, no s1 no fucking
Story. Yeah, the real deal. I don't know what it is. I'll fucking see I know it. There's no question about it
No matter what it could be shit. Y'all know it
um
But those two are my old that's a long ass holy grail story, but I guess that's the holy grail bro
So yeah
So do you both do this
I've done that multiple times like since 2012
I've shown the room breeding as the pollen hit the plants then i've shown progeny grown out from those plants. I've shown them in veg
Next to each other i've shown the magi savage kush los veteranos
cookie crumbs milk and cookies
Then showing finished buds from what came selected out of there from either my garden or one of the test growers
like i've
I ask people this question all the time and I never get any hard answer other than breeders need to test shit
like
How many people out there have hit up a breeder before they bought seeds?
And was able to ask them about 20 lines of test grows with pictures with terpene profiles from the test grower
Not the breeders own words
How many of them actually got that information?
from anybody
Right. I mean it may be one line
Or maybe you've seen an instagram post about it
But did you get a direct message from them where you could screenshot that shit and send it to your friend?
Like i've done that with multiple multiple lines
Repeatedly, but here's what I know
All these elite plants that we've been fucking with that are 30 years old. None of them came with a test grow
They all came with smoke reports
The weed was good and they didn't give a damn what that plant did in the garden because as farmers they knew they could steer
that plant into a direction
based on the
environment, right so
What I get in my room ain't gonna be what you got out of the room with the same clone. So testing
for stress levels
Is something that a breeder is never going to replicate right?
I can put my like I used to do a rule of three
Had to be done twice indoor and once outdoor and then I would used to release them that way tested
In my spot outdoor and then I would have a tested in my spot indoor and then at a tester spot somewhere indoor
So that way it was in a complete different area than me different elevation
With a different skill level could have been better than me could have been less
It was a different type of growth style and this gave me information that told me about my plant
I did that after I left the collective
When I was in the collective I used to run my plants through the 4400 patients I had in there
So I would take the moms and the progenies and pass those to people that couldn't afford seeds
and those people would be able to
Take the plants and tell me which ones did what did the mother?
Get rid of the pain. They were looking to get rid of
Did it help with seizures and did the progeny do the same thing? So I was able to test out multiple lines
in multiple different environments
Which told me what the traits of the plant were everybody thinks testing is they don't homophodite
You can take almost any plant and make that plant homophodite
In any environment, it's all about hormone levels
So for me testing has to do about does that plant work on what I hadn't intended it
To do when I was breeding other than have a funny new name and look good in a shiny pack, right?
The homophodite levels to me are like you can sway that you can even sway your sexual expression in there by
the different nutrient inputs and uh different temperatures
There's there's multiple peer-reviewed studies on this with cannabis where you can mix
You can sway the sexual expression of the plant. So like everybody takes the one trait that
I can't control because it's your garden
And says that I didn't control it right as the breeder when it comes down to
Does the plant taste like blueberry because I wanted it to does it finish in nine weeks because I wanted it to
Does it help with your grandmother's arthritis because I wanted it to everyone else like it's throwing her more for diets
It's like well, do you know how to select throw the fucking plant out and select another one?
Quit wasting time on instagram bitching at a breeder
And spend some time reading a book
About this plant this plant evolved to have minotious traits and homophodite traits and you know
So how am I going to steer this?
epigenetically
Without using the environmental cues from your garden and i'm not at your garden
No, so it's it's real hard for uh
to start
passing that test information to people that
Don't look at it from
Like breeders point of view like if you start reading on gregor mindle and uh,
and
Luther burbank when they're dropping a hundred thousand seeds to start looking for different expressions in the seed line
and then you're yelling at cannabis breeders that maybe did ten thousand seeds like I mean
Humboldt seed did and other guys doing a thousand seeds and another guy doing a hundred and another doing fifty
What what do you want them to uh lock into a line when yeah with the cannabis we can
We can't we can't literally put ten thousand
Plants down everywhere or we're going to go to jail. We can't plan a hundred thousand. We're going to go to jail
So until that can happen
we're not going to be able to actually breed on the level that we should be
Able to breed on to get true expressions from the lines that we're looking through
We're all slinging polyhybrids to everybody man. And like everybody's expecting true breeding traits out of a polywalk
and
it's good and it's going to fill your belly, but
It's not going to be the same recipe in everybody's hands, right?
That's what a polyhybrid is
It's a killer recipe that you put your own spin on with environmental cues in your garden
Phenotypical expression. Yeah, so if you uh
If you
like first of all, like I always like it sucks because I don't have enough space and I would love to like run through
Every single thing that I have so the stuff that I can't grow goes in a bucket
Goes in a what
He froze
I see chad saying it all begins with a genetic potential chad. I would ask have you ever seen a seed line?
That produced tomorphidite from every seed at a specific time
Every time in every garden
So yes cannabis in its genetic history
No, no, I I can I can hear you okay, you can hear me no not you
Mr. Toad, I can I can hear you. I can hear you. I've been hearing you the whole time. Mr. Toad. Yeah, there we go
Can you hear me still?
Tyler we can hear you. Yeah. Okay, you got me. All right, so basically like
Yeah, what go ahead
yeah, so so basically like
You have to be able to have them ran through so you can look at them your seeds. You can't you can't just
Make them and then throw them out there unless you're telling people. Hey, i'm making them and throwing them out there
That's totally cool, too. I'm cool. Whatever you're telling people and they won't buy that shit. That's totally cool
um, but if you uh, if you're
You want to be called a breeder and you want to do some stuff, you know
You should you should be doing some work and you should you should be looking at what you're doing. You should be be excited
About what you're doing, you know, I cannot wait to pop seeds that I made that are this resin mangle or this fucking awesome
Plant that came out of whatever I cannot wait to see you know, so
um
You know, it's like yeah as soon as you can grow them out and you can kind of see what they're doing
Uh, then you can kind of start thinking about where you're going to go with it, you know
You know two places and like you were saying with the two or three places. I have uh, I have
By the way, tyler, are you sitting in the dark right now? No, I don't know why
It's very dark where you are
Yeah, I got light. I'm like i'm nothing changed. I don't know what happened
um, i'll fiddle with it, but um
I get to see with my fruit tree stuff like people who want to grow their six or whatever
They're allowed, you know to do or you know
Take advantage of we'll go take care of fruit trees at their place and then they'll have their little patch of six
And i'm I always give them the new stuff for the season
so they get up they get a plant the
the the dog treats or the new testosterone for the new fucking flamingo ringos or
Depending on who you are what's it like and I get to go to all of these places
Throughout the year and
See these plants at all these different locations with all these different growers and all these different things
On the regular and like in the main season I get to see a way
A lot more than I do in the off season, but the off season is still the same people are doing their grows inside
They're doing poop houses and light depths and funny stuff where we are
So we get to take a look at a lot more than I can actually do myself which helps look at some of the stuff
um
Well, you got to look at it if you're going to make it you should be excited about it
You shouldn't just be excited to sell it and if people are worried about like hermaphrodism
and like people not testing their gear and shit like that then start buying f6s and
F4 and higher, you know what I mean from from reputable breeders that have been doing it, you know
F4 f5 f6 dj shorts
A lot of the humble seed companies I do a lot of back crosses f4s and f5s which I get working your own line
That will tell you
who's doing the work and who's not doing the work a lot of just if it's every single thing you have is an f1 or
Want to be f1 or just a one and done you never grow it again
and then that's cool too if that's your game, but
If people are worried about the seeds they're buying they should look for the the people that are working the line
Tell you they're doing exactly
Yeah, there's far too many people buying polyhybrids expecting any kind of stability out of a plant
That they've grown one time indoor and then took a clone
And grown it one more time in the same environment and they never put it outside or in another environment
To see if it was actually the environment that was killing that
So that they're expecting this polyhybrid to breed true to traits that they read about in the book instead of paying money to someone
That's got a line. That's an f7
that's
Proven to get to f7 for a reason for terpene profile stability
structure
they don't want to pay the dude the money because it costs too much or
It doesn't have the name that they're looking for if you're buying polyhybrids
And they're not even true f1s a polyhybrid
Is not an f1 unless both parents are true breeding strains
You're buying a polyhybrid which is
At least 75 of what you're buying in seed form these days. It doesn't matter if it says f4
Even it still had polyhybrid parents and at f4 stage. You're still getting multiple phenotypical expressions from that line
And different genotypical expressions also because every one of them seeds is going to come out with
their traits all mishmash and in the jumble because
it was only bred for specific traits that someone sees and they never took the time to do a genetic test or to
Cross it out. Like if you if you think you've got a homorphodite
Have you bred it to a plant that you know?
Isn't a homorphodite to see if the progeny are showing 50% homorphodite that tells you you have a homorphodite
Or did you just get a sway in the hormones during one of your grows that now you say?
Oh, I have a homorphodite
Because there's only one way to prove that that's a homorphodite
Without the genetic test to see if it has the alleles for it
And it's a homogenous trait. Otherwise, it's a double
Recessive which means it's not popping up. You're fucking making it happen
And somehow even if your room's dialed in this plant at that time of its life did not want to
Have its hormones set and it's starting to sway them and it's giving you dual expressions
Now if you take that plant and breed it to your male that you've had for 15 years and no homorphodites ever show up
Was she really a homorphodite?
Or if I gave it to my buddy who never gets homorphodites and it never shows up there. Was it really homorphodite?
Nobody takes the time to test that out
right
Very few people have really do that
Or have the ability to like if you're gonna have
25 lines, how do you
Do that in three different environments if you don't have access to either a community of growers
Or uh, you have a large facility where you're paying other people to do that work for you, right?
You're not going to be able to grow all these lines out in your backyard and learn this information
You just can't
And that's why you gotta like, you know, it's got to be for the passion and for the right ways and you know
Doing it for goals and you know
You gotta do it on the small scale and I always I tell people you can't do it in like the big massive
Ways or if you only got a fucking little closet and you want to
Do some actual breeding, you know what I mean?
And like get the numbers, you know
But you can only pop six plants at a time or ten plants at a time or whatever, you know
You know you go through ten plants
And you select the best one out of that ten plants, you know
Or the best two out of ten plants and then you pop ten more seeds or eight seeds or whatever
Then you select the fucking best one out of ten. So you got your ten selected plants
Yeah, and then you then you get to the point where you can breed just the good ones that you like
kind of together
And then those seeds you have better odds of pulling out something
That's just like what you're kind of looking for, you know
After you've gone through that same process you can do it on a slow level and
And do it and breed them and actually create something doing small numbers
But actually doing big numbers, you know what I mean?
A weird way of using time, you know
So that's not the funnest way and that ain't the right way to like get something done quick
But that's something that can be done, you know with nothing. So tony when you were talking about like
matching
Are you implying that?
You would take a male that's a better match with a female than a male
That you just think is a better male like like the match is more important than just pure overall like
exquisite
If i'm trying to see if a line has a trait that I believe it's gonna breed out like the homophrodite, right?
Everyone says it's a homophrodite. I want to take a line. It's not related to
that I know
I have experience with not just some random shit, right?
So that's why I had my angel male
I could cross him to any line that I brought because I held him for so long. I knew what he did
I knew what half of the expressions were going to come out from the progeny
Now I tell people if you're going to breed you should have a line
That you'd know like that male or female one of them in there. You should know what traits come from it
So when something else comes into your room that you believe is a homophrodite or it's you want to know if it's going to breed?
For purple or not if it's carrying that trait homogenous or heterozygous
You can take the plant that you know that isn't related to it
Reverse it if it's a female if it's a male take the pollen from it and pollinate that new female
And look at the progeny as you grow them out and see what is expressed out of it if the trait you were looking for
It doesn't show up. It can tell you that the line that you were breeding into is heterozygous for that trait
It's that means it's recessive. It's not coming through in the progeny
You're going to have a harder time breeding for that trait using that line for that particular trait doesn't mean it's
Inferior because it may have other traits that you want
By breeding outbreeding it to another line. That's not related to it. It will tell you
which one of its uh
Traits are homozygous and it's better to have two lines to breed it to
So you can see the differences so
I had so many plants that I knew because I carried them for so long
I could tell when I crossed to those plants if the progeny comes out with the specific set of traits
That I know even in a polyhybrid that I know some of the traits are going to breed homogenous homogenous from that line
It's just it only comes from experience if you're not going to do genetic testing
Now if you're going to breed for certain traits
Um, you're going to want plants that have matching
Traits and you want them to be homogenous for those traits
But you may not know that until you outcross them to lines that don't carry it
Is that you can have a plant that expresses a color but doesn't breed for that color means it's heterozygous. It's a recessive
It could be a recessive homozygous trait even
It needs to have another plant that has a recessive
Allele for the same trait to be able to pass it. So if you're doing a
F generation like f2 or f3
And you pick the wrong parent
and one's got a recessive purple in it and you're trying to breed for a dominant with a
homogenous
Purple tree and you pick the wrong parent. That's where some people have to dive back into the original seed line
So that they can pull out the parent that they're looking for because they picked the wrong parent to start with
So if you pick the wrong parent
To begin with because you don't have experience with the plant and you only picked it because of name
Or because you only grew it in one spot and one time, you know
Like my space cheese male if you only grew that outside in the cold, you think he's a pure purple plant
But if you grow him inside in a warm area, he doesn't produce that same anthocyanin production
So he's not a true purple cultivar. He just carries a recessive trait to produce that anthocyanin
So this is a trait that you only learn about by putting him in multiple
Environments if I'd only ever grown him in a warm indoor area. I never would have seen the purple
I wouldn't know that I could probably put him with other plants that are uh,
Heterozygous for purple and end up with a higher progeny rate of purple plants
Even though he's a heterozygous recessive male for that purple trait
I can breed them to plant to carry it and get more purple out of them
Do less work in breeding because i'm experienced with the lines that i'm looking at
So instead of just going by some dude on
Instagram or some post you read on the internet
You need to actually grow some of these plants in multiple environments
To know what the traits you're looking at are in that plant if it's heterozygous and I put it in an area
That's always warm. It doesn't produce the purple if it's a homozygous
I put it in a hot room and it turns fucking purple no matter what
I only learned this by putting it in two different environments. It's the only way I can learn this
Exact trait from that plant and it could be any trait
Does it stretch when I put it under a high amount of purple or red or blue light?
Does the plant like to set a flower?
Earlier if I switch the spectrum up, right there's you can change the environment to find out if what's happening there
Gets what you want expressed out of it, or if they stay expressing all the time
You can find out how that plant produces
Its progeny by doing just a few extra crosses, right learn the plant
Don't just learn the hype
Like really learn about that shit if you want to know about it
And don't just learn what your friend thinks he knows about it like use my experience uses
use
Mr. Tree's experience use
Everybody's experience that you come across with that and build an educated guess of what's going to happen. This is
People do this in every profession if you can learn how to make a guesstimate on something that's within a certain threshold
You're more efficient at what you're doing. You're more experienced. You can do things better and easier, you know, this is and like
Like I brought up earlier being able to breed with a large amount of people like I did at my club
And now i'm in a position that I can not do that physically anymore
But I have information in me that I can pass to someone else that's trying to do that
They want to learn how am I going to breed to a specific way when i'm only this size, right?
If you're not scared of passing the genetics like most of us have been for so long with these plants
We were hoarding them. We want to keep the sour d cut. We want to keep this cut
We don't want no one else to have it because of profit when we look at it as a medicine like they're doing with the rain
It's hidden
Why hello there
Hi
Eventually we end up with uh
such a large database that
the the information
It just becomes so easy to get to
We become more efficient in everything we're trying to do
So if I pass everything I know about this one cutting
And you know the stuff about your cutting and that a different whole different environment, right?
We can put that shit together and learn what it's going to do in specific areas makes breeding easier
Like everything i've done with my plant and the next dude does with the same genetics and another guy does
You can tell what's going to come out of a line
I see I can see mom and dad and all kinds of stuff, you know as far as
Removed from me, you know what? I mean stuff that people have done and other stuff, you know
But that's one of the things I love keeping about pan, you know, I have pan one and pan 15
And both of them
I know so fucking good and everything that I ever find and everything that I ever breed always goes through pan one and pan 15
They always go through those two and that will tell me
Fucking everything I need to know about what I just bred with, you know what I mean?
Like what does it do? How does it do it? Why does it do it that way? What's it gonna look like?
Who's fucking strong that tells me so much shit, you know, like it's it's fucking awesome, you know, so
Like yeah having having a having like half a caliber
Something even even if it's something that like, you know
You know, you know if it's if it's a fucking 10 and that's your caliber great if it's a fucking five
Then that's your caliber. Great. You gotta have a baseline that you can you can kind of cross to and
Bounce fucking shit off of so you can actually tell what the male does, you know, does this male do you know?
Does it pass the smell that you're you're smelling does it pass the structure like good example my my pan
F4 line the the male that I chose
to make the f4 the the out of there, um
It was it wasn't it wasn't a good male past it passed the terp that I didn't like in the majority of the offspring
and if I wouldn't have
Grown it number one. Um, I wouldn't have known it and that then then people would be getting
The terp that I that I always select against, you know what I mean?
Like more often than not, you know after all the work that I've already done, you know, so I had to
I have to go back those seeds are fucking
You know, oh god, you know you put them in the in the in the back burner just in case they held something
that you can't quantify today, maybe you need them tomorrow, but
You had to go back into that that previous
You know bunch of seeds and select a new male out of that group or a new couple males in order to
To do it over again to make sure that you didn't that I didn't pass that terp
Um profile in the majority so like even stuff that that you know, like that male
I thought for sure like my god damn I matched that perfectly everything matched everything was perfect
I thought that it didn't have that smell that you know
Associated with it. It was like the one I was like, oh, this is the one had a little you know, and it was not the one
So knowing that is like invaluable, you know, really cool to have like the caliber, you know
Invaluable gotta have a caliber man
Do you see this question
Yes, I do. I was just about I was just waiting for a spot man. Um my haze
Okay, I can tell you about original haze that I know
um
The original haze that I have the one that I'm have now
I've worked with original haze two different times and the first time
It it's what's known as pure haze. Really? It's the colombian punta rojo
Across to a magenta colombian and a green
Colombian that's what makes a pure haze as I know it and then as it's brought over here
It's worked. Um in the san diego area by rlng to a group of people
um
They're the ones that were responsible for the haze
Poster that everybody's seen i've shown that a few other breeders have shown it
Um, it was bred to be the first commercial cannabis line. They were trying to make a seed and commercial line that
The public could get their hands on if you were in the know
When they bred it they added the corella indian and tie to it. So the the corella indian was a male the tie
Was what people knew was tie stick the
The seed stock came from that from what I know
So the corella tie was added to that original haze cross to make what's a pure haze here
There's also a pure haze. It's just that colombian three-way cross
and then a lot of people get into the uh
even more hybridized hazes which go into the skunk crosses the northern light crosses or
the haze nl haze crosses
um different generations also as they get farther from
The late 60s and get into the 90s. They become
different uh entities all together from line breeding
So what a lot of people believe is a haze like the silver haze or church or pude or piff or frankie?
Those are all you know, five haze crosses that come from the 90s. Those are all killer plants
Those are magnificent strains, but they're not pure hazes. So a lot of new growers now believe that that's a pure haze line
When it's actually a multiple polyhybrid
That's getting a lot of its power
That people are recognizing through the nl5 side
Which is uh, like a lot of people really didn't have experience with it
they they bought some nl seeds through nirvana or somebody or through a company that made a
Reproduction of a plant that was in a seed form already
And then they believe that representation is what they know
like hazes don't
They're they're not short squatty plants that finish in 10 weeks
they're they're extremely long flower tall ass plants that
Like they blend in with cedar trees not with uh bushes and shit, right?
I've shown pictures of mine on there. I've hit uh, 25 feet repeatedly the
Original or the pure haze that I had I used to be able to hit 35 feet with that plant when we grew it here
um, they they're
Extremely. Yeah, the stock on the one I grew last year was about that big around the one that was 18 feet tall
and
grows in a giant massive christmas tree they
They're very loose structured flower
Um extremely long flower
They handle um
Water they handle heat they root extremely well
um
They're good for breeding into other
lines that don't produce well or that you
You're trying to open up the bud structure because we all know that
Too tight of a buds not going to make the best herb for you. It's gonna look pretty but
Half that nugs basically mids and shit right when it when the tricone can't be exposed to light
You're gonna have issues with having the best tricone
So if you can get that bud to open up and stretch out slightly
Or if that's why some plants will make a bud that like you're talking boom boom boom all over
They get those like nugs that are separated. They get lit light in there you build up
Tricones you build up oil you build up cannabinoids you're building up flavonoids
All that stuff from light exposure. So you take that haze and breathe it across
You get a lot of I mean how many?
Lines can we attribute to breeding through haze?
Right that plant. There's some special shit in that line
And like it just needs to be crossed into more stuff to find even more special
Cultivars and varietals and genotypes man instead of just hunting for phenotypes that don't homorphodite we need to start hunting for
terpene profiles and flavonoids and
Start breeding for what the plant actually produces. We want to be able to uh
Fiber and all that shit like we can grow bamboo all damn day or some hemp before we want right but
With the type one cannabis, we we're after specific things. We want terpenes and we want cannabinoids, right?
We're not trying to build fiber
We're not trying to just make the prettiest bud
We got to start remember that we need to grow and breed for efficiency of the plant from what we're after
and not uh, like I don't mean to dis instagram or nothing, but like
My reason I say that is when you post a post on there
you only got a few words you can say only a few hashtags you can make and
Person that isn't experienced with that line just takes that little spot
They want and then they're passing that bullshit to everybody and now that becomes the new fact, right?
That's how we got the cow mag
right
Everybody saw cow mag in the forums back in the day and they're passing it to their friend because that's got to be the miracle
care for everything
Because it fixed my bullshit, right?
Not knowing that when you're growing in soil if you start dumping magnesium on there, which is already in the soil
You're going to start having issues with other parts of the plant your phosphorus and potassium are going to start fucking up
We're going to have issues, right? So
What you used to know doesn't hold here. So canon for this movie isn't canon for this movie, right?
It's all different
That's where experience comes in. That's why I like listening to everybody on this show. Everybody is in a different environment
They've got different lighting schedule. They got a different crew running the shit. They've done it for a different amount of time
This specific way so I can use their information and their successes and failures to help me
understand what
A specific cultivar is going to do or a specific growing technique might bring to my situation compared to the way i'm already doing it
Right if i'm failing at my system if i'm over watering it the way i'm fucking doing it
Maybe I need to look at wade layton's been setting up the horizon systems and learn how to build a soil structure
Instead of trying to build buds and shit, right?
Try to become a farmer try to become someone that understands soil and environmental cues instead of just someone that understands that
I want to get high all the time because once you understand how to build soil you can grow anything you want in that damn soil
Period it's going to be easy and it gets easier the more you understand the soil
Gotta learn bro, you know gotta be open to it. You gotta steal, you know, jeff lawton man the old uh,
australian permaculture freaking wizard
Someone was talking about him like two hours ago
Oh right on. Yeah, he's badass. He always he says he says we all say things
We want to take back, you know what I mean?
So, I mean that being said like you gotta take
You gotta take a little bit from everybody you can hear and learn as much as you can and craft that back fucking recipe
that works for you, you know, it always be open to new information and new techniques new things because
fucking sometimes
The best dude in the world says something dumb and sometimes fucking the dumb guy says something smart
You know what? I mean?
So you gotta take you gotta be able to fucking steal the good from the from the good and separate the bad, you know, so
Always learning man love plants bro was so with the uh, the horizontal soil
System, I want to bring someone on who has a counter
Argument to that concept
As a a fair and balanced, uh as fox news likes to say
Some like I want to have stuff where like
You know, we set that up at tom's place and I want to grow stuff out there but
like at a scale where you can be like
Either this works or it doesn't or it's better or worse
um
than like
Other systems or other whatever it is to do it better or worse
To do that you're gonna have to try to remove the farmer from the equation as much as possible
because
the farmer is where
It's where all the issues come from
he's gonna want to water too much one day or he's not gonna water that day like
to really do it side by side that way you gotta
You got to set it up so that the farmer's only writing down some shit and he's not influencing the girl. There's no way
It's not it's not a fucking baking recipe
You know what? I mean? Everybody wants to take shit and like make it a fucking perfect baking recipe
You know what? I mean? There's like there's rules that need to be followed and there are fucking guidelines, but like it's like, you know
There's so many different cooks in the case it's cooking
Putting this and that like you can you can tell anybody your recipe and it's not gonna fucking not everybody can make a fucking pizza
You know what? I mean?
It's like a forest, right? There's forests all over the world that have they're on different elevations. They have different humidity levels
There's different nutrition levels in the soil, but there's still
There's forests
everywhere that are thriving right and we they start to become regional to the type of plant that grows there based on the
the actual
Rises fear and then basically what's been introduced there like redwood forest
Nothing's taking over the redwood forest anytime soon except for man, right? You're not going to introduce a plant there
that's going to kill them giant beasts, but
Then that happens in a lot of places where you got ancient forest though. They become regional to that area
So if you took a redwood put it somewhere else where there's a forest where it cannot thrive
You're going to say that the redwoods an inferior plant that you know
So you have to understand that that's where experience comes you got to understand which can make it in a certain area
So if you take some plants put it in your buddy's backyard and he's in a elevation
That's completely different from another guy
Even if they're in the same county you're going to get complete different growths out of that plant
And different phenotypal expressions from the exact same cutting off the same damn arm every time
It's hard to equate. So the you're going to have to line up
the um
the type of uh elevation
You need to have humidity levels being tracked
So you can like if one place is completely dried during the growing season and another guy's had a humidity level
That keeps the vapor pressure deficit higher. He's going to have a higher quality herb. That's just what's going to happen
Right, or maybe some guy starts to add different everywhere, you know water is different everywhere by a lot, you know
if you're starting I guess you can start from neutral with the energy, but still I mean it's like
It's those little things those little things like you can't even quantify it and fucking
You know make it make it what it is
That's why the grow off competition is so cool because they give everybody the same clone
And all these people grow it however the fuck they want to grow it with whatever the fuck they want to grow it
And there's not one that's exactly the same. They're all completely different and that's yeah, they'll come out different
It's the farmer the farmer's the variable, you know what I mean?
So I like hearing arguments and I like hearing other people's perspectives and shit, you know, but it's hard, you know
I mean
you know
It's uh, there's some fundamental things. So i'm interested to hear what he's got to say and
I don't know. Oh, it's awesome to hear it
It's just hard like someone's gonna read it
and think that that's the hard line and you could have just moved that grow over to the next house in the same neighborhood with
a different grower and
Maybe got a different result
that's where the like you say the grow off comes in to where when you put it into a dozen growers hands
and find out that like they all are different, but
You know a majority of them made this plant come out as top grade herb
You know, you've got a cultivar that can produce top grade herb
But if they all end up bringing back a bunch of fucking bammer ass weed
What are you breeding that line continued for you? It's time to throw that one out or maybe just like
you know, it's a free cut to whoever wants it if they want it or
Find out why it's specialty for some maybe it maybe it produces
Uh plants that finish in 41 days or something and you can use it to breed into some line for something
Maybe I don't know but like if it's total whack ass shit
Why why use it and if you can get the experience from multiple people
That's the best like multiple growers put it in and to experience growers better than yourself
Not just some like anybody like if you can put it into people that are producing top grade herb
So that they can tell you your weeds whack if it really is that's what you need to know
Like that's that's what's great shit. Like that's why I took my space seeds to the emerald cup
I wanted the people at the emerald cup to smoke it that were
You know that were around real fucking herb. That was good to smoking
Not just people that were getting some shit at a fucking uh a dispensary all the time or you know
Someone that's still smoking fucking pressed brick weed because in my town, there's people still smoking brick weed, man
I don't know where they're getting it, but they still smoking it, right?
They're out there paying fucking twenty dollars an ounce for fucking her
They probably still got it around from fucking 1999. You know, I guess i'm saying i haven't seen it in forever, man
Like I you know, it's funny and i'm around some penny pinchers man, and I don't you know
I don't see I haven't seen in a long time. So
I thought mexico or friggin canada or wherever that was, you know
Mexico for us for the most part. I thought they got their shit in order because I haven't seen brick weed forever
You know, so that's funny. You say but crazy shit. Nice
Spent so much time fucking cleaning the shit on fucking
Vhs fucking tape tape fucking case
Why am I totally spacing on the dude, uh who won the grow off socal was it it was stuckey's right
It was stuckey. Yeah, stuckey. Yeah, stuckey stuckey got the first in both. Yeah
First in potency first in fucking terpenes, man. The only person that's sweet
Stuffy, bro
Now i'm looking for his instagram
But I gotta end up there with man. I got I got terpene awards. I got third and terpenes and
I was you know
shit or something in potency, so
you know, but I I had I had my disaster that was it was the more famous story about the
The the water and drying and curing in a hotel room in between things and in my truck and crazy shit
I still fucking pulled fucking heavy turps, man. The thing it fucking tested great
um, so I was pretty stoked, you know, we did well for all the adversity, you know that I think but
at that point
This is actually this blows my mind he has uh
A
Hold on
Did cali produce hydro yeah for years they produced hydro out here in cali
There you go. Yeah
Three time first place grow off three posts
70 followers
And and his main thing is making like
edibles
Yeah, but not just edibles like super can't like the candiest of candy edibles
I used to specialize in edibles
I used that my first company was edibles man that my 215 farms. The main thing I did was edibles
I made so many different edibles. It was crazy. I won the cannabis cup here locally for it
That's bitching dude like those people that live and die by edibles they like love them they yeah, I just fuck I can't eat the fucking shit
Give me some more. Yeah, I can't eat me. They fuck me up, man. I'm good. You know, I'd rather do that. Yeah
It was
When I had legs they used to turn them off like I didn't have a man I could not fuck with edibles
For real, I called it baby legs and shit
I used to fucking end up sitting on the ground just with my legs fucking wobbling around like wishing I could get the fuck out
I was like too high dude. I don't like this
Like my brain wasn't high but my body didn't want to fuck around. Yeah, i've been there man
Oh description, there's a reason to put a script
I'm just reading. Sorry reading comments. All good. Carlos was asking about uh, putting prescription or descriptions on packs of seeds
Yeah, i'll try to do as much as I can on my my my seed to try to give some sorts of descriptions
But it's hard to put all it duke diamond does really good because he gives you a big-ass card
And shit with his he used to give you this big-ass card to like write all this shit out
I was like, yeah, that's the shit. You know, that's cool. That's really neat
But yeah, I like having shit on there. Most people don't put shit on there
That's okay. You know, you got to do the research to make you want to learn get into the fucking books to learn something kids
Yeah, I guess
you know
Well, I feel like it's on the pack but it's not it's also like on the product detail page
so like if someone's like what what was
What was it? Like what was the flowering time like?
Yeah, sometimes how to care for it on their packs. It's about within the pack too, you know, it's like
I want to go more to that like, you know your style with the biodegradable stuff or more paper or stuff
It's just less
Less flashy and really just try to make the pack fucking
Be the fucking pack dude. I don't need all the fucking boxes and
Flash and shit like i'm I don't wear fucking shiny shoes
My hands are dirty and I I want fucking dead gas shit
To me give it to me straight doctor just like the goddamn rsl. You know what I mean?
Yeah
Yeah, I made my packs like that because i'm thinking like if i'm gonna
Be organic. Why not try to make my seed pack that way and then
I was gonna try to make it where my seed pack was actually, uh impregnated with wild, uh
flowers and shit, but
Yeah, like it it cost so much that like I would have had to raise the price of the pack so much
It was I was like I can't do that, but they they do make paper that comes impregnated with with seeds and shit
So it could actually be part of your cover crop. You could probably do that
You know, we could probably do that with just fucking putting like a thing
fucking
Like some sort of like just paper tape or something just take some fucking basil seeds and some paper tape
You know some doctor breathable tape or something some sort of paper or something and just fucking stick it to a fucking
You know stick it to a piece of cardboard or a thin piece of something and and call like I wonder if that shit would work
the first place I seen it was
It was a cd from ziggy marley
I got a cd from ziggy marley and inside it came with uh
Flower seeds that were attached to a card that had artwork on it and I was like, oh shit, man
I could be putting my seeds directly on the card
Right and all that has to be is perforated so you can break the seeds you want off because it came with a seed coating
That helped a germination of seeds. So it came with a little bit of sugar
And I believe it has a powdered hormone on it
Um, man, they were fucking cool. I looked up the company and it just cost you that much
Yeah, my when my when one of my dogs died over years back. They sent me a card and the card was uh,
Pressed wildflower fucking seed. Yeah, like just plant this card, you know in honor of the dog, you know, whatever which is cool
You know, you didn't have to do anything. You just fucking put the card
Down in the water
That's pretty cool, you know
Maybe cover it up a little bit. That's cool shit, and that would be cool to incorporate that stuff
And I and I never understood why everybody wanted
a package that was like the package either gets thrown away or forgotten about like it's
Really is what abouts in the seed the package is just a vessel to get it to you
like I unless
Yeah, I want to put more stuff in that little package because I feel like when you put more shit in there
I want to put more different types of seeds, but
They I used to put my soil recipe in there
I'd make a card that had my soil recipe so they could uh, you know, if someone didn't know how to build soil
Then you just fucking whip it out
Yeah, I had a card. I don't have none here
But I used to put my dda soil mix on there and it went out with all the packs and shit
I did that for a while
I almost was gonna make that into a sticker so
Is it on a piece of paper the size of like a fortune cookie fortune like a little tiny rolled up piece of paper
It's the same. It's a credit. It was the size of a business card
Okay, the whole the business card had the whole recipe on the back. Yeah
So you could read it and it was just it fit right inside the same pack that are there right now
And then I used to print them up on recycled paper
So again
You could just take that paper and throw it in your recycle bin or you can throw it in the compost pile or your worm bin
Or you could literally just tear it up in pieces and throw it into the mycelial layer and use it as a top dress
It's just a form of carbon. It's papers, but you can use it as if it's a brown
Input in your compost pile, right? It's not going to have the highest the mpk levels, but it's it's brown
It's carbon and that's what we're trying to make with compost
Throw it in there let the worms break it down
And the next thing you know, it's gone and all you have left is the seeds and that's all we're really after is the seeds
Anyway, you're totally pure pack man. That's in my compost pile right now, man
Yeah, man, and yours came with the uh, the hemp straw in there. That's where I got it
His come with the hemp straw and then inside there's a paper straw that also made in the united states
So the whole package comes from somewhere in the united states from the hemp that makes the straw to the paper
That's processed in michigan and made, you know, it's made michigan and sold out
So i'm supporting people all around the u.s. I threw the paper you got the paper
Yeah
The straw is made out of hemp corn and wheat. Yeah, that's cool, man. So
Yeah, that's more biodegradable than the paper. How do you seal it? How do you seal that straw?
Burn it. You gotta melt it. You gotta fold it. Uh, what do you do?
Uh, just a heat sealer this name heat sealer they're using for the mylar bag
Yeah, it's sealed three and a half dialed it up to three and a half and that seals them up like that
So
it works killer, you know, the only thing I can't do and when I send them to peter is because
He puts them in a specific pack and then takes them to the mail and the mailman will send them to that fucking sorting
Machine and sometimes they get crushed
yeah, so I put them in the uh, the um,
Centrifuge tubes for when they go to seed bank, so, uh, they don't get risk of being crushed
So yeah, it helps save everybody time and money. I gotta use something man, so they don't get crushed, you know
Yeah, but for me, I just wrap them up an extra paper. Yeah, exactly
All good
all right, well i'm
Five hours and 10 minutes into this conversation
I was just gonna say it's gotta be late right now. We got it's it's two in the a.m
Yeah, so why don't we call it at that?
Let everyone go to I can't imagine I feel like only people in hawaii or well actually in australia, I guess
It's not like I mean if you're in new england and you're awake watching this it's
It's you're either just getting up or you haven't gotten to bed yet and it's
So, all right, well what's today tuesday
It is now
Yeah. All right. Well, I appreciate it and for anyone who still remembers what happened earlier tonight
There was a whole clubhouse conversation
Uh, that was like three to five hours ago
And uh anyway
If you've been with us since five hours ago, I i'm very impressed
And tyler we're we're gonna fix your audio chad westport is gonna insert himself into the audio
Hook me up. I don't know the glitching. I'm not are you on an iphone or android?
Uh iphone, yeah
And are you wearing a bluetooth headset or something like earbuds?
No, are they clacking or something?
Yeah, your your mic is
I don't know clickety clacking away
Yeah, I don't know i'll have to check that out we'll figure that out though, yeah, well we'll get chad westport
It doesn't usually happen our audio tech
So, but yeah on the job
I lost my camera. Who knows it's a ghost in the machine. We'll fix it. Oh, yeah
What was the solution to?
Like the five minutes when your video went black
I had to like
Go out of my my home screen and then open up the internet window
And then close the internet window and then reopen up you guys and then I was back
I was like I had to do something else on my phone. I don't know why that made a difference
Because I thought you're gonna be like I had to hit the like start video button
Yeah, no, I tried all the videos the sprocket. I tried hitting changing the cameras
I changed I man you would have been proud of me dude for you know, how how like, you know inefficient I am
But you would have been proud of me. I went through all these settings like a champ dude
I was like i've been working i'm impressed that you remember the sprocket
Yeah, I got what when it when in doubt tap the sprocket
So it didn't help me tonight though. So we're all good
All right. Well, good night gentlemen
Good night, brother. Yeah, and actually magma I think is one of those people who it's like
Well, I know I guess it's like mid morning
But uh time for them over there. Yeah in europe
Yeah, but on the east coast it's like
It's like being out at a club all night
Doing coke
And being like the sun's coming up
Smoking on a weed
drunk coke
Oh, yeah, all right
All right. Good night y'all
See ya
Thank you everyone
