Or I'll be lurking.
But, uh...
All right, says we're live.
Welcome everyone.
We're here to learn a lot today from Dr. Mark Scal...
How do you say your name?
I say Scaldone.
How do you say it?
Well, in Italian, it's Sheldone.
But in American, the E, like Capone and Stallone is silent.
So we just say Sheldone.
Sheldone.
Okay, we're here with Dr. Sheldone today.
And he's gonna teach us about minor cannabinoids
or whatever you'd like to call them.
Let's get into it.
Yeah, so what do I do to get this?
Oh, sorry.
So that's us.
There we go, okay.
And actually, before you start,
just so everyone watching,
we have two breeders who are jumping on as well.
But it's gonna start with Mark's presentation.
Dan Van from MedGrow Farms
and Floyd from Hoku Seed Co.
Dan is on, but I'm working on troubleshooting his...
I'll be in the background
trying to troubleshoot his connection.
So take it away, Mark.
All right, awesome.
Thank you, Peter.
And thank you, Alka, for the invitation to present today.
So yeah, often called minor cannabinoids.
I like the word other cannabinoids
because minor implies that they're of lesser importance
or maybe a younger stage of development,
like under 18 minors.
So I don't like to use the word minor cannabinoids.
They are minor components.
Some of them are anyway,
or some of them are claimed to be minor components
of the plant.
But we're gonna talk today a little bit
about the chemistry that's going on
that traverses the hemp and cannabis space,
which has to deal with the synthetic conversion of CBD
to other cannabinoids.
So in this chart right here,
I depict CBD undergoing a variety
of chemical transformations.
So these aren't happening in the plant.
This is not how this chemistry occurs.
This occurs in a reaction vessel,
hopefully by a well-trained chemist
in a safe laboratory environment,
because you're no longer doing biology.
You're actually doing chemistry
and you're handling solvents that are flammable.
You're using reagents that could be harmful and hazardous.
And so these compounds that I depict here
in fact, Delta-9-THC is made in the plant,
but as we define industrial hemp,
industrial hemp is usually typically enriched with CBD.
And so when the Farm Bill was passed in 2018
that enabled the production of industrial hemp
that has less than 0.3% THC,
there began to be a lot of CBD being produced
from extraction and refinement of hemp extracts
to make CBD, not full spectrum, but CBD isolate.
So it's the purified molecule.
It's a white crystalline material.
I'm always remarked how amazing it is
that from this very dark looking crude extract,
sometimes as black as asphalt,
you can get this wonderfully pure white substance.
So this white substance is this material called cannabidiol
in and of itself has its own area of biological activity.
But as we've seen over a millennia,
humans like THC and they like the psychoactive effects
of cannabis, which the principal component is a Delta-9-THC.
Delta-9-THC, as well as Delta-8-THC
are listed in the Controlled Dangerous Substance Act,
your code 7370 for tetrahydrocannabinol.
So the federal government calls these compounds
federally illegal, and you need basically
a state issued license to be able to produce
and manufacture and sell THC containing products.
Even though they're federally illegal,
they can basically be a licensed legal operation
within a state if the state grants a production,
cultivation and production license.
So in those cases,
those businesses are licensed to produce THC
and licensed to produce a psychoactive compound.
In the case of hemp extraction,
the legalization of hemp was predicated
on not making psychoactive substances from industrial hemp.
So it's my unlegal opinion that any THC
that's made from CBD falls under the purview
of the Controlled Dangerous Substance Act
and are federally illegal.
And in a state that allows THC,
you need a THC license to be able to manufacture
those products without incurring a whole lot of risk.
Well, it seems as though hemp processors
are more interested in taking a risk
and converting CBD over into,
in this case, this first reaction I'm showing
is the isomerization of CBD to Delta-8-THC.
Delta-8-THC is not a naturally occurring form.
This does not occur naturally in the plant.
You hear a lot of rumblings about trace amounts
or minuscule amounts of Delta-8-THC.
The only way Delta-8-THC comes from a plant extract
is through adventitious decarboxylation of THCA
and then isomerization of the Delta-9 configured material
over to Delta-8.
So Delta-8, there is no plant biochemical synthetic pathway
to make Delta-8 configured cannabinoids.
Delta-8 is basically a degradation product
of the naturally occurring Delta-9-THCA
after again, decarboxylation and isomerization.
The people who make Delta-8 need this to be true,
need to be on the side of,
well, Delta-8 is naturally occurring.
And that way, what we're doing in our hemp
is we're just basically shuffling the deck chairs around
and moving one cannabinoid to another.
In this case, you're moving it to a cannabinoid
that is listed in the Controlled Dangerous Substance Act.
But this conversion here is an isomerization
of CBD over to Delta-8.
And Delta-8 versus Delta-9,
you can see the difference is a very subtle difference
in where this carbon-carbon double bond is.
So if the carbon-carbon double bond is in this position,
it's Delta-9.
If it's in this position, it's Delta-8.
And it turns out that Delta-8
is more thermodynamically stable than Delta-9.
So Delta-9 is what a chemist would call
a metastable product.
Because if given the opportunity,
Delta-9 will isomerize over to Delta-8
because it's going downhill thermodynamically,
and that's what nature likes to do.
The thing that is coming out now though
is that people are basically using thermodynamic conditions
to generate Delta-8 THC in a mixture of other products.
Delta-9 is what we would consider the kinetic product
and Delta-8 is the thermodynamic product.
The thing is, is when you convert CBD
in a thermodynamic process,
you not only make Delta-8 THC,
but you make a plethora of other THC isomers.
And I'll go into that in a slide or two here.
So more recently, Delta-8 has been the starting material
for a compound called HHC or hexahydrocannabinol.
And so what they're doing is they're taking
these Delta-8 mixtures that are enriched with Delta-8,
but certainly have a variety of other THC isomers present.
And they hydrogenate that Delta-8 to make HHC,
but recognize that all the other products
that are in there, the other THC isomers
that have double bonds will also be hydrogenated as well.
The other thing that people are doing,
and again, when I say people,
these are mostly hemp processors
who could have a state issued license,
but certainly do not have a license by that state
to generate THC derivatives
or psychoactive derivatives in general.
And so another derivatization that's happening now
is they're taking that Delta-8 THC mixture
that they get from converting CBD
and they're acetylating that with acetic anhydride
to make THC acetate.
Again, I depict Delta-8 acetate.
Delta-9 acetate has been known for quite some time.
And it's fictitious or it's known in the literature
that the acetate is basically just a pro drug
that gets hydrolyzed in the body
to release the phenolic compound.
There is a misconception out there
that somehow the acetate is three times more potent,
but that's not what the scientific literature shows.
The scientific literature shows
that the acetate is less potent.
But when this hydrolysis of the acetate happens in the body,
it releases THC in a sustained released fashion.
So you could think of the acetate
as nothing more than the pro drug.
Another thing that's going on
is people are making now CBN isolate
from those THC mixtures.
This is a dehydrogenation reaction.
So you're losing hydrogen and going from here to here.
It's no longer just an isomerization.
And it seems as though people have figured out
how to do this and do it cleanly
because there's now large amounts at production scale
of white crystalline CBN isolate,
not dark oils like they were previously.
It's white crystalline CBN isolate.
More recently, you see some of these hemp processors
claiming that they could make Delta 9 THC
from an isomerization of CBD.
I think this was really pushing the envelope
because now they're taking something that has no THC
and basically quantitatively converting it
into the big bad molecule we know as THC Delta 9.
So I referenced earlier the thermodynamic conditions
that this cyclization from the conversion of CBD
over to Delta 8 THC occurs.
In a recent paper that looked at a bunch
of Delta 8 products that are out there on the market,
what they found was pretty alarming to me,
mostly the fact that they find olivetol in these samples.
And if you're starting with hemp
and you're isolating CBD isolate from hemp,
and there's a livetol in the mixture,
that implies a particular set of chemistry
that's been known for about 40 years.
And so I referenced the work of Raj Razdan
published in 1974, which showed that CBD
under thermodynamic conditions undergoes
what's called a retro-Friedel-Crafts reaction
where the terpene portion of the molecule
becomes disassociated from the olivetol portion
of the molecule.
And you see here, they draw it as an ion pair.
So in this case, they're treating with boron trifluoride,
which is a reagent that's commonly used to isomerize CBD.
And what you can see here is that they're making
a tetrafluoroborate, or I'm sorry,
trifluoroborate anion and a limonene cation
in this reaction going forward here.
And you can see that this is again
under equilibrium conditions,
this is gonna be coming apart and going back together,
coming apart, going back together.
And so what this would implicate is that
when it comes apart, it can recombine in a natural way.
And when it recombines, there's a stereochemical center here
that has to be trans.
You'll know that THC is formed in the trans configuration.
But when this recombines,
it's not a stereoselective reaction.
So you get a little bit of cis as well as the trans.
Trans is thermodynamically favored,
but because you can populate both cis and trans,
you do end up making a little bit of cis cannabinoids.
So each one of these four products here
are made both in cis and trans forms.
So that's four products times to eight possible isomers
that could form.
Another thing that happens is that when this recombines,
rather than recombining at the carbon
in between the two hydroxyl groups,
there's two unsubstituted carbons
that are on the other side of the phenol groups.
And when they combine with the limonene cation,
they combine to make a non-natural ortho substituted isomer.
Recognize that these are para substituted,
the pentyl chain here and the terpeneal portion
are para disposed.
When they recombine here, now they're ortho disposed.
So you've made basically a abnormal set of THC isomers
that again, you can make all four of these compounds
in both cis and trans fashion.
So the bottom line is that there's 16 possible isomers
that could be made in this reaction,
not just Delta eight, which is this compound right here.
You can make the Delta eight ortho isomer.
You could make these abnormal looking isomers,
which are called iso-THC.
This is called iso eight and this is called iso four eight.
And these would be the abnormal analogs for those.
So basically 16 possible isomers.
Well, recall that in the previous paper,
they found a livitol.
And if you're finding a livitol in a reaction
that you're starting with CBD in,
what that means is that the limonene cation here
is not stoichiometrically recombining
with this portion of the molecule to make a CBD.
And the limonene portion in this case
is gonna lose a proton molecule
and then undergo an aromatization reaction
to make something called P-cymene.
P-cymene is a naturally occurring terpene
that's in rosemary and other things.
But that P-cymene basically is the reason why
there's excess a livitol in some of these Delta eight
products.
A livitol is not an ambiguous molecule.
A livitol is something that, yeah,
you need to pay attention to
because it's a respiratory hazard.
So here are some of the THC isomers
that have been observed by Meehan and others
who have basically done evaluation
of some of the Delta eight products.
So again, this is the Delta iso, I'm sorry,
this is iso-THC.
This would be iso-8.
This is the iso-4-8.
Here are the two abnormal isomers.
So these are the ortho substituted isomers.
I've drawn them in the trans configuration,
but realize there's also a little bit of cis
in there too as well.
So you have a mixture of both cis and trans.
And then you could also get the abnormally substituted
iso products as well.
I also depict the other ring isomers of THC.
So in this case, this is Delta seven.
Here's Delta 10, a minor cannabinoid
that you've been hearing a little bit about.
This one's called Delta 11 or exo-THC.
And this is a Delta four.
This is Delta 10A, 6A.
I'm sorry, this is Delta six.
I think I got my numbering right.
And actually, Meehan identified a new compound
for the first time through a one, two hydride shift
rather than closing to give the benzo-pyran ring system,
it closed to give a benzo-furan.
In this case, this is called Delta nine iso-THC BF.
F stands for furan.
And this is what's the five-membered ring here
is basically a furan ring.
So here's some of the oxygenated products.
So these previous ones are all just THC isomers, right?
So these all have the same molecular weight as THC, right?
They all have the same molecular formulas THC.
So if you were doing an analysis
and you were using a mass spectrometer as your detector,
all these peaks are gonna show up at 314.
If it's M plus one, it would be 315.
In the case where you do the reaction
in a hydroxylic solvent or in a wet solvent,
the alcohol in this case, ethanol or methanol,
or in this case, water can basically also add
to the carbonium ion intermediates
that's formed in the cyclization.
And so these are a variety of different
oxygenated derivatives that have been found
in Delta eight products.
All right, let me just transition here away from Delta eight
and synthetic stuff to CBG.
And I'm almost done here, guys.
So I wanted to just point this out
because I saw that there were some other breeders
that were gonna participate in today's discussion.
And my gosh, so CBGA, what can we say about CBGA?
So CBGA is the precursor cannabinoid to THCA,
CBDA and CBCA in the plant.
There are synthase enzymes that take CBGA
onto the final cannabinoid products
that are found in the plant.
And breeders have been so good to basically find varieties
where these synthases are either under expressed
or they've been knocked out altogether
because now the genetics are out there
to basically create high CBG varieties.
In this case, this is a CBG variety.
I wanna say that this is the white.
I kind of cut off the name of the top of the variety,
but I think this is from Oregon seeds.
This is their white.
And what you can see here is it's got 17.65% CBGA.
What's great here is that there's no THC
or very, very little.
Oh, okay, no, there is none.
Yeah, LOQ is a limit of quantitation.
So this is below the limit of quantitation.
So when you look at a hemp variety like this,
this is pretty cool
because I can process this
and not have to worry about residual THC.
And in fact, when I took this material into the lab
and did just a quick cryogenic extraction with ethanol,
I wrote a VAPDAB the ethanol,
and this is the material I got.
I put it under high vacuum,
make sure all the ethanol was gone.
And so I get this, the yellow powder here,
which analyzes for 99.8% pure CBGA
with the only other 2%, 0.2%, I'm sorry, being THCA.
So what we didn't see in the biomass,
we're able to actually see in the isolate itself.
But this is truly remarkable.
First of all, we're making an isolate
without having to decarboxylate it
and basically go through a purified distillate.
So just basically stripping down
a cold ethanol extract of this material
basically provides this other cannabinoid
in high yield and in high purity.
So I hope what I was able to just touch on
was that there's a lot of chemistry going on out there
to convert CBD that's been made available
through the legalization of industrial hemp
into psychoactive compounds like Delta 9
and Delta 8 THC.
But this conversion over to Delta 8
is not a clean conversion.
And you really need to know also that these THC isomers
that are formed in this reaction
is basically it's the same formula.
It's the same number of carbons and hydrogens.
It's just slightly rearranged in a different way.
We don't know if those rearranged compounds
have any impact on human safety.
We don't know if they're CB1 agonists
like the THC molecules.
And more problematic is that they co-elute by HPLC.
So when you look at a COA for a Delta 8 product
and it describes a certain amount of Delta 8
that's in there,
remember that underneath that peak,
there could be Delta 8
or there could be any number of these 16 potential
THC isomers that co-elute with the Delta 8.
And so what you might think is a 200 milligram
or 100 milligram product
might only be like a 30 or 20 milligram product
because it's diluted by all the other components
that are in there.
So thank you, Peter and guys for the invitation here.
I really enjoyed giving this talk today.
So thanks.
Oh, Elka, I think your mic is muted.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
I hit it, but it didn't happen.
Okay, I'll start that over again.
Thank you, thank you.
What you were saying really clarified a few things for me
and raised a few questions of some things
that you didn't cover in your talk
that maybe you could demystify here.
First of all, I'd like to get your thoughts on THCV.
You didn't really talk about THCV much.
That's kind of a, on HashChurch,
I heard Sam and I think RCC talking about
the pure version of that was basically a no-hi
is what they were describing.
And I was wondering if you could like kind of expound
on that a little bit and tell people about THCV.
Yeah, sure.
So there is high varieties now of THCV
beyond Duxvarin and some of the work
that Mark Lewis and other people,
the NAPRO group have shown.
What we see in the marketplace primarily is THCV
that's been made from CBDV in similar conversion reactions.
So there are high CBDV varieties.
Those CBDV varieties, again, are enabled to be processed
similar to high CBD varieties
and that you can make a CBDV isolate
that then can undergo this conversion reaction
over to most of the product that's out there today
that I've seen.
I know OpenBook Extracts and a few other folks
are now supplying THCV isolate.
Most of what I've seen is all Delta-8 configured
for the same reason that we're talking about
with CBD.
We did see one person with a COA
that claimed that they had a Delta-9 THCV isolate.
That seems to be, again, something that's very fleeting
and I don't think there's a whole lot of it out there.
And I know that they're trying to get top dollar
for a small amount of material.
I think you're gonna see more THCV Delta-8
and Delta-9 in the market,
but I think most of that's gonna be converted from CBDV
because I think the thing that is problematic
with THCV varieties is they often accompany
a lot of THC in those.
So like Duxvarien, I think,
is like a three to five THCV to THC in the distillate.
I don't know that I've seen anything higher
than say 60% relative of THCV versus the other cannabinoids,
but therein lies a great opportunity for breeding, right?
Indeed, indeed.
I think that's something that Hoko
is gonna wanna talk to you about later too.
So let me get out of the way here
so he can pick your brain a little bit.
You mentioned basically demystifying Delta-8 a little bit
and how they claim that it's naturally occurring.
I bet you being out there saying things like that
makes you don't have a lot of friends in the Midwest.
I would say.
Yeah, I got a lot of people in Texas
that wanna clean my clock, right?
So like on LinkedIn, people will make claims on LinkedIn
about HHC being naturally occurring, that's another one,
Delta-8 being naturally occurring.
And I'm a PhD chemist who knows the cannabinoid literature
just about as good as anybody else on the planet today.
And so if it is naturally occurring,
I need to know that, right?
I need to know all of these things.
When Michulam and when, well, even before Michulam,
when Adams and other people isolated these things,
it was undergoing isomerization
before they were actually able to characterize it.
So part of it, Elke, is really understanding
what the plant makes and what the impact
of the isolation of those extracts make.
The first time D8 reared its head
in recreational cannabis circles
had nothing to do with the Farm Bill and CBD.
It's when the folks out in California were using clays
that were acidic enough to basically convert
Delta-9 enriched distillate over to Delta-8.
And so Brad and those other guys at the Guild
and a variety of different processors out in Cali
found that basically you can use bleaching clays.
The funny thing is this whole notion of bleaching clay,
oh my gosh, I got bleach in my distillate.
Whoa.
So bleaching clays have nothing to do with Clorox bleach,
dilute sodium hypochlorite.
No, bleaching clay is, they call it a bleaching clay
because they're used in seed oil processing,
like soybean oils and other vegetable oils like that
to remove color.
And because it removes color, it's a bleaching clay, right?
It has nothing to do with hypochlorite
because everyone was like, oh my gosh,
there's bleach in the distillate.
Oh, what are we gonna do?
No, there's no bleach in the distillate.
They just use these clays.
But I think at the time, all they knew is that
in that remediation process, they were getting rid of color
and any pesticide contamination.
And what they were distilling over was water white,
water white, beautiful looking distillate
from this really dark looking stuff.
So yeah, the clay did its job.
It basically absorbed the color,
but it also did this transformation
of naturally occurring Delta-9 over to Delta-8
because it pushed it off the Delta-8 clip.
In that case, you're not seeing
all those unwanted THC isomers, right?
Because you're not starting with CBD.
It's only when you start with CBD,
do you get that plethora of thermodynamic products.
So when those guys were first using clays
to basically remediate distillate,
they were converting it over to Delta-8, not realizing it.
And when they first started testing it,
it was kind of in the infancy of cannabis testing labs.
And they're like, well, wait a second,
that's not where Delta-9 is supposed to be.
It's well, it's kind of Delta-9.
So for a while, they thought it was just Delta-9
and that they were seeing a drift
in the retention time on the HPLC.
But when labs got sophisticated enough
and when the analytical standards were available,
they found that that was indeed Delta-8.
And so, yeah, so that's the first part,
first time Delta-8 became sort of apparent
on the recreational market.
Okay, that's fascinating.
I'd like for you to clarify an argument for me now.
You keep talking about going from CBD to THC.
A CBD is basically you can go
just about anywhere from there,
is what you were explaining earlier in your slides.
Okay, something that is argued about a lot in our community
is can you go the reverse?
Like say you have some degraded bud that's full of CBN,
can you go into the reversed and like save it
and turn it back into Delta-9?
You're not going, you're going contra thermodynamics.
So in order, so the answer to that question technically
is yes, but can you do it economically
in a way that makes a clean product?
Probably not.
You're gonna need catalysis to do that
because in order to go back up the thermodynamic hill,
you gotta change the energy in the reaction.
And the way you do that is you add catalyst to do that.
So can you dehydrogenate or I'm sorry,
hydrogenate CBN to bring it back to THC?
Wow, it's interesting because the reason why
that's a really interesting point,
Alka, that you bring up is that you,
so with HHC, hexahydrocannabinol,
supposedly there's one report
where they found it in seed pollen, right?
But if you look at that report,
the authors don't have any experimental data in there
to say that HHC is present.
And believe me, I've looked with a magnifying glass,
and it's not published in a really reputable journal.
It's done by a bunch of folks over in India
and it's published in some Eurasian journal
that doesn't have the level of scientific competence
at the editorial level to kind of,
hey, you're saying that that's there,
where's the experimental data?
If they tried to publish that
in an American Chemical Society journal
or a more reputable journal,
the reviewers would have caught that.
And so the reason why they have to have that
be naturally occurring is so then they could say,
okay, in our process, we're just enriching this
by basically making it, taking this
and kind of moving the deck chairs around, right?
But in essence, can HHC be naturally occurring?
So the question you brought up was,
with cannabinol and going back to THC,
well, if anything, THC kind of goes to cannabinol.
And when it goes to cannabinol,
it loses two molecules of hydrogen when it does that.
Hydrogen is H2, so it loses four hydrogen atoms
or two molecules of hydrogen.
Well, can those molecules be,
those hydrogen molecules be transferred to a THC molecule
and reduce it and make HHC?
In my estimation, that's a very unlikely process
to happen because there's so many other hydrogen acceptors
in the milieu of compounds that are found in cannabis
that it's very unlikely that THC is reduced to HHC.
And I actually, I asked Raphael Meshulam this
because I wanted to be bold,
but I wanted to make sure that Raphael agreed with me.
And he totally agreed because yeah, Mark,
it's HHC is not naturally occurring from what I know.
And I'm like, well, from what Raphael knows,
this is not naturally occurring.
So that he's the authority on cannabis chemistry.
So who's going to argue with Raphael?
Absolutely, absolutely.
It's cool that you have access to his brain like that.
That's cool.
I just sent him a LinkedIn.
He doesn't know me from a hole in the ground.
I just sent him a LinkedIn message and said,
hey, what do you think of this?
You must've asked a really good question.
Well, I was really excited when I got in my inbox,
Raphael Meshulam has messaged you.
Like, oh my God, stop.
I could go now, right?
I hear you.
Yeah.
Well, I have one more question
and I'm going to turn it over to Hoku
and the rest of the time is his.
Olivetol, you said that it's a respiratory hazard.
Can you expand on that please?
You just kind of touched on it a little bit.
Yeah, we're concerned about respiratory hazards, obviously.
Yeah, I mean, the thing with Olivetol,
so Olivetol is actually used as a building block
to make synthetic THC.
And so when dronabinol is made
in the process that they have to make it,
that's basically what they use.
They use Olivetol and they use a compound called PMD,
which is just the oxygenated form of limonene.
They react this in this reaction
and basically make THC molecule that way.
In fact, if you look up that RASDAN paper from 1974,
that's exactly the point of that paper,
which was making cannabinoids
from the condensation of Olivetol.
So Olivetol is basically a 3,5-dihydroxypentylbenzene.
And what was troubling in the Meehan study
was they found in 27 vape pens that they tested,
22 out of 27 had Olivetol in it.
And yeah, like I said,
it's a respiratory eye and skin irritant.
It's just something that is not naturally found in cannabis
and pulling it deep into your lungs
could just be problematic.
I mean, we don't know whether or not that's a problem
at the level that Olivetol is in
in some of these Delta A products,
whether it's gonna elicit some adverse reaction.
But just knowing that the pure compound
is a respiratory skin and eye irritant,
probably something that you don't want in your vape pen.
Yeah, absolutely.
I'm glad you're out there, man.
I don't care if the people in the Midwest hate you or not.
I like you.
You're out there doing good work, seems like to me.
So he's all yours now, Hoku and Dan the man,
if you can get your internet working.
All right.
Right on.
Thanks Elka.
Well, nice to meet you, Mark.
My name is Floyd.
I'm a hemp breeder out here in Washington State.
I kind of came on late for some reason.
I was, yeah, I just lost track of time this morning.
So I missed a lot of your presentation,
but I came in on the end of it.
And-
The important part, right?
The important part, right?
So yeah, I'm really familiar coming from,
most of my research has been kind of in focus
has been on the breeding of natural cannabinoids.
So we do have some CBBV, THCV, CBG rich genetics
that aren't quite stable yet,
but we're working with them.
But I am fascinated with your research
as far as like the isomers and the conversions, right?
Because like you said,
there's a lot of like Delta 9 THCV extract on the market
and they're selling it as Delta 9 THCV
when in fact it is a conversion product.
And just to tie, just to kind of like bridge my gap with you,
I've been making RSO for about 10 years,
which is an ethanol based cannabis extract,
it's kind of a full spectrum.
And like you said, over the past couple of years,
people have got into cleaning up their extracts
with clays and carbon
and all these different kinds of bleaching clays.
And just a little kind of anecdotal story
from my personal experience,
a couple of years back,
you get on the forums and you start reading,
one of the big ones for extracts is Future 4200.
I'm not sure if you're familiar with that.
We just got a lot of good information.
So yeah, I mean, I personally did a little carbon scrub
on some RSO and got the test back
and was surprised to see Delta 8.
And so that's just a little example
of like trying to clean up a little chlorophyll
and then accidentally getting a conversion
into something that you weren't really intending to do.
And then that brings to the question,
okay, well now I had a medicinal grade product.
And what in fact do I have now?
Is it just an isomer soup?
Is it something that's safe to ingest?
So that was, I don't do any of the carbon scrubs.
I prefer a kind of winterization
to take care of that product.
It's just safer, simpler,
you to kind of know what you're getting.
And so that's my little bit of experience
with alchemy, kind of turning that plant
into a usable extract.
So I stick with food grade ethanol
and I prefer natural cannabinoids.
But I know there are a lot of people out there
that get benefit from Delta 8.
And that's kind of where we're seeing that rise, right?
Is in these states that don't have a medical
or recreational program.
And so they're turning to these isomers
because they're readily available.
But we need, yeah.
It's kind of like the market is there
and these products, Delta 8,
Delta 8, I'll just go out and say this.
I've said it a hundred times before.
Delta 8 is only made possible
through the ridiculousness of prohibition itself, right?
So if Delta 9 was not prohibited.
Absolutely.
Delta 8, we would think is some strain
of the Omicron or something, right?
We wouldn't even know what Delta 8 is.
So really if cannabis was removed from the schedule,
which it needs to be,
it's basically a crime against humanity
enforced by our own government that we pay for,
that a compound that has several FDA approved drugs
based on the active ingredients,
including epidiolex and dronabinol and all these other ones,
that the plant from which it's derived
has no medical value, come on.
So the whole schedule one listing
is gonna hopefully become unraveled
because the importance of the endocannabinoid system,
which we now know underpins homeostasis
and is basically the body's own pharmaceutical company.
So this completely turns monomolecular medicine on its head
and the whole FDA process
of approving a single active ingredient
and an inert drug formulation
is if the cannabis plant teaches us anything,
it teaches us that there's this entourage
or this ensemble effect
of the multiple components in cannabis.
And you mentioned Rick Simpson oil.
Yeah, it's interesting.
It's like a blessing and a curse
because the last thing I wanna make an extract from
is lighter fluid in a Crock-Pot in my garage, right?
So that doesn't work with me at all.
But I think what that shows is,
even all kidding about Rick aside,
how you could abuse the molecules in these extracts
and they still have medicinal value.
When the Nixon administration wanted to show
that smoking cannabis would give you cancer,
they funded the laboratories of Donald Tashkin at UCLA
to basically, please tell us that smoking cannabis
causes cancer just like they recently
have figured out with cigarettes.
And what they found in those studies,
which were absolutely remarkable,
is that people who consume cannabis
have a lower incident of lung disease
than people who don't consume anything at all.
And so what that tells you is the prophylactic properties
that these cannabinoids have in protecting our tissue
from free radical mediated damage,
such as what causes cancer.
And so even though you're using lighter fluid
and even though you're probably thermally abusing
those terpenes that are in there,
that Rick Simpson oil still has a beneficial
therapeutic effect because of how important
cannabinoids are in the body.
Yeah, no, I'm absolutely with you.
And yeah, I feel like the Rick Simpson oil gets a bad rap
because he did promote NAFTA, right, as a solvent.
Lighter fluid, I call it.
Yeah, yeah, lighter fluid.
So I think nowadays most people that,
I mean, and so the RSO term, I feel like just stuck
because as far as like my generation,
the people that came up with medical cannabis,
maybe 10, 12 years ago, that was the first time
we'd ever heard of an extract of that sort.
We were used to making bubble hash and keef and so on.
To find something that was 80, 90% cannabinoids
was mind blowing.
So after research and kind of like,
once you kind of understand,
creating a clean extract, right,
because we also had issues of like open blasting
butane extract 10 years ago.
But yeah, I mean, I think most people now have gone
to food grade ethanol.
And so it's more of like, what do they call it?
Like a FICO or like, there's a hundred different names
for them, but yeah, I would definitely recommend
food grade ethanol if you're trying to do any kind of-
Full spectrum extract.
I mean, no hard feelings towards Rick or anything.
I think the whole Rick Simpson oil phenomena
made people aware of the healing properties of cannabis.
And I'm all about that.
I'm all about that.
But yeah, I'm a live resin consumer.
So I like my live resin that's only possible
through closed loop hydrocarbon extraction.
It's the only way to make those kinds of products.
And typically the products are in the high seventies,
low 80% of cannabinoids and sometimes up to eight, nine,
even as high as 12% terpene.
So when you add up the cannabinoids
and you add up the terpenes,
you're damn near close to a hundred percent characterization
of those live resins.
And so I consume live resin.
I'm in the Kind Bill School of Processing.
Kind Bill was again, the hippie from Colorado,
I think who first said,
hey, let's extract fresh frozen material.
And so when you extract dried material,
because THCA is a solid,
typically you get a solid extract
after you purged off all your solvent
because THCA actually was a crystalline solid.
But when you have the terpenes
and the other minor components,
it becomes an amorphous solid called shatter,
just generic.
But when you take that same plant material
and rather than extracting it when it's ready to smoke,
snappable stems, and you can smoke in your bowl,
now you're gonna extract the freshly harvested material
that was frozen the immediate it was harvested.
Now you're gonna get a much larger load of terpenes
that what was a solid extract
is now gonna be liquid extract
because the terpenes are gonna solubilize the THCA
and be right at the saturation point
where THCA will start to crystallize out.
Each different strain and each different variety
are gonna have different saturation points for THCA
because the different terpene profiles
have different solubility characteristics.
And so, yeah, so what you find in live resins
is you get that sauce, that wonderful sauce.
And I know that there's a lot of people
who make vape pens out of distillate.
Yeah.
And don't cut it from me because people are taking distillate
or adding store-bought terpenes
which come from citrus and pine needles.
And that's just, so you're trying to recreate
what you can get in a live resin extract.
I want my vape pen to taste just like the cannabis
from which it was derived, right?
And the cannabis from which it's derived,
you breeders have done a great job
at putting wonderfully tasteful terpene profiles.
It's my job to basically get those terpene profiles
off the plant and into that vape pen
or into that little jar of concentrate.
So that's what I really focus on.
If it's golden on the plant,
it should be golden in the jar, man.
None of these dark Rick's Sinskin oil thing.
Ah, no, that's just thermally abused cannabis extract.
Right, and that was beautifully said.
I think what to drive home is,
if you can keep it as close to the natural state
as it came off the plant, the better.
That's right, yeah.
The vape pen is basically trying to simulate a joint
without combustion.
So when you draw on a joint,
the hots from the end of the joint
have now this hot air current
that goes through the neighboring cannabis
and volatilizes the terpenes
and decarboxylates the cannabis.
So when you take a hit of that joint,
that sour diesel joint's gonna taste like sour diesel.
Not gonna taste like headband,
not gonna taste like blueberry.
It's gonna taste like sour diesel
because what you're getting is this waft of terpenes
as you pull on the joint.
So the ideal vape pen
is really gonna be the same kind of phenomena
where you're basically getting that terpene profile
from the plant and able to basically put it
into a vaporizer cartridge.
So that's what you're getting.
Yeah, yeah.
So I come from a,
like I'm a little different in that
I consume more cannabis through ingestion
than I do through smoking.
And so that's where,
so it's a completely different kind of mode of thinking.
I mean, like I can completely agree
kind of where you're coming from with the live resident.
We've done some live resident ourselves on our farm
doing a bubble hash.
So fresh, frozen,
and then washed into bubble hash,
so it's solventless besides the water, of course.
But yeah, no, I mean-
Are you making rosin too out of that?
Yeah, and then we'll make rosin.
So yeah.
Just small batch.
I mean, we don't sell a lot of that.
Primarily our business is focused on a flower and seed,
seed production and genetics.
But as far as the edible aspect of cannabis,
it's hugely therapeutic, right?
I mean, you get, it lasts six to eight hours,
gets processed through the liver.
It's much more,
it's just a completely different animal altogether.
And that's where I think ingesting decarbed oils,
if you can retain as many terpenes as you,
I think is better because that also plays a role.
But yeah, that's RSO,
that's kind of where my focus has been.
And you can decarb live resin
or hydrocarbon extracts and ingest it.
And you do get the same kind of medical benefit.
But when you get like from an RSO type extract
where you're grabbing everything,
and I do, I think the more you can kind of winterize
and get those low temps to kind of filter out
some of the chlorophyll fats and waxes, all the better.
But I feel like hydrocarbons
might be a little more selective.
And when we don't really realize,
like with an ethanol extract,
having that water solubility,
you're grabbing every,
you're kind of grabbing the kitchen sink.
And so we may not even know what we're getting
that could have medical benefit,
but we're still grabbing it anyway.
So we might get some undesirables,
but at the end of the day, it's like,
I also do extracts with the root system,
so that they have alkaloids.
And so we kind of make some balms and stuff.
And from a grower,
and I've been around this plant for a long time,
I don't really know what's in the roots
that give it the medicinal benefit,
but I'll tell you just a root extract and coconut oil
can give you relief from skin burns almost immediately.
So it's, and that's just anecdotal,
that's just home growers
and people in the medical side of cannabis.
I mean, that's all, that's most of what we have, right?
Is anecdotal experiential,
kind of evidence of, okay, well,
if I take a one-to-one Delta 9 THCV extract,
how does that make me feel?
And it's like,
we don't know how to tease apart,
does Delta 9 THCV isolate have any kind of
psychoactive effect?
Because we just don't have those products available yet.
And so that's, it's really cool seeing like,
your kind of work, being able to isolate these compounds
and then, what do they do?
Are they enjoyable?
Because I'll tell you what,
like CBG in high doses on its own,
is kind of dysphoric, for me, at least I find.
But once you start adding it in with CBD or THC,
it becomes a completely different animal.
And so it's, it really is,
like we are at the ground floor of like,
what do these compounds do?
And it's really exciting.
And that's kind of where I,
my focus has been is on,
is drawing these, you know, miners out of the gene pool.
So it's like, you know, scouring the earth,
finding some land races,
finding these kind of rare genetics.
And at the point that they stand,
they're not really ready for commercial production
because most of them are low yielding.
Like I have a one-to-one Delta 9 THC V cut,
but it's a 16 week flowering, you know, land race.
And so it's like, you know,
you can get 6% of both compounds,
but you know, you're gonna be flowering
for nearly four months.
And so it's just, you know,
not many commercial facilities are willing to do that.
So it's, I mean, and like you said,
there are other ones out there,
Dugs Baron and stuff that people,
but they're held tightly.
And so my, like where I come from is,
is kind of trying to free those genetics
and get them into the hands of, you know,
growers, hemp farmers and other breeders and stuff,
and people that are doing extracts, you know.
Well, one of the things I'm interested in is
Michael Backus, who's a noted cannabis entrepreneur
in Southern California.
We were on a clubhouse about,
I don't know, maybe about five or six months ago.
And he was talking about how consuming CBDV
gave him a psychedelic experience.
And I was like, whoa, really?
Holy shit, I just had a sample sent to my lab.
But that was like on a Saturday.
I came to work on Monday.
I brought that shit home with me and I dabbed it,
just regular, you know, teeth,
dabbing nail and everything.
And I didn't get a psychedelic effect from it all.
In fact, beyond the coughing,
it didn't taste very good.
But the CBDV isolate that I had was orange, like tang.
It looked like the powdered drink tang
that you get to the moon, right?
So I now have a variety,
or now I have a CBD isolate that's just off yellow.
It's just slightly white, a little bit off yellow.
So yeah, I think processors are figuring out
their isolation game.
They're making these things available.
What I was interested in was THCVA.
I wanted to say, well, okay,
if the plant is making THCV and it's Delta-9,
it doesn't make THCV, it makes THCVA.
Can I get some of that isolate?
I mean, I'd love to dab that, right?
I'd love to see, like, can I grow diamonds out of those?
Or, you know, what's the crystalline properties
of THCVA versus THCA?
So as you know, so THC itself is a liquid, right?
You can't crystallize THC,
but THCA is a crystalline solid
that sets up in a beautiful crystalline lattice.
Like those big diamonds you're seeing extractors make now.
Right, yeah, right.
My son is in LA and his business is,
what they do is they take lesser desirable product
like THCA granules, and they actually grow diamonds
in a kind of like a re-crystallization process, if you will.
Yeah, because the diamonds have a lot better jar appeal
in the dispensary than some little THC dust
in the bottom of the jar, right?
So yeah, there's so much stuff going on.
And one of the things I wanted to ask you about,
again, this is just sort of like
where things are going right now.
You know, the Italians isolated this thing called THCP.
Yeah.
THCP has got not a five carbon chain,
but it's got a seven carb, seven, is that right?
Yeah, seven carbon chain.
And what they find is that
by just increasing the number of carbons,
the theoretical binding of that compound
because of the longer carbon chain to the CB1 receptor
is like 30X more potent.
And so when that first came out in the literature,
people are like, oh my gosh, right?
You know, like this is unbelievable.
But the reason why I like those findings
is because what we're finding now is like
when you make a cannabis extract,
like an RSO or something like that,
or some just crude extract,
and you send it off to a third party lab for HPLC analysis,
you can get quantifiable results up to a certain point.
And then there's like 15% or 20% unknown.
We just don't know what it is, right?
So I think with the discovery of THCP,
we're starting to whittle away at that unknown.
Ah, that's so.
So I think THCP is in there.
THCH, which is the six carbon side chain,
the 11 carbon side chain,
these are all things that have been supposedly
postulated to exist.
But I think what it's doing is it's filling out
the cannabinoid or the cannabinoid.
The remaining.
Right, right.
So eventually we'll be able to pull an extract
and we'll have such clear understanding about,
like you said, it was a great point that you made, Haku,
which is that when you use ethanol,
when you use ethanol,
you get a lot of water solubles that you just don't get
in that closed loop butane extraction.
And like I said, in that butane extraction,
I'm selectively getting my cannabinoid acids
and I'm getting my terpenes.
I'm not getting a whole lot of other stuff.
So when I can characterize those extracts
almost all the way up to 100%,
now I'm thinking that we're finally starting to get
our hold about how the extraction process
impacts the extract that you're making.
You point out that like when you do an ethanol extraction,
if you ethanol extract at minus 40 as opposed to-
Right, we tried.
Right, so the solubility goes down the cooler it gets.
And so the cooler it gets,
that's why in winterized extracts,
you don't get any fats, waxes or solids.
But if you did a room temperature extraction,
you're gonna have all those fats, waxes and solids
kind of come through.
I guess it depends the product form
that you wanna put it into.
You know, when you get all those extra extractables,
you have a lot of plant flavor, you have a lot of color.
Like you said, the chlorophylls are in there.
Everybody talks about the flavonoids.
The flavonoids aren't very soluble.
And in fact, they don't distill neither as well
because there's sort of two portions to a flavonoid.
There's the A-glyconin and then there's the carbohydrate.
And so when people see purple color in distillate,
they're always like, oh, anthocyanins, anthocyanins.
Well, if you look at the structure of an anthocyanin,
there's no way that compound would ever distill.
So when you're seeing colors in your distillate,
that's typically due to oxidation processes
that are happening to make things called quinones.
And so, but when you wanna get that full spectrum extract
and you wanna try to get those anthocyanins
and you wanna try to get as much as you can get
out of the heady plant goodness,
then yeah, you're gonna want a non-selective extraction,
but you're not gonna wanna either eat that or vape it.
Maybe you wanna make some belly jelly out of it.
I don't know.
I was gonna say one thing about your edibles thing.
It's one thing if you swallow the edible.
So if you're eating a brownie
and the brownies got oil in it
and you put it in your mouth and you eat it,
it's certainly a completely different route
of administration if you're doing sublingual delivery.
And so if you have a gummy and rather than eat the gummy
and let the gummy go down in your stomach,
where you're gonna get digestion in the stomach, right?
And especially if it has CBD in it,
there's a lot of speculation that CBD in the gut,
the gut is certainly acidic enough
to convert CBD over into THC.
There's a lot of speculation and arguments
on both sides in the literature
whether or not CBD converts into THC in the gut.
But the question really is not why will it convert?
We already know the answer to that.
It's thermodynamics.
The question is, is why doesn't it convert?
And so if you look at that study
where they say it didn't convert,
they didn't take a capsule, they took a tincture.
And so I think that that experiment is fundamentally flawed
because when you take a tincture,
it doesn't go down to your stomach.
I don't care what people,
I have arguments with people all the time about this.
When you take a tincture or when you suck on a gummy
like you're sucking on a cough drop,
it gets absorbed into your oral mucosa,
which gets into your bloodstream,
advanced to digestion and oxidation in the liver.
And now you're in your bloodstream
in the neighborhood of your brain.
Pretty cool, right?
So try sucking on that gummy next time
or try taking an oral tincture
where you just keep it in your mouth
and let it absorb in your mouth.
Don't let it go down in your gut.
If you eat a big pot brownie, you know the guy.
He ate a pot brownie
and then he had to take the next day off of work
because he had this incredible body height
because he ate one piece, he didn't get high.
He ate the second piece, he didn't get...
So then he ate the whole thousand milligram brownie.
Next thing you know,
this guy's asleep on his couch for two weeks, right?
That's because when the cannabinoids
get into your digestive system,
they get metabolized and oxidized.
And now they're no longer psychoactive.
They no longer pass across the blood brain barrier,
but they act on your peripheral cannabinoid CB2 receptors
all throughout your body.
So you're getting that incredible body height, right?
The guy who ate too much edible, right?
You know that guy, right?
Oh yeah, I know that guy.
He passed on the couch a couple of weeks ago.
But-
You just explained why I don't like them.
Thank you.
No, but try, try.
I tell you what, man, it's a different experience.
Try-
I enjoy it, yeah.
A high THC tincture subliminally,
I'm sorry, sublingually in your mouth
and don't smoke any that day.
And just see if you can get yourself a THC high
by doing oral absorption through the oral mucosa.
I really do think that that's how,
that's the way to go if you're looking for psychoactivity.
Maybe you're looking for that peripheral activity
in your CB2 receptors, but for the most part,
I prefer gummies or chewables or things
that stay in my mouth.
So I absorb the cannabinoids into my, you know, brain.
Where they belong.
Yeah, that's a good distinction.
I mean, taking something sublingually
and oftentimes, you know, you'll take a tincture,
hold it under your tongue and then just swallow the rest.
So you're kind of getting the double action.
I work with a lot of people that take cannabis,
you know, orally in high doses.
So like cancer patients, you know,
that might be doing kind of like a, you know,
cannabis oil treatment, you know,
so they're trying to eat like a thousand milligrams a day.
And so in that case, you know, you're just, you know,
it's a, the sublingual wouldn't work quite as well
as saturating your body with, you know,
a huge amount of cannabinoids.
There's digestive enzymes in your saliva too.
And your saliva is meant to basically start
to transport the nutritional aspects of your food.
And again, I could feel it.
Like if I take a high THC tincture,
you could feel kind of like that warming THC sensation
in your mouth.
And before you know it, you're like, wow,
I just do a barn rip.
Yeah.
You start smiling, you're sitting in your chair
and you start smiling and you start realizing,
holy shit, I just got myself high without smoking.
Yeah, no, it's pretty incredible.
So, and this is a topic that not a lot of people broach,
but suppositories.
So you may not be able to get, you know,
500 milligrams, you know, sublingually.
I mean, you'd probably just be sitting there all day,
sucking on a, you know, a piece of candy,
but you sure can get it through a suppository,
which also goes directly into your bloodstream,
bypasses your liver.
And so you're getting the same benefit of the cannabinoids,
but you're not getting the full blown effect of saturated,
you know, so, so yeah, I mean,
there's a lot of different ways to ingest this plant
and it does, it modulates like the effect, you know,
I mean, it's not only is it the extract, you know,
with the different terpenes and the different ratios,
but also you, yeah, your mode of ingestion
can play a huge role.
And that's something that people that are, you know,
using cannabis on their own to treat something,
you know, it's, it's,
you kind of got to figure out what works best for you,
just like you have to figure out your dose
and whether you prefer, you know,
a high THC or a mixed ratio or C, you know,
whatever works for you,
because this plant really does appeal to everybody
in some form or another.
Like if you don't want to get high,
well, we got non-psychoactive cannabinoids.
And if you, if you do, then, you know, we, we've got,
the plant has that to offer as well.
Well, a real important point of reference for that
is our good friend, Johnny B from Hash Church,
Hash enthusiast and up there with Bubble Mam up in BC.
He had reconstructive neck surgery, okay?
Where they, they had his neck in a skull and a brace
and everything like that.
He had that reconstructive surgery of his,
of his upper vertebrae here
without any pain medication whatsoever,
none whatsoever, just terpenes.
And he made himself,
because he knew he was going to be laid up in a hospital,
he made himself his own cannabis suppositories.
And basically, you know, self-medicated himself
while he was at the hospital,
not needing any pharmaceutical medication whatsoever
for the control of his pain.
He just medicated himself.
And because he knew that he was going to be in a hospital,
he was like, well, I got to be able to feed the horse,
right?
So he just, you know, fed the horse.
And yeah, you know, there is a lot of fat soluble transport
of very important compounds like vitamin K
and other fat soluble things
that go through the lower intestine.
And so it's very important, again, in your metabolism
to have passage of these molecules
through your lower intestine.
So yeah, there is a highway there for fat soluble molecules.
So absolutely, suppositories is a wonderful,
well, not a wonderful, but a way of medicating, yes.
Yeah, yep, absolutely.
So what's up, Dan?
Hey, what's up guys?
Can you hear me?
Sure can.
All right, great.
Yes.
So sorry, I'm late.
I'm glad you got your internet figured out, man.
Yeah, yeah, I don't know,
we were just talking about, you know,
different ways to ingest cannabis, you know,
and, but we were really going down the rabbit hole of,
yeah, I mean, kind of everything, right?
Terpenes, different extracts, different, you know,
which I know you're familiar with.
Dan formulates some pretty amazing edibles
and tinctures using, you know, the gamut of cannabinoids.
So, I mean, and they seem to be, you know,
pretty therapeutic for a lot of people.
And I just want to remind everybody
that we only have Mark for another 40 minutes.
So ask away while we can.
Hope you have any questions for Mark, Dan?
Yeah, where to start, huh?
Cannabinoids going down the rabbit hole.
Absolutely, Mark, I'm sure your rabbit hole
is pretty deep, my friend.
Well, yeah, we were just talking about suppositories,
so maybe rabbit hole isn't the right euphemism.
But yeah, no, I mean, so we did start out,
I came in kind of late too as well, Dan,
and we were going over just kind of like, you know,
the different conversions, isomers
versus the natural cannabinoids.
And, you know, we really hadn't gotten
into like kind of the breeding aspect,
but that's kind of, you know, where we come in,
you know, as far as, we're, you know, smaller breeders,
so we don't have access to a lot of, you know,
the testing equipment that some of the bigger breeders have,
but we do have a pretty good network
of people around the world, you know,
from like, like you said, Italy, Switzerland,
you know, I've traded genetics from people in Africa
and Australia, Thailand.
So, you know, pulling all these genetic gene pools together,
what we're seeing is that a lot of these land races
and heirloom varieties, like even the fiber varieties
actually still do, you know,
because they've been open pollinated for generations,
they still maintain a large population
of minor rich genetics, you know?
So that's what we're finding a lot of like
the CBG rich genetics, CVDV, THCV,
and some, you know, like we just ran through
some Syrian land races where a lot of the barons popped up.
And so I feel like, you know, part of what our role is,
is, you know, well, for one, we have an interest
and a passion with this plant,
which is the reason why we're here today,
but it's really about teasing those out,
finding, you know, and bringing them, you know,
to the forefront where we can actually make extracts,
you know, kind of where you come in Mark,
and being able to kind of identify
what these compounds do for us.
So like, why do we want to produce them
in large quantities in the first place, right?
Like we know they're there, well, so let, you know,
let's dive into them.
And what we're seeing is each one kind of has
their own role, right?
Like CBD, you know, inflammation,
CBG is credible for gut issues.
CBDV is looking like it might even be better
for seizures than CBD.
And so we're starting to figure out, you know,
and then THCV, you know, just anecdotally, you know,
like Future 4200 is a great website
because you do have a lot of extractors on there
that are kind of at the forefront of this research.
And believe it or not, you know,
they're ingesting these compounds and reporting back.
And it's just, I mean, we're at such a, you know,
a new point in history that all this information is new.
Like we can't even get enough information.
And so it's really interesting for me
to be able to kind of, you know, get these compounds,
get these, you know, CBG, THCV stuff,
even in small amounts and be able to kind of play around
with them, share them with people
that could benefit from them,
and then get their feedback, you know,
because it, like you said, it's one thing for, you know,
like your buddy to have a psychedelic experience on CBGB,
but maybe you never did.
So it's really, this plan is subjective.
Like I can give a strain to somebody that, you know,
it might be stimulating and then give it to somebody else
that it makes them tired, you know?
So it's just, I don't know, we're really,
I feel like we're just beginning to scratch the surface,
but it's like, you can see where we're headed
in the fact that we're gonna shorten that 15% of unknowns
down, you know, over these next 10 years
to maybe zero, it's really exciting.
And so like, we need the breeders doing their work
because I know it makes the extraction easier
if you can just have, say a THCV dominant plant
that you can just run and then, you know,
do your isolate from that versus doing conversions
and getting more of those unknowns and all that.
So yeah, that was a long rant.
I'm sure, you know, both of you guys have something to say.
We're all three of you.
Well, I was just gonna mention one other thing.
So when you do an extraction with ethanol,
you do take a lot of water solubles in.
And the way that we know that is that
if you strip off the ethanol from an extract,
and then if you, rather than take it up in ethanol,
if you take it up in a non polar hydrocarbon
like hexane or pentane, and now hexane or pentane
is not water soluble, so you can do some water washing
to remove the water soluble.
You see all kinds of stuff in there.
There's soluble forms of cellulose called hemicelluloses,
which are soluble in alcohol.
And so depending on the conditions that you use
and the temperature you use,
you're gonna extract a fair amount of these sugars.
These sugars are basically, you know,
they just caramelize when you heat them up.
And that's why, again, you get a lot of that dark color.
Like you'd mentioned, you could use things like carbon
or clays or stuff like that to absorb stuff.
People sometimes use de-earth or silica gel.
There's lots of innovation in this acronym called CRC,
which I think stands for color remediation chromatography.
And like I'd mentioned before, Haku, in my mind,
if it's golden on the plant, it should be golden in the jar.
And if it's dark, that means to a chemist like me,
that would typically mean you've got oxidative degradation
of certain stuff in there.
And again, when you taste some of these oils,
these full spectrum oils,
they got that real hard, planty taste,
or I don't know if you know people who decarb
their herb before they extract.
But when you decarb your herb by putting your herb
into an oven and just roasting it,
you're basically totally destroying your terpene profiles
that you've worked so hard to put into those plants.
And so now when you extract the decarb weed,
it tastes like a used Pax vaporizer, right?
It's got that burnt popcorn.
Yeah, it's good because-
Everybody knows it, yeah.
You've thermally abused those terpenes.
And so it's my job, mostly when I consult for clients,
there are people who have invested a lot of money
in getting their facilities up and running,
and they've invested a lot of money into their grow,
into their grow operation, into their genetics,
and their master grower.
All this money that you plow into your cultivation,
as an extraction person,
I wanna be able to capture that value
and to not just get the cannabinoids.
We know those things produce cannabinoids.
That's the whole...
I've often said this on Hash Church.
I said, well, it's true that terpenes
drew humans to cannabis.
It was cannabinoids that made them stay.
So we know that these things produce cannabinoids.
There's no question about it.
The real challenge is how do you get that terpene profile?
You know, that wonderful smell
when you're walking through the grow,
you know, the day before harvest.
How do you capture that snapshot
and put that into the jar?
And so, yeah, the, you know,
Kind Bill method of doing fresh frozen extraction
with a closed loop hydrocarbon extractor,
not in someone's backyard in a tube of PVC,
in a closed loop extractor in a C1D1 room.
These things can be made safely
and made without any residual solvent.
And BHO just gets such a bad name
because of all the people trying to make it at home.
But, you know, in truth, you know,
the gas grill that most of us have in our backyard
where we have a propane tank hooked up to an igniter
is an order of magnitude more dangerous
than a closed loop hydrocarbon extraction system.
And I've had to make this argument for several regulators
and have actually had the regulations changed in states
because we came through as just,
no, this is how you do closed loop hydrocarbon extraction.
You can do it safely.
You know, a BIC lighter, right?
A BIC lighter has got butane in it, right?
So it's just, you can see it's a liquid
when it's kept in a confined space.
It wants to expand,
but the pressure that's associated with that
is very, very minimal compared to supercritical CO2,
which is, you know, pressurized to a thousand PSI or higher.
So what do you feel safer standing next to?
Something at 40 PSIs
or something pressured to a thousand PSIs, you know?
And I have to basically make this argument
in states that think that CO2 extraction is safe
and butane extraction, ooh, that's bad.
That's part of the, you know,
that's part of the black market.
It's part of the underground, but, you know,
really we've set up several facilities
throughout the country.
And when I look in my rear view mirror,
they're at the top of their markets,
making high value products that don't have very long life
on the dispensary shelves.
I appreciate you bringing logic to irrational conversation.
It's about time I did something useful.
Yeah, man.
Why is a bureaucrat gonna argue with a chemist, you know?
Well, yeah, especially, you know, I work with danger.
Well, I worked in my previous life,
I worked for a very large chemical company,
Google, you can figure it out.
And yeah, there we work with really hazardous stuff
all the time.
So if we can't do an operation safely, we just don't do it.
Or you figure out a way to do it safely.
And my biggest fear, or I won't say my biggest fear,
but I think one of the most awesome responsibilities
I have in my life are the lives of other people.
And so I would never ask one of my employees
to run a process that I don't feel comfortable
running myself.
And I make sure that all of our employees
at all of our facilities are trained and certified
so we don't have, you know, some accident
in our rear view mirror here.
Because I think it's really, really, really important
to make sure that we do these things by the regulations,
by, you know, the C1, D1 rooms cost a lot of money
and chances are you'll never have a butane fire
and you could probably do it
without having that level of precaution.
But, you know, they just err on the side of being overly,
you know, safe when it comes to employees and stuff, so.
That brings up a good point.
What would you recommend for like, you know,
a lot of the people listening to the show
are home growers and looking to do safe extracts
at their home, you know, so I'm guessing butane
is probably off the table, but I mean,
bubble hash, fats, olive oil, MCT oil extractions.
I mean, I feel safe with using ethanol
just because I've done it for so long.
I mean, you can go by Everclear down at the liquor store.
And like, if you want to, you know,
you could throw your flour and alcohol
in the freezer overnight.
And I imagine, you know, you know.
Yeah, yeah, I was, again, I speak in analogies
all the time because I often have to break down
complex chemical shit to regulators
and people who don't really understand.
So I use this example a lot.
You don't take an apple tree and shove it into a grinder
to make apple cider, do you, right?
You pick the apples, right?
So water hashing is picking the apples, right?
You're picking the tricots, right?
And so I think that, yeah,
while you could extract whole plant material,
and I know, well, we know the guy on Hash Church
who first pressed a bud using a t-shirt transfer, right?
Soil grown down in LA, right, Phil?
And so, yeah, can you make oil from flour?
Yeah, I think that, you know, flour rosin
has a much deeper flavor, a more full spectrum,
full-bodied flavor.
It's often colored.
The properties of flour rosin could be very, very different
than hash made from the same flour that you've removed,
right, picking the apples, right?
And now putting the apples into the cider mill.
So, you know, I think there's a variety
of things you can do at home.
Yeah, do I advocate making closed-loop extract
or butane extracts?
No, absolutely not.
But I think the thing that can easily be done at home
is, you know, ice water hash.
You can make a really high-quality product.
I would prefer to have a freeze dryer there.
So as soon as you get that wet patty,
it goes right into the freeze dryer,
because I think what we know now
from doing microbiological testing
is that those hash patties are left out longer
than say a couple hours.
They're gonna start to microbially pick up spores
from the space, and you'll start seeing failures
for aspergillus and other variety of sort of ubiquitous
pathogens that are just in the environment.
So I think you can make pretty decent-quality
water hash at home, and, you know,
just take your girlfriend's hair straightener,
press some of that thing, and make some fresh rosin.
There are actually all types of hash rosin presses now.
I've seen this one that looks like a cappuccino machine.
You put stuff in the top, then you press some buttons,
and this fancy lighted panel comes up,
and before you know it, you have a little dish of rosin.
So yeah, there's a lot of different little widgets
and gadgets, and you gotta remember,
we're at the front end of a innovation curve
that looks like a big S, right?
And so right at the front end of that curve, it's steep,
and so there's a lot of innovation going on,
lot of widgets and gadgets.
You know, you go to any of the trade shows,
you'll see just about anything that could be made
to service cannabis growers or cannabis processing
or packaging or testing.
There's a company that's providing that product
out there today, so lots of picks and shovels companies,
but yeah, it's great to see this kind of innovation
because you'd think that, again,
the more innovation that we see,
the more businesses could kind of get a leg up
on their competitor and really get market share
and developing new products
and make those new products popular.
I think the whole thing with rosin, it was interesting,
when we first started talking about rosin on HashChurch,
you know, so Bubble Man, who runs HashChurch, right,
sells his brand of bubble bags.
Not everyone uses his brand,
but I think that there's a variety
of different hash makers out there that kind of knew
that there are ways you can basically get oil from hash,
right, and, you know, what skunk man Sam always says,
which is, if it doesn't bubble,
it's not worth the trouble, right?
So these guys, they had it figured out,
but I think, again, what you see in this internet age
of YouTube and 4200 and all these forums out there
is people just innovating as the clock turns.
And so it's great to have 4200
as a great discussion forum.
Clubhouse has been really great.
There's been a lot of individual clubhouses
around various aspects of the industry,
around social equity, around entrepreneurship
and getting licenses, around looking for mentorship.
So yeah, man, I think we're lucky to be alive.
You know, I mean, I graduated high school in 1981,
spent a lot of my adolescence following the Grateful Dead
around smoking weed from NorCal.
And I used to say to my friends,
I want my weed to smell like the weed
at the Grateful Dead show,
because these cats would roll across the country
with this great NorCal weed.
And I was living in New Jersey here,
and all we get were these little manila envelopes
in Washington Square Park
that were chucked full of seeds and stems.
It was easier to buy an eight ball of coke
than it was to buy some decent weed.
So us deadheads, we had a secret, right?
And we knew that we can go to a Grateful Dead show
and there was great NorCal bud there, super skunk, Hawaiian,
great California bud, great Colorado bud.
And the whole history of ChemDog, right,
was my friend P-Bud from Crested Butte
drove that stuff out, met Greg at Deer Creek
in 1991 Grateful Dead show.
They made a transaction.
He got some seeds, popped what became ChemDog,
and later, you know, the versions of Sour Diesel.
So yeah, so growing up as a spun out kid
on Grateful Dead tour, I mean, we smoked a lot of weed
and we did a lot of psychedelics,
and it's just so cool to see that weed and psychedelics
are in the forefront of treating human disease.
So I think maybe we were on to something
back in the Garcia days, you know?
Like now, yeah.
Yeah, I had a unique kind of come up too.
Like, you know, Washington State's had
their medical program for a long time.
We've had recreational for like four or five, six years now.
But so I was able to get a medical card
when I was like 19 years old.
Oh, wow.
To start growing and start going to a collective.
I'm 34 now, but it's, so it's, you know,
my whole adult life as, you know, I've had cannabis freely.
So it's like, you know, I mean, when we're younger,
you know, you're buying it from, you know,
your local dealer.
But so yeah, it's definitely,
and then even the kids coming up nowadays
with recreation legalization spreading across the country.
But what I'm most optimistic and excited about
is just the future of minor cannabinoids
and getting them to the point where you can go to a store
and choose, you know, what ratio you want.
You know, it's not just CBD and THC anymore.
It's like, you know, do I want to tincture with,
you know, that's a one-to-one-to-one-to-one
of all the main, you know, like CBG, CBD, you know?
So, I mean, we're really getting to the point where
I feel like we're kind of crossing the line.
Here's a challenge for you, Hoku.
What about CBGV?
So I'm actually working a line right now.
It's a CBG, one of our CBG cultivars
crossed to our one-to-one THCV,
and we're now taking it to F2.
And I've spoke with a few people that are geneticists,
you know, around the country.
And we do believe that we'll start seeing CBGV
pop up in those crosses.
Well, I would love to be able to go out to a field someday
and exactly what I did with CBGA,
come home with, you know, 100% isolate of CBGVA, you know?
And the other really challenging one that's out there
is CBC.
So CBC and CBCA.
So I have not seen CBCA.
We've seen CBC, and there is some CBC that's out there
that I think that's made sort of semi-synthetically,
but I think that that is a very underexplored cannabinoid.
I don't know much about high CBC varieties.
Do you?
Just what I know is I have a friend who's also a breeder,
and he did a cross a couple years back
that was showing six to 7% CBC,
and some of the highest that we've seen.
He found it in an old, the wife,
which is a kind of a staple CBD strain,
but he did some out crosses with it.
Cherry butter is one.
It's high alpine genetics, but.
So the only thing that I know
is that it works really well in vape carts
by preventing crystallization at a certain, you know,
just having some minor portion of your vape cart
diluted with CBC.
As far as-
It's a liquid, so it acts as a crystallization inhibitor.
Right, so you have a natural cannabinoid
that you can throw in there that serves a purpose,
you know, other than, you know, so.
So that's kind of my little experience.
I actually have a bunch of those seeds popped in trays
right now to hunt through them,
because I've never actually grown any of those out.
I've just seen the test results for them, so.
Well, also on the chemistry side of things,
I mean, we should be able to convert CBD into CBC, right?
These are all sort of isomers of each other.
And I've tried a couple conversions,
but it doesn't seem to work too well.
I was able to actually see a little minor CBC formation,
but again, I think that you have to
kind of go back to first principles
and maybe reinvestigate, you know,
the whole conversion chemistry,
because of this phenomena that I brought up earlier
in my talk, Haku, that you probably weren't on for,
but Elke was.
So the transformation of CBD into these other cannabinoids
can result in a variety of different isomeric mixtures.
And so, yeah, I'm interested in what some of those
minor components could be.
And yeah, it's gonna take a lot more science
and a lot more trials and experiments
to basically try to figure out how to make those things
as pure standalone compounds.
Better precursor for some of these isomers than CBG?
I know CBG is, you know, they call it the stem cell.
Right.
You know, everything kind of passes through that CBG.
Even, you know, in order to get THCV and CBDV,
the plant has to produce CBGV, correct?
Yes, and absolutely.
But so realize that in between,
let's just look at one example.
In between CBGA and THCA,
there is a loss of one molecule of hydrogen.
So it's an oxidation that's happening
in that synthase reaction.
So it's a little bit more complex
than just an isomerization.
And isomerization doesn't require the loss
or gain of any molecular weight.
In this case, you lose a molecule of hydrogen
going from CBGA to THCA.
So that enzyme, the THCA synthase and CBD synthase
are all redox coupled enzymes
in that they have to basically have a hydrogen acceptor
that accepts the hydrogen from the CBGA.
So to convert CBGA over into THC
is not a trivial chemical process
because it's not an isomerization, it's an oxidation.
That's very interesting to me.
I've been looking into stuff like that,
dealing with alcohols, esters, ethers, and thiols
and the different ways that they either convert
or evaporate or so.
You got me wanting to look into that a little bit more too
with what you just said there.
Because what seems to me is that it's the process
that makes the thing.
It's not necessarily the chemicals
that you're starting with or ending up with.
It's more of the process
that they're going through along the way.
I guess that's why everything's so pliable.
It's both really.
Because it starts with the starting chemicals,
you're applying some process to it
which tweaks the chemicals in a certain way.
So if you have a CBD isolate versus broad spectrum CBD,
which has got a bunch of other cannabinoids,
you're gonna see very, very different chemistry
than if you're just working on the isolates.
The other thing, again,
this is just what they're finding now
is all this activity that you saw
in the last six months on COVID
was basically showing that the cannabinoid acids
bind to the spike protein
that has to basically bind to your ACE receptor
in order to get translation of the virus into your body.
And so it's no happy accident
that these very hydrophobic molecules,
which have a charge, these cannabinoid acids,
basically inhibit that binding.
And so people right away,
so Forbes magazine came out with,
oh, got COVID, smoke weed, you'll be all right.
It's like, oh, you're just gonna cure.
It's like, no, people, it's not that easy.
You can't keep yourself from getting COVID
by smoking weed or by taking CBDA.
But what it investigates is basically the pharmacology
of the molecules themselves.
And so you're just scratching the surface
and this Oregon State study,
the work that was done in Michigan,
there's been work now done at South Carolina and Indiana
are basically showing that these cannabinoids
basically have this prophylactic protective effect
that actually act as a way to basically render COVID
not able to infect you.
And so it's amazing because when you watch,
there's a movie up on YouTube called
Mishulam the Scientist,
which is a story about Raphael Mishulam,
the Israeli chemist who elucidated the structure of THC
and then went on to discover the endocannabinoid system
and the natural endocannabinoids
that act as keys and locks in those.
And if you, there's one statement he makes there
where he says that the National Institutes of Health
has now come out to say that the endocannabinoid system
underpins all human disease.
All human disease is underpinned
by the endocannabinoid system.
This is just amazing.
And again, it flies in the face of the conventional
methodology for getting drugs approved.
And so is cannabis a drug?
No, cannabis is a medicated herb
and it needs to be regulated as such.
And whenever a medicated herb can provide relief
to people suffering because of a medical condition,
it should not only be lawful,
it should be encouraged before taking
all those other pharmaceuticals
with their long list of side effects.
You know, if you watch the evening news today,
which I try not to do,
but if you do watch the evening news,
you'll see that it's sponsored
by the US pharmaceutical companies like Pfizer
and all these other big multi-billion dollar companies.
And what you see is this fictitious commercial
of this happy family setting down at the beach
or having some picnic or something like that.
And you're hearing about how this antidepressive medication
has got suicidal thoughts as a by-product, right?
It's like, how can you give somebody who's depressed
a medication that could give them suicidal thoughts?
It's like, dude, smoke some herb
and you'll be just fine, right?
So all of these pharmaceutical
and all these medical conditions, again, yeah,
drug companies paid for by drug insurance,
bought at drug stores, right?
Cannabis isn't a drug.
Cannabis is a medicated herb
that you can grow in your own fucking backyard, right?
You don't need a pharmaceutical company for it.
And what we now know is that the endocannabinoid system,
again, there are certain medical conditions
where your body doesn't make enough of the endocannabinoids
so you need to supplement them with the phytocannabinoids.
Just like the way,
if your diet lacks certain vitamin or mineral input,
you have to take a vitamin supplement
if you're not getting enough vitamin C
or if you're not getting enough iron,
you have to take an iron supplement.
Think of cannabinoids, not as medicine, but as nutrition,
as things that should be in our daily diet
because of the receptors that they act on.
And I'll finish by just sort of saying this one notion,
which is that all cannabis use is medical,
whether we understand it or not,
because these compounds act as antioxidants
in the fatty tissues of our body
to protect our body from free radical mediated damage.
So, the fatty tissues in your body include your pancreas,
your brain, your kidneys, all those fatty tissues,
when you consume cannabinoids, cannabinoids,
in fact, the reason why it takes so long
to pass a PISS test for cannabinoids
is because our body has developed a mechanism
to hold on to these valuable molecules
as long as we possibly can.
That's how valuable they are.
They're stored in our Oedipus tissue, our fatty tissues,
and when that fat is burned,
those cannabinoids are released,
kind of like a slow release mechanism
to release these cannabinoids into our bodies.
So, they're absolutely nutritional.
You need to think of cannabis as more as nutritional,
not as medicine, but certainly in some preparations,
they do act very medicinal and can cure cancer.
It can take an epileptic patient
from a very terrible condition
into a more satisfactory life.
I know people who are supposed to be in wheelchairs
because they have multiple sclerosis,
and they're walking around and dancing and stuff like that
because they're on cannabinoids.
Yeah.
I think-
That was beautifully said, man.
Yeah, no, unfortunately,
it's often people's last choice nowadays.
It's like, we've tried all the pharmaceuticals,
and now we're trying cannabis,
when ideally it would be the first choice.
The first choice.
Right?
Bingo.
So, I think we're getting to that point where,
and that's my opinion,
it's like if I ever got sick, if I got cancer,
it'd be like, okay, we're going,
bust out the heavy doses of cannabis,
and then we'll see how I feel in six months.
Well, and are you reading about
some of these clinical trials with MDMA and with psilocybin?
So, with psilocybin,
I know that the work that's done at NYU
and over here at Johns Hopkins
are showing that patients are,
after one dose,
are feeling the effects of that dose six months later.
I mean, that's something
that the pharmaceutical companies do not want.
The pharmaceutical companies do not want to cure disease.
They want to hook a customer for life
and start feeding at the medical insurance trough.
That's the reason why we have this healthcare dictatorship
in this country that drives the healthcare costs up
so the pharmaceutical executives
could have multi-billion dollar bonuses.
Yeah, it's fucked up.
Yeah.
Yeah, I feel like there's cracks in the system.
I think people are starting to see
behind the veil a little bit.
And I think more people are turning on to natural medicines,
plant-based medicines,
and cannabis is at the top of that pile
as far as what it can do.
Especially the opiate crisis,
which they love to crow about.
It's like, fuck, where do the opiates come from?
They come from a billion dollar pharmaceutical company
sold at billion dollar drugstore chains
prescribed by doctors.
Addiction doesn't begin in the garden.
It begins in the medicine cabinet or the alcohol cabinet.
Right?
And so they'd rather have people doped up on opiates
when we all know, I know a couple examples
of people who are no longer on opiate medications
because they use cannabinoids and cannabinoid concentrates.
I know two people who claim
that they wouldn't be alive today.
Cannabis has saved their life because, like Dr. Uma says,
cannabis isn't the gateway drug.
Cannabis is the exit drug.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think we all have kind of stories
of seeing people that have, with terminal cancer,
and they've kind of been kind of left to fend for themselves
to turn their, to get their life back through cannabis use.
Or we just worked with a gal
because we produce a lot of CBG flour
and she cured her 16 years of battle with Crohn's
through a CBG tincture,
which is after doing all,
because the medications do work initially,
but then after years and years of taking
basically everything that's available,
she started looking into cannabis
and it just so happened that CBG,
in the last couple of years has kind of
come to the forefront.
And so even though a lot of people don't know a lot
about it, the one thing that it does help with,
and I try and hammer this home,
is any kind of gut-related issues.
It really can change people's life.
Anybody with IBS, Crohn's, if you're listening,
definitely look into CBG because it's,
there's one thing it's good at, it's definitely that.
So yeah, I mean, it's, once you see this plant
change people's lives right in front of you,
it makes you a believer and that's all it takes, right?
It's like, you see a UFO or a ghost one time
and you're a believer in the paranormal or something,
you know what I mean?
That's all, it just takes one miracle and now it's,
so yeah, I think it's an incredible time to be alive.
Not only do we have cannabis,
but we're really cracking into the minors
and being able to discover specifically
what they do on their own and how we can make new medicines
but with new combinations and CBN, like for sleep,
I know it's a conversion product, but it's,
I mean, I know a lot of people getting benefit from CBN now,
whether the extract is of good quality or not,
that's to be determined, but what's your opinion?
Can you make good CBN out there?
Are there people making CBN?
Yeah, yeah, there are.
There are people out in Oregon
who are making a very pure form of CBN isolate.
They're doing, again, a dehydrogenation process
from their Delta 8.
Your Delta, if your Delta 8 is clean
or your Delta 9 is clean, then your CBN was clean,
but if your Delta 8 isn't clean,
now you have all kinds of other stuff in there.
So if you can have a clean conversion
and there are companies out there
that have figured this out,
you can basically make CBN isolate.
I wanted to just mention one thing though.
There is no report in the scientific literature
that says that CBN is good for sedation or good for sleep.
In fact, if anything, the report where it looked
at CBN sedative properties found it to be less sedative
than THC, Delta 9 THC itself.
So I think there was one study that looked at the impact
of halogenated CBN derivatives
on phenobarbital-induced sleep in mice.
And so these weren't CBN molecules at all.
They were halogenated CBN molecules.
So there's really no hard evidence
in peer-reviewed literature that says CBN
is good for sleep at all.
But I know that everybody thinks it is,
so therefore it must be.
Yeah, well, and it's funny you say that too,
because then we get back into the isolates
versus a full spectrum product.
Because I've never tried CBN on its own,
but I've heard of several people that have had no relief
or no sleep benefit from pure CBN.
But once you start adding it in a CBD full spectrum tincture
or a Delta 9 full spectrum tincture,
and all of a sudden there's the match.
It's different.
As soon as you have that milieu of other cannabinoids,
you're no longer dealing with a single active ingredient.
And so who knows?
I mean, they could act
with what's called allosteric inhibitors or activators.
There's just a melee of things
that can potentially happen there.
We need to figure all that out though.
Yeah, definitely.
So in many way, it's like a lot of these formulators
are modern alchemists.
Because we don't, I mean, really it's trial and error.
It's like, if I add a little bit of CBG over here
and a little CBN,
because like I said, I've taken high doses of CBG distillate
and it's not very enjoyable.
But it's like in a one-to-one ratio with CBD or THC
and it's amazing.
So it's really interesting.
And I think what we're gonna find is that
in isolated form in higher doses,
maybe some of these minors aren't as therapeutic
as they will be in a formulation.
And it goes to show nature has given us
the two major cannabinoids already.
You know, like if you look at the plant in nature
and you have type one, two and three out there,
you know, everywhere, right?
When you go to some of these land races,
it's, you know, that's kind of like the natural spread.
So, you know, and so it makes sense
that these minors would be in minor amounts
because maybe that's how nature and tech,
you know, I don't know.
It's just, it's a mystery.
But what I've seen is like getting some of these minors
and being able to experiment in higher doses,
I think you would think that they will act like THC or CBD.
Cause you know, we can take a thousand milligrams of THC
and it might be uncomfortable some,
but some people that's the relief that they need, you know?
So, whereas like maybe a thousand milligrams of THC
will just make you irritable and, you know, so it's,
so yeah, I mean, it's really like, it's fascinating.
And also, you know, who is doing the research, you know?
Is that, I mean, I know, I forget the general,
the researcher, but he did a CBG paper recently
where they kind of surveyed a bunch of people on the effects.
And so that's one way that we can kind of gain information,
right, is the consumers reporting back on their use.
So, yeah.
Well, a lot of the cannabinoid activity
has to do with your makeup.
And so, you know, the cannabinoids are the keys
and the receptors are the locks.
So the locks are all inside us, right?
And so how has that manifested in the biological activity
is still just, there's a myriad of systems
like the endocannabinoid system.
There's the serotonin, serotonergic system,
probably butchering it,
but there's also the dopaminergic system,
which reacts on dopamine.
And so serotonin and dopamine
are very important neurotransmitters in the brain.
They all act on different systems.
What we know is that there are cannabinoid receptors
beyond CB1 and CB2.
There's the TRPV1s, there's the PPARs.
So there's a whole family of receptors
and we're just really beginning to scratch the surface
to understand how these things work on our body.
We also know that the terpenes modulate
the activity of cannabinoids.
So when you take cannabinoids by themselves,
it's one level of activity,
but when you take those cannabinoids
with a full spectrum terpene profile,
you're gonna feel very, very different
because terpenes have a way of enhancing
the overall effects of cannabinoids.
I have a theory on how that's working.
I don't know, it's not validating,
but my theory is that the terpenes
increase a certain fluidity at the cell bilayer,
which is the cell wall that defines the outer portion,
the extracellular portion and the intracellular.
And I believe what terpenes are doing
is they're intercalating into those membranes
and creating fluidity and opening ion channels
between the outside and the inside of the cell.
And I believe what's happening
is that there's an up-regulation of receptor expression
that's responsible for the additional psychoactivity
that you feel when you take a good,
a hit of a terpenes and cannabinoid kind of mix like that.
So they're almost like a carrier,
they allow it to sneak in at a higher rate
or maybe a health absorption or something.
There's some nonlinear thing that's going on in there
and it could be a secondary or tertiary effect
that the terpenes have on turning on a calcium channel,
which enhances the overall,
well, it turns on protein kinase C.
And from there, you start to get
all kinds of lipid chemistry happening at the bilayer.
And so maybe in some way, again,
you're activating these cannabinoid receptors
in a way that if you did it in the absence of terpenes,
it would just not happen.
Well, and we know aromatherapy
can definitely modulate your mood, right?
You burn some peppermint or even incense for that matter.
So yeah, I mean, it's interesting.
And that's kind of the role the breeders play too,
is creating, is bringing these flavors
and kind of terpene profiles forward
and creating strains that can hit
those high terpene levels.
Because let's be honest, if something smells incredible,
it's gonna taste incredible,
but also it's gonna, you know,
it's gonna have a potent effect.
Generally it correlates.
So if you have something that's well cured,
a flower, that's gonna translate
over to the flavor and stuff.
But you can, it's just like the extract,
you can mess up the curing process along the way
and in the end result in an inferior product
if you're after the flower.
So yeah, no terpenes are huge and it's,
I mean, it plays a huge role in how breeders,
you know, how we select.
And everybody has different flavor profiles that they enjoy.
And a lot of those correlate to the effects.
You know, so it's really, yeah, I mean,
it feels like we've got this whole kind of,
you know, I don't know.
I don't know what the analogy would be,
but it's like, you know, you got this elephant, right?
And you're blind and you're trying to figure out
what it is.
Like we're starting to figure out a little bit,
but it's, yeah, it's really.
And that's part of the reason I think
why we're all here, right?
Is it's, we're trying to solve a puzzle
that's almost unsolvable.
Like we're definitely not gonna get close to it
in our lifetime.
And so you have a lifetime of work.
And that's kind of how I feel with breeding is it's,
you know, it just, it's never boring.
It's always intriguing.
You're always moving forward.
And it's just, yeah, it's one of the best
rewarding things that I've ever done in my life.
And so, yeah.
Well, I just remember again,
being a spun out kid out on Grateful Dead tour
and making sure I don't get pulled over
and our car doesn't smell like weed
and all those kinds of days.
And, you know, again, my dad,
when he first found a bag of weed
in my pants pocket doing my laundry,
he's like, I know what this is.
He knew one guy in the army who smoked weed,
this Hispanic guy.
And I guess he just sat around and didn't do anything.
So that was gonna be me.
He goes, you're just gonna sit around.
And again, they didn't like the whole Grateful Dead scene
because when my dad pulled down
the Encyclopedia Britannica, right?
There was no internet back in the day.
Pulled down Encyclopedia Britannica,
looks up Grateful Dead.
There's a picture of the human being from 1967, you know,
people doing acid and they hate acid.
This is where you're going, no way.
It's so cool how psychedelics and cannabinoids
have now taken this forefront
in where medical research is today.
And it made me think that, you know,
Jerry and the boys were just kind of like a Pied Piper
that kind of steered me away from the norm
and got me involved in this alternative culture,
which has turned out to be the main culture
of what we're doing today.
So how cool is that?
Very cool.
One cool, dude, yeah, it's incredible.
And one thing all, you know,
psychedelics and cannabis have in common
is they do have an effect on our consciousness, right?
And so, I mean, how much of our illness
actually stems from mental illness
and just kind of issues, you know,
like kind of the spirit of the times, you know?
I mean, I think everybody's a little stressed out nowadays
and especially coming off the two years of pandemic
and now going into a war or whatever.
So, you know, I think one thing that cannabis can help with
is, you know, that kind of like anxiety aspect
of just kind of calming your thoughts.
And I mean, it's, like you said,
all cannabis use is medicinal use, you know,
whether you think of it as that way or not, right?
So it's, and that's one thing, I mean,
if you can shift your consciousness,
if you can kind of get out of that funk,
even just for a few hours
and get a different perspective on life,
I mean, that can have physiological effects as well.
I mean, it's like, you know,
a happy person is kind of a healthy person.
So, yeah.
Absolutely.
Well, I have my calendar giving me all kinds of alarms.
I'm late for my next call.
Thank you for having me on, Peter.
This has been awesome.
So Mark, I just wanna say you're an inspiration
to kids everywhere who just wanna get high
and follow their favorite jam band around
for like five to 10 years
and then maybe possibly become PhDs.
Yeah.
Get a PhD in chemistry while you're at it.
You can do a public service announcement
for worried moms everywhere that their stoner kid
who just follows bands around
will make something out of his life.
Again, I couldn't have invented this on my own.
I was alive during Jerry Garcia's reign.
I was alive during Miles Davis.
I traversed the millennium.
I have one kid born in one millennium,
another kid born in another millennium.
So I remember thinking to myself,
gee, I'm gonna be 37 years old when it turns 2000.
That's really old.
Now you can do a quick math on me
and see how old I really am.
Floyd still thinks that's old.
I'm a few years away.
We have an incredible opportunity to push the frontier
as the regulation around this
wonderfully active plant changes.
And for me, it saved my life and now it's my gig.
But I think the greatest thing about these kinds of forums
is that, yeah, we don't realize it guys,
but we're inspiring a whole new generation
of young people who are watching this.
And that to me really charges my battery.
So thank you for this opportunity.
And yeah, let's do it again, Peter.
We will.
And you can apologize to whoever you're meeting with next.
You can say it's my fault.
My next call, right?
I got a job, guys.
Thanks for giving us the time.
Yeah, Mark, it was a pleasure, man.
And go ahead.
Oh, I was just gonna say, I know Dan was on here.
It looks like he lost connection,
but I did wanna just bring up
for everybody else that's still listening.
He is gonna have, he's actually having a big,
like a grow off, a cannabis cup.
It's really geared towards minors.
It's going down in Virginia who just legalized.
So all the people out there on the East Coast,
it is medgrowsummit.com and it's going down on April 16th.
Any home growers, if you guys like,
yep, oh, it's okay.
It's exactly one month for now.
And any home, I think home growers can apply.
I mean, it's pretty much open to everybody,
but it's got, the one cool thing
is that it has some categories
that are really geared towards like mixed ratios.
Minors. For everybody
who's into minors, this is your spot.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Minor cannabinoids, yeah, yeah.
So, yep.
And I think that's it.
Yeah, I mean, it's, if you wanna check it out,
that's medgrowsummit.com.
And if you have any questions,
hit up medgrowfarms on Instagram.
He'll take care of you.
Should be pretty cool.
He's standing by right now to take your questions.
No, I'm joking, I'm joking.
I have no idea what he's doing.
I'm sure he will.
He said he was heading to an event right now.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, he's around, so.
But, dude, Peter, thank you for inviting me, man.
Yeah, no, that was awesome.
I like, I mean, it was like the scientist
meets the practical, like,
and actually the next conversation
with Bruce Bugbee on lighting
is gonna be the same thing.
It's him who does, you know,
Bruce Bugbee who does research
and, you know, talking with growers
who are actually, like, growing under lights
and observing stuff themselves.
Like, you're using your, you know, your senses.
And it's good to get kind of that connection
between, like, where you can, like, I,
you know, in the future,
I want him peppering you with questions, too,
because it goes in both directions.
Like, he's not out in the field.
And I think for him, that's something
that he's probably, I can't talk for him,
but my assumption is he's curious
about the people who are breeding
and stuff like that,
kind of what you're seeing, what you're doing.
Yeah.
You know, and even people working with patients,
like, he's probably not working with patients.
So to see that, you know, some cannabinoid
or some ratios of certain things
or having someone out there is noticing certain effects.
Sorry, Bruce Bugbee just emailed me.
Yes, I will send you the link.
But yeah.
I think it's great pairing the, you know,
two separate ends of the, you know,
of what we're doing together is like,
I think it's brilliant.
And like, I learned, like, I was captivated.
Like, I was just-
Oh yeah, you were taking notes
from the minute he jumps on.
You're making the rest of us look bad
with your six pages of notes.
Oh no, well, he dropped a lot of information.
I mean, it's just like, you know, one after the other.
So, I mean, it's, you know,
and I've always been curious myself, you know,
as far as like the isomers and what's actually going on,
you know, at the chemical level.
So yeah, to be able to talk to somebody
that really knows what they're doing
and kind of, you know,
cause they're kind of working with the invisible realm.
You know, like you said, I see everything as it is,
as far as like, you know, when you're breeding,
you know, everything is kind of visual
and kind of sense oriented,
but he's looking at the invisible realm,
what's going on behind the scenes.
So that's part, you know,
that's kind of an area where like my understanding
can always grow and it helps, you know,
kind of helps kind of paint that picture in my mind
of what's really going on.
So yeah, I think everybody probably learned a lot today
from Dr. Mark and it's cool to meet a doctor,
you know, as cool as him.
So that was.
Absolutely.
I learned a lot from both of you guys.
It was very interesting having your perspective
on like the other end of it, the experience end
and not just in the lab.
So it was, like Peter said,
it was nice having both ends to listen to there.
So I learned a lot from both of you guys.
There's a question over here
that you might be able to address.
So personal stories with CBG.
I mean, I take CBG every day.
I usually take it in a one-to-one kind of ratio.
I find that it's extremely kind of like energizing,
stimulating, and it helps with focus.
Like I said, I think one of the biggest things
that it does is it can help with gut issues.
So if anybody out there is having gut issues,
I mean, I can't speak on smoking CBG flour
because most of my experience comes from edible cannabis.
Just because I feel like you can take higher doses,
it lasts longer.
It's just kind of more like people that are looking
to take something and kind of go about their day.
It really helps.
But yeah, I mean, I think CBG in combination
with THC is great and CBD.
So it's like kind of whatever,
if you're more on the CBD side of things,
I think blending it in your kind of daily regimen.
And then the same thing, if you're a THC consumer
and you're looking to kind of add some other minors in
and you're not too fond of CBD,
I think CBG and THC have a good synergistic effect more so
where like CBD tends to kind of downplay
and mask the effects of Delta-9.
CBG can kind of like,
it definitely seems like it has more of a synergy
and it's not just canceling it out.
So that's just my personal experience.
And I have none.
So I'm glad that you had an answer for them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it's a good one.
And I think you're gonna see a lot more of it out there.
You know, extract prices are coming down.
So I hope to see more people kind of formulating tinctures
and stuff with it.
And also too, they're not stable yet,
but I mean, you can create mixed ratio genetics
that are, you know, CBG-THC mixed ratio
and CBD-CBG mixed ratio.
We just haven't, you know,
there's clones of them, those floating around,
but as far as like isolating them
or stabilizing them in seed form,
I think we're probably a little ways off.
So, but yeah, I mean, that's, yeah,
that's kind of where my focus is,
is creating genetics that have the, you know,
especially mixed ratio genetics
that you could just take a plant and process it in oil
and it'll be like a nice one-to-one, you know,
or in a kind of maybe have some minors as well,
like that CBC we're seeing pop up.
And then once you get into the variants too,
the CBD tends to show up a lot with THC-V in conjunction.
So, so yeah, you'll, you know,
seeing some mixed ratio barren genetics
come out over the next few years.
So it's, yeah, I mean,
there's a lot of cool stuff coming down.
Awesome.
You're muted, Peter.
Can't hear you, man.
Do you see that one?
Yeah, I see it.
So yeah, D-carb, the CBG.
So yeah, I mean, so we have,
so I have made some tinctures with like,
that was like a 50% D-carb, you know?
So like you tend to get some conversion over to CBGA
or CBG from CBGA,
but I tend to D-carb all my edible oils, you know,
unless somebody really wants the acidic form.
But, you know, when they are in their acidic form too,
they do taste acidic.
They don't taste very pleasant.
So it actually, like,
if you're making a high dose tincture,
I feel like the D-carb, carboxylation process,
it helps with that a little bit.
But I guess, so I guess it's just what your goal is
with your medicine.
So, I mean, I know some people prefer the acid forms
like CBDA, but you're not going to get quite the effect
as you would from like a D-carb, CBG or CBD product.
And then the one right below it was CBD hash yielders.
So I would like, one of the best washers I have
is a strain called a Seba.
And it's a, it wasn't my original creation,
but it's a cross of, it's a Harley Sue cross essentially.
But yeah, she dumps really well.
So, and her out crosses do.
So I've got like, if you like one-to-ones,
I have a strain called Wild Country
and that's a cross of Seba.
I do have, there's a couple other ones on there,
but yeah, anything with Seba in there,
it's just, she's a good hasher for sure.
It was way up there, but somebody was asking earlier
about your land race.
I'm assuming that long flowering THCP thing
you were talking about.
Yeah, so, and Mark brought it up too, CBGB.
So my next breeding project,
they're already in week two of flower.
I've got the reversal going.
It's my Mad Villain.
So it's a strain that we created last year
that really kind of grabbed a lot of people's attention,
but it's a Mad Dog CBG,
which is about a 10 to 12% CBG cultivar,
compliant hemp variety, cross to our one-to-one.
It's also about an eight week flowering plant,
but it's a-
Mad Dog is one of the ones I've been giving out
to people a lot,
because I want to get CBG into their kind of libraries,
so to speak.
That's perfect.
So it's a type four cross.
It does grow a little lanky.
It does have fiber genetics in it,
though it has been worked.
And it's got some kind of cool, funky aromas
from like, you know, more kind of like on the GMO side,
like garlic, kind of, you know, funky oniony stuff,
some ammonia.
So it's definitely got it.
You know, it's kind of its own.
It's unique in its own right.
But we took that and crossed it to our 16 week one-to-one,
which is a one-to-one.
It basically finishes out,
if you can take it 16 weeks at 6% THC and 6% THCB.
You can harvest it at like week 12 or 13,
but you're going to be down around three to 4% of each.
So it's not a super potent plant,
but it's definitely, it needs a lot of work.
So we've been out crossing it to a lot of different things.
And so I'm in the process of taking that to F2.
And so if anybody's familiar with miners,
a lot of them are kind of double recessive.
So when you take like a THCB or even take CBG
and out cross that to like that one-to-one,
what we found in the F1s is that a lot of them,
the THC is kind of going to mask the CBG.
And so you don't see some of these miners
like CBG or THCB popping up until the F2s,
because the genes are lining back up.
And so you'll start seeing THCB pop up, CBG,
and we're hoping to find some CBGB in those as well.
So those will be ready in around June,
if you guys check out the website
or sign up for the email list.
I know a lot of people are waiting on those.
And the THCB content will definitely be a lot higher
than the original seeds that were released.
So you can still find it in there,
but you're gonna have to sift through a lot.
And most importantly, when are we gonna get a restock?
Ah, so that's so funny.
So my wife is working on that for you
and I've got a bunch of new CBD fans coming your way.
So we've got some new stuff
and then you also get the Mad Villain drop.
So when we do that, so like when I'm doing the Mad Villains,
like I like to make the F2s,
which is two separate selections from that line.
I'll also make an S1, which is using the same female,
crosses the same female.
And then we do a bunch of out crosses.
So I'll have it out cross to like some of my CBD moms
and then some of my THC moms as well.
And that's, you know, a lot of this is fun.
And really it's just trying to get a lot of these
kind of minor rich genetics out to people
that can play around with them,
get, you know, just get access to them.
I mean, we really want people to work these lines.
And so all our genetics are open source.
I think we, you know, price them pretty reasonably.
You can find them on, on a dog.
And yeah, we're gonna be sending Peter a bunch of,
a bunch more too.
So.
And I'm just, as I think of like, I never, you know,
I kind of guess from what someone's ordering
kind of what their interests are.
So if they're like ordering a bunch of land racy stuff,
I don't want to give them like super hypey dessert.
Like, here's your cookies.
Right.
Or if someone's ordering like something that's a CBD mix,
I'm like, okay, like they'd probably be down with the C,
like, but for anyone watching,
put in the note like what your interests are.
And it doesn't have to be mutually exclusive.
You can be like, I like everything.
Or like, I'm totally into medical, you know,
I'm hunting for medical related stuff.
Or like, I just want to get high or, you know,
cause I do want to get that CBG out to lots of people
just so that people have that as like a building block.
Yeah. And I did, I have like, I have a bunch of seeds,
like bulk seed that I can give to you to hand out.
I have a lot of land race, mixed ratio stuff,
some more kind of mixed, mixed chemo type stuff.
That's more kind of like, like breeding stock, you know?
So it's, but I've got a lot of it.
So, you know, as far as, it's not anything that I,
you know, release, but, but yeah, no, I think,
like you said, if people can let you know
what they're interested in, like, I kind of try
and touch all bases with our, with our breeding projects.
And so I've kind of have like my main lines
and then I have all my passion stuff that, you know,
but I, but the way I look at it is like,
if I'm interested in it and it's not out there,
cause a lot of the stuff that I've created
is because I haven't been able to find it,
then I'm sure there's a few other people
that might be interested in it as well.
So.
I agree.
All right, well, why don't we wrap it there?
Cause I'm like brain dead and hungry
and I got a whole nother show in 40 minutes.
Nice.
Cool, man.
All right, this was awesome.
Good meeting you, Elka.
I'm sure I'll see you around.
And thank you, Peter.
Thanks for the invite.
All right, thank you everyone.
We'll see, we're going to switch lighting in 40 minutes.
So.
All right.
All right, peace everybody.
And I appreciate what you did.
