Bada bing bada bang bada boom. In the house we're gonna get a boom. I'm just
like usual starting slow. Good morning Eddie. I've still got the coffee starting.
I'll be right back here and we'll get going on the show.
Oh gosh, I didn't even set things up. This might not flow properly. I'm gonna have to do some setup while we're going.
Got up this morning, got busy doing some other things.
And looked up and realized, hey I'm late for doing paradigm shift. That's part of
what happens when you take a job. The whole reality gets switched out. I'm gonna
take a look here and see if my web browser is still on and working. And yeah, so
window capture and see. I'm not sure how I screwed up. I didn't set this all up
beforehand. This should be still going. There it is. Sweet. All right. And where'd I
want to go to? We're going there. All right. We're back on the... This is interesting though.
Page got changed. Let's see. I'm gonna go back. I was down way at the bottom of all
this. I don't know what happened. Didn't change it. Why ain't this working? Sorry everyone.
I'm not sure what's going on. Why can't change? Let's try this again. Posts from Hardy Gear.
Oh, oh yeah. So I was way down. This sucks. So this emphasizes what I'm saying. It's a
real pain in the butt to go through somebody's account. 600 pages. I had this all dialed
in. Thought we were ready to go. And Davey's still there. Can you give me acknowledgement
shout out saying you're hearing me talk? What a pain. This is not what I gotta do.
Whatever. Anyhow, the 826 of you who still hang out and watch me probably don't care.
I was planning on playing the flute instead of this to start, but here we are going through
in reverse. Lots of cool pictures I suppose. But not really what. This sucks. Sorry everyone.
So while I'm on this, I've been trying to get mushrooms to grow. And it's kind of funny
because I can grow any fucking plant in the world, but I've never really had success at
growing mushrooms. I can get funguses growing wonderfully. You can see mycelium right here
in this image. That's my compost pile. I have all sorts of amazing fungal dominance in my
soils and things like that. Culturing psilocybin mushrooms has been fucking hellacious for
me. So this is kind of cool seeing all the different lessons that I'm going to go back
and review real quick. So some of the things I've been finding I'm having trouble with
is I did this stuff in the laboratory. I think one of my biggest problems is temperature control
of spawn. And once I get it warm enough, the shit takes off. It gets too hot and kills itself. And
then I'm not certain I'm having proper gas exchange is the other thing I'm looking at.
It doesn't matter what you're studying. If it's not your main thing, quite often it can be if
you're not 100% focused on stuff. So the mycelium, mycology is an art and a science and so is
growing cannabis. And getting it dialed in. Anyone can say, I can get the mycelium to grow
just fine, but getting it to stay alive, not get infected or not turn to slime. And that has
repeatedly been issues of mine. Is getting that, again, I'm zeroing in. I only try this every
couple of years as I give up, I get frustrated. I say, fuck this. I'm not trying it no more. I've
wasted time and energy. And like there's some other cultures right there. What are all those?
Where those go right there. So these are Kambucha and vinegars that I keep around, right? I keep
all sorts of these cultures going constantly. This is for whatever freaking reason the myceliums
have been. I think we're okay. This is right about where we were. Cool.
Excellent. Let's see. I'm going to try. I'm going to bring this back up and you can see there and
Simaj B25. Thank you for the confirmation. I guess I don't need my glasses. They don't have
the light on my face. So where were we? We're at, let me see if I can expand this out a little bit.
Where'd that go? Yeah, I don't know. Sorry I didn't have this all set up, folks. But sometimes
that's just the way it flows. Trying to make it all happen. So last week we were at, we were
going to breath of green, green dragon. Is that what we were doing? Let's see. Oh, so I'm going
to go on here. Talked about fuchsia flower hairs, how they come out. And when I transport things
from the indoor lighting to the outdoor lighting. What's going on with this? This is wrong.
I don't like that too. So yeah, that fuchsia hair can come out when you go from
indoor to outdoor and the UV changes, right? Aren't those beautiful? But there are naturally
occurring without that UV change colors. And things like, so you can get blues, pinks, fuchsia,
purples. St. Bernard proving up first flush. So we were past this a little ways, but let's go ahead
and take another look at it. So this is literally like 20 days or whatever. And this stuff is
starting to, and St. Bernard is again, I never described what St. Bernard, that's, what did I do
there? So there was green, green cross. No, not the green cross. I'm trying to remember what I
called that guy. There's a particular plant I got from an old hippie who's senior to me by 15 years
or so. And he found some seed in the nineties. And that one was utilized for, I grew it and nothing
I didn't find what come out of it. Right. I grew it again later and found better results with
structure and stuff. And I determined it was probably a North Afghan hash plant. And the
thing is he, he said, this is like from the best we did ever smoke. And he saved the seed for 15,
20 years asking, waiting for somebody to do how to grew and do it properly, et cetera.
And so I found that plant and I dug, I utilized it for a hybridization of,
I don't even remember what the, I'm sorry, St. Bernard. So it's that,
it's that one that I got from the old hippie that uses the, is the mother and the pollen came.
I think it was cookie wreck as well. I got to look at some notes. It's been so long since I played
with that stuff. Anyhow. And then I'd use that to produce these economy lines as well. So we went
through this, this slide set too, as well, talking about boujoulais, the fresh, right.
And so in France and the wine regions, they do, they do their fresh wine releases and they call
it the boujoulais. They'll drink that fresh and everything else gets aged. Right. And so like we
can age our hash and things like that. But we all know that flower tends to degrade after a while,
after it's been cured, if it's not properly stored, you can end up having problems with it.
So I wanted to lay out the concept of boujoulais to the industry and utilize that as the fresh crop,
right. For a term for folks to utilize. And there's some mosquito killers. Let's see what we got next.
Oh, Amadour. Yeah. The Afghan. So something I didn't mention about this guy in the last show was
this genetic tends to sit at about 22%, right. So while you might have a smaller structure
that he imparted on folks, he definitely moved along that 22% and frostiness, like I said,
it's a couch locker quite often. And you get males with frost on them, on the offspring from this
thing. So that's something else on the PCK or my, what is it? Zachistani, where you get
frosty males, right. And those are land race, pure inbred land races producing this frosty males,
not super hybrid. What we're looking at here is tails in less than 12 hours from Breath of Purple
Dragon. So I guess I was a bit further along in all this, but somebody was asking about aloe.
And so you can see, I took a piece of aloe and just kind of scrape, cut it open, slice it open
and scrape out a little of the gel. And so you don't need a whole lot, but it's a superfood
kind of similar to coconut water. Green coconut water, right. Is another one that like, this has
all the nutrients that seeds need if they're older, whatever. These weren't old seed, but
you can see it's pretty amazing. They're still floating, right. And they all have their tails
out. That's something that happens occasionally with my stock. Mostly it will pop in under 24
hours. You know how everyone likes to show off the biggest. So I already went through all these
ones in the last show. Let's just go ahead and see if we can't catch up. Some stanky pine tar skunk
from Lucky Beans. Magic Beans, I think is, he's calling himself these days. There was a pair of
guys working together. They split up. Here's some stuff I got from Cameroon, some land race.
Looking at the Z-Track, which is again, so track, I touched on this lightly. Track is the series
where I do a primary hybrid and I name a plant and or the series, the cross, and then I back
cross into Dr. Dream and the first letter of the name. So Z-Track is Ziggy Stardust
and back crossed into Dr. Dream. And Ziggy Stardust is Dr. Dream All Cure by Bog Blue Moon Rocks.
I had one dude just go off at me one time saying I didn't know what I'm talking about because
Moon Rocks is not a strain. It's when you soak buds in oil and roll them in quiche.
And I was like, yeah, that's what Moon Rocks is. But Bog Blue Moon Rocks is an actual strain.
Beautiful flower structure. The Z-Track, this stuff is super funky. It can have a hard couch
lock or an upper euphoria. That polyhybrid of the Dr. Dream really can pop out the various
different possibilities there. So yeah, there's our Z-Track. Let me take a quick look at
will aloe ferment? Aloe can ferment. I think the way...
brain farting names. Clack. Coots does. He takes the slime and concentrates it
and it's probably fermenting when he does that. But that's what he uses for his
for his cloning gel. It's just straight aloe concentrate, right? So that's the Coots. And I
have mixed results using aloe for cloning. I tend to see my stems explode if I soak it in
aloe water too long. If I just dip it in and pull it out, it seems to do fine. But I literally have
the stem, all the base of it does like that, right? If I soak it too long and it splits apart.
And so I think it's doing something to the cell wall trigger pressure. It's sucking in too much
stuff and blowing apart cells. Let's see. So I know we've touched on the Z-Track in the last
show. What we got here? Tangy by Trident of St. Bernard. So this was talking about some of my...
I took that Trident of St. Bernard and hit a whole bunch of cuts that I had selected.
And sifted through and just wanted to put out an economy line
for folks. And unfortunately, not a whole lot of people have taken up on these. But these tangy
ones, it's got a lot of phenotypes and variability. But when you find the ones that you have
some real dank, stank, citrusy. And most of them, even if they're not really that bad,
they're not that bad. But they're not that bad. And they're not that bad. And they're not that bad.
And most of them, even if they're not citrusy, you can produce a solid flower.
Right? Big production coals and stuff like that. Again, here's more of the St. Bernard hybridization,
economy lines, just stuff. I'm making Chuck. This is what most people do when they call themselves
breeders. They just make a primary Chuck and possibly inbreed. Some of these I've inbred to
the third level F3 just inside projects. But I'm not releasing any of that. I just have, I have
10,000 each of these seeds of the original hybrids. Anyhow, that's
Vader Meister. That was one that I first really learned about THCv from, from one of my
clients. Here's another of that Tangy by St. Bernard. 45 days, one gallon living soil under
1000 CMH, ebb and flow. I got pH tap water labs, DROCACHE, modern microbes and all the amounts
is almost negligible. There's a pinch of NFTG, nectar for the gods. Potted up from six inch to 23 days.
I tested 10 on this run. Three retrain the extreme citrus turps, four nose citrus nose,
but stout and frosty. Three boys called ASAP. Not an F2 selection run. I ran in like 30 or more
later to do a selection run, but properly, I really would want to do like a 300 on this guy
or more, but I got a bunch of others. Again, this was just like a side Chuck that I did for
get cheap seeds of quality out to people. What does it read? I know you guys can't read this. I
saw that. So three boys called it not an F2 selection run, but if I can, I'm going to
re-veg and keep this one. Trying the same Bernard has proved up now and is a viable stud to impart
the aspects I wanted thicker, stronger stem, shorter inner nodes and bigger frost covered
flowers. Two to three times bigger than the mother's seed run. All while retaining potency
nose, terpene profiles and medicinal qualities of the mother. As you can see, fade beginning is
imparted. It also imparted a bonus I was not expecting, but I'm seeing individuals of all
the mothers studded by him. A major shortening of flower period looks like eight plus a day or two,
eight weeks plus a day or two. So yeah, I crossed into a bunch of like 85, 90 day strains and brought
it back down to a much shorter period with, with some of these, this trident of St. Bernard.
See people asking. So I was still teaching future, no,
Probiotic Farmers Alliance and people will come in and find, were finding me from there here on,
on the, on the Instagram page. Some beautiful flower there. Let's see. Checking comments.
Can you play the flute when I end the show? Yeah, I'll play the flute.
Tips for Gorilla Grow. We'll get some of those eventually, but
you know, it's finding the right spots. The biggest thing for your, for Gorilla Grow tips
and timing. Getting a taproot in is freaking huge in my opinion. Let's see. Here we go. 36 days into
12s on the test run of a mother studded by Trident of St. Bernard. Here we have Malawi gold. I guess
I did go past these.
Shitty photo, shitty photo. I just got a check from Peter. It's almost enough to buy a decent phone.
So hopefully I'm going to find some other money and buy a phone that I can take better pictures
with. Start doing some other things. Let's see. There's my mentor in 1977. Let's see. Who need ESPN?
Is that sports channel? I go skiing. What's up Ty? You're tuned?
80 spot. Perfect. Then you got to go do it. That's the thing about Gorilla Grow is you got to do it.
Let's see. I'm back here. So looking at my mentor in 1977. He was down in Mexico when I was six.
Mexican Highlands stuff that he picked up. But rip. Buddy Rob, can I enter? I mean, I'll get back to
the ski resort and meeting people who I didn't know before who asked me if I was friends with
Rob. Just this week. It's pretty awesome. I'm all tingly right now. Just remind myself of that.
Testing some economy lines. Am I going backwards? I think they're wrong. March 28th. Yeah, I am. I've
been going backwards. Duh. Okay. I wonder if I can cover shit I already covered. Let's see here.
I haven't got to where we were and this is all stuff I've done. All right. All right. Here we go.
I'm not dyslexic or anything. Yeah, we went over that painting. PCK. There's the Amadour.
See, we did those last week. Oh, yeah. There's the chill. I broke that freaking chill.
That's the Sheila Guapi. But let's see. I'm going to go. Let's see here. I'm going to go here.
I'm going to go. Is this the right one? No filter cam? No. That's not working.
Yeah, activate. Activate. There I am. Cool. All right. So there's that chill on my freaking
last week or two weeks ago. Set it on the table right here and it rolled off. Right. And
unfortunately, destroyed that chill. And here's one that I made to copy that. But it was actually,
I was trying to make a pipe and I screwed up and drilled right through at a funky angle. So
it actually looks a lot like the... Let's see. I'm turning the wrong one here. There we go.
Anyhow, this is Utah Pipestone. Here's another one. It's pretty nice, a little bigger Utah Pipestone.
But in order to alleviate that rolling off problem, I came up with this concept right here,
where I'm going to leave a flat side. This seems like a rather large...
Right. And there's different ways you can get around chill them.
But this literally fits perfectly
and seals right up.
Just so you can... It pulls fine.
This is beautiful with the... We won't be able to see it until it really
gets wet or whatever, but there's all sorts of... You can see some lines here.
There's tons of beautiful patterns running in both directions in the grain of the stone.
The stone comes... It's 350 to 500 million years old when the particles of clay were laid down
and began the stone reforming process. So these things have some serious contemplation when you
utilize. But the latest one I did, I was trying to figure out some other things here. But here is
this is the latest. And I've got a series that are going to come out that are just...
They just look like this small stone and they are a perfect little... And I'm doing them like a self
bow where I'm utilizing the shape that I end up cutting out and whatever live edges, like this
right here is the live edge. That's the natural stone surface from the piece of chunk of rock
that I had started cutting on. But today, this morning, I was trying to figure out what's the
origin of the stone that became pulverized to clay to become this. So we're talking another...
We're talking a billion years ago. But anyhow, so yeah, I'm going to have a series of these things
coming out soon enough. But this one, I'm really digging the little personal unit. And it fits.
It's smaller than your lighter. So your little personal pocket kit. And this will come with a
ream. It'll come with a ream and a cloth. When I put these out. Anyhow, the chillum just reminded
me and they don't roll. I just set that down and it's sitting on its edge beautifully.
How exactly are you supposed to hold the chillum? So I have always held chillum
and I do not like using cloth. I hold them between my fingers there.
And then when you close down, you should have an 80% seal. A small chillum, you should be able
to do with one hand, in my opinion. So when you start getting into these larger ones,
I try and get this to where it still fits in a seal. But people will wrap a cloth and I don't
know how to do that. They'll wrap a cloth to create a seal in there. I've literally never
done it. I don't know how that works. But some people will do that. They'll wrap a cloth and
especially when you get into these larger ones. A lot of people's hands aren't quite as thick as
mine and stuff as well. They don't have the meat on. I have super thick bones. There's another way
that I'll when people they want to stick it in their mouth. I'll tell I really I stopped sharing
pipe a long time ago. It's one of the reasons I started carrying chillum because people will
transmit disease. And I found this out long before the coronavirus that if I stopped sharing my pipe
and just filled up other people's pipe, I would not get sick all fucking winter.
So there's another one in the end. Okay. So I've seen I've seen
you know, like this. I've seen people go like this with them where they put it between their
thumb and their hand and they create a whole big ass pull across the top of their mouth like
they're wearing a mask. Okay. But you need someone else to light it at that point.
They the really large stone ones in India, they can weigh several kilos of stone and hold a
kilo of hash. They'll hang them in a tree. But they're like, they're massive. They're these big
two foot long stone pieces. So yeah, I don't I don't know how
other people really do. This is how for me, I wanted to be able to
single hand seal and get a good draw again about 80% with air flowing through.
I really think they should have these larger holes, right and a massive airflow. And so that's
why it's not so bad of a deal to have some air leakage because you just get way too much of an
intense blast of hot air. Other people have different concepts of that. But one of the
things I'm going to be starting producing some of the smaller ones though with a smaller hole,
and it's the same size hole I use on my personal sacred pipe. Okay, so I know it won't clog it
cleans easily and such. So someone says we'll be smoking hash after the show. And I got a late
start. I meant to smoke some myself. Let's see. So someone's asking what kind of bit that I'm using.
I'm using standard
metal tip bits, basically. I'm gonna start working in some marble too. We
have a local source of marble. I'm going to try and do some some of these with
I need to scroll up find out I was just thinking.
Yeah, so these aren't these aren't actually clay. These are stone.
No, no, these come from chunks of rock. And let me grab one real quick. Actually, sorry.
All right, so no, I'm literally cutting chunks of rock. Right? This was the
whatever I drove down. I know where the almost know where the quarry is. I got a good idea. But
my car ain't going where that's at. So I drove down to the rock shop and Moab to pick this stuff
up. But this is from near Delta, where it forms. There might be there's trial of bites in this rock
and stuff. Let's see. Yeah, so this has this has trial of bites in it. So this is older than
Jurassic, right? I'm scrolling up to see questions I missed there. And oh boy, let's see.
Someone asked the bit I answered that. So I started out hand augering into doing that with
the bit in the in the auger. And I know exactly what that takes. But at this point, I'm using
DeWalt hand drills. Just because it's a nobody's gonna pay me for the time it takes to hand
drill that shit. It's gonna be expensive enough as it is just to do it with the machinery. So
but I do use I'm using a grinder for initial cuts on the larger pieces. Right? And then
then I'm coming in with a with a hacksaw to finish it. But this is like this one here was
primarily run across with a grinder and then snap off the middle piece there.
And then just keep cutting down into smaller pieces. And then, you know, both the process,
like, you know, cutting, cutting squares and rectangles, whatnot.
Traditionally, they're seen to be round, right? Made out of clay or glass. But the stone,
I'm like, just throwing out so much beautiful rock if I just try and round these things back
out. So that's not really necessarily what I'm going to be aiming for. I'm an artist,
I've come up with a completely different style and design. But I also find that this,
this shape here fits in between your fingers way better than than round.
Then then round and just innovations, right? So let's see.
In India, all the chillums are personal, the item will reflect upon your public
stature, shitty quality chillum and trash hash means you're poor, vice versa.
And I think they also they look at how you clean your pipe or whatever. Like somebody will take
look at your inspector of your chillum to see the condition of your mind by how you take care of
your tools. Right? Like here in America, your car determines your status. Long opium pipes for hash.
Some other things I'm looking at, I have a lot of oak, I want to get a lathe and start making long
oak pieces, handle or two parts to have stone heads on in bowls. Soapstone, I've worked with
soapstone as well. And if every time I've made a soapstone pipe, I'd have to run downstairs to
find the one I still have, I have to bind it with wet leather, because it starts to split for me.
And that's the big surf soapstone that I've collected.
The the pipestone I have is actually harder from Utah is more dense and harder than the
the Minnesota kaolinite or this stuff from Canada. I've not worked with any alabaster,
hardest type of wood I have in my area. We have we have something called
mountain mahogany, curly mountain mahogany is one of the hardest woods in North America period.
And that's one of my favorite trees to the beauty of the curly mountain mahogany. If you've ever
seen it backlit in summer when it's in bloom, and it's, it's curl, it's curling. It's, it's,
there's a curl leaf on it, but the flower floret kind of has this, it's like a little feather that
curls up and it's most beautiful. Let's see. And I like to get back to making some wooden pipes.
I haven't made them and like I said, I have this oak, I'm gonna, I want to start interacting with
the pipestone, kaolinite, yes. Ironwood is tough. Yes, it breaks bits. The oak I have
actually dulls bits as well. It has a high silica content in it and you can't even drive nails
through it. You have to, you have to drill holes to put dowels and stuff. I do a lot, I do,
you can't, gosh, I don't know. I'm gonna try something here. I'm gonna try and move the
computer and see, I don't know what kind of wire length I've got, but right, right there.
See that table behind my shoulder? You see the tusk sticking out? That's a tusked
through mortise and tenon. The entire table is built without any, without any metal whatsoever.
It's all carved square holes and pegs and stuff. So I, I really get into traditional
woodworking and stuff like that. Etsy store I do and it's not active and that's where I really
need to start. I'm gonna probably be putting all these chillums on there. I'm gonna start putting
some other artwork on there as well and I've been wanting to do this for a couple years where
I produce some posters of artwork that you buy that and you get a pack of free novelty
The Montana, Pipestone Mountain, Montana. Where is that Highlander? I don't know about
Montana Pipestone. I would like to know about that. I got connections up in Montana. I actually
have a studio in Prairie, Montana there. Jack Pine Knobs, nice. The one of the craziest pipes
I ever saw was a kid in San Francisco. I don't know if you guys remember that, but he was a
chicken foot and I don't remember if it held a bowl or whatever, but it was literally,
it was a chicken's foot and then you sucked on the leg of the chicken.
All right, let's see. Back to, back to Instagram. How do I get there?
Web Browser. That's the one. All right, so I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to,
I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to,
I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to, I need to,
camera deactivate, activate, I'm back. Okay, so Chillum. That's where that all came from. I saw
the Chillum. Between Bozeman and Booth. Okay, cool. I'll keep that in mind. I haven't been up
in a couple of years and, but, but yeah, I get up, I know exactly the area, the topography,
et cetera. Thank you. Oh, what I did. So yeah, we seen, we seen the giant flower.
We seen me up potting. We saw the corn. This is about where we were, I guess.
Did I show beaten up seedlings? Let's see.
The stretch that most folks really seem to have an issue with when they're just learning about
this stuff. One thing I do is I'll go through and rough them up to stop the stealth growth
and slow down the atoliation. So it says here, atoliation or stem stretch is a major issue for
newbies. There's a root coming out. Three things I do to stop it. You need enough soft white or
blue light. So here's some seedlings. As you can see here, I rough them up good, which breaks cells
and forces scar growth, influx of silica and stronger stem results. Potting them up with
soft stem in the soil, it will sprout roots for the third part there. Seedling stretch is a part
of good survival technique in nature. The seedlings may need to emerge from last year's
decaying plant matter or soil deposit on the hillside.
Oh here, we're just showing a beautiful bee hanging out, loving the plants.
And the sounds of the greenhouse. All right, so we're going this way now.
Yep, this is potting up. I'm pretty sure I showed this last time as well. You can see I'm not super
delicate with what I'm doing. And then I'm just burying that stem so it can grow roots as well.
And then you're saving space if you're indoors with limited vertical
limitations. Here's some of my sweet blue corn woman.
I went to jail over this particular plant. You can see some of its ancient corn genetics showing
in the top of the picture there. What do we got? Let's see, can I just expand?
Why is it not expanding for me? There we go. What I want to show you is... oh no, come back, come back.
This yellow structure at the top of the of the ear, that is the male part. And that's part of
the ancient Sosotsli corn coming out of this, right? And showing the land race origins of this
corn. And so it'll actually have both the male and female parts in the single ear
when it's like this. So this is its fresh, sweet eating stage, right? I'm now like 20 years in on
growing this corn that I've developed myself. And so it's a little bit chewier than a
than a super sweet corn, but it's really good when you eat it at this stage, etc.
Let's see. Breath of purple dragon coming to the homestretch, smells of fruit pies,
baking in a truck stop. What is that like fruity and gas, diesel stink, raunchiness,
a little bit of must, earthy. Let's see my pound hearty gear, pound land race, pound
enthno botanist, pound heal yourself, pound grow your own, pound fuck cancer, hashtag
fuck spinal edema, hashtag fuck arthritis, hashtag dr dream all cure, hashtag pakistani chitral kush.
So some of you might not know I have a spinal edema. I have two vertebrae where there's like
a swelling around it. And like when pressure gradients change from storms and shit, the
spinal cord gets pinched in the spine because all the everything around it swells up and stuff.
So it's literally a miracle that I do things at all.
Let's see, I'm going to check our comments here. Gandalf pipes hand drilled with the natural,
right? So you know didgeridoos, true didgeridoo is not actually carved, right? You all know what
a didgeridoo is? It's a sacred instrument from Australia. They're chewed out by white ants.
Okay. And so I think a curved pipe. No, there's woodworking techniques where you can actually
No, there's woodworking techniques where you can actually curve wood after.
There's also certain plants that have pith and that hollows out just fine.
But Highlander saying steam and stick, steamed and then bent. You got stream during caribou.
I have no idea what caribou is. Burning stem help against wind. I don't know what that means.
Someone's loving the corn. Three sisters are corn, beans and squash. Ten for the most part. Yes,
the sacred three sisters. So if you just planted, put your beans in after the corn is up six inches.
Your corn will vine, but it'll overgrow your corn if you put your beans in at the same time.
I don't think I have cancer. We just found out my daughter's mother has cancer. I've got
way more than cancer though. Yeah, I don't like steroids. Someone's saying here, I keep asking my
surgeon to refer me for cervical injections to the edema in my cervical spine. That makes sense.
The steroids might help with inflammation and swelling. THC, V and CBD and building core
strength are the things that saved my ass. THCA, topicals on the muscle structure around it.
Eating THCA is the thing that's helped me more than anything.
And building core strength. Let's see. So back to, I'm going to drop comments and go back to my
front page. Let's see. I'm way too... we're going to zoom down. Zoom down. What's going on here?
I'm not zooming down. Let's see. Let's try. Let's see. Let's hear what we're saying.
So just a couple of years ago, this is how I keep learning. I'm asking, what do you think
about the purple hairs? This is, I did not know it was the UV change from indoor to outdoor.
I know it now. So we all constantly learn. How's it going? It evolves. Purple dragon.
Cutting some big, big, big trees. I think, I think I use this as a joke. There's, there's on,
on the West coast, they talk about the redwood trees and pineapples.
I actually used to do, I've done cut some trees, not quite this big, but hand ax. And I had,
I had a double buck saw, like you see there for, for quite some time. I had to sell it to make a
mortgage payment after the crazy neighbor sprayed my blue corn. You saw there, it was eight years
in on that project. And I ended up going to jail, lost my farm and almost my house over the whole
gig. But there's this, this beautiful breath of purple dragon, solid Cola sticking up.
I love, I love that batch of flowers. That was of all my breeding. This is like one of the,
literally one of my more wholesome runs. I really, it's hard to show up, but each one of
these things has got a, like a third of an inch base stem coming up two and a half to three feet
to these big solid Coke bottle Colas. I hit that twice. Oh, here, here we go. We're up on the side
of the mountain with some of that, hardcore little backlight in the sun. Not the best photo, but it
really shows. That's literally seed thrown out on the side of the mountain and doing its thing.
This was a project, if you don't know, I did as a dedication for my best friend who went missing on
the, up in the mountains. Pet rooster. I had to fight the city to keep my rooster.
THC is from cannabis raw, fresh and not decarbed. That is correct, burning tree,
nurse remain. UV in the tent brings out the perp, I'm convinced. Genetics brings out the perp.
Cold temperatures will enhance the perp, but on the, if you have UV enhanced,
it will bring out the purple in your hairs. Going to be a midnight. Yeah. I've only been
through Mendocino a couple of times when I was studying forestry. It's beautiful freaking drives
out there. Trying to think of some of the breweries my brother used to interact with.
Yeah, no, people don't like it until they get used to it, but it was literally my,
the neighbor, the landlord next door was trying to have the city shut me down in between tenants
and the tenants don't really care. Somebody is asking how do they get their hands on the
Dr. Dream? I give these out as freebies primarily. I've also done some inbreeding from the field
seed, but we got everybody anticipating and holding off, jumping the chop gun over here,
getting off on the next round of land race breeding. So this would have been like an autumn
in September, October, and people are crock tobering and I'm getting a breeding project
started. I'm over here off and running with some fat Maefesto Rankness and that's not the
company Mephesto. That is the genus name for skunks, Mephesto. And I don't even know, it
doesn't say who these guys, oh, Breath of Green Dragon. I've been running the Breath of Green
Dragon, trying to figure, find the F3 around. I've been going through several variables on that.
Incendi Proletarius. I am Incendi Proletarius, the protector of fire,
the keeper of knowledge, the giver of light. And you might see that on some of my seed packs.
But yeah, so that was my first sealed pack right there. I was taking that business card and folding
it over and stapling it onto a centrifuge. I'm going over here. This is an awesome thing. These
guys were living on a hemp plant I had. They're predators and people chase them off. I'm not sure
if these were paper wasps, but they ended up being quite friendly. I never had any problems with them.
And I started noticing, I tried to keep them home for them preserved and see if I could
bring them back. But this is when I stopped destroying paper wasps, except for right up
around my doors and stuff like that. I realized that these guys are predators. And so there's
actually, there were 700 kinds of wasps and there's different, they do different predation
and there's only a couple of them that fuck with us. Wasps are our friends.
Breath of Purple Dragon. These were grown small and depth forced. Imagine what you can do in a
200 gallon pot instead of the half gallon these lived in until after two weeks of depth. And
they showed the boys and I transplanted the girls. Drumsticks bigger than my forearm. I'll be using
the Breeder Mom and Feminize projects. And I really wish she was so stable. I couldn't get
much seed out of her. That's a beautiful picture right there. I have no idea what I took this with
my phone settings. That really is a beautiful picture. Purple Dragon. Yeah, this is what I was
just talking about. This is one of my most rewarding. You can see those stems just,
these colas, donkey dick after donkey dick. And again, so imagine this is a 12 foot plant,
or 20 feet, one of these full term plants that you can grow on the coast or wherever.
Just beyond a little chicken feather down on the left there. So there was very few that actually
purpled in the F1. But when I F2'd it, this stuff purpled the heck across the board.
More questions here. Zooming around the Redwood Forest is magical. Yes.
We got 4F, Hardcore F4. You've been breeding them excellent. Bring it on.
What do you recommend for decarbing coconut oil? I recommend do not decarb.
And I do a FICO into coconut oil or sometimes I do a FICO into coconut oil.
Right now, the Levo machine. If you're at home, you're a small operator and you're trying to
produce medicine, the Magic Butter Machine or the Levo machine. Let's see. So if you don't have a
rooster, one of the hens will pretend to be a rooster and do all the job and pay attention to
the pecking order that Soilborn is talking about there. And I've had, I lost rooster fighting dogs
that come into the yard and I've had rooster fights. And I've had rooster fights. And I've
come into the yard and saved the rest of the hens. So yeah, they will do the job.
They're pretty awesome. Funny thing right now, I got this one hen and she's ancient. I got her,
she doesn't lay anymore. And I got her when she was old already. I took her in. And she won't
roost. She can't, she's so big and fat and old. She can't really fly up into my coop. And she
finds it's 20 degrees every night here. And I've been finding her laying against the front wall
behind a rosebush. It roosting time and I go in and I pick her up and I move her somewhere else.
And then but she gets up and moves again. And it's like, where are you? I need her to be in a
good spot. And I try and put her in the coop and she goes to the bottom of the coop. And I don't
know if they're pecking at her or what. But I went out today this morning pre dawn with the temperature
gun, laser and lasered where I put her and covered her up on the couch outdoors with a
trash can lid and a blanket over that. So she has a nice quiet little spot. And then
I checked her the lid of that with with the temperature gun said 24 degrees this morning.
That's on the porch covered. And I went out and I checked where she lays. And it was still pre
dawn and registered 37 degrees on the concrete in the front of my of my house. So I'm gonna let
her stay out there from now on. What were people saying about hands? What's taking so long here?
That's weird. What comes up? Yeah, trying to legalize medical cannabis in Utah.
That was ridiculous. We had our speaker of the house is the largest opiate salesman
only in pharmacies and distribution of opiate killing human killing drugs in America. And
some pretty crazy shit. I don't know if these pictures I can't get it to go smaller. So I don't
know if I have. Yeah, breath of purple dragon. We actually passed an amazing medical law here
prop two and the the legislature on this guy's command just gutted it. And now we have the most
expensive cannabis in America over $400 an ounce and you can't even actually light it on fire.
It's a medical pound Dr. Dream all cure hashtag land risk breeding hashtag
text anxious push hashtag plant medicine hashtag anthrogen pass hashtag anthocyanin
hashtag heal yourself oops misspelled that Healy per self hashtag grow your own
hashtag gratitude hashtag two headed tricone hashtag flower of life hashtag sacred plants
hashtag sacred geometry. I think it's pretty. We get to see the two headed tricone.
Oh, there it is. There's a couple of them right there in the center of that blurry picture.
There's three of them it looks like. Hopefully that comes across for y'all.
I think this is before I got my microscope.
Let's see chats rolling. I think there's my brother Peter, my mom. He just got his
captainship in Willits, California for the CDF. This is Peters. The sea started in 19
88. He started firefighting. He's still going strong. But he's he's he's the guy that was
breeding for Snoop or going for Snoop Dogg on contract in the early 90s. And now his fire
captain and Willits, the largest producing area of cannabis in America. He doesn't really grow
anymore that I know of. Internet in the area how chickens in the backyard nice amps.
That tour and now that stay away from the tour. Please. Not my idea of a good time. I did that
once. Breath of Green Dragon. I'm a Dory Valley Afghan. Kush studied the Dr. Dream all cure my
Godson genetic Dr. Dream all cures the cumulative package of three scientists working over 50 years
combined one traveled to the globe to collect and breed the genetic. I only have about 17 years with
it. I did a short test on the breath of Green Dragon and previously all were keepers no
instabilities all above 22% THC nose range from noble woods and spices to rank foul fuel. Some
many say it's the stankiest skunk they've ever grew. I'll be selecting for skunk skunk super
skunk to move this line forward as well as the back crosses squares and cubes with his cousins.
What's crazy is the studs I selected from this. Everything came out is like lemon,
lemon diesel, lemon gas, lemon fuel and lemon skunk.
Um, hardy gear can't so this is this is like the the second run I've done. I've done five
F2 selections so far I've gone through like 500 and my biggest problem is like fucking losing my
males like whatever I get too much going on and um but I've been trying to do them where I clone
them out and then come back and redo and I should just be doing my initial select. Uh I've got some
a few actual for the next round and this is probably what I'm going to end up concentrating
on instead of doing massive projects if I can stay in my house this summer um and keep things going.
I really don't want to fucking pull tarps all summer again honestly I've done this three years
and not have a single day to go do anything but I also want to bring this out to a freaking F4 at
least so um we're running short on time um answer any more questions.
Outlets are talking about electricity yeah Jimson we'd stay away from that shit I've smoked a detour
once in um the high sierras with my little brother just the flowers I knew a guy that did
was a detour regular when I was in college and uh we were talking with him I decided just smoking
some of the leaf or the flower I should say just just the the petals of the flower and my little
brother and I smoked a joint of that um up in the high sierras one day at about 10 in the morning
and we woke up literally just laid down in the redwoods and passed out and we were in never
neverland and woke up uh delirious um at dusk so 7 30 8 30 o'clock at night uh this is late
September in the high sierras and we ended up having to walk 10 miles by candlelight and through
the forest that night um I don't know some people think that there's there's good ways of doing
stupid stuff but uh maybe there is good ways of doing it I've known people who've done it but
everyone I know who's done it has become and people think I'm crazy and I know I'm nuts but
those people are fucking out there um just yeah you probably don't want to experiment with that one
someone's asking if your mom's ever smoked with you my mother has not she's she used to call the
police on me um when I'm neck was broken I didn't know it and I'd smoke and blow smoke out the window
and but a few a few years ago after California passed legal completely
um sat on the back porch with her at her house and smoked and um was all cool currently um I've
spoken to her for a couple of years for she has issues and etc but whatever I love my mom
but she had things happen to her that she hasn't dealt with I guess anyhow
squishy mirror says it right you just have to know to work with it it doesn't matter what
substance it is they all have a spectrum of good and bad all right too much water will kill you
okay um just like if you don't know don't go sometimes you can't know until you go but
do your research seriously on chemistry just say no k-n-o-w just say no know what you're doing
with it all peace out love y'all
thanks for joining us today see you next week
