Good morning, everyone. It is 10 a.m. on the left coast, and in Hawaii, we pulled some
people out of bed. It is early in the morning, but our Seed to Social show is traveling to
Hawaii right now, and there's our crew. Gemma's in the background chiming in. Sir Lancelot,
take it away. Yeah, good morning. Welcome, or I shall say
aloha. Welcome, everyone, to the show. As you know, here on Seed to Social, we've been
doing a virtual world tour. I've been around the globe, everywhere from South America to
Spain up to mainland Europe, even to Jamaica. We did get a request on our last show for
us to visit the beautiful island of Hawaii and the surrounding islands thereof. Obviously,
there's a lot of things that are going on with respect to the industry in Hawaii as
a state, and anyone that knows anything about the industry knows that there's a whole culture
there, and not just the culture in general, but the culture as it pertains to cannabis.
Very unique cultivars, very popular cultivars that make it to mainland, like Pineapple Express
and Maui Waui and some of the more familiar ones. But a lot of people want to find out
more about what is going on with what it's like to grow on an island, the level of community
that's existing there. So we're going to get into all those topics on top of some great
news that just broke about the Senate approving the marijuana legalization bill, which I think
is perfect timing for our discussion today. But let's start off and go around the horn.
In my order, I will start with Will. Will, if you could give us a little bit of background
about yourself, where you're from, what aspect of the plant you associate yourself closely
with, and we'll go from there.
You got to unmute yourself, Will.
Of course. Good morning. Good morning, cannabis community, and thank you, Lance. Yeah, I'm
out here in Maui on the North Shore, Haiku in particular. Moved here about 11 years ago
now with my family. But I grew up in the Northeast, sort of unique area out there.
I grew up on an island on a lake, on Squam Lake, New Hampshire. And so for me, the term
mainland was one of the first words that I learned, because that's where we parked the
car and got in the freaking boat to go out to the house. And that was sort of normal.
But I grew a lot of pot out there in New England. And I started at age nine, but really took
it seriously at age 12. By age 12, I was learning how to pollinate and keep the seeds
that were working in New England. Because back then, this is early 70s, we were getting
a lot of tropical land-raised stuff in, a lot of Jamaican, of course, in the East Coast,
and Mexicans. When we were lucky, we'd get the nice Mexicans like the Michoacan and stuff
from the Central Zones. I'm sorry about that, my computer.
Yeah, so that's sort of the beginning of the background of where I started. And I was an
outdoor grower, of course, seasonal in New England for all those years, started growing
indoor. A buddy of mine actually left for Alaska and had this big giant streetlight
thing sometime in the late 80s, I guess it was, and became interested in growing year
round at that point. But a lot of my history also is in the music industry. And that's
something that may pop up here and there during the conversation. But I had the honor
of working with a lot of the great world music legends, reggae legends across the globe,
inner circle, third world. UROY, Daddy UROY, the innovator of hip hop who passed away two
weeks ago, was a dear friend and a longtime client. And I want to just acknowledge Bunny
Whaler's passing last week. He was family with the reggae community, obviously, one
of the creators of the reggae community. And I won't take up much time talking about
our reggae friends right now. But, you know, let's talk about Cannabis here in Hawaii.
Awesome, very well put. And on that note, we'll move on to Heather and James, if you
want to give a little bit of background. And obviously, you got some great representation
in the background, but tell us about yourselves.
Good morning. Aloha.
Aloha.
Yeah, so we also live on the North Shore of Maui in Haiku. I believe we've actually met
Will before. Yeah, thanks for having us. So Heather and I separately have been growing
cannabis in Hawaii for close to 20 years. About 10 years ago, we came together and started
working with the plant together. A few years back, we were the head cultivators for Big
Island Grown, one of the eight medical licenses in the state of Hawaii. And we did that for
about a year and a half until we came back to Maui and started a hemp farm. And so now
our focus primarily is greenhouse grown, boutique quality CBD flower. And that's what
we're currently doing today. Behind us, you'll see a nice behind us, you'll see a Maui Mike's
banner. That's that's our retail line. Our website will be launching in about three weeks
from now. So it'll be widespread across the US. But yeah, that's us in a nutshell.
Awesome. Congratulations to you on that. I mean, that's great. And you're not alone. I have to tell
you being from NorCal, by the triangle, I have plenty of friends have done the same thing as
you, right? There's so much opportunity around high grade smokable CBD flower right now. And
we're seeing it go for as much as $900 a pound here on the mainland. So I think it's smart from
a strategic standpoint to diversify, obviously, offerings. And as you mentioned, it's able to
have allow you to go beyond state line with the product you're offering. So thanks again for
sharing your introduction. And then we move on to last but very much not least. And I love how
Peter was so quick to pull up his early morning riff. But Dom would love to get a little bit of
your background, my friend. And you're on the Garden Island as I understand it, right?
Yes, sir.
Very cool. Tell us a little bit about yourself, man.
I'm born and raised on Kauai. It's an honor to be here talking to the world, you know. Mahalo,
Peter, for bringing all of us together. And, you know, it's been real, like, it's been a long time
dream and kind of meet all you guys. But I'm born and raised here on Kauai at the age of 44 now and
been doing this all my life. Uncles, dad, grandpa, they all work in the sugar plantations. And it's
the greatest honor to be a plantation migrant's son. Those are the guys that did the real work in
the cannabis industry here in Hawaii. Seeds, as of genetics, we kept them, if they kept coming into
the islands, we kept breeding them. We kept making them stronger. We kept, you know, creating them
into being the island pot that everyone knows of. And that's what makes them so unique. And, what,
being born and raised here, seeing what's been happening in the industry, and not being a part of
it till now, it's a dream come true. So thanks again. In a nutshell, I'm never gonna stop. I've
been a breeder ever since I was 12 years old. And at the age of 44, my collection has grown pretty
fast. And so I'm scared of, like, starting to spread the seed to do this.
Awesome, great to hear. And we don't always go in this order. But I think it makes sense, because we
all obviously mentioned seeds at some point in conversation just now. So starting off with the
seed. I think it's interesting, like you mentioned, Don, that while there's some genetics that have
always been synonymous with Hawaii, there's obviously still genetics that cycle through there. I have to
say I surprised came out there for Mary's Maui Cannabis Convention, the last one, I believe she
had, and was surprised to find some of what I call the trendy triangle strains, right? So they're the
more popular, the cookies and cakes and all the rest. But you all have so much as far as variety. I mean,
you have an iteration of Hawaiian Dream, Hawaiian Cat Piss, Hawaiian Anti Matter, Hawaiian Afghan, like
the list goes on with all these different cultivars that have been modified on the islands. And so I
think maybe if we start with you, Will, because I know that is your core focus is on the genetics and
seed side. What is it like? Like what if you could give a little background on some of those traditional,
very well recognized cultivars, and then kind of fast forward into what you're working with today, based on
the trends and popularities in that scene.
And you got to unmute yourself.
I should add that.
Yes, I got to get my automatic mute button going. Um, yeah, you know, it's a good question. Because a lot of
people think of this as Maui Waui, or the Puna Butter, and you know, a lot of this stuff that I was lucky enough to
taste and take part in in 70s. But to be honest, and we'll have Don chime on this, you know, soon. I don't think
there's any of the land races left here in Hawaii for two reasons. First of all, you know, breeding, cross
pollinization, you know, just we're such a destination, travelers came here forever. I mean, I'm as guilty as
anyone, when I would travel in the 70s and 80s, I would very proudly bring my genetics to Jamaica, or, you know,
wherever I was, Venezuela, you know, South America, Hawaii, you know, and around thinking that I was being really
smart. Well, I was bringing, you know, is basically cross contaminating, contributing to the cross
contaminating, like everyone else that traveled and thought that they were doing a global favor of bringing their
genetics all around the world. So that created the first real problem. And, you know, that's a worldwide problem, even
in northern India and Ladakh and areas like that. Westerners have been there with their strains, and, you know, locals
have grown their strains and therefore cross pollinated these land races. So the Maui Waui is gone, in my opinion. You
know, there's some uncles that say they have some, you know, the beans, of course, are 30 years old. So, you know, we're
going to have to tissue culture them to really get to the bottom of this. And that's something that I'm working on right
now with Humboldt Seed Company, those guys up there, Nat and Ben and Haile, some of the best folks in the world. And
they're doing tissue culture, and I'm giving all my old genetics to them, all my old bean collection, so that we can see if
we can find some real Maui Waui, and so forth. So, you know, to get on that, I'm waiting to see it. And hopefully, maybe
Dawn has some things. There's the Kauai Electric, which was grown, apparently, on the electric lines over there, the
power lines of which, you know, as anyone's been to Kauai, it's quite wet pretty much everywhere, but certainly how the
power lines cross through. And I guess this is an old strain that may still be preserved, and I'm very curious to hear
more about that. But what Hawaii offers out here, all the islands, is that we are the breeding capital of the world. You
know, unfortunately, Monsanto and Dow and Syngenta and all our little bad neighbors have discovered this years ago, and
therefore, I think our corn seed population covers about 90% of the world through Monsanto's breeding and so forth. And of
course, it's GMO. That's a big, big issue out here for us. Monsanto's basically made their headquarters in Kauai,
north shore of Oahu, and here in Maui. And so, but that's, I'm drifting away from the breeding thing. So breeding out here
for cannabis is quite unique, because we have the richest air for it, you know, just full of pathogens and super bugs all
over the place. I mean, you wouldn't believe, you know, everything from root aphids to spider mites that aren't even
identified yet, you know, by, by the bug folks, M. Donaldson, whatever they're called. So that's a great challenge. When I
first started growing out here, I saw it as a threat. And then I very quickly learned this is, this is the perfect breeding
condition to get those plants to put the DNA out as a resistance, you know, the next generations, the F1s, F2s, F3s, and so
forth. By an F3 out here, if we're really good, and we're working with the right strains, you know, even if it was a
mainland indoor bred strain, we can stabilize it within three or four cycles, just by letting it get exposed to all these
things that are in the air out here, this rich pathogens and super bugs and so forth. So, you know, therefore, the
genetics, you know, we're always been sort of known for the legendary older ones, all of our newer ones are legendary as
well, because they're the most resistant in the world, which is the laws of nature. Simply, we have the best laboratory in
the petri dish that's available for sun grown breeding, which, to me is the only way of breeding. But you know, of course, I
lived in New Hampshire, too. So I have to be very open-minded to indoor growers as well. And, you know, seasonal situations
where you only can grow during the summer. So that, yeah, that's what's going on out here.
Definitely good point. You know, because like you say, you know, the geno is one aspect, but that pheno and how much
influence that's going on based on that surrounding environment. I love how you brought up the electric lines. I've heard some
great stories about, about plants hanging in trees and baskets and such. So we'll definitely get into that. But Dawn, so
that's a good point, man, especially based on your background and your history. Have you all been able to make some of those
seeds and those genetics without having them get too far down that crossbred, backbred path that we always speak of?
Well, again, each genetic line was owned by a family. It's like, it wasn't just like a name of a strain, it wasn't a name of a
fruit, it wasn't a name of a dessert. You know, it was a name of a family. But each family had their own phenotype or their own
strain that they would grow in the mountains because they were hunters, they were chicken fighters. And that was a means and
way to support the family was to grow pop and sell it to all the incoming people, like the tourists or the hippies who
get money from, you know. And other than that, like the genetics were, again, kept by each family. So the guys that did, like
again, being a son of a migrant worker, they had access to those genetics. And if they still kept their genetics from back then,
they still have some pretty truthful stuff. But what happened in Hawaii before, especially Kauai, we had this green harvest thing go on
where they fly helicopters, which started here in Kauai. So that is what chased a lot of the growers, the open land growers to
seek shelter or find a spot that they couldn't be detected. And the only place that was making it undetected for them to pull it off,
basically, under the power lines, because they would throw their whatever, you know, stuff off and fly over the power lines. So
basically, again, that's where the Kauai Electric name comes from. And, you know, again, it's, there's been a lot of genetics,
again, in each family, a lot of different hunters all over the islands and a Kauai Electric strain couldn't implant one genetic
Kauai Electric strain. You know, it had to be from a family. But so again, the Kauai Electric is still out there. You know, if you
really go out and look for the guys that are still holding on to the true genetics, they got it. But again, the seeds are really
old. Like you said, you need a tissue culture and that extra boost and just trying to keep them alive and not waste them, you know,
so you only got that one chance. So it's still out there. You get the right guys, right team together to make it all happen.
That's a good point. You guys make a valid point. You know, we have like Dark Heart here in Northern California does a lot of that
culture. And it's funny, Kevin Jodry just pitched it up. So Will, Kevin's a good friend of Peter and I's both that, you know, he's a
former East Coast born, but West Coast, through and through the guy knows more about NorCal than me, I think. And that's where I grew up.
So we're talking about some of the best, you know, that he ever smoked coming from the island. I have to agree. I mean, it was rare, you
know, for myself up in NorCal, you know, and you mentioned this too, in your younger years, Will, you know, it was one thing to get the
brick and, you know, occasionally we'd get some good Northern Lights out of the hills. But anytime anything came over on a boat, we were
always up for that, you know, it was always high quality. You'd always tell it was grown with love and passion, which I 100% feel makes a
difference. And I know our audience does too. I saw a couple F Monsanto comments and such, which I'm right there with you guys. We don't
need GMO, all natural for the win. You know, obviously just laying on science. So Heather and James now, it's an interesting game, right?
Because you've segued into again, that high grade, high quality, smokable CBD flower. And that kind of has its own little niche, right? I
mean, that's even on the international front, talking to people in that space. How's it been for you with genetics on the islands?
Well, in the THC world, there's a lot of really amazing cultivars. And we have a, our primary focus is just to grow the plants. And we've done a
little, little bits of breeding, but that's not our focus. We try to just focus on one thing and do it really well. And we have great respect for
guys like Don and Will, who are full-time breeders and produce really amazing genetics. And that's, we're always hunting for the new best thing. But
that's not really our focus is to, I feel like we'd be spreading ourselves thin if we started doing a breeding program. But in the CBD world, it's,
it's still in its infancy. So there's a lot of really low quality genetics. And we learned that early on that for six months that we started this, we
bought, you know, clones, seeds, and most of it's feminized. So high her...
Super unstable, high rates of hermaphroditic flower. Yeah, just the instability has been proven really difficult for us.
Yeah.
Yeah, we're just now getting to a point where we're finding some smaller breeders and able to get some really solid genetics. But yeah, it's like I said, it's
an incident. But yeah, we've also, you know, we've grown out some, some THC strains out here in Hawaii, over the years that were bred from local
breeders, some of the best. Yeah. Amazing genetics out here.
And you guys always have good stuff. And I think it's a good segue to get into because all of us in the room, Peter included, have all grown or are
currently growing. Specifically for Maui, and I know it exists too, Don, I know how much rain falls on the top of that mountain, my friend. So I know
it's applicable. But just remembering again, being out in Maui, you had an individual, I want to say from from the North Shore come down and tell me,
you know, over 100 inches of rainfall a year and talking about the moisture content. So again, maybe if we get into the growing, some of these challenges
that you all have, because I don't think people realize how much more pressure that brings on not just the growing, but obviously the post cultivation,
you know, the dry and cure process of plants on the island. How is that for you all? Can you explain how it's just different than other places and not just on the
main limit in the world? I don't know anywhere else that's dealing with the challenge as you all are with the diversity one, in insects, but the amount of
rainfall too in the moisture content in the air, all around the year, not even certain times of year, like some places here. How's that been? And we'll go
back to you, Don, getting a little bit of insight. We'll start on your side.
Donnie Goulden
Drying again, it's been a challenge. I just keep my stuff hanging. I learned from a old Rasta before on the big island that you just keep your stuff
hanging. Especially if you're just going to, if it's for personal smoke kind of stuff, keep them hanging. You just let the nature kind of do its thing. And
once you find it right, crisp, right, dry, right, pure, that's when you harvest. You know, you don't force your dry, you don't force it in some kind of
heater or some kind of dehumidifier or none of that crap. We tried them all. The dehumidifier kills it. You can grow the most beautiful bud, the
stinkiest bud, put it in dehumidifier for two or three days and try to dry it out and then all the smell's gone. So from what I learned, the natural pure, the
natural dry, that has been working really well for us. But if you're selling it, if you're doing all the other stuff, I mean, everyone's making hash nowadays.
Who needs drying? You just give it the fastest dry as you can and just making the best product. So the whole industry is taking a big turn. We're going from
whole flower to straight up just oil now. So people are growing more for oil basically now. So again, the drying and curing for flour or for oil is totally
different, in my opinion.
Yeah, we saw that movement too. The fresh frozen and such and obviously live rosins and stuff, which a huge respect for. But again, for some, especially
on the medical side, we're so much more advocates for whole plant and whole natural plant as the way it was originally consumed, which I know the number is
still about 50% of products sold as flour. But you're right, those concentrates just go to the next level. And I have to agree. I mean, we've heard from the
dehumid. The one thing that doesn't seem to be understood with this plant, especially the biomass when it's in the buds is you have that bound weight inside of the
biomass. And when you're using artificial dryers, especially, you know, something that's a heater based or say, you know, convectional, that it's drying everything on
the outside. So to your point, Don, like it's pulling away that great, great head smell to get out of the terpenes and the flavonoids that are on the outside of the
flour. Meanwhile, it still has a high moisture content in the middle. So I'd have to agree the whole Russian, Russian, the dryer Russian, the cure just it doesn't
make sense. And to your point, sounds like even there, how's that will with, you know, again, I know, it's not too different geographically. But you talked
about being a huge advocate for outdoor I am myself as well. Some of our listeners are hardcore outdoor. Again, nothing gets indoor and nothing against, you
know, greenhouse, but, you know, something to be said about having that exposure for your pheno. How's it been for you in the challenges of growing there versus
essentially where you grew up?
Um, I got my ass kicked when I first moved here. I mean, I thought I was quote unquote, a master grower. And I had really mastered gorilla growing in New
England and navigating the deers and the woodchucks. And I mean, just lots of mammals, mammals, the bigger the critter, you know, back then, they were big
here, you can't see your your enemies in a lot of ways. So you know, that that was a challenge right away. I mean, my very first thing I ran into was root
aphids, which weren't even local, they were from a contaminated soil from the mainland. You know, lesson learned, you know, now I make my own soil, of
course, have for years and been dealing with compost and vermiculture. The curing out here is a challenge, of course, you know, to get it down to that
whatever compliant moisture level that we're talking about that dispensaries and so forth on the mainland would would use is there a regulation or
compliance. And, you know, I do want to point out that, you know, we don't have a cannabis industry out here in Hawaii. It was basically, you know, we've
had medical for 20 plus years now. And when they finally got around to the dispensary process, it was rigged. And, you know, I'm going to point fingers to
Monsanto, actually, it was it was totally rigged, you had to have $1.2 million available in escrow, prove your property ownership, and so forth. So, you
know, we all knew what the end result was. And it was it was David Cole, the largest landowner out here and partner with Monsanto and Maui Land and Pineapple and so
forth. And I don't mind saying these names, because I said, these guys got to be called out, you know, they created a monopoly out here, there's two dispensaries on
this island. And none of us farmers get to participate. There's no local participation. It's all a closed loop monopoly. So we need to, you know, first of all, and
you talked about legalization coming around the corner. Yeah, it is pretty much what happened here. Like it happens a lot of places that happen overnight.
Legalization is a dirty word. It's another word for regulation, unless it's done right. I mean, you know, like New Jersey and a lot of these states, South Dakota and
all these states, they do start off their legislative bill with the right language, which includes expungement and clemency. You know, those really should be
the first words in the legal bill. And the second words is economic stimulation. Well, to stimulate an economy with cannabis, you have to have light
regulation, low entry fees. If you look at Oklahoma, there's over 12,000 cannabis businesses, LLCs. They have a $500 entry fee and very low
regulation. But compliance wise, you know, people are growing really good pie. It's testing, it's not full of avid, it's not full of shit. It's really
good weed. And I look at that as a great example. It's just let the industry go. And if we did that year out in Hawaii, we would have the
strongest economy in the world. You know, we have the farmers here, we have all the families that have had their strains for forever. And it would be an
opportunity for us to shine out here. It's just simply a cannabis industry that had the right regulation. And that's, you know, what we all have been
talking about in the community and working with lawmakers on. Our lawmakers out here, a lot of them are still sort of, you know, in the old school
thinking. But of course, I think recently that the pandemic, of course, has caused them to look at the economic and the social benefits and the lack
of opiate addiction and everything that comes with cannabis, light cannabis regulation and cannabis acceptance. I think I drifted away from your
question, though, of how it is to grow out here. And it made me think of what Don mentioned, too, is the second aspect is why we don't have the
original, a lot of the original OG genetics out here. It'd be Green Sweep. Green Sweep was really gnarly out here, really, really super gnarly for 20
plus years. There was this guy, Donnie, that headed it up. He started on the Big Island, and they gridded, literally gridded across the state for years
and years and years. And that did wipe out a lot of the OG stuff out here. And it was a real pain in the butt, you know, for growers. I mean, we're
all post-traumatic out here from this, you know, you hear the tutututututu coming, you know what's going on, man. And, you know, these guys, they
weren't just going out and enforcing, they were stealing the shit. They would never drop down here in Maui, at least on an immature crop. They knew
everyone's process and where they were at in the cycle. And, you know, self-funding, basically, because they lost their funding. But yeah, growing out
here, as I mentioned before, is we have the benefit of all the conditions coming at us. And one thing I wanted to point out is a lot of people, you
know, when they buy our genetics from here, that they're a little wary. I've gone to a lot of conventions, they're like, Oh, is this
equatorial? No, no, no, it's not equatorial. We're 22 degrees north. And just like California or anywhere else, if you grow a long season
plant, and you pollinate it, it's going to be acclimated to that appellation, basically, that, that, you know, origin, place of
origin. Same here in Hawaii. But if we trigger our plants outdoors in the greenhouses, you know, 12-18, which is how I breed, you know, so
that these plants or these seeds, you know, go out the door, they're ready for anywhere. I have my friends Dragonfly Earth Medicine,
Josh and Kelly, growing my strains up at 55 degrees north. And these are, you know, growing out in the backyard in the sun and here in
Maui. So equatorial, no. You know, our long-season strains certainly would be close to it. And we can grow equatorial strains here like,
you know, nothing else. But the strains that we're putting out there are acclimated, grown under the sun, though. You say, I mean, you
know, if you take a landrace, or not landrace, but a long-season plant from Mendocino, that's unique to that one family that maybe
they've been working for for 30, 40 years, but it's grown long season, they aren't doing these light depths and all that crazy
stuff. They're just growing pot, you know, and that strain, sure, if you took it to New England, we'd have to acclimate it, you know, a
little bit up at 45, 50 degrees north. But yeah.
Very valid points. Yeah. And it's interesting, you bring up the, you know, what we call Oklahoma, the limitless license market, kind of
like Oregon, which some people kind of dispute, you know, gosh, that might be a bit much, because it is, is it really a fair
opportunity if there's so many players on the field? But I think to your point, that makes a bit more sense in Hawaii, right? Because you
do have that transient audience, you have this clientele and these customers, which I know right now, it's a challenge under
medical, like, I have to apply and I have to pay a fee in order for my medical license to be acknowledged and recognized on the
islands. But obviously, I'm sure that will change when they get into adult use or recreational. But, but I can see that being
potential to your point in Hawaii, because you have that influx. Whereas Oregon, you know, their, their supply demand was off
kilter for so long, because they're producing more pot than the four-minute people that live there could consume. And there just
wasn't that amount of influx of travelers to come in and obviously stoke that proverbial fire when it came to sales. Oklahoma, too, I
think there's enough traffic and travel, you know, just based on geographical location, but still interesting perspective on where
things are, you know, kind of current state with you all as far as growing, you know.
Yeah, and the biggest thing, future biggest thing I feel that we have out here is branding. You know, I think that the Triangle and
Hawaii will be the two top cannabis brands in the world, you know, when you're over in Europe or South America in a pot shop, or
wherever in the world, I mean, we're gonna have global cannabis pretty soon. And if we can get the lawmakers to see the light
that small farming only because you brought up California, and that's what's really, you know, that's what's ruining it. And
here in Hawaii, we have the families, we have the families in place, we've all these residential because remember, California with
215 before 64 came along, legalization was entirely residential, entirely family ranch run, you know, there might have been a
few little, but that was how it was born and raised.
And we're SMB.
You know, really, we have the opportunity out here to follow the same path in a lot of ways. But we got to avoid the large
bros. And of course, out here, the lawmakers think, you know, they think with and they're the lobbyist of Monsanto and
Syngenta and David Cole and all these other people are in there. And they're only thinking big. So this is gonna be a big
challenge for us, because we have to flip it the opposite, we need to, to have it. So everyone's a small residential grower. And,
but what I was mentioning is the branding. So when we get to that point, and we can have it, so everyone can have everything
from their little, you know, grow tent, and they're only making a couple grand a month, you know, extra while they work, or
they have their, you know, 5000 square foot footprint, which might be on the larger side here in Hawaii, is how I see it.
Once we can brand it, and market it globally, it's a no brainer. I mean, we now our agricultural legacy comes back, and it's
not sugarcane, it's not monocrop, it's cannabis, you know, we're sending medicine and love and aloha to the world. And
that's, that's us, we have this opportunity out here, we really need to move forward with it and wake up the lawmakers.
Because if they do it wrong, and they bring the corporate model in, well, here we are stuck again, you know, is the sugarcane
is replaced with another monocrop, as far as I'm concerned. And our branding legacy out here, I think can save us. And if
we work with the triangle, in particular with this, you know, we start a collaborative, we can really treat the world to some
fun stuff.
And it's good to hear that you guys are tied, you know, like to Humboldt seeds, and some of the individuals that are trying to
carry that on and carry it through. Because you're right, we have a challenge in California, you know, technically, by square
footage, you know, there's as much canopy down by me in Santa Barbara County, as there is all of the three counties that make up
the Emerald Triangle in NorCal. I mean, seeing a 1.1 million square foot grow operation, while it's radical, for someone like me,
who's a little bit more traditional, it's also a little sad. Because to your point, this isn't it isn't soybean or corn, where it's
just a scale up crop, and you throw it in a silo and get it sold as a commodity on market, there's so much more. And, and you
guys do a phenomenal job, all of you, I sense, obviously, you know, the good vibes and Aloha mentality that comes with, you
know, growing this and being associated with this plant on the island. Getting in, obviously, so I'd ask the same question, you
know, what, what it's been like for you all as well, you know, with the genetics and growing again, you guys have switched over to, you
know, to the hemp side or to the CBD flower versus THC flower. But you guys, you have an opportunity, right? Because like you said,
you're able to take your brand to the mainland here to the States.
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, our ultimate goal is to really be able to, you know, obviously grow THC plants, but this is the opportunity
that we have. And I agree with a lot of what Will said, where, you know, there is no cannabis industry in Hawaii. It was rigged.
There's eight licenses in the state that they awarded in 2016, to the wealthiest people that could apply. And at the end of the day, it's the
way the law was written is that it's a vertical model where they have to, they have to produce everything that they sell. So no, no
local growers can sell to the dispensaries like they can in other states. And the worst part about it is, you know, real Hawaiian
families and families that have been doing this for generations like Dawn's, they have no representation in the industry that, you
know, even in a medical market, they're not able to do what they've been doing for generations and actually sell their product in
Hawaii. You know, the black market in Hawaii is alive and thriving because of the limited options that there are. And, you know, we're
talking about different cultivars for different, you know, climates and, you know, specific. And because of the war on drugs and how
green harvest has flown for all these years, people would be surprised to hear it. But Hawaii actually has a very high number of indoor
grow operations. People have been forced inside to be able to produce high quality flowers. So as far as, you know, growing specific
things that grow out in the sun, there's a lot of, there's a lot of people that do grow outside and grow in greenhouses, but there's a
surprising number of indoor grow operations. And, you know, is what it is. But I really hope, I really hope that laws change in the near
future and make it more open, especially to native Hawaiian families that, you know, this is, this is their land. We're all guests here. And
it's only right.
That's a good way to put it. And with that, so you all, and I know you, I think you're tied to something along this linear will, so we'll get into
it. But that is one thing, again, you know, for myself being proud of, you know, being associated with like Humboldt County Growers
Alliance or Mendocino Generations, you know, there's been these groups here, specifically in California, that they're out there to stand up for the
small grower, to your point for the, you know, there's different terms, but legacy, I think is the one that we most commonly label ourselves as, you
know, but those of us that were legacy growers that were here before the capitalism and the big business came along. Do you guys feel like you
have or is there something that exists as far as a network for the individuals that we're speaking of to give them an opportunity and a voice at the
table? Because you're right, I've seen, I mean, I met someone who is running one of the largest operations out there talking about positive pressure
environment, you know, all indoor, very, you know, hermetic, hospital grade. I mean, like, it sounded like EGMP standard, like up there with with the
grows of the likes I've seen in Germany and such. And it was like, okay, that's neat. But also to your guys point, you know, the how much can be gained
from the traditional model? So do you guys feel that there's something there to support what we're speaking of? Or if not, is there something that could be
there in the future to help support the small grower in the legacy grower?
Yeah, I mean, for starters, I mean, it's a double edged sword where you have, you know, states like Oregon that you spoke of where, you know, markets overly
saturated because there's so many growers, but I mean, I think it should be a free market where the best will survive and the weakest won't. And ultimately, it
drives down the price for the consumer, the more options that are available. If if they're going to continue to use the same model where there's only eight
licenses, then at least it should be open to growers to be able to sell their product through those channels. You know, and but ultimately, I would like to see it
open up to everybody and have very low cost of entry. Because $1.2 million in a frozen account to even apply for a license is not open to the average person.
It's basically just, you know, rich investors from the mainland that are running these licenses. It's not it's not even local people, let alone Hawaiian
people.
You know,
that's it. We see it's your point. I mean, we can I can wrap Florida, New Mexico, Arizona, in the early days, Colorado, you're right. There's so many where the
capitalistic influence of, oh, yeah, it's open to everyone, if you can afford it. Well, that in itself just segregated and segmented a good portion of the
audience. But definitely a valid point. Kevin, I'm not into Kevin, you and I are so much on point. Yeah, it is, you know, where where there are some
markets. That's, that's a good point Kevin makes about based on circumstance. And you guys do have, obviously, several circumstances that you're up against
being on an island in the middle of the Pacific. So we definitely don't want to bash the indoors. We understand that that has a time and place in the
need. And I'm not anti Jungle Boys by any mean, I just I just happen to love North Carolina. So kind of getting back to this, Dawn, what what, you know,
you talk about some of the families yourselves, you know, being one of them, you and your family, you know, what, you know, where do you see the next 10
years as far as opportunity for an individual like yourself as it plays out in Hawaii?
Well, I've been like trying to reach out to a lot of big time people, I guess that have like, you know, ties to the industry. So no one seems to have taken the
fight yet. They've been like nibbling at the stock, but they haven't taken the big fight, never got hooked yet. But anyways, um, the family is here, they still have them again, like,
except to the kids, like, after everybody started getting raided. Like, if you got, if you're a founder of the plant, you know, you take your whole house away. So nobody wanted even a
seed at their house. Whereas before, I remember when I was a kid, the green harvest came through the whole neighborhood, they stopped at everybody's house. And they raided every, every house in our
neighborhood had a plant, except our house, except my mom and my dad's house. And my mom and dad never wanted to bring heat to the uprising of their new family. They kept it
elsewhere. They had their own slash shelter, but they never left it at home. So when it came through, the scare came through, and it really shocked the shit out of people. And it really went, you know, to the underground, to the
gorilla growers, to the guys in the, back in the cane fields. Like you said, since the cane field, the sugar industry had a big fall, you know, a lot of the stuff that was grown back in the mountains or back in the
canes in the fields before, all that stopped. So a lot of it, like you guys said, you know, they went indoor. Like a lot of the strains were pretty much just discarded or just sold or given away or just flushed
on the toilet. You know, and again, for the future of cannabis here in Hawaii, it's huge. Anything that has a made in Hawaii, made on Kauai tag, you know, that's gonna go for big bucks elsewhere. I mean, the whole world knows that Hawaii is known to have the best cannabis on the planet. Ever since I was a kid, I heard that. I read it. Many texts, many all kinds of stuff. So I don't know what it is, but I know that we got
something special here. And the genetics is where it's at. You know, so.
Yeah.
It's very, I mean, you got something special.
Yeah, agree. And you're right. There's something to be said about, you know, just the reputation that's held and it's interesting. I think it's very valid a comparison between, you know, Northern California and, and, you know, your market in particular, because of the reputation just being more so coveted. And it comes back
to the culture and the craft, right? I mean, that's really, you guys are all good vibes. Everyone on this call, we always have, it's all about good vibes and, you know, carrying on that tradition. And, you know, it's tough. Some of us have been one foot in both proverbial ponds at times. Others have come straight out of the shadows and are dealing with all the bureaucracy and politics and costs that's associated with that. But, you know, definitely get appreciate to hear. Fast forwarding, and we will continue the conversation around genetics, because we dabbled on this a little bit earlier on.
What's the latest stuff that you guys are seeing? I mean, on the inverse, you know, so we were talking about some great legacy and, you know, maybe we can't call it land-raised, but definitely, you know, traditional or old school. But what's some of the newer stuff that you guys are seeing that are just really taking the market by storm out there for people to keep an eye out, just in case they happen to bump into someone that they can source it from while on the islands?
We'll start with you, Will.
Oh, finally not muted. You know, the newer, trendier strains I've tended to steer away from, especially over the past few years, you know, the wedding cakes and the, oh gosh, star dogs and, you know, stuff like that.
You know, I brought them here in the garden and tried them. You know, they got powdery mildew right away because they were bred indoors. And, you know, I didn't feel like taking the time to stabilize them because we've already sort of reached some points with genetics that I don't need to move on from.
As a matter of fact, I'm doing a lot less breeding with newer stuff. If you were to come to me and say you found a bag of seeds in your uncle's drawer that were 30 years old, I'd do a cartwheel and I would do everything I can to start those.
And if they didn't pop, send them over to Humboldt to do some tissue culturing on. But, you know, I also have a seed bank, I guess you call it. I don't like to call it a seed bank. It's a seed ohana.
It's a roster of my family friends, readers for forever. And we're private for a long time. Some of them weren't, you know, like Humboldt Seed Company, very, you know, out in the open and becoming bigger.
And so I have been following and paying attention to the newer, more trendier strains now because I'm marketing them for my clients on my deep brain genetics online marketing.
And I guess the jury's still out. I got to catch up and grow. And I'm still growing old school stuff. You know, my main plant that I breed with, the family gave me 10 years ago.
And it's from Kipahulu, which is a more isolated part of the island out towards Hana. And, you know, so now it's a 40 year old untouched plant. It hasn't been crossbred or anything.
This one, this is one parent that I work with. And that's the one that I've thrown, you know, a bazillion males on of every sort you can imagine. And so I'm still sort of stuck in that world.
Although I'm very familiar with what's going on and monitoring the current stuff and smoking it with my friends because, you know, everyone comes with whatever the newest trendiest thing is.
Seems like wedding cake and all the cake crosses really made a hit. And the gelatos made a big thing. I'm trying to think, of course, you know, the Caps Cuts. But I was dealing with Caps Cuts 15 years ago.
And I do have some really amazing crosses that I made from some of his strains as well. And, you know, pretty much everyone down the line, you know, I could name names, but we all probably know them.
Mostly American breeders, though, I pulled away from the Dutch probably 20 years ago. It is when the option came around that, you know, there were so many local families that had their own strains.
And, you know, having the history with the Dutch strains, most of them going south. You know, of course, a lot of our original lineages did come from Ben Droppers and folks like that over in Europe.
And, of course, Howard Marks, you know, Howard Marks was an amazing breeder and, you know, rest in peace. So the newer genetics, I guess that's my take on it is I can't wait to see some sun grown stuff that's coming through from Oregon.
I know, James, we have some mutual friends over in Oregon that are just, you know, balling it right now. Ziploc seeds. I want to give a big up to Ziploc seeds. They're one of my best friends and clients with Deep Green Genetics.
We're growing Ziploc.
Oh, my gosh. And he's killing it. And talking about the modern strains, he's old school. He's second generation grower and breeder. And so he knows what the real deal is.
But he also knows how to take all these new flavors and these new trends and really work with them. So he's the master. I wish he was here to answer this question because he really, you know, he's taught me so much in the last year or two about, you know, paying attention to what's now as well as keeping
the lineage going because I'm all about lineage and heritage.
Sure, definitely. Yeah, it makes sense. It's funny you guys do bring up Oregon. I have huge respect for Oregon. In my opinion, it's just an extension of the triangle, to be quite honest, all the way up to Grants Pass.
You know, my shout out to be to Sugar Tree Farms, a friend I grew up with out there. It's doing phenomenal, putting out absolute fire and TKO Reserve too.
I mean, they just, again, the level of passion and commitment, even when they're forced to sell it at a buck a gram wholesale, which to me is just sad.
You know that, but now it's gotten a lot better. Again, now the supply and demand is in a good place, but definitely good vibes on that. So again, so with respect to now what you guys have to forgive me, is it pineapple cellular? Is that the slang term used for the conversations amongst the Islanders? I know there's...
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
I want to know that.
Right.
They said pineapple wireless.
Hey, that's the new strain I'm naming.
There you go.
Wireless, that's going to be the new strain.
Thank you.
The newest, most modern strain now is pineapple wireless. Deep Green Genetics will have that. We're going to have Ziploc.
I was from California, came up with it.
Oh, we're going to have it. Ziploc, grade it for us because they're the other ones.
But I was going to ask, because you guys, there is this whole network.
Like, I love it.
It's this whole, I have huge respect for my friends that are Native Hawaiians because they share the culture and the connection that exists.
And to your point, the meanies up there like Monsanto and stuff, it's all under radar to them.
You guys are on your own page.
So we talked about Oregon.
You know, they have a competition up there.
It's the classic.
And I was stoked and so ecstatic to hear the cultivars that won the latest strains.
We're all under 21 percent THC because everyone has this mentality of race to the top on the highest THC, not knowing that cannabinoids are the engine, you know, the terpenes are the steering wheel, that diversity, especially as it relates to the phenotype.
Are you guys doing anything like that?
And this is under Friend EA, you know, just us and a handful of friends on YouTube.
Do you know of guys that get together on the underground scene and do kind of do a comparison of what they've got going and kind of rate each other's?
Because that's how the Emerald Cup started in NorCal.
You know, is a friend Tim's birthday.
And then all of a sudden became this a bit of a competition amongst friends.
Do you guys have that scene there today?
Yeah, there's events like that on every island and it's just smaller groups of growers.
It's definitely invite only, you know, and people are comparing their best strains.
And, you know, there's, you know, in Hawaii, just like the mainland, there's, you know, all the new hot trendy things.
And that probably makes up a majority of the strains that are out here.
But there are the, you know, the tried and true, like old school strains.
But, you know, a lot of the like, you know, really old school strains like what Don was speaking of that, you know, have been held by families.
Those are still tightly held by those families, you know.
And, you know, they go out to friends and family, but like ultimately a majority of growers in Hawaii are growing than the newer trendier stuff.
And it is what it is, you know.
I think I'm wrong, but yeah.
You know, it's nice you guys are in the market to where it's almost become expected in Northern California.
You know, what's the latest?
And it still baffles me because the growers, in my opinion, I'm a conservative grower, but there's guys that they're having to learn how to work.
A new iteration every season.
And I'm like, that's like the definition of madness to know how to grow my northern lights or to know how to grow my headstrong haze.
Like, I love that.
I know what it needs season after season after season.
So I think that, again, going back to what you're saying, Don, with the reputation and the respect that Hawaii has in the cannabis industry as a whole.
I think you guys can put your foot down and say we want to stay with some of these classics and we want to represent what we're best known for or what our families have been bringing up generation after generation and not get bought into the trendy shit.
And again, I'm not.
I love Sierpinski, Cookies, all great guys.
I love this latest, greatest.
That's fine. I think there's a time and place for it.
But Hawaii is that one market where I really see you guys embracing your past and really embracing these family traditions that, again, Don, that you put such an emphasis on that's so fricking valid because they're the ones that carry that torch all the way through prohibition and through the dark ages of the DARE program and all that bullshit that all of us had to deal with in every market.
So definitely good stuff.
Well, you guys, I want to flip it back to Peter really quick here.
We usually keep the last few minutes for questions, a little bit of Q&A.
He always does such a great job of keeping track of the comments that are constantly scrolling.
So, Peter, back to you, my friend.
Well, I just want to have Don talk about kind of what he you asked about the new stuff.
But I know, Don, you are very anti desserts and all that stuff.
So what are you growing out in the garden right now?
Well, all that dessert stuff that comes through, I just saw some of the stuff that I've been enjoying here for a long time.
Stuff that can handle the great outdoors, you know, the hybridize them.
If you cannot, if they can't grow here, hybridize them.
Hunt them, you know, you can't, if that one's molding out, cross over with something that doesn't mold, you know, and then go hunting and go fight, look for the unicorns and then get the unicorns and breed the unicorns, you know, and that's all we've been doing for years out here.
So you can, like I work with those new stuff.
I run the new stuff and I just keep working on it.
I'm like, I give them out and my friends that grow them indoors are like, what the fuck is this?
But it really is just what it is, you know, it's like picking up the new stuff and putting it with the old stuff and finding something that really works for you.
All it is, again, as a breeder, a breeder is doing that.
That's what a true breeder is.
Goes out, takes whatever comes around, works with it, works with it, works with it and find something, you know, diamond in a rock.
Now it's like this clone only $10,000 cut plant that nobody else can get.
So it kind of gives you an idea of like, like where we are in this whole space.
You know, like I love the old stuff and the one thing about the new stuff that comes in, it pushes the older stuff deeper into the fridge.
It pushes it deeper into the corner, you know, because now you're stacking all these new genetics that you want to work with.
That's like, oh yeah, this is a really nice one now that we got to like, you know, work with.
In other words, you know, you're in this state of like, where do I start?
I got thousands of strains.
I don't know what to start.
Like now this new stuff comes in.
Perfect.
You know, process, make something new of it.
Wait till the next new stuff comes in.
You know, it's always about like making, not making something new, but preservation for me.
I just want to preserve something.
I'm not just a beater about preservation.
I just want to make sure that my time on earth isn't going to be super long.
You know, maybe it's this big, but I know whatever I'm going to leave behind for Canada, this community is going to be something bigger than this world.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Well put.
Very well put.
So I don't know what kind of, you know, how much testing is going on, but any local heirloom high THVA cannabis lines?
I've actually gotten to give some of the strains that I've created through the years with Crockett family farms and DNA genetics.
And they've done some throwing out and some testing with some facilities and they've found some pretty magical stuff.
Right now, Poetry of Plants has got a couple strains that he's growing.
So they're rocking some stuff and, you know, they're finding some pretty amazing stuff.
And here in Hawaii, we don't get the testing.
All I do is make the seeds, pop a couple in the same pot as the mom, that the mom is growing in and see what comes out of it.
And whatever comes out, look at it, it shows up.
It's nice.
It's nice.
I know I just gave it minimal, it's the most minimal diet.
So if it grows really nice, they're minimal diet.
If you give it the best diet in the world, I'm sure you'll do something way better.
So yes, it's all about preservation for me.
And Don, there's a question for you about the Maui skunk dog.
Dog or any clone only is that go around the islands?
Maui skunk dog, Pakalosi boys, you know, super kawaii, all the guys that, you know, me, Hawaii, we're in tap today, man.
But anyways, Maui skunk dog, you guys don't have to go to the Maui guys.
I'm all kawaii, so I can't answer that one.
Sorry.
I believe Will, don't you do some cross-breeding?
Yeah, there's a few in there for sure.
Quite a few, actually, because as you remember, maybe five years ago or so, that was the number one strain around here.
And our mutual friends, of course, we're working a lot.
I don't actually grow it in cycle.
I got over it a few years just because some of my crosses are in the same species.
So I don't actually grow it in cycle.
I got over it a few years just because some of my crosses, my Maui McGilliclue right now, you know, when I put something and I want that footprint to really produce quality and weight, I always just go with the ones that I know.
And Maui McGilliclue right now has been killing it.
But the skunk dog, yeah, I've got so many crosses of it that aren't even named yet.
You know, maybe that's when we'll go with Don's new strain.
But satellite gardens, as you know, James, here, you know, we're limited to a certain footprint.
I mean, basically, 99 plant gardens would be considered a pretty big footprint here outdoors, especially coming from the green sweep days, which still could happen any moment.
But the aggressive moments, knock on wood, I hope, on the other islands, too, in the spring, there's a lot of vegetation.
Still could happen any moment, but the aggressive moments, knock on wood, I hope, on the other islands, too, in the last two years or so have waned down quite a bit.
But, you know, we don't know.
We're so post-traumatic from all the activity prior to that, which was just hardcore.
As a matter of fact, Kevin Jodry did chime in and say, yeah, when I was there, it was worse than anything I've seen in the triangle.
Well, we didn't have, well, we did have convoys.
So, yeah, it was probably as bad, at least.
So Maui skunk dog, I know we started off, and the skunk dog in particular strain definitely took root here in Maui.
And there's a lot, a lot of people doing it right now.
I mean, if I was to go out into the black or green market as it is and want to buy a pound right now, that would probably be the choices that would be offered to me first would be the skunk dog.
You know, especially from the other greenhouse growers.
That one took off really well with it.
Yeah. But, you know, one thing I forgot to point out is that we have, you know, here in Maui and the Big Island in particular, but I'm sure in Kauai, too, many different grow zones.
I forget what the number is. It's like we have 14 of the 17 known climates in the world, pretty much everything but tundra.
And so, you know, I'm down at 500 feet and a lot of growers are in the average, you know, in the lower levels.
But, you know, if you're up at 2000 feet, the expressions that you can get from the same strain are just outstanding.
You know, I've a couple of times I've been up at friends gardens over the years looking at their plants, and they're just so amazing with color and expression and so forth up at two or 3000 feet.
Especially this one garden that was at 3900 feet.
I remember about a few months ago I was up there and I was just tripping out on this plant.
It's like, what is this? And they go, that's your Macula glue.
No, no, I've never seen it look like that.
You know, so it's we have these very distinct climate zones and you could almost measure them in two, 300 foot intervals as you go up.
You know, just the differences that you get on the expressions with plants and certainly with vegetable production, too.
I mean, you know, our green belt is from like 1000 feet to whatever, you know, up to 3000 here in Maui.
Very nice rig, Don. That's awesome.
There it is, the Maui skunk dog, the long version.
So just quickly, there were two kind of questions along the same lines.
So recommendation, basically sativa, top sativa strains available to the public.
And then what are you guys excited about in general?
And I actually like the conversation about kind of the microclimates and the elevation and kind of like, Don, are there things that you've noticed, you know, that you've had where you've grown it where you are at your climate and elevation and a friend grew it somewhere else and it just expressed itself totally differently?
Yeah, actually, I did grow some stuff down here and then I grew some stuff up to the top.
And I went and grew some stuff up in the upper elevation, say 3000 plus feet and stuff just went crazy.
Like totally crazy.
The purpling, the coloration, the crystal formation, everything just changed.
It was ridiculous.
But it really does make a big difference here.
And we do have all these microclimates where the east side of the island is a little much more wet than the west side.
And then the North Shore is a lot, same thing, like the east side's got a little more moisture.
So, you know, you get all these microclimates that, you know, again, the family strain, that's where it's at.
You can find a family that lived on that side of the island, you'll get that stuff.
That's better than the stuff you can get on the other side of the island.
Just buzz.
But yeah, the sativas have been what's been working out here for us through the years.
Anything that you can hybridize or cross with sativa, that is where you can find the maximum in heaven.
Again, it's make the seed go through the hunt.
Make the seed go through the hunt.
And keep doing it over and over.
It's repetitive.
For sure.
So, Don, there's a question.
If you're growing anything that still flowers for three months, so long flowering.
Actually, I am. I really love those because I've noticed that the sativas that take a long time to flower and finish, they're way stronger.
They're way stronger. They last way longer.
You need one joint. One joint can last you the whole day.
It's not like a one sitting thing.
Like, I'm sure you guys come across a lot of that, you know, like real fast.
Real fast flowering, for some reason, they don't last as long in the high.
They're not as strong.
But the stuff that you had before that takes a long time, that takes the three months, the 12 weeks, you know, or so to even just finish the flower, just even get something really smokable.
That stuff is where, I guess, the THC weed, the THC ABC2Z is, you know, whatever you call that stuff.
It's way stronger, in my opinion.
But again, people don't want to wait the time.
They'd rather take like, whatever, three months to finish a nice crop versus waiting the six months.
Again, it's all in everyone's opinion, you know.
So, my opinion is a little different than others and everyone's choice is a little different than others.
So, again, my country, old school, was 20 feet tall.
It wasn't three and a half foot by two feet wide, you know.
It was opposite.
So, that's where we're getting.
Everyone's going back into the land races.
Everyone's going to go back into where cookies was made.
Cookies was made with a Durban and OG.
So, go grow the Durban.
Go see what mama OG was like, better than where baby was.
I'm sure you could find something.
So, that's pretty much the direction that I'm headed.
And going back into the old, digging into the great experience of where Canada's sophistication comes from.
I think you made a good point.
Some people just want to rush it.
They rush the grow, they rush the dry, they rush the cure.
One of them that you mentioned, Swayne Yeo is one of my favorite.
It's a sourdough blue dream cross.
Phenomenal.
It's a temperamental plant.
It's kind of a pain in the ass to grow, but the outcome is just phenomenal.
The profile, if you can imagine those two cultivars coming together anyway.
It's like a GDP cross with Harlequin one time.
Like who would have thought, you know.
But the outcome, the expression was just next level.
It's just something you hadn't experienced before.
So, it's great to hear that focus is coming back a little bit full center.
And I hope that is a movement.
I really do.
I know we had Kevin as a guest commenter on the show.
And some of the things that Kevin Jodry is doing up in NorCal.
He found an old plant.
I want to say, he told me this story.
He found it was on some librarian's desk for like 20 years.
And it was, you know, they had dwarfed it.
And he brought that thing back to life.
There's a video on YouTube you can find.
And he brought it back to life.
And he's trying to find these expressions before the whole DARE movement.
Because, you know, pushing this plant further into the shadows changed the general expression, right, of what we were producing.
All of a sudden, people wanted stuff that wasn't as skunky, wasn't as smelly.
Because they didn't want to be identified.
You know, they wanted to kind of keep it suppressed and down low.
And so, again, not to geek out on some of the things that he and I talk about.
But this is the stuff that excites me.
It's what you guys are talking about.
Trying to keep up with the Joneses on the mainland.
Trying to really cultivate and really, you know, work with what you have.
And if you bring a little bit in from the outside, that's fine, too.
You know?
Well, I wanted to say there is a strain that was bred on Big Island that locals over there call it Dirty Widow.
It's a three-month-long strain.
And it was brought to Maui some years ago.
And somehow got renamed.
And it's called Willie Nelson on Maui.
But it is a really amazing strain.
But it's 13, 14 weeks to finish.
So they do exist.
They do exist.
That's very cool.
Excellent.
Well, I want to thank all of you, obviously.
Heather, James, Doug, Will.
This is a phenomenal conversation.
I want to thank our viewers for recommending Hawaii.
And, again, perfect timing.
Because you guys are definitely on the radar, I'd say nationally and internationally, with the movement around obviously Hawaii.
And obviously legalization there.
But any final words, Peter, before we part ways?
Well, yeah.
Maybe the chat can throw out our next globetrotting location that they want to see.
We got two weeks to prep for it.
Yes.
And what I want to see on it.
And, no, you guys were awesome.
Thanks for jumping on at the early hour of 8 a.m. Hawaii time.
And, Don, I've been using the salve on Gemma.
She has skin irritation.
So I was throwing that on her.
But tomorrow morning we got the one and only Mr. Toad, who's in the chat right now, talking shop.
And, yeah, that's all I got.
I'm going to go either rollerblade or scooter with Gemma and Valentina.
So that's my post-conversation activity.
There you go.
Well, thank you all.
I need to thank Green Bros for allowing me the time to be on here.
But I also want to thank all of you again.
Because it is early morning, even for Hawaii and for island time.
So thank you all for joining on.
And we're definitely going to be doing a full circle once we get through this tour.
We're going to come back around in due time and catch up with everybody.
Argentina is a good recommendation.
We've had several pitch up for Australia.
So we definitely have some great friends in Australia.
I am scared of Saudi Arabia.
I won't lie.
Now, Israel, yes, that was a fun visit.
But, yeah, Afghanistan.
You guys always have some clutch suggestions, man.
So we definitely have a few that we're going to have to whittle through.
To Peter's point, we are doing these every other week.
So, again, be sure to make sure with your friends.
Yes, mahalo to everyone.
Thank you all.
Good vibes.
And we'll see you guys next time.
Thanks again.
Mahalo.
Thank you.
