Dun dun dun, giant massive pear. We are getting rolling here. Just a moment everybody. Let
the room get started. Hello, Claude. How are you doing? Well, I hope. And I... Hmm? So
anyways, here we go with this show. Get ready to rock and roll.
Anyways, here we go with this show. Get ready to rock and roll.
There we go. So hey, Claude. You have... Can you do me a favor and turn off the YouTube
screen? I might have a plane in the background. Or at least turn it down a little bit. It's
all good. I'm just having the last little bit of it set up right now. It'll create a
little bit of feedback for what's that's dealt with. It'll be out of the way. I got to share
the screen. I totally forgot to do that. And now we're up. And running. Perfect. Perfect.
There we go. We are live on the Dank Hour. Just to get things rolling. I know this vlog
or Massive Gaze will be a vlog shortly. So I'm just going to make sure that goes out
because he should be here any moment. It should be a very fun show. We have some epic bug
nerds ready to go. So I'm just going to pop the link over and bring it over and get the
show rolling. I'm not getting too much feedback. How does everybody hear me there on Future
Canada's project? Can you hear me all right? Good. We are coming through loud and clear
on both ends. So everything is happy and we are excellent there, Ashley, Claude, Dr. Anna.
Good to see you. I just shot Massive Gaze a message. So I'm sure he'll be along shortly.
As we all know, we are here for a bug brain evening with some amazing people. We're going
to have a conversation about spring IPM and how to get set up and prepare for spring when it comes
to organic pest control and pest prevention. I think it's a super important subject. And we're
going to try and line that up with this part of the season. Luckily, today we have two amazing
guests, Claude and Matthew, Robert and Matthew Gates, who just came up on stage. As you all know,
how we regularly do this and get this started with is we just go around the room in order of
everybody on screen. You've been here before, Claude, so you're going to just you're going to
start us off. You're going to introduce yourself and then we'll go Dr. Anna, Ashley and then
Matthew Gates and we'll get the conversation rolling after that. And you'll need to unmute
yourself, Claude, as a heads up. You're muted. You're muted, Claude. Bottom right hand side
is a little microphone. If you click that. Oh, yes. OK. Thank you. OK. So hi, everyone. I'm excited
to be part again of another great event with all the bug nerds and the people that want to learn
and we want to teach how to prepare for spring. So I'm just by protection. I started like
always been passionate about plants. It's from my grandmother's side. She always taught me the
wild plants in the forest and she had a big garden and I've always been interested in that. And then
I worked into a greenhouse. I went to school in horticulture and then I started to work as a
counselor for small food producer. And then I worked for the government to the team, the other
team for different pests and disease across different crops in the province of Quebec here
in Canada. So then after that, I was still advising some small food producers and things like that.
And I had to recommend them often some chemical pesticides. I was really not sleeping well at night
coming back in the field and seeing everything dead. So I said, no, I have to change something.
Then I heard this opportunity. So I joined the bioprotection in 2008. And since then, I've been
with the good guys and good girls trying to rebalance the balance in the natural ecosystem
by introducing predatory mites or insects to help the gardeners across Canada and elsewhere to
to have good healthy crops. So that's it. So now I take care of the cannabis sector mainly.
And that's just what we help base NPR growers and licensed producer across Canada to have a
healthy crop to build their IPM programs. So I'll let everybody also present themselves.
You're a bit quiet there, Dr. Anna. Oh, no, is that better? I don't know. A little bit more,
a little bit more into the mic. At least you got a little bit clearer there. I don't know
if you're far from your mic or if you're close to it, but it seems like it's a distance.
Is it too quiet? Let me. Yeah, a little bit faint. You want me to go to Ashley and then we'll come
back? Yeah. All right, Ashley, go ahead. Hey, everybody. My name is Ashley. I'm a
Hey, everybody. My name is Ashley Hubbard. I am the director of cultivation for Rare Systems.
We are in Michigan. We are fully aeroponic, which is always really fun to learn.
But I'm really excited for this conversation. I myself have really started to learn and adapt
different IPM strategies. So really excited. And the more I learn about just the beneficials and
you know, all the all the good things that you can add to, like Claude said, keep the balance,
I think it's just so fascinating. So I'm always really excited to learn about the
small microscope, microscopic world. But we utilize beneficial insects and additives to
our process. So always excited to learn more. Anna, that's you. Is it better?
Much. Okay, good. Hi, everybody. Dr. Anna here. And I am back. I guess I was gone last week. I
had shingles. I still have shingles, but it's not as bad as it was last week. I'm really excited
to learn about stuff today as the head of R&D for a aquaponic certified organic
growth facility. We use bugs. I have a little picture on my profile pic. I just found this
little guy the other day, little baby praying mantis. So cute. We use lacewings and ladybugs
and praying mantises and nematodes. But I don't know much about it. So I'm excited to hear more
and learn more. You're up, Matthew Gates. Hey, everyone. My name is Matthew Gates. I'm an
integrated pest management specialist, and I've been working in agriculture generally for 12
years now. Most of the work I've been doing has been with cannabis, but I also have quite a bit
of experience with cut flowers, vegetables like tomatoes. For a period of time, I lived in China,
and I worked with tea growers there primarily, but also some vegetable growers as well.
I'm very excited to be here with Claude and talking about IPM strategies specifically for
spring because that is a time when a lot of the insect life and other arthropods and other
organisms for that matter wake up and become way more active. We can discuss some of the
aspects I like to often talk about. I have a Zinthanol IPM series here on the Future
Cannabis Project 02 channel, and I also have a YouTube channel, Zinthanol, and an Instagram,
at Zink Angel, where I post a lot of my educational content about plant health,
insect physiology, plant physiology, and that sort of a thing.
And as usual, it is always invited for everybody to come in and check out our moderates and
follow and like them. If you hear something that you enjoy, I'm just going to make a quick note and
just say if you are in the room and you look forward to this conversation, go ahead and share
and post that out there so that we can get more people in the room to enjoy the conversation with
us. Dr. Mark, you're right on time. We're just doing introductions. You want to give yourself
a quick introduction? We're going to get the ball rolling today on spring bugs.
Hey, guys. How are you? I apologize. I was listening to another conversation.
Yeah, just got back from the West Coast, back on the East Coast. This is Dr. Mark,
cannabis chemist. Thanks for the room, London. Yeah, I do anything having to do with the
chemistry of the cannabis plant. So, if anyone has any chemistry questions, fire away.
Awesome. Well, I am looking forward to it. I am excited to really get things rolling. I want to
so those that aren't aware, I recently did kind of a bug release with both of you where I happened
to drop both of you onto the stage to have a conversation. That's what kind of sparked
this evening today, which is really exciting. Just a second. Come up. I got little ones.
It happens. But anyways, we sparked an amazing conversation and opportunity to share a space
with two people that I highly appreciate that are very interesting and very much into bugs.
We released some of these new whirligig crazy might things. And these are voracious eaters
that managed to do a number on a large heap of bugs. Like I mean, these things are nuts. They're
very interesting. We'll get into some of the more specifics with that. But I'd like to open up the
conversation with going to UMass Hugh Gates as you are special second special guest for night
cause here on the regular. So you get a little bit of extra love tonight. But what do you see?
What are kind of the first pests and issues that often come up? And then I'm probably going to
bounce over to Claude and ask what are some of the techniques and things that we can do to prevent and
create a good environment to maintain a balance in our space? I mean, in this spring thing, but
we want to get the ball rolling there, Matthew. Yes, absolutely. So in my experience working with
people specifically in cannabis and also a lot of these pests of cannabis that are very common
are also common pests on other agricultural crops. So maybe the step zero thing is to acknowledge
that cannabis pests don't have to be specialized on cannabis. And indeed, those who don't know,
is actually very common to get pests from surrounding area, especially near agricultural
areas and things like this. So some of these pests that are really common, especially in spring,
would be like the two spots spider mites and other spider mites. The binomial name is Tetranchus
verticae. I recently did a IPM series video on it's extremely extraordinarily potent detoxification
physiology on this channel with Chad Westport. So you should check that out if you're curious to know
exactly how it's able to feed on plants in the way that it can and so gregariously.
Aphids are also really common, I would say during springtime, especially in North America and
Europe. And there are several different kinds of species. The ones you have to worry about in
cannabis would be the rice root aphid and the cannabis aphid most primarily, but there are
indications. I've certainly observed other species sort of transiently colonizing cannabis.
I think that's a good one to start with, except for also maybe western flower thrips or onion
thrips and thrips in general are very common in the springtime and they kind of ramp up as
the temperature increases. Now, before we jump over to Claude and ask what your plan or plan
of action might be at this exact point in time, I'd love to know Matthew, because a question sparked
up in my mind when you were speaking and you mentioned that if you live close to agricultural
spaces, that there is a higher probability of pest interaction. And is this more regularly
observed in say agricultural spaces that are monocropping or doing large volume of singular
types of crops? Or like, are we talking as people that are kind of like, I'm surrounded by a lot of
local natural space. So there's a lot of environment around me and there's a lot of forests
here in North Vancouver, which is quite lovely, but I'm not exactly surrounded by agricultural
land. So I wonder if the type of land and the balance that's around there is playing a key
factor into these influences. That's an excellent question. Non-agricultural flora are an incredibly
resilient and useful place for various pest species to harbor. So not just because agricultural
fields, but also indeed many pests are well known for traveling through maybe natural waterways or
ravines and other sort of undergrowth, especially even natural plants that are native to the area.
So it's not really a guarantee that if you're growing in a space that's very close to a
forested zone or sort of a very biodiverse area that you're not going to necessarily encounter
pests. In fact, a lot of those plants can also be, sometimes at least, hosts for those various
plant parasites. But they are, I would say, the reason why a lot of domesticated plants are really
suitable hosts is because a lot of their defense compounds and other defensive structures have been
bred out through domestication. Unintentionally, of course, people didn't really know what they were
doing at that level, you know, millennia ago. But that is one factor of many. Monoculture is also
another factor, having large swaths of these plants that don't have those resistance factors,
certainly as the virulence of those pests and their sheer number and their ability to grow rapidly.
Awesome. I think with a great question comes an amazing response. That was well put. So, Claude,
you're up next. What am I going to want to do in your average situation going into, you know,
the... I know this is a terribly unprecise question because it's a little rough. What are the first
three steps or pest prevention methods that either include using natural or organic pest solutions or
using the release of living insects? Do you suggest going into spring as your best preparation to,
you know, ensure that you're going to have the best crop possible? Often when people are growing
cannabis, there is, you know, one crop the whole season. So, if you have one... Like in Canada,
you get four plants. That's all you get if you don't have your medical license. So, a lot of
people, these four plants, they put a lot of value in it. They try and get a lot of their crop out of
the year. You know, they're not smoking much. But what can these people do to ensure that a balance
is created right off the bat that's going to create a situation that's optimum for our plant
growth and to have as little problems in the future as possible? Some problems is part of
the solution, but, you know, what can we do to really line that up correctly?
So, first of all, you have to know the site you are at, in what region, zone you are,
what type of weather it is, the history, what kind of pests lurks around, what you had previous
history, what you have previous experience with is a good indicator to how to prepare yourself.
Also, the thing is, we're talking about the surrounding fields. The experience I had was
mainly with monocrop. Let's say people were growing hay or wheat or spring wheat or things like that.
And then they would harvest, do a cutting of the hay or wheat. And then there would be an
invasion of trips that would come over on the cannabis field. So that could happen sometimes
because of an agricultural field nearby. I believe maybe the forest surroundings is more balanced.
There'll be more pests and predators also at the same time present. So there'll be less of a
problem there. When you, the same thing with cannabis or cabbage or any type of seedling or
small plant that will often get flea beetles. We don't have any really, any predators for it, but
you can always spray cold water on them and they'll just chase them for half a day. They like
to have it, to have really hot conditions and they like it sunny and they're always around.
And they could be a nuisance to the plant. Those tiny little black flea beetles. When at the start,
after a couple of notes, there's no worries. They'll do minimal damage on the leaves.
So this we have to watch. I think it's pretty common in North America. I have to check
where it is exactly, it's ranged, but this is something we have to check.
Also, like we had said in the previous episode, companion planting, to have an assortment.
If they're not present naturally, try to have as many plants that are rich in pollen and nectar
to feed off the predators. Also, it depends, are you growing in pots or in the ground? If you're
growing in pots, certain invertebrates could, like the cucumber beetle, its larva could be
damaging sometimes in certain areas. So I would then recommend to introduce a predatory mite like
Stratulalaps or Galolaps, which Stratulalaps is still known as on their own name, Hypoaspis.
So if it's in the ground, there's no need, there's already predators present naturally,
but in a pot with potting soil, then there's just pests that are going to show up usually.
So then we have to prevent that by putting these resident predatory mites inside the pots.
This would be a good way. Also, if you have caterpillars issue, the borers or any
other type of caterpillars, we have Trichogramma wasps that you can also release in advance
in the season when you know, like the corn borer won't happen in the West, on the West Coast,
it's just on the East Coast. But there's other type of caterpillars that could be
taking care with Trichogramma. I will speak more about them later. I will
take, leave my place to somebody else.
In other words, you need a moment to have a pop, which is an excellent point of taking a pause and
taking a moment and talking about that. Because I think it's super important to get these like
balances sorted out right at the start, because you can really set yourself up in the long run.
Now, one thing that often happens is I'd like to take a moment because this question was asked in
chat, I think we got a good opportunity to do this. One major problem, and I'm going to start
with giving both of the experts a good break here because I know for a fact Ashley has a
fantastically clean facility that takes amazing care and she has some awesome protocols in place
at a larger scale that we don't usually talk about in a lot of these settings. And I think
it would be really interesting to kind of bring that up and what protocols you use in your space
to kind of ensure that we keep the, that we prevent as much introduction as possible.
Because we're going to more than likely introduce pests through pets, animals and stuff like that.
How frequently that happens, who knows? I'm sure Matthew Gates will talk about that in a moment,
but I'd love to know, Ashley, from your perspective, what are you doing in your facility
to kind of ensure that this is as minimal as a risk as possible? Because you also encourage a
lot of your home growers and people that really care to go home and grow some, it's not an issue
for you at all too. So I think it's important to talk. Yeah, so first and foremost we change
into scrubs. So if you guys are getting ready to walk into your garden and you've been around
somebody else's plants, you can always think about just doing a quick clothing change. We wear scrubs.
You would be surprised at how much can be brought into your building just on everybody's
outside clothes. So we always change out of ours, but we try to be as preventative as possible.
You can never fully control everything, but if you can start clean, stay clean, that's always
kind of the second step. So we like to, when we're taking cuts, we'll kind of dip our clones
before they leave the mother's room. So we don't mix, excuse me, we dip our plants in stuff oil
before they leave any room. So in between them being a clone going to the clone room, and then
when they're leaving the veg to become a veg plant, we dip them again. So we try to
just assume that we need to prevent everything that we can. So no plant has moved without being
dipped. And then we like to utilize beneficial insects at various times throughout our grow. So
we like to introduce them week one of flower, and then we replenish them week five of flower,
and we use sachets. So we like to use a general list. So cucumaris, we'll get a sachet
and put one on every plant. Those plants are in our flower rooms for about nine weeks. So we like
to make sure we replenish them at least once. But sachets are really cool because you can
put them on a plant. You want to make sure they're in the canopy area,
but they are a slow release. So whatever beneficial that you've identified is what you
want to put on your plants, you'll just hang these little sachets on the canopy at canopy heights,
and they are slowly release these beneficial insects over about, I'd say two and a half to
four weeks, depending on the species timeline. So it's good protection.
Oh, you faded in out there for a second there, Ashley. Your audio went a little bit off.
How's it now?
I think your mic just might have gotten tucked into your hair.
Gotcha. So we, yeah, so we will utilize these beneficial sachets to be,
um, but we start clean, move plants, assuming that, you know, we're going to move a clean
plant to a room. And then we try to just take good care to make sure that they've got protection
throughout their whole course. But something that I really enjoy doing, and I think it's just
been a win-win for our company is, you know, I encourage my team to grow at home. You know,
I don't want to stifle their creativity, but also want to be smart about what it means for us as a
business. So I intentionally grab a couple of additional sachets and I will hand those out to
my home growers. So give them a sachet, it helps protect their plants as well as protect the ones
that are, protect our plants at work. So I thought that that was always a really cool thing to,
to kind of inspire them to do the same thing that, at their, at their house, you know, start clean,
let's, let's grow clean plants and we can make preventative, take preventative measures.
Um, but yeah, that's what, that's what we do at work and, uh, it's, it's worked out really well.
We like to, um, also utilize some Delosha on our moms. So, um, yeah, that's what we do.
Awesome. And how
great is it to have a full aspect and view of like the situation? I love being able to go
from small to big. I think it's really important and really, really helpful. Um, so I will bring
this up now we are about half an hour into the show and we are talking about bug and pest
prevention come spring and how to best situate ourselves. Now I'd love to pop down to Matthew
and ask him, you know, what is, what is a common issue that he's running into at this point in time?
Are there some questions that are commonly sorted out? And if you could get a couple out of the way,
if there was one particularly that you would love to get out of the way and get known,
would you like to say that? So at this point,
uh, well, I just put it in the live stream chat for YouTube and that's that basically
it's a very good idea to set up some sort of a quarantine, whether you're a commercial grower
or whether you're a home grower. Um, if you're growing and you're getting clones or cuttings
from people, then it's an extremely good idea because there are various pests that are invisible
when they first colonize. Like in the case of certain microbes, like powdery mildew,
they're virtually impossible to see for the first many dozens of hours of, um, of the colonization
process of germination. Uh, obviously certain viral agents can be difficult to see like
hoplite and viroid, um, which at this point almost feels cliche to talk about since at least for the
specialists that I work with, um, this is an incredibly big deal for so many people.
Um, and also even like thrips, like, uh, you know, many thrips use an ovipositor,
uh, and they inject basically the egg into the dermal tissue. So even if you were to wipe out
all the thrips, you can't necessarily see, uh, that the eggs are still there beneath the tissue.
And then they hatch as nymphs. And you're wondering where they came from. You were very,
um, you know, you're very visually comprehensive and you're looking out and you're crop scouting.
Uh, but yeah, just situational awareness in general, having a quarantine process, if you can,
uh, manage that. And also on top of that, um, like Claude said earlier, simply like being aware of
the pests that are possible for you to get just generally like for the crop that you're growing,
in this case, cannabis, understanding their life cycle. Um, and then also recognizing the signs
of their presence, like their damage and also what their bodies look like at various life stages,
learning that pre-priming yourself with that information is invaluable in my opinion.
Awesome. Do you have a similar opinion there, Claude, or shall we move on? Cause I'd love to
get, cause usually what I've often been told at this point in the year is a bit about nematodes
and like, let's get a soil drench in there. So do you want to talk about that? Cause I think
they're, they're, they're a confused and used product that I don't know is always being used
appropriately. And I think I'd love to ask you a little bit about that because there's a lot of
people going to be using nematodes, especially here in the Pacific Northwest to kind of, you
know, for their grass, but also as preventive, preventative and Russell, welcome to this stage.
Russell, we're going to allow him some space earlier and later, but Claude, what's up with
nematodes? Okay. Just before I just wanted to, to point to, to complete a bit, also not just
clones that get from friends, but I had also tells people that had plants outside and they
wanted to bring back inside. So when you bring back inside plants that were outside, you, it's
really a lottery. You might get a lot of things that you weren't expecting in the first time in
your life as you see. So this could be something that you have to check. And also that's it. Even
if your friends, they tell you, tell you their, their plants are clean and everything like that.
And they're really honest and everything, but they don't even know themselves that they have
issues. And especially like Matthew was saying, those elusive trips,
there's always one that lays eggs somewhere or hides somewhere, somewhere in a vein or
like somewhere really, really well hidden that you don't see. He's going to restart everything.
So this you have to really, really make sure. So also concerning the nematodes,
you have to know what pest you're fighting to get the right species of nematode to fight them.
Nematodes come in the variety of substrate, from different companies. Some come in clay,
some come in gel, some as a organic gel, some it's a dietary merserde is really popular these
days. A food grade, a fine dietary merserde that's not an insecticidal. They also come in
on sponges. So when you get the nematodes, you, you will dissolve them in the water
so that you will be able to apply them. So according to what pest you're fighting,
you'll know how much volume you need to reach them. Let's say you want to reach grubs that
are deep in the ground, then you have to have an important volume of water. So I would always
advise is to make sure that your pots or your lawn has always been, has been watered nicely
before. Meaning there's no dry pockets anywhere because the nematodes really need free water to
travel and find their prey and survive. So you want them to travel everywhere as much as you can.
It's important also when you mix in the nematodes into the water to use it immediately.
Some people will prepare a solution and do something else. They'll suffocate. If you don't
have a good aerator to give oxygen to these nematodes, they'll die of lack of oxygen.
So that's another important thing to consider.
That said, you have to use them at the right temperature and also at the right time. I won't
go over all pests, but there are certain periods in the year that you have to use the nematodes and
sometimes it isn't worth it. You just waste your money. I mean, they won't be able to target the
pest at the right stage or something like that. So that is what I would say to that.
Just to finish, also what I think it was Ashley was saying, I think, about sachets.
Sachets are great inside or even in a greenhouse, but never use them outside. It's not worth it.
The first rain will ruin them. It will destroy the climate. Even if they come in this
fancy packaging, some companies have. I heard these companies sometimes advise the cannabis
growers. The licensed producer has 100,000 plants and they would put a sachet of Swirsky
and Californicus on each 100,000 plants every week. So they spent a lot of money for nothing.
Not to interrupt, but one of the problems is because of the sunlight, right?
It just bakes them. It just makes the mites come out of the packages too quickly.
Exactly, exactly. That's the first point. Sorry, the first, most important point is not even the
rain. Even if they're well hidden in the canopy, even if it's a really leafy plant,
they don't have a chance. So then we have to do some bulk release. For predatory mites,
I would only use Neosilus fallacies outside because it's a native mite. I know it's in Canada.
I don't know about California. Maybe it's a better species. Maybe Californicus there. You
have to tell us. Or Persimilus would be good. But Neosilus fallacies would be the mite I would
release in Canada. We use them with raspberry growers and they become resident. So they
introduce them one time and usually they see them year after year after that. So this I would do.
So I will leave the mite to somebody else, but I will come back about that because it's not
all predatory mites or insects that we can release outside that are efficient. It's not the same as
inside or in greenhouse settings. I would never use ladybugs outside. It's not worth it. They'll
just fly off with the first breeze, especially the wild harvested ones. I think they'll have a
tendency to want to go back home. So anyways, I'll let Matthew or any other people continue.
Nicole Stephens
I have a question. So I've always heard that certain pumps will actually harm nematodes.
So we had to hand water ours in for a certain application at my last grow. Is that correct?
That you have to be careful with what kind of pump if you're going to try to water them in?
Claude Lungy, D.C. That's my understanding, Claude.
Claude Lungy, D.C. Totally, especially the filters. You have to watch for
that. You have to remove your fine mesh filters. They won't go across that.
Sometimes people have no choice because it's the setting. They have so many plants,
such a big facility and everything like that. Lack of staff and time. So they find it practical.
But the best way is to, if you can do it, is to do them individually. Then you know that you have
a good drench. You have a little leach under the pot that you know that you've reached everywhere.
Especially this way, you're trying to fight fungus gnats. Certain times the fungus gnat will
just be on the top soil. They'll be around the drainage hole. So that way, if you want to get
them put in the meadows, you have in fact almost no choice to get the meadows everywhere. So you
want to make sure that they're going to drain in the bottom of the pot. If it's in a hydroponic
system, that's it. You remove your filters. You make sure there's not too much agitation either.
And you're going to lose some in the pipes and the tubes. That will never make it to their prey.
So it's not the best way, but sometimes they have no choice.
So this kind of brings up a question that's popped up into my head. Actually,
you know, I've got another one first because I've got to do Dr. Anne a
favor here. She's got this beautiful picture of a mantis up as, oh wait, I've got to show it on
the other. The YouTube side doesn't see it. So I've got to be able to fix that. But anyway,
so she's got a beautiful picture of a mantis up and mantises are cool as hell, but they aren't
like the ideal pest preventer. You know, like they're just, they get big and then they eat
large things. And a lot of the problems with cannabis and a lot of vegetables in general
are really that large things don't get at them too hard. So I'd love to know if there's some
methodology or thoughts on how to appropriately use mantis in a way that might be intelligent
for a home roan. There's one over at Matthew who we hit cloud just spoke, but is there like,
can we paste them out and release them so that they're maintained small? Is there,
or is it ideal to drop them all at once? What's kind of, you know, thought process going on?
Generally, I don't support the use of praying mantis in indoor outdoor cultivation, primarily
because like, I think we've talked on another stream potentially. They're too big. And like,
you've also acknowledged as well, even as nymphs, they're pretty large still. And a lot of the,
well, all the really precarious pests that we're dealing with, like spider mites, thrips, aphids,
russet mites, broad mites, not counting the things that are insects, of course,
they're way too small really to be an effective prey target for praying mantis. The sorts of
things they could think of that might be more relevant. And of course I want to put up my cards
on the table and say that I am biased because of where I live. You know, I live in Southern
California. I've worked in other places, of course, and I make it a habit to become familiar
with other parts of the world, especially places where I'm going to visit. And so other places
might have more pests. And I can think of things like maybe caterpillars as an example that might
be an attractive target or maybe certain beetle species potentially. But ultimately, I don't feel
like they have enough of a sort of what we call an attack rate for, you know, compared to like other
sort of pest-eating predators or parasitoids. The kill rate is just too low for a lot of these pests
because they reproduce so rapidly and they're also too small, essentially. And also on top of that,
if you care about such things, although it would be very difficult to root out things like the
Chinese mantis in North America, but a lot of these praying mantids are not native to the area
that you're utilizing them. So from an ecological perspective, there might be a deleterious effect
if you're applying them often, or at least a disruptive effect to the native wildlife around.
If that's something that's important to somebody who's cultivating or
managing a land area.
Yes, if I can add about the praying mantids, we've been warned by the Association of National
Bio-control Producers, which we are a part of, to stop trade of Chinese mantids, any type of mantids,
and also of convergent lady beetles. Because the Chinese mantids are not native to the area
of convergent lady beetles, because they are wild harvested usually, so that's not really ethical.
And like Matthew just said, they can disrupt natural ecosystems if people are not careful
where they release them. And also they're not as efficient predators. They're really spectacular.
If that's what makes the beauty of them, and they're so spectacular, and there's so many
YouTube channels showing fights of them with different crazy other insects.
And so they're really, really spectacular. And we used to sell them before when I arrived at Nenetsis,
to schools and things like that, and people just as novelty and just like for education.
But now we cannot sell them anymore. And it's still on our old website,
but our new website is coming in very soon, which has been warned by a fly from by Brian.
He said he wasn't pointing us directly, but he said we have to remove that, this page,
this ghost page, because we haven't sold any in two years. But so that's it. Prairie mantids are
really nice to look at. They're really spectacular, and they could be efficient predator for certain
things. But like Matthew said also, at the rate, the production rate of the pest that we're dealing
with, it's not, it is not the predator that we want. I mean, it's not our preferred.
I also want to add that for the lady beetles, I've posted about this several times, but
some of these wild harvested lady beetles are also Harmonia axiridis, which is the
harlequin lady beetle. And that's an invasive species in North America and other parts of the
world. It's from Asia. And the major problem with it is that it will eat other lady beetle species
that are native. So that's a problem. On top of that, it will vector a disease. I think it's a
microsporodium. I can't remember off the top of my head, but it's kind of like a fungus.
And basically that will be vectored through to other lady beetles too as well. And it's just
not really great. It's just a parasite essentially of lady beetles. So on top of all those things as
well, they can bite people. And they tend to aggregate in massive quantities during fall and
winter so that they can overwinter. And that's a major way that people wild harvest them. So they
destroy habitat in order to do that. And then also some of these will overwinter in places that
you don't want, like close to your house. And for some people that can be pretty annoying or
alarming. So yeah, I would definitely advocate for people to learn about some of these biocontrol
agents and not just the insects, but also fungi. I'm a big fan of a Buvaria bastiana or Azaria
fumosauracea. These are two endopathogenic fungi that are commonly used against insects, but
they have a broad host range. So I think that it's important for us to be cognizant of that
and consider that when we're trying to use these organisms in a strategic fashion.
So Matthew, I have a question. You called it the harlequin lady beetle. Is that the same as what
I've heard called the Japanese lady beetle? And they also like vomit up this like gross yellow
stuff that gets all over your plants as well if you have them on. Is that the same bug?
It might be. I actually don't hear it called that, but this is a great opportunity to say that
common names for insects and arthropods is very varied. One only needs to talk about pill bugs
and the various names that people have for them, which are, you know, roly-poly is not sort of a
thing. So that does sound like a characteristic that they do have. I think the harlequin lady
beetle does sort of like ever like a foul smelling yellow liquid as a defense mechanism as well.
So it could be what you're talking about as well. The harlequin lady beetle is also,
for those who don't know, they have a multitude of phenotypes. So some of them look like, you know,
red lady beetles with black spots. Sometimes they're totally black. Sometimes they are
other various colors as well. So that's kind of where the name comes, like a harlequin mask.
They can like change their appearance very, very often. And I think that's actually kind of amazing.
But unfortunately, I can't appreciate it too much.
Thank you.
Yeah, it is. It stinks really much. And here in Quebec, especially northern latitudes, they really
need the heat to overwinter. So they get into the barns and everything. I saw some farmers rip up an
old wall in a barn and there was like millions. And they're all like stuck together. So now they
compete with the 563 species I think we have. And they've won, so it's not a good idea. I think
they've been introduced in the Midwest and Ontario about three years ago in the greenhouse. And they
didn't realize that, yeah, they're going to fly off the vents and they're going to go outside.
And that's what happened. So we used to sell them at the Convergence Lady Beetle, not the Asian one.
We used to sell them like by 36,000, 72,000 like bags. But now it's over with climate change,
the West Coast wildfires, and now the warning we had. And also we were against that
for ethical reasons. We have other predators as efficient. And it's just that people, when they
know, they learn about biocontrol, the first things they know about is ladybird, beetle,
ladybug. That's the symbol of biological control. And like anetsis is the name of a species.
So... Go ahead, Dr. Mark. If you like, I have a question for you that I
should know. I love to know what happens to all these bugs I put in my weed.
I have more questions than answers. But we talked about this
on a clubhouse once before. I'm not sure if it was this room. But in my previous life, I
explored... Well, actually, I'm still exploring this plant. It's a very interesting plant. The
plant we know is catnip. So nepeta cataria, I think, is the most common of them. Catnip,
it's commonly known as catnip. So catnip is actually, I think, in the same genus as
basil and cannabis. I think they're all in that same branch of the plant kingdom.
Yeah, the oil expressors. So similar to cannabis, catnip expresses its oil
in glandular trichomes on the leaf surface. And they're very odd looking, if you've ever seen
the trichomes of cannabis. I know there's a few images up there on the web, but we actually
looked at them underneath the microscope. And they have kind of like that sessile gland,
sort of just round, orb-like looking trichome that sort of sits on the leaf surface.
But the interesting thing about the essential oil of catnip is it's enriched with a compound
called nepetalactone. And nepetalactone is the thing that is responsible for the activity in
felines, right? And that is conserved through the feline kingdom. So it happens to our little
domestic friends, as well as the big cats in the jungle. They respond to that. They want to listen
to jazz and eat Twinkies. So it's kind of cool. But how it's appropriate to this discussion,
Claude, is you were talking about beneficial plants. Catmint, nepeta cateria, attracts lace
wings. And lace wings are pretty good predators for aphids. I know there's a little bit of
discussion about using lace wings as an integrated pest management control species for cannabis.
I don't know if you all have any exposure or any experience with lace wings. But I would think that,
again, a beneficial plant to have in your garden would be nepeta cateria. It's really pretty,
and it gets your cats high. It makes an interesting tea, too, as well. I guess
people used to drink the tea of catmint for stomach ailments. Nepetalactone itself is an
insect repellent. But at high concentrations, it actually induces an allergic reaction,
a skin sensitization. So you may want to be careful with the essential oil itself.
But the last thing I'll say is that lace wings are kind of like, I think they're in that same
family as stink bugs. Because if you do crush a lace wing, it's got a scat hole in it, which is
3-methylindole, which is a really interesting compound. Because at very low concentrations,
3-methylindole smells almost floral or orangey, citrusy, I think. More floral than anything.
But at high concentrations, it literally smells like shit. It literally has got the smell of
feces. In fact, I think its origin is from the decomposition of the amino acid tryptophan.
And so when that amino acid decomposes, you get scat hole. And scat hole is just, yeah,
just a really stinky compound. So it might be kind of like stink bugs. When you squish a lace
wing, it might smell. Your fingers might smell a little bit. This is Dr. Mark. Thanks.
Well, fun fact, nipitalactyl is something that-
Nipitalactone.
No, no, no. I know that. I heard what you said. And I'm saying that a different compound.
Oh, yeah. The lactol. Okay, go ahead. I'm sorry.
No problem. And also, I'm very curious because I don't have the strongest biochemical... First of
all, it's such a diverse discipline. But I'm curious to get your opinion on this. So apparently,
there's a nipitalactyl that induces a response in forodon humuli, which is the hop aphid or the
damson hop aphid, which is a close relative to the cannabis aphid, forodon cannabis. And I guess,
apparently, it's very attractive to them. And also, perhaps, ropalocyfoam patty,
which is very closely related to ropalocyfoam rufi abdominale, the rice root aphid. Many people
have encountered both the cannabis aphid and the rice root aphid. And I guess, I've done a whole
lot of research on cannabis aphid physiology specifically. But that's an interesting thing.
Whenever somebody mentions nipitalactone, I immediately think of this research report,
which you can find in my pest primer video on the cannabis aphid on my YouTube channel,
Zenfanol. And I always like to talk about this because people often ask about the ability for
breeding plants that have resistance traits, of course, having certain compounds that would be
negatively effective, phytotoxic to insects, but also potentially even just repellents from a
volatile perspective. Could they produce enough that the parasite will not want to be
on the plant? And I've mentioned in other places, but insects and also predators, insect predators,
for example, like parasitic wasps. And I'm curious to hear Claude's opinion on this as well,
that their response to these chemistries can be kind of plastic. It can change quite a bit.
And of course, that makes sense, right? Because what works in one environment might not work in
another. So there's a bit of a selection pressure there for that. And yeah, so I just want to bring
that up. So yeah, it's a nipitalactone, I have it here for me. And nipitalactone, yeah, actually,
both of these. Yeah. So I don't have the research report on my, right here, but I can get it to you
and I can put it in the comments if you'd like to take a look at it in the future, anyone who's
listening. Yeah. So that family, those bicyclic iridoid monoterpenoids are found throughout
the insect kingdom too, as well, Matthew. So actually what we did, so we found that if you
hydrogenate nipitalactone, it converts it into dihydronipitalactone. And nipitalactone itself,
so the essential oil of catnip, which is typically enriched with nipitalactone on the order of about
70 to 85%. So kind of like what cannabinoids is to cannabis extracts, to essential oil of catnip,
the monoterpenoids that you find in there. Let's see, we used to find carvone in there.
We would find beta-caryophyllene and osemine and a couple of the common terpenes and sesquiterpenes
that you find in cannabis, which I always thought was interesting. And when you hydrogenate the
oil itself, all those terpenes also get hydrogenated. But kind of like the cool thing
that we couldn't predict until we actually did the chemistry was the essential oil of catnip is very
loud and herbaceous. In fact, some people find it very objectionable. It's got like a freshly
mowed grass kind of smell or like kind of like wet hay kind of smell. It smells very...
Do I have to make sure my parents are out of the house when I do this project of...
Now you've got to do it. But anyways...
But the cool thing on it is after you hydrogenate it, the essence of the oil changes from
wet freshly mowed grass to lemony minty with a hint of licorice.
It's like the craziest thing ever. So actually the hydrogenated oil is an EPA approved insect
repellent. This is a project I worked on many years ago and there's a company that's commercializing
that. So it's a plant derived insect, natural insect repellent. And it turns out hydrogenation,
like I was saying earlier, improves the safety of the compound as well as the fragrance of the
compound. So it's not so objectionable to have on your skin when it smells lemony minty with a hint
of licorice. But if you walk around smelling like catnip oil, people might want to stay away from
you as well as bugs. So the research report, for those who are curious to put it in the live stream
chat on YouTube, it's called pheromone traps for the dissemination of an intimate pathogen
by the Damson Hop Aphid Bordon Humili published in Biocontrol Science and Technology in 2001.
And yeah, so they were looking at that as a potential volatile that could be used as an
attractant. And then of course, maybe for an auto-inoculation trap. So you mix some sort of
an intimate pathogenic fungus and some sort of a carrier, and then you dope it with some sort of
attractant or you put something close by that's an attractant. And then they come around, usually
males. I believe this study was for males. Or actually, no, that's not possible. I mean, it
is possible, but most aphids usually don't have male forms. That's actually a really important
point to make for those who don't know. There are sometimes males that are produced, but by and
large, they're usually females that reproduce clonally with live birthed offspring, which is
pretty interesting. So that's called telescoping generations. But yeah, I did put in my pest primer
video, and it's an interesting subject, I think, for people because I feel like it does get a lot
more research lately, but it's kind of hard to utilize because a lot of times for many insects,
chemistries that are like endogenous, they produce like pheromones, especially for mating or for
aggregation or something like this. Those are oftentimes, in a lot of cases, the volatiles that
a plant produces and the ones that the parasite or other organism produces, they work together,
and they have a synergistic effect for various organisms, either some that are using the
volatiles as a guide to find food. So in that case, it's a chyromone, and not great for the sender,
but great for the receiver. In other cases, it's a cohort that is looking to
find a mate or perhaps a colony mate, potentially, or some other sort of thing like that.
I do find this stuff really fascinating. Have you ever, have you worked more, or do you have
any more stories about using traps in this way? Oh, I didn't address anyone in particular,
but I suppose I meant Dr. Mark. Yeah, no, I'm a chemist. I'm not, I happen to just work on this
one insect repellent project, but I'm a research chemist who doesn't do, I don't cultivate,
I don't grow. I know the chemistry of the cannabis plant, but I'm not a entomologist,
but I've worked with entomologists, and I've published in the Journal of Medical Entomology,
but I'm just a chemist. I'm just a PhD chemist who, yeah, who understands chemistry, that's all.
We distribute different pheromones against different pests with different traps that you
put out in the field. So according to the season, we have some for the squid midge and different
crops like garlic and onions, things like that. And we have some for the corn borer too,
that will attract them. So you know in advance when the pest is there,
so you can begin your treatment or introducing the predators that you need.
I saw in the chat some people talking about bean plants. It is a really good idea. I even saw a
licensed producer that the QA would let them do it. They would grow bean plants next to the
cannabis plant, and these bean plants would get the spider mites first, if there were any spider
mites in the facility. So that way they could remove the bean plants and know that the spider
mites are there or treat the bean plants or use the bean plants as a platform to release the
predators against the spider mites. I also saw in the chat somebody talking about grasshoppers.
There was a product that was available in Canada. Now it is just available in USA. It is
Nocema lucusta. The name of the product is Nolo bait. So it spores of, it is an entomopathogenic
mushroom that is used against grasshoppers as bait. So it is available in the USA, but it won't
be available in Canada until maybe next year. So what happened is the plant that was producing it
burned out in Canada. So it has just been back in the USA. So it is called Nolo bait, the product,
and it is Nocema lucusta. So that is the only thing I know about how to control,
in an organic way, grasshoppers. So if you could help anybody.
I think this is awesome. It has led to a whole bunch of things. Dr. Mark, I am not going to lie.
My wife has gone into plants and wants to do this witchy stuff. She got a still. So we are doing a
bunch of essential oils and stuff like that. She has me planting so much stuff. We are going to
just all put it in there and see what the fuck happens. I am very excited about it. But yeah,
I will probably send you some videos of me doing something stupid at one point or another, I am sure.
Hey London, the thing you have to realize too with catmint oil, unlike most mint oils,
so spearmint oil and peppermint oil will be on the top. Catmint oil is more dense than water.
So actually, catmint oil will fall to the bottom of your receiving vessel.
Are you doing a hydro distillation or steam distillation? Do you know the difference?
Steam distillation. I have a really basic pot steam setup.
Yeah, so the plant material is not in the boiling water, is it? You are passing steam through it?
No, then I would be the other way around. Sorry.
Yeah, so what you are doing is called a hydro distillation. So if you add the plant material
to your water and then just distill over the water and separate off the essential oil from that,
that is called a hydro distillation. A steam distillation is different in that what you are
doing is you are passing steam through the plant material and catching the volatiles on the other
side of the condenser. Yeah, so the only nuance there again is that the catmint oil is slightly
more dense than water, but it is only slightly more dense. And the problem that that creates
is that you get a lot of incomplete oil disengagement in your hydrosol. So your hydrosol,
and if you have cats around the house, they are going to be going nuts when you are doing this
because there is all kinds of volatiles that will come off the top of that and the cats will just
be going crazy. I think it is osemine is the most volatile terpene that you are going to get out of
that. But yeah, I will be interested in seeing the cats running around going crazy as you are
distilling the stuff. This is Dr. Mark. Bringing it back a little bit because of course we have
got the bug brains in the house here. And those that are in the audience, if you enjoyed the
conversation, do not forget to share, post, reshare, do whatever you can to make sure and
get out the conversation as much as possible. I look forward to having it every single week with
you guys and I hope you do too. We have our last 22 minutes left to go and I would like to ask,
because we have kind of gone down this wormhole of the other things that we can bring into our
space, the companion planting as it were, and this is the point near where you are able to get some
companion planting done. I would love to ask the experts, what are we,
first we will start with Todd and then I am sure we will bounce over to Matthew,
what are we suggesting to plant and put in right now and are there perennials that we can get
started at any point in time that might be a good idea to just have on the property? I know putting
down beans is an excellent idea because it is always better to have something that will be
attracted to them first, it is like your marker and I do that each year as well.
But what could I be getting started now to help myself start in that in this situation?
Okay, you addressed that question to me? Okay, yes, yes, okay, okay, okay, I see. So, there are different
plant families that you could use to plant outside to attract predators. It brings me up to the
subject, I did not have a chance to talk about the aphid predator image. So, if you have any issues
with aphids in your area, it is a good one to introduce into your area, the aphid predator image.
Also, I would, before I forget, there is another question about springtails.
Yes, they are good usually in your soil, they will transform organic matter. If it is in your pots,
usually it will, some people that are not too fond of insects will be kind of horrified because you
could water your plants and from the drain holes, you will see hundreds of them coming out of the
drain holes. And some people think they have rice with aphids or things like that. And I receive
many pictures every week of people that have rice with aphids and it is different types of columbola,
it is like springtails. So, no, usually they are not, unless you can control them with predatory
mites like Stratus ellipsa or Delosia also will control some, things like that if you want to
bring down the population. But usually they are useful, you know, so they are not to be,
if you are not too scared of insects, then you let them be.
Yeah, I want to back up that, I want to back up what Claude was saying about springtails. They
are generally benign and mold mites too for that matter, which are often feeder mites,
for predatory mites. I am asked about those perennially all the time and people often
mistake them for fungus gnats, which are a threat, and aphids, like rice root aphids,
and also predatory mites for that matter. They sometimes get lumped into that group as well.
So, yeah, definitely try to learn your morphology. I just want to suggest again that I do have
observational footage and videos about that on my YouTube channel for those who are curious and I
feel like it is a really helpful learning tool because some of these various arthropods can look
very similar to each other. So, it is understandable that people get mixed up.
It is bloody hard getting those little photos, I will tell you what though,
which is great. So, can we, I would like to know a little bit about if there is some,
actually I would like to say hello to Johnny because he is a regular here on the Dane County.
If I could get to say hello. He was running a little bit late because of a tragedy.
I am wondering if you have an available moment, Johnny, since you are on the stage. And since
we are actually in our Hail Mary last little bit here, if you have any questions or comments,
go ahead and raise your hand and come up on stage here. Or if you are in the audience of Future
Canada's project on the YouTube side, go ahead and raise your hand or say something, ask a question
now or forever hold your peace because we have like 15 minutes left of the show. Don't forget
to share, repost and do it because I think we have had a lot of great content and stuff coming
at you today and I hope you have enjoyed it all. But Johnny, how are you doing and do you have a
razzmatazz of questions for us? Or are you on mute? Hey, sorry about that London. I just heard
my name popped up. I was just eating some food. Was there a question attached to that? No, I was
just saying how it is doing. You have had a stressful day and you had some problems so you
had to do some hustling and stuff like that. I was wondering if you had anything to say or a question.
Oh man. Yeah, I am just so devastated dude. Like having to chop down plants
four or five weeks early and like scramble. You know, I have taken care of these things. They
were big massive plants for the last couple of months and they are just starting to look amazing
and smell amazing and I just had to kill my kids pretty much. So,
a little bummed, scrambling but everything will be alright. Sorry I am late.
Definitely seems like a good conversation up until this point.
Thank you Johnny for dropping in. So, I have a question that is perfectly relative towards me
and an issue and a question that has been pondering in my head each year. I get a ridiculous
amount of hover bugs in the spring. Is this something that I should be worried about? Is this
something that is common or an issue? I find a lot of the times people jump too fast into defending
and often what is supposed to be you can do it. You can cause more harm than good. It is like
spraying pesticides after putting down a bunch of paid for insects. It just does not make sense. So,
is there something with hover bugs? Is this a concern or do they show signs of other issues?
Are you talking about hover flies? Yes, hover flies.
Okay, hover flies, the Eupedes americanus. We just read them now. They are amazing.
It is their larva that eats aphids. They are furtive too. They need the adults. They need
pollen and nectar. They absolutely need that to be able to gather strength and then they will lay
their eggs. So, any plant like companion planting, I really like, just to come back to that, I really
like any kind of clover because it brings also nitrogen to the soil. So, red clover, white clover
and to bring back what Dr. Mark was saying, any plant with nice essential like peppermint,
things like that would be good. Marigold are good. Sunflowers are good. Cerastium,
Cherville, there are many, many plants. It is just your imagination. In fact,
your growing conditions is the limit. Just to complete your question from before.
So, I guess I will pass on the mic.
Yeah, I definitely wanted to support that. I am a big fan of using hover flies where possible.
And it is one of the, probably one of the predators that I find the most common,
that people don't really realize. So, a lot of hover flies in general can look kind of like
wasps. They have this sort of yellow, black coloration which is a form of mimicry to make
things not bother it. The adults eat nectar and pollen like I said before, but the larvae are
the ones that are eating usually aphids in this capacity. They are pretty voracious predators too.
You can definitely attract them with many flowers. I find that it is correlation,
but a lot of those plants that were just discussed, like the mid-family groups,
which have a lot of little florets, or just small flowers in general that are very
aromatic, I do find those are super attractive to hover flies for sure.
You can even get into a situation where you might attract aphids that don't feed on your
cannabis plants or whatever other crop you're cultivating. And they can also be a little banker
plant that way. It's too bad Russell left early because when you asked about companion planting,
I wanted to bring up that we've worked on a project for using ornamental peppers,
and we talked about that when we were doing the Whirly Gig mite video, which people should check
out on YouTube on FCP. But yeah, banker plants are a good idea in a lot of cases. I find that
for many predators like predatory mites like Cochumeras and Swirsky and things like this,
and even Californicus, you can maintain them on these plants that produce pollen
because they're able to eat it and they're also able to feed and reproduce on it very rapidly.
So it can be a great way to maintain them when there's no prey for them to feed on.
I love plants in general, but I'm a huge fan. It was unfortunate that Russell had to go because
I was really ready to a great plant, because he does a lot of work in that area. And I'm a huge
fan of this space as well. I mean, I've got a cover crop land with like a few dozen different things.
One interesting plant that I've been really kind of looking at, and this is a little bit off topic
because we're talking about bugs, but I do really enjoy Peruvian Blackfin. It's something that I'm
exploring right now. It has really interesting flavor. It's part of the marigold family.
I can never say the name Haku, but nevermind. I'm not going to try and butcher the name,
but it's otherwise known as Peruvian Blackfin. It is very delicious and has a really aromatic
aroma. But one of the neat things about it is it has an exudate that it actually puts out,
and it can fight back a lot of detrimental plants like blind weed and a lot of the things that we
have problems with around here. So I was wondering, we were talking about the chemical properties of
what they have there. Is there anything that's on the market that you guys are aware of that are
utilizing a lot of these methods and natural kind of essential oils to control it? I know
we mentioned one earlier, but can you like touch on that a little bit and why?
If you want to get started, Matthew, go ahead.
Yeah, you cut off abruptly, so I didn't know if there was more to the question.
No, sorry.
Yeah, no, no problem. So just to reaffirm, the question is about using compounds as a
repellent or as a toxin?
Yeah, as a repellent or a toxin. I mean, like a repellent, I can see, I don't know
if there's a toxin that's going to be harmful to a bug, but okay from a plant. Does this make a
lot of sense to me? And then of course, we're not spraying this stuff on flower. But anyway,
I'm getting sidetracked because I've got like, it was running around my feet. Yeah, but
you summed it up perfectly. Thank you.
Excellent. Yeah, no problem. So yeah, there's a lot of, I like to call them
botanical insecticides, although certainly they don't have to be insecticidal, nor do they have
to be botanical necessarily. But a lot of compounds people are appropriating from
various plants and the toxins that they produce are totally safe for other plants, or at least
in the concentrations that we use them. Remember the dose makes the poison. So, and on that note,
I remember in the spider mite video that I did with Chad Westport, we were talking about chemical
agents that you can use that are reduced harm, that are not going to very significantly negatively
affect your plant or other organisms. And erythrosol was found in a research report recently
at about 30%. And you can check out the research report that I cite in that video.
For more information. Basically, they found that they applied it and it was actually very negatively
antagonistic to spider mites, as well as their eggs, I think, if I remember right.
And this is an artificial sweetener, for those who don't know. And it was very minimally,
it wasn't even lethal to the predatory mites like persimbolus, was very minimally negative to them.
And primarily it was negative in that it would stick on their bodies, and they would have to
clean themselves and traversing the plant body was a little bit more onerous, but basically,
it worked out really well. That's awesome. And I want to touch back on one last thing,
because the last time we were together, we happened to have the opportunity to like be
shooting these, these whirligig mites. And I want to get like, they have cleared out the space
really, really quite well. There's still some population there. But like,
Claude, can you tell like, what, what the what is with these things? They're absolutely nuts.
And my question is, what's the like, what is their rate of birth? Like, is it are they out
populating the aphids? Are they out eating the aphids? And then like, what are what's kind of
the cycle? And I'm going to throw a link to that video. So people can check out a little bit more
of a visual in the top if you're for after the show, if you are in the audience.
Yes, we're learning a lot about this amazing predatory mite. The thing is, is that we learned
this week, and I knew already, is one, just one customer bought some and it didn't work out. And
then I inquired with what, so we was, they were burning sulfur every night. So they don't like
sulfur at all. So yeah. So, so we killed them. And they said, Oh, if it just doesn't work also
in their facility, but for sure, they receive a sulfur shower every night. For sure it kills them.
So it is amazing that in fact, it's life cycle is about six weeks. So it will, the first
part of its life, it starts as an egg mass, and then it will transform itself, then the larvae
hatch from the egg mass. That stage lasts about, I would say, eight to nine days. Then they form
their first chrysalis. That lasts about three to four days. Then it's the proto-nymph. Then
it starts, it's already predatory at that, at every stage. It just gets more and more hungry.
Live. He's like, Oh, I see the live thing.
It gets larger. And then it builds a second chrysalis again, and then it becomes a deuteran
nymph. And then it builds another chrysalis again, then it becomes a triton nymph. And then it builds
a chrysalis again, and then it becomes the adult. So the, the, from the egg to the adult, it lasts
about three weeks. And then the adults will live about 14 to 21 days. And during that, that time,
it would lay its own eggs, about 45 to 150 eggs. All the, they're all females. So, and they, they,
the number of prey they eat will depend on the size of the prey.
Then the only known predator that we know to them yet is spider.
What we've known yet they eat, they prefer, if trips is their preferred meal. They eat all stages,
aphids, spider mites, European red mites. They control even mealybugs.
Echinotrips, pseudids, even white flies. And they go even after the adult white flies.
This you can check on my LinkedIn page, Claude Robert from Annette's Private Projection.
I have a video from Vineland Research Station, which are the ones that rediscovered that predator,
in fact. So it's really amazing. We're testing them right now against cyclone mite and also
against scale. So this, I don't know any test results about them yet. We know they'll be usable
outside. We were still trying to figure out the introduction rates. They're counting on me for
cannabis. The producers, the ones that are producing applied biomics in BC. So they're
counting on me to get more data for cannabis. At Niagara College in Ontario, they have a part of
the college that's for cannabis technicians. They noted that they reproduce in cannabis.
So they won't reproduce on the plant. I mean, they won't lay their eggs on the plant. They will lay
their eggs on the substrate. They want moist conditions. They're not too finicky like other
predatory mites for relative humidity. Their preferred is 24 Celsius. I would like to convert
in Fahrenheit. And 60% relative humidity is their ideal conditions. So we figured out it was a
thousand individual per acre of peppers to start as a preventive. If you have a
infestation, then you'll need more. But we're still trying to figure out the right exact rates of
introduction for the different crops that we... And the beauty of them also is that they're able
to walk across trichomes. So they won't stick in the buds like other predators could do,
like a aureus will get stuck in the buds. Aureus is a trip predator that is used often.
So other predators could get stuck in the flowers and you don't want to be smoking any bugs.
But Nathanistis is able to walk across spider mite webs, waxy surfaces,
glender trichomes of cannabis. There's no problem for him. He's so large that he just walks across
them and doesn't get stuck in even in the stickiest buds. So that's another really good advantage.
They're freaking hilarious and they're nuts. You can actually capture it with a lens or anything.
They're very big and very fun to have around. And I've got hundreds of thousands of questions,
as always, for my expert each and every week. But unfortunately, we only have an hour and a half.
So you'll have to be back next time for more questions, comments, or concerns. I don't
predict a lot of concerns, although I'm a lively motherfucker. I'll say that. But anyways, I wanted
to thank you all again and I appreciate you all for being here. Claude, Matthew, it's always great.
All the Dankest Dank Tower people that are always here for a visit. So again, before we go, we got
to do the most important thing is give our special guests the opportunity to let people know where to
catch up. So Matthew, we'll let you go first and then Claude will be our closer for the day.
Matthew, where can people get a hold of you and find info on your stuff?
For professional inquiries, you can find me at zenthanol.com and contact me there.
You can also find my free educational information on my YouTube channel, The Sentinel, where I go
over things with my pest primer series, especially, which is very chock full of information about
pest life cycle, physiology, what makes them so good at what they do, and also their vulnerabilities.
I also go over things like bio controls and also various plant health topics. I just made a video
a couple of months ago at this point about Hoplite and Viroid and Viroids in general. So people are
very curious about that and I cite a bunch of literature related to that for people who are
curious and want an intro to Viroids. You can also find me on my Instagram at SYNCHANGEL.
That's S-Y-N-C-H-A-N-G-E-L, like synchronize.
Thank you, Matthew. Claude, where can we find you about what's going on? And again, appreciate you
being here. It's another amazing episode and we will catch you back soon. But before we do, play
us out with your beautiful self there, Claude. Where can we find you?
Yes, so I'm in Canada, but you can reach me across the world to ask me any question. I'm
passionate, so I like to answer people's... I like new questions. I like challenges and everything
like that. So people can find me professionally, but they can write me an email at
robert.anetsisbioprotection.com. That's all in one word. So they can check our new website. It's
going to come online soon. We're all over the social media. We have an Instagram page. We have
our Twitter thing and we are on Facebook too. People can also reach me on LinkedIn,
Claude Rabard from Anetsis Bioprotection. I have some cool videos sometimes that I put up as posts
there. And I also have an Instagram at claude__druid. I'm not really active, but you can
reach me there. I check my messages, meaning I don't post often. It's been years, I think.
So I'm glad to have been part of that. Another amazing hour and a half. I'd like to thank
everybody too. And I just can't wait for the next show. Looking forward to it again and I
appreciate it. I'm going to close down the room. Make sure to check out all of the cool stuff and
the things. We appreciate you all. Hello, everybody. It's my long hair. My beautiful long
hair. No, it's not beautiful. It's a mess. But anyways, can you hear me? Probably not,
because that's how things usually roll. It does appear that you can hear me. So if I'm coming
through loud and clear, I appreciate each and every one of you for showing up today.
We have a lot of fun stuff coming on down lane. Thank you, Matthew Gates and Claude for coming in
today. It was awesome. I look forward to sharing space with all of you again. If you haven't
already, check out all the links in the description. Check out the Daga.academy website where you can
share, grow along with the growers and see what else is going on. We have a lot of fun stuff
coming up over the next few days. We have Mark, Brian and Marco tomorrow. Let's open up that
calendar and check out what's going on there. Because I also think there's another show going
on right now that we can send you all over to to enjoy, which is still happening. Thanks everybody
for coming on to grow. There is Joe to Herb on Thursday. We are back next week with Cannabis
for Breakfast and hopefully Breeders Roundtable. Again, appreciate each and every one of you and
keep it growing.
