Alright, Seed Collectors Volume 2 back in our lives. Thank you everybody for
joining us in chat and joining us on the replay. I am Chad Westport and like we
said Seed Collectors Volume 2. Tonight we're gonna be showing off and talking
about some of our favorite seeds that we've collected over the years, some of
the ones that we hope to get, and some that probably got away. But I want to
introduce everybody this evening. We've got a returning guest. I'm tempted to
call him Mr. Root Beer himself, but Dave's Not Here is down there on the
on the bottom. Howdy you and Dave. Mr. Root Beer himself, well thank you. I guess
I'll have to show off some burgers and beer then. Oh geez, he's already starting
with that. Yeah, yeah, you know, Mr. Root Beer. One of these days. Definitely a
pleasure to be here. Thank you for having me again. Yeah, thank you. Thanks for
joining us Dave. And in the upper corner here, well I'm not looking at you too,
but in one of the corners here we got Keystone Cops. I'm gonna call him
Keystone, but thanks for joining us buddy. How you doing tonight? Perfect. I'm
good. Thanks for having me. Yeah, yeah, it's my pleasure. You know, it all kind of
started organically. You know, me and Dave, we're together here with Fresh Baked
on volume one, and we had just a good time. It was just such a fun, it was a
casual conversation. You know, Dave hit me up, you know, afterwards. He's like, hey
man, you know, I enjoyed that. I hope you don't mind me saying this, but yeah, I
enjoyed that. It'd be fun to do again. You know what, we should do that again. And
it was something that I wanted to do. A lot of you folks out there enjoyed that.
And then I was, I forget which show I was in chat, but if you know me, I'm in a lot
of different chats. And I saw Keystone talking about seats, and three little
letters came out of his keyboard. IBL. And my heart started to pitter-patter,
pitter-patter, because in terms of, well, a lot of things, IBLs are very important.
But it's another term, kind of like we talked earlier last week, Indica Sativa,
is it really used correctly? IBL, is it really used correctly? I'm already seeing
lots of awesome people in chat. I know Mr. Toad, he'd be the one who, you know,
phone a friend for the definition on IBL. That's, you know, you're, you're, to phone a
friend. But that's something that we kind of wanted to start out talking about
tonight. And Keystone, you had, you know, you kind of had a few thoughts on just
the terminology, how it's used, how it's applied, and, and, you know, experience
with some of those strains. So if you don't mind, Sharon, maybe tell us a little
bit about that, the IBL to you, and why my heart went pitter-patter when I saw that.
Yeah, sure. So when I think of the term inbred liner, like when I first was
introduced to the term, I wasn't really sure what it meant, but I guess I thought
there'd be like a lot of uniformity in the seeds, or in the plants coming out of
the seed. And then I started digging into it and trying to figure out what it meant.
And looking at the botanical definition, it actually means a line of seed or a
line of plants that are continued strictly by selfing. And that surprised
me, you know, so S1, S2, S3 would be a true inbred line. Now there are other
sort of inbred populations that, that are quite common. You know, there are,
what are they called, mass collections, where, you know, if you just think about
like traditional open pollination, and you're collecting all the seed from that,
and then planting those seeds at the end of the, at the next year, that's a, that's
just a mass collection. Or you could have pedigree breeding, which I think is, is
closer to what we commonly find. I'm not a breeder, and I'm not a breeder, but I
find, I'm not a breeder. And, you know, a breeder would be better able to tell you
what's common in the, you know, in the breeding world. But pedigree lines would
be sort of picking two, two parents, breeding them together, popping a hundred
of their progeny, and then selecting two parents out of those 100 seeds, and then
creating, so you've got your F1 seeds opened up, two of those are collected, are
paired together, and you are making your F2, two F2s are paired together, making
your F3, and so on and so forth. So I think that's, that's sort of common
practice. And there's, there's got to be another, there's one, and it's just
escaping me, but do you guys have any thoughts? Because I sort of covered sort
of like open pollination, generation to generation, and then sort of directional
breeding, like pedigree breeding, and then also there's just S1ing, or I'm sorry,
cell thing to replicate, to make generation after generation.
Yeah, to me, when I think of or hear IBL in breadline, the first thing that comes to my
mind is not necessarily the lineage, or how it got there, but its result is very
homozygous, meaning it's very uniform, it's very the same, there's not a lot of
variation in it, and as a commercial cannabis operation, that's absolutely
what you want. You are not trying to phenohunt in a large room. So a lot of
these older lines, I feel, because it takes time to do this process, it's not an
overnight thing. So to me, when I hear IBL, automatically, okay, they've put work
into it, I'm going to get a very uniform result, and that's something that I would
plant at scale. So that is why I get kind of excited, just because I know to
actually pull that off, granted, anybody could slap letters on any pack of seeds,
but the proof is in the pudding. When you plant an acre of them, and your canopy is no more
than one or two feet difference in that entire acre, that's solid, that's an inbred
line, that took work. And that's why I get so excited, because you don't see a lot of that
these days, in my opinion, it's just the starting material that we have, or don't have.
You can find these IBL lines out there, but they're not in the majority, and a lot of them
aren't hype strains. So that's kind of where I fit in on IBLs, or when I hear IBLs,
that's what I think. I don't know if you had any thoughts on that either, Dave.
I think you pretty much hit the nail on the head, as far as my opinions were, you know,
getting the same results across the board as far as what you're planting, as opposed to
it being all over the place. So that to me is what an IBL means, and what you're looking for,
if that's the route you're going. And like you said, there aren't too many of them out there
right now. I mean, they're out there, but just commercially, what everybody seems to be looking
for, like you said, is the hype strains, and the hype strains aren't worked that far yet.
No, no. And there's been talks over the last, you know, gosh, maybe at least 10 years of people
going back to, you know, gosh, and again, phone a friend, Mr. Toad, people going back to like
land races. Oh, I'm looking for this land race, you know, to kind of go back, reset the genetic
pool, and go that. A lot of those things are not fun to grow, and they don't give you the results
or profiles that you really want. But that's a way to kind of get back to maybe stabilizing
things. But we're going off on a different tangent there. I was about to expand on it greatly, but
I'm like, we're talking about seeds. But I also want to offer you Keystone, just the opportunity
to kind of answer that or talk to that as well before we do something here.
Yeah, no, absolutely. So like in other crops in the seed world, we're actually seeing true
F1 hybrids, right? We're seeing uniformity out of Burpee Seed Co. out of either Johnny Seed,
because they have conventional breeding programs that are out in the open, and they don't have to
hide anything. And we just don't have that luxury, right? Like, I don't blame anyone for passing off
like kind of not fully sussed out like lines as F1 hybrids. That's fine, because we don't have
the ability to do this legally, in many cases, and we haven't for years. So but like, people
pass off F1 hybrids as something that are like sort of uniform, or they perform really well,
but they aren't uniform. They talk about different phenotypes, you know, you're going to get like
four different phenos or eight different phenos out of this, you know, $200 pack of 10 seeds. And
like, meanwhile, as you were pointing out, these inbred lines, the whether you're getting there
from, you know, mass selection, like we talked about, or just pedigree selection, like they
offer a lot of uniformity, not necessarily the same kind of performance, if your performance is
like just putting on like spectacular weight or something like that. But they're at least
really predictable, which, you know, can have a lot of appeal to people. So yeah, I think they're
they're pretty great. And you know, we could go down a rabbit hole with land races, we probably
shouldn't, we should just stay focused on inbred lines. But I, I think you'd be surprised you were
mentioning that, that you don't have many inbred lines in your collection. And I think, I think you
might be wrong about that, because I think so many of the, the sort of heritage Amsterdam,
quote, unquote, strains are actually inbred lines at this point, that people have been doing their
work, you know, remotely diligently. It's a good good point that you bring up there,
because I almost, that's kind of how I almost view the two markets. You know, Dutch was ruling the
world for a while, and America, now we can have, you know, places like Oklahoma, and previously
Colorado, where you can have huge plant limits. And you can do these kinds of searches and pull
out things like, you know, freak show and the mutants, the more, the more you pop, the more
you're going to see these things. But the Dutch genetics, to me, it seemed like they were taking
time to stabilize things, because that's kind of how they've always done. That's kind of the proper
agricultural approach. They're a very, they're, they're great at agriculture, and they like
following the rules of breeding. So I kind of think that they got stuck there, where America
surpassed them in flavors, profiles, all of this stuff, but we never really took the time to
inbreed them. So it's interesting that you mentioned a lot of those lines are probably stable,
because yeah, that's been my experience. I do have some
seed, seeds from seed banks over there, and they're a lot more uniform. So good call.
But so here, you know, I've got a couple of Northern Lights packs from, from different breeders.
And, you know, I try and get things like Northern Lights or Durban Poison.
You know, if, if I'm dealing with a new seed bank, I sort of look for those inexpensive
Northern Lights and Durban Poison packs, because I feel like that gives me a good sense of the
quality of the work the breeders doing. And also, you know, there's a lot of work put into those
lines, like they should be really, really stable. They may not be, they may be mislabeled, who knows,
but they should be really, really stable. And they're really affordable. I mean, they're,
they're not very much money at all. I don't remember what I paid for this,
probably 25 bucks or something like that. And these are 50 each.
Okay. Now, now when you're going through the different packs of Northern Lights from different
breeders, are you seeing similar profiles and similar expressions? Would you typically say,
you're like, oh yeah, okay, this one is going to be like the next one. I ask because I'm about to
do that with cheese. I've got about six different cheeses from UK vendors or vendors over in
Netherlands and whatnot. So I like your thinking, but do you see uniformity or do you get different
plants? So that's a tough question to answer. And maybe, maybe the way I'll put it is like,
if you're buying just a 10 pack, like I've done here, and you're expecting to get a real sense
of what that gene pool holds from that, or what that breeders work looks like, you're not really
doing the breeder justice, right? Like we really, if we really want to get a sense of what,
what all is going on in an inbred line, we really want to get a hundred seeds and really open it up,
you know, and really see. But no, I think they're going to be very different if you,
if you examine like one particular trait or like the defining trait,
there's going to be some differences there because selection power is so powerful that, you know, just
you know, whatever direction the particular breeders decided to go in, they have a lot of
power. And it's unlikely that they're both going to sync up. So, so for example, like Northern
Lights from one breeder might be very lemony and from another it's more piney. Yeah, very,
very true there. Have you gone down the Northern Lights road, Dave? I plan on it. I actually have
some of, I see he's in the chat here, he had gifted Todd McCormick some of his Northern Lights number
five and number two. Oh, those are great. I'll definitely be looking into those in the coming
months. Those are, those are awesome. You know, I've definitely had my eyes on those too. And it's,
it's kind of one of those things, sorry, I'm trying to reload my tablet so I can
have my little seed cam as well. We're going to start getting grow reports back. And that's always,
that's always interesting. That's like the one thing about freak shows for a while is we didn't
necessarily hear a lot about how they were flowering. But a lot of these Northern Lights,
the AGC Co., I'm a big A and B, oh, I need to mute that, A and B kind of person. So that's, you know,
that's why I was asking Keystone there is if he's getting the same or similar look off of it.
Let's see here. Some Royal Queen seeds, this is probably a little bit easier, but Royal Queen
seeds there, you know, let's see, we got there Blue Cheese. We got some Exodus Cheese. Oh,
there you go. I don't like that camera. Garden of Green, Garden of Green. And you know, I'm hoping,
I'm hoping it will be what I'm looking for is there's Cheese, there's Skunk, they're always
on my list. But, and then another Blue Cheese, just random Blue Cheese here, some seeds. But I
don't, I don't know what to expect. I don't know. I got a whole bunch of different varieties because
I want, or I'm expecting differences. Gotcha. Gotcha. Yeah. Yeah. Most of, most of my experience
with NL has generally been crossed into things, nothing really pure like these. So that's why I
really want to see what these do. Yeah. I, I, back in the day, so most of my genetics are
about 10 years old. That's when I got into the medical market and I had a Northern Lights clone
back then and I made my crosses. So really probably the closest, and again, they're not
inbred lines anymore, especially, but you know, starting with a Northern Lights number five,
starting with a Blueberry, because they were so worked, there's their traits stand out,
they're predictable. And then I'm able to gauge how, what I put them against, reacts and what it
passes on. So it was nice to work with those. And a lot of my strains were, or cultivars are kind of
that way. I started with something that didn't give off a bunch of phenotypic expressions really.
And I'm kind of going down that path again, but, so are those, are the seeds men from
our Northern Lights as well? No. So these are, I've got original skunk and original Afghan number one.
And these are advertised as true breeding strains. So to me, having them in my library
gives me some material that I can, well, I could use them for breeding down the road,
or to give to someone else for their breeding project. Before I would do that, I would do an
increase on a pack like this, just to open it up and have more to play with.
If I was going in that direction. And increase, you mean, if you were, if that was a pack of
regulars, you would find a good male, good female, put them together and then use that offspring to
work with? Whether they were regulars or fems, these are both regulars, but what I would do is
I would grow all 10 and I would, any males, I would open pollinate them with any females that
are there, take all of those seeds. And then I have a good sense of the genome there that I'm
working with. And I would start sifting through those maybe in quantities of, well, if I had the
luxury of it, I'd just, we don't have the ability to do that. I can maybe deal with 25 plants at a
time with my current setup. And yeah, 75 in total is sort of giving me a better idea of what's in
there. Yeah. And it's something, it's a fact that we all know, the more numbers you can do,
the better picture you're going to get. The more accurate it is, really, that's kind of the proper
way to go. That's the Dutch way to go about it. But a lot of us, 10, 15, maybe 20 might be the
most plants that we're, you know, A, allowed to do in our state or B, have room for. So
we do have to make some executive decisions in those regards.
Yeah, totally. That's why I generally limit myself to running five. I would love to run 75 of each
just to get a real idea of what everything is and to see what the best of the best is. But, you know,
space dictates what I can run. So.
I guess what I mean there, David, when I'm talking about 75 as a number, what I would do is do an
increase and have a thousand seeds or, you know, or many more than a thousand. And then from there,
I do a tray of 25 and then, you know, maybe keep the best ones in clone, but then do another tray
of 25. So you can cumulatively get to larger numbers, larger population numbers, if you do
it like that. It's not optimal, but you can make it work if you have to. True. I see what you're
saying. Yeah. And one thing that I've kind of thought of recently in regards to trying to
search through seeds, and this isn't necessarily cloning them to save them, but say you made seeds
and you want to see what kind of expressions you have. You mentioned a tray of 25 there,
and that's why it came into my head. It's almost you could almost just see of green
25 plants fairly easily. Just pop them, get them up, put them into flower. You're not going to get
a yield off of them, but you're going to see kind of at least the expressions that they put off.
And if you have 15 different smelling, tasting type plants out of those 25, well, you know that
you got a lot of work to do. So that's got some nice color. What is that there? Yeah. So this is
icy grape. This is an F3. But I just I stuck this up here because this is exactly the morphology
that I go for. Just a single stock. I take all the axial limbs off and that lets me get many
more numbers in a tight space. I don't go 12, 12 from the start because I do want to see what the
plants are going to do. I want to get a better idea of how they're going to spread out during
veg. But eventually I just pare them down to just one main stock. And that's worked pretty well
for getting numbers in. Yep. And that's that's totally the nice, the good sea of green there.
And you're right. If you know, if you pop them and then go straight to flower, you do kind of get,
you know, the flavor and smell profile, but you don't get to see its morphology, how it really
wants to grow. You don't get a good sense of pest resistance. Those are things that could come later.
But, you know, I was just thinking you make some seeds that yourself at home, you got 500 of them,
pop 25 to see how many expressions you have. And if it's all dog crap, well,
don't bother throwing them in a forest somewhere. But if there's hope, then, you know, you could
kind of go back through them again, let them progress, pick the winners that way and make
clones. But yeah, it's brutal. I mean, you're going to see, you know, if anyone does this,
they're going to start to see, I mean, do we swear here? You're going to see a lot of dog
shit, you know, popping up because the loss of vigor can be quite rapid in my experience,
just in my experience. So, and then you just have to keep selecting for vigor and stressing them,
really putting that pressure on, letting them get moldy, letting them get exposed to pests
so that they do retain those abilities to fight those things off. Not that they gain them,
but you're, you're pulling out the things that are susceptible.
Right. And actually, ironically, we got Greg McAllister here. He's talking, speaking of
Northern Lights, Northern Lights, he'd plant 72 to a hundred seeds per flat and keep one or two.
So when it comes to discerning tastes, that's a, that's a picture of, of kind of what it looks
like. We may plant 10 and keep one and two or three and be stoked. Sometimes you plant a hundred
and you keep one or two. And that's a lot of work. Like he said earlier, Keystone 25 was a,
was a good manageable number to, to be on top of everything. And I agree with that.
That's about right for me. And he says out of a hundred, one or two were seeded and the others
ended up in the trash. Trash pre, pre-press days, right? Smash the trash.
Oh, what we got here now? Let's see. Okay. So we've got Afghan Kush, just classic.
Oh yeah. From World of Seeds, very inexpensive, just sort of an easy thing to throw in the cart
as an add on with a larger purchase. I believe I got these from Seedsman. Okay. And this is
Katama, which is a Moroccan hash plant. Huh. Not heard of that one myself.
Yeah. They say it, you know, it runs for 50, 55 days in flower. I've heard it goes a lot longer,
so I'm not sure they really, well, I don't want to say anything bad about World of Seeds, but
I've just heard that maybe they're a little bit off with how long it flowers for. So maybe some
of the other information is off too. And I haven't even opened the pack yet. So it, you know,
who knows? Yeah. That's not terribly irregular either, as far as, you know, flowering dates,
harvest dates. Not everybody gets them accurate. There's a lot of variables that could go into it.
It's not just somebody trying to mislead you sometimes. Sometimes it is, but other times
it's not. And that's one of those ones that commonly kind of get out of proportion, but I,
it's important to me. Flowering time is important. So I see, you know, you've collected,
you know, Seedsman's a great place and a lot of European seed banks. Is that, is that kind of one
of the places that you look for a lot of these older, well, yeah, yeah, I'll say older genetics,
but also more stabilized lines. Do you, do you find a better luck looking there than locally?
I'm smirking. You can't see it, but I'm smirking. So no, I mean, I don't want to say anything
bad about what's going on in Europe, but I would caution anyone that's buying European seed right
now to think carefully about that. Cause it, there's a lot of white labeling going on, meaning
they're producing seeds en masse through wholesalers. So you might buy, you know,
I mean, and I'm just, again, spitballing here, but you might buy Seedsman and Nirvana and they're
actually coming from the same seed source. And I'm also pretty concerned about
virus, what looks like viral stuff coming out of some European seed banks. It's more common than
it should be. So I don't know what's going on there, but back to what your question was,
like where, you know, where am I buying most of my seeds? You know, I'm buying most of my
seeds from American breeders, preservationists working in America. Awesome. So these, these are
just beautiful packages, Humboldt Seed Company, just great artwork. And for that alone, I mean,
I've picked up a couple of their packs and I haven't opened any of their work up yet. And I'm
actually, I'm going to have to open something up before I buy any more of their work. I do have
Mango Cush from them and someone I was talking with on a forum had it Herm on him. And so that
was a bit of a red flag for me. And I, so, you know, you never know, it could have been his fault.
But I just, before I go and buy any more of their packs, which are, you know, $100 plus,
I'm going to have to run some of their work. Yeah. I've run the Freak Show recently from them. I
don't know if Dave's run anything from them. I have not personally run anything from Humboldt yet.
Okay. Bodhi's always hard to see. He's always hard to see on camera. Bodhi's, Bodhi's another one
that I would love to get a shot at, but he travels and pulls some unique cultivars, puts them together
and then lets them go. What, what strains are we looking at here? And if you know...
All different ones. My personal favorite that I've grown from him.
I'm curious about a lot of the lineage on a lot of the crosses that he has.
This one right here is my personal favorite. This is the DJ Blueberry to Apollo 11 F3.
So it's the DJ Short Blueberry and Brothers Grimm Apollo 11. He took the Apollo 11 to the F3,
leaned it towards the Genius away from the Princess. And what a combination. Just absolutely
wonderful. I ran five of them because that's unfortunately the number I can work with.
And I happened to get four males and one wonderful female.
Well, hey, no complaints, I guess. Did you kind of go for the open pollination to
kind of preserve like Keystone was talking earlier he likes to do?
I've kept her around and I'm going to look for more males and continue. I will open pollinate
with what I have there. I'm going to actually pop the rest. I think there's another.
So I'll run the last seven and just open pollinate them with the lady I already have.
Now, are you like me when I have a male and I have something specific I want to cross it to,
but I have like three other cultivars in the tent? Are you like me and just takes clones and
hits them all anyways? Or OK, good. I'm OK. Why waste it? Because again, I do the let the I let
the male flower. I shake the crap out of it. That's how I make my seeds. I don't actually
do the collection and then self pollinate or paint them on myself. So, yeah, that's why I'm
just like, yeah, let's just fill the tent with a little bit of everything. And then eventually,
one day I'll get to trying them and see what I got. Exactly. To me, that only makes sense
because there's there's just so much out there, so much. You have no idea what I'm looking at
in front of me right now. No, I don't. But I can kind of imagine. But Bodie, Bodie's, you know,
Bodie's another one that he's not. Where do you get the Bodie stuff? Usually it's like you got
to find him or you got to run into him or you got to do something. There are the occasional
outlets online. You can find them generally. Any of the newer drops will get picked up pretty
quickly. But some of them, if they're older, you got to find them through an auction. The DJ
Blueberry and the 877 Calio Apollo 11. Those were both given to me from Bodie. I actually got them
in an auction through you guys, through the Future Cannabis Project last year. And they
hooked me up with him and he sent me those. And it was I can't complain. Can't complain at all.
That's awesome. I'd love to run into that guy one day. When I when I when I was a kid,
you'd be looking through like the Christmas catalog and you'd be dreaming. You'd be like,
OK, if I if I could have whatever. So I kind of want to do the same thing with your little
stash here of Bodie. I see kind of three different rows. Now, if you had to go through each one of
those three rows, which one would you pick above the other in that row and why would you pick it?
Hmm. That's a good question. I'd say probably that's a super silver hash plant. I've always
been a super silver haze fan. So combining that with the 88 G13 hash plant, which is just such a
fantastic male from from Bodie that he's hit so many things. So that that middle row looks pretty
good to me. You get the DJ Blueberry, the super silver hash plant, second best, and then the
silver hash plant, second base and the Dream Access.
That's the winner. And do you know what some of those crosses are? What's in like what's in
Dream Access? I mean, the super I'm sorry, the sunshine daydream. That's that's going to be the
male in there as far as what's in access. Not 100 percent sure. He has some some crosses out there
that that even escaped me with with my wonderful knowledge. Repertoire. No, again, kind of like I
was saying, though, he he picks, finds and works with a lot of things that when he talks about him
as the first time I've ever heard of him. So I'm not surprised if the knowledge is out there readily
available. OK, so you take that middle row and have you popped I know you pop some of the
blueberries. Have you popped any of the others? The only other one that I've popped was the NL to
88G13 hash plant, and that was definitely just an absolute knock your dick in the dirt,
put you to bed kind of of a high to it. And as far as the structure was concerned, very,
very stout, not too tall, just just a dumper, just an absolute dumper. But that was one I only ran in
five because that's just it's just how I have to do it. Yes. That's how I'm currently rocking it to
when it comes to, you know, good genetics. I can't pop the whole pack and have the whole room.
So, yeah, I kind of go through a little bit at a time and then, you know, sometimes it piques your
interest. So you're like, I'm going back for the rest or you're like, OK, you're good. I'm going
to try this next. So, yeah, space permitting. Mm hmm. And my problem is I tend to grab something
else and then it bumps the line. It's like, oh, I want to run this. Well, then I grab this. It's
like, well, what do I want to run next? Well, I got some black lime reserve. Should I run those?
It's like, well, I've got some, you know, peanut butter breath here. Should I run those? It's just
it just never ends. You know, it's like, what what what am I going to run next? It's so hard. We pay
so much for the seed, but then we also pay a huge opportunity cost by like just not growing things
we want to be growing. It's pretty frustrating. Yeah. Just let me grow all the seeds I want to
grow. I paid for them. I'm going to pay for the electricity. Yeah. I see you have some of that
freak show, though. Yeah. Are those all 20 packs or what is common from them or what do you commonly
pick up like tens, 20s, fives? So I tend to buy regular seeds, but I don't have a problem with
with them and I see this is a regular 20 pack. This is a 10 pack of them and I see this is a
20 regular pack. And yeah, this was the initial release of freak show.
And it's just too interesting not to snatch up the Australian bastard cannabis. I haven't picked up
any seed, any of that just morphologically. It's not as interesting as this to me. This could be
this could almost be planted in public until it starts to flower. And even then,
unless someone knows what cannabis is, I think it could fool them if it's not too
pungent. So if you bred this into something, it's got a lot of potential.
Yeah, I almost kind of wonder, since we're at the cusp of people really trying to patent genetics
and whatnot, there's no denying if you have any of that DNA in the genetics and they test it and
they look for it, you know who that plant came from. So that's an interesting experiment we'll
see in probably about 10 years with freak show, if that's really just the Trojan backdoor to like,
nope, those are my genetics. I can prove it with this allele right there.
So we should talk about patent law sometime. I know a bit about that. But I
suffice to say, I wouldn't be too concerned about any of that happening.
That's one of those just fun grand conspiracy theories to pop out. It's like,
you know what, there could be truth in it, but there probably isn't. And no, there isn't. But
sometimes it's fun to make stuff up, but I could see it happening. But yeah, it's a great...
People will try. People will try.
It's a great, great strain. And I've heard really kind of nothing but good things from them.
A lot of flavor. I was talking with Dave, the king of root beer. We were talking last time
about what kind of motivates you to buy a particular strain. So I kind of want to ask
that to you, Keystone. Do you kind of shop for taste? Are you shopping for lineage? Is it name
recognition? What makes you select the packs that you want to and when you do?
So sometimes it's about the flavors that they're claiming to bring to the party. I just sort of
want to have a library that's got a lot of breadth there. I care a lot about medical effect.
So if a variety is addressing... If it's supposed to be anti-inflammatory for some people,
I'm interested in that. That's the kind of medicine that I need.
You know, really just having diversity. So for example, like this is Jack Herrer.
There's lots of Jack Herrer out there. This is their take on Jack Herrer. It may be that they
had to build it from the ground up and make their own representation of it. And so it could be
different from Hazeman's Jack Herrer or Seedsman's Jack Herrer. And that's one reason I'll get some
redundancy. That's kind of it. Sometimes it's just impulsive. You know, it's,
oh, that looks pretty and it's going to be gone pretty soon.
Right. But usually I'm thinking about, I'm pretty careful with what I purchase and I'm thinking
about my collection as a whole and just bringing in new stuff that's really expanding the breadth
of what I've got. That's... Excuse me. But yeah, variety in my garden is very important to me.
Again, kind of different terpenes will do different things for me.
And I kind of try to approach it medicinally. So yes, having that variety is important. And it all
starts, you know, with the seeds or the clones that you have. So a little bit of everything.
And if you do find, like you said, that Jack Herrer, if you find something that you like or that works
for you, go across the board. Like we were all kind of talking with the Northern Lights and with
my cheeses where we're trying a whole bunch of different ones to settle in on that final one.
But I know, Dave, right now, what is kind of your flavor of choice as far as consumption?
And then I'm going to ask you which seed pack would you plant to try to get that? But what is
your flavor of choice at the moment? I mean, personally, I've always been a huge fan of that
sour diesel, that old school New York City sour diesel flavor. So that's something that I've
always been kind of looking forward and chasing. As far as popping something, I guess I can go with
like Karma Genetics. Their sour diesel BX3 would be something I would look into for that kind of a
flavor because they've definitely worked it. And it's something that I would like to look into.
But I've also grabbed something from Skunk Tech, which is a headband and triangle cush, which is
just a great combination to get that similar profile that I'm looking for. That earthy kind of
gassy, you know, not more gassy than diesel, I guess I should say. But it's a good combination of both.
Okay. And I, you know, see, I like that sour D taste too. It's been a while since
I can convince myself that I've had it, but I do miss it. And it is a good one. The closest I've
got here in seed form is a pack of, it's from Goo Gitters, but it's called Sunday Fun Day right now.
It's a sour tangy times mimosa. So there's hopefully a little bit of sour in there. I'd
almost like, who knows if it's going to be like a sour citrus. I threw one in the dirt. It's a male,
so I've got to throw a couple more in. But again, I'm limited. It was one of those like,
well, maybe I could squeeze one more in. Why don't I just pop one of these? But yeah, I'm going
through my, the chem or the twin peaks right now, actually. I'll pop that one up here in a minute.
But I saw, I see Keystones popped something up on here as well. What you got there?
It's a green pack. I'm on a bit of a lime kick at the moment. I'm hunting through
a couple of different varietals from seed. And this is one of them. This is a true
IBL. It's a Chernobyl S1 from Bob Bitchens' seed. I'm unfamiliar with it, but I did pick
them up in my lime hunt. And the plant's doing really well. I'm not getting limed yet, but it's
not in flower. And so paired with that, I've got Black Sugar from Seedsman. And,
oh, well, this isn't limey. It's gold leaf. It's Bergamons gold leaf, which is sort of a white
label type thing. I don't even know what it's originate. But I'm chasing after this sort of
citrusy lime soda flavor. That's what I'm pursuing these days. And when I find the perfect,
you know, just the perfect cultivar, I'm probably going to move on to something else.
Just keep it in clone. And when you say citrus, citrus as in like orange citrus or like a lemon
citrus, grapefruit, what are you looking for there? Yeah, I mean, really specifically,
like the smell you get from like Sprite. Okay. That's really what I'm looking for.
So it's, yeah, that's the best way I can describe it. Not super caustic, you know,
because you can sometimes get like that orange peel or that lemon peel. And I find those can
be just a little harsher. I don't know if you guys feel the same way. Nothing that burns your eyes.
Yeah. And yeah, you know, caustic. Yeah, I totally understand what you mean. Caustic,
my Jack's cleaner too, which I've actually brought my TGA seeds out here for.
That will eat the rubber ring on the ball jar. Around the top. It turns it, it turns it into
mush. It's kind of cool. But, you know, the lime is a really popular hunt right now. I know like
Brandon Russ, he's got a lot of that, the black lime reserve or the key lime pie. Not something
I've been able to get my hands on yet. But I do enjoy smoking it. I'm still waiting for one to,
you know how sometimes though, there people will plant the taste in your head before you taste it.
And you're like, yeah, that does taste like banana. But if they said it tasted like Kiwi,
you're like, eh, kind of like Kiwi. I have yet to have that really lime cultivar that makes me say,
oh, that's, I just bit into a lime. But I know Dave is on the hunt as well too.
And you've picked up a few, have you picked up anything from Brandon Russ yet on that one day?
I have his TKNL5 Hayes, a lime one BX. That I do have from him, but I haven't run it yet.
Okay. The only line that I've been able to run so far is this one here from Jimmy Toucans.
The Limelight 5, which is the 87 Lime Pop hit to the NL5. And that was more of a creamy lime. It
wasn't like you were that's like just having like a, taking a bite out of a lime or squeezing a
lime into a drink or anything like that. It was more of a, that creamy kind of a lime.
Like a cream pickle. Okay. Like key lime.
Like key lime pie is exactly what, how I would describe it.
Okay. Perfect. That, that would be good. And that's totally what I'm looking for.
I saw somebody up here. I think it was VapeVape. He says,
my key lime pie smells and tastes like garlic and onions.
That happens. It's totally different than what you would expect, but yeah, sometimes we get
these weird ones. So out of these, out of the kind of the group that you've got up here right now,
Dave, which one are you kind of tempted to put in the dirt next?
Probably these two from this one specifically from Mean Gene, the Lime Pop Kush F3 number two.
And this is the Black Lime Reserve. It's from Ozark Nation who got it from Mean Gene.
So that, that would be, I mean, that's his work to take it to F2.
So that's another one that's got me interested. Okay.
Yeah. Honestly, I'd run them all if I had the space, but that, I would say these two definitely
have my eye the most. Awesome. Awesome. And let's see here. I put,
I put this up here. I brought this one out, but the, my TGA, this is the old,
my Jax Cleaner 2. Like this is back from the day I had to take it off. I had to bring this out
that I'm so proud, so proud of the seeds there. Let's see, what do I have in here? I've got his,
oh, the Agent Orange. I still have got, still have a few of the Agent Orange from
March of 2014. I only have three left. Yeah. Jax Cleaner. And I loved when they put them,
they used to put them in these little like cologne sample bottles. They were glass,
but it was a really safe way for them to ship versus some of the plastic ones. I've had the
plastic ones get crushed in the mail, but yeah, I don't know. I'm proud of my TGA seeds. All right.
Let's see here. And again, you know, a lot of my stuff goes back about 10 years. So
that is that, those were those, but yeah, for real, that Jax Cleaner 2, man, that
will eat the rubber ring in the ball jars. So let's see, what, what do we put down here?
So this is Guamanian, go on, sorry. I was, sorry to interrupt you. I was like,
it looks like a familiar logo. What, what do we, what is that? This is Guamanian Garden.
And I have no experience with it yet, but I decided to pick it up because this is their SR71,
which is just purple cush. They brought it to F5. And so, you know, when I get the chance years from
now, I can't wait to open it up and see what they've done with it. Really a nice value too.
I think this was, I think this was under $50 and it came with a bonus pack as well. Kind of a great
deal. Yeah, that is a great deal. Cause again, even, you know, I always say, especially with,
you know, $50 pack, even if you get one female, you grow that out and you get a quarter ounce
off of it. That's more than $50 at the store. So you've done well. Yes. Definitely. I like that
one. And let's see here. One of those in the lower left is I can almost not read that. It's like,
oh, lineage cush times Ozcush. Lime pop. Lime pop cush. Okay. So it's that same lime pop cush
F3, which is the ghost OG lime pop, which is pure cush and black lime hit to the Skittles and OG
Eddie. Wow. That's a mouthful. Yeah. Oh yeah. From urban turp farm, urban turp factory. Sorry.
Okay. Now how often, this is kind of more of like a strain name thing, but both of you guys,
how often have you popped a pack of seeds, you know, like an outrageous tangy or, you know,
a black lime reserved or super lemon and not had the taste be represented by the name and be
totally thrown? Is that fairly common or do you guys tend to feel like the fruity names match up
with the profiles? Well, I don't have to call out a specific breeder, right? I can just say yes or no.
That's true. That's true. I mean, I think, yeah, I think more often than not, it feels like you just,
you know, if you look at the seed market as a whole, you just don't get what's advertised
for one reason or another. Right. And again, that could just be boiled down to they need more work
to give off that consistent expression that you said that it has. So crazy, crazy, crazy.
Oh, OK. This is a pack from Copa Genetics. He's one of my favorite breeders. You know,
full disclosure, I actually just started testing for him and I've got a lot of his work. And
I brought this out because as a freebie attached to it, we were talking about Bodhi before.
This is Ancient OGF3. I don't know what his relationship with Bodhi is. I mean,
Bodhi is just such a nice guy. It seems that he's letting everyone work with his stuff. So
this is in red line, which is what we're talking about. And so, yeah, I haven't opened it up yet,
but this is a preservation project of Bodhi's work. So I don't know if you guys have any
anything like that where people are taking Bodhi's work or Subcool's work and taking it
in a different direction, taking those F1 hybrids that are so popular and then really trying to
stabilize it. Or I don't actually don't know what his goal is here with it.
Well, I mean, I've got some AK Beanbrains work in the Williams Wonder. I believe this is the F4.
So it's definitely something along the lines of preserving
older seed stock that's been around for longer than I've been alive, most likely.
Right. Well, see, this is where I get confused sometimes because there's Williams Wonder,
which is an older strain that I heard from Sam the Skunk Man talk about.
And then there's also Willems Wonder and Willems is like a county or a town down in Oregon. And
that's where it came from. So I get confused with some of the lineage stories, but I see it says
Williams Wonder up top. Yeah. Have you heard any of that or do you know anything?
That one I have not heard before. So that one was that's news to me, but.
Well, just because it came out of my mouth doesn't mean it's right. So
I'll put that out there. True. Just because I haven't heard it doesn't mean it's not true.
Yeah. Yeah. And you mentioned I was talking while I was muted there earlier, Rookie over here.
But you mentioned Keystone, somebody taking some of the older work and preserving it. And I just
wanted to shout out Miranda Family Farms. He had done a he did a little giveaway for
an old pack of Dairy Queen, which is a TGA strain as well. It was Romulan times cheese times
Cindy 99, I believe. And anyways, with that, he sent me out three three packs of stuff.
One, though, so Lemon Stilton was a TGA strain and he times it to Zinger, which I believe was
another the dank strain. So there we go. So this is kind of a cross that's preserving two of those
lineages and keeping that going forward. There was also two suits, which is Zinger.
Again, that was, I believe, a TGA or a dank strain times PBJ. I'm not quite sure what that is.
I'll have to ask him. But I also wanted to show this one is, let's see, a hazy margarita times
AFGU overdrive. But I wanted to show this one because the name of the strain, as you can see,
is bike seat. And I love telling this story and I butcher it like every time. But,
you know, sometimes names make sense. Sometimes they don't make sense. Here,
I'll put his stuff on the back there. Miranda Family Farms.
So anyways, he was basically he rode his bike around everywhere, everywhere, had it locked up
outside on the on the city, lives in the city. And he just came out and like his bike was stolen,
but they left the bike seat. He's like, well, that's fucked. But he got a strain name out of
it. So bike seat. That's that's where that one comes from. Some of the best strain names come
from stories like that. Yeah. Yep. What I guess I could ask you guys, what is probably one of the
most random stream names or seeds that you have in your collections right now? Because I mean,
bike seat is it's not random. It's got a story, but the story is so just randomly awesome.
What if you had to pull out something, something that didn't make sense?
Where'd my dairy queen go? There it is.
Good question. I guess maybe maybe like pie scream or something like that.
Pie scream. That's a fucking photo. That's a little disturbing. The hell is going on?
That's a that's some big, delicious dessert. That's what's going on.
So what is pie scream across? Does it have any information on there on that one?
No, it doesn't have any information. I'd have to go and look it up for you.
Oh, no worries. No worries. I'm just always curious. You know, that is one thing that I
do appreciate about breeders. And I think correct me if I'm wrong. Was it bog or was it Duke Diamond
that would basically tell you how to grow it and everything to look for right on the seed pack?
Kind of came, you know, with handy, handy tidbits. Okay. So there's a.
And that's Duke Diamond, correct? Yeah.
So a breakdown of what, you know, morphology, flowering time, growing notes. It's not really
coming in the best on my camera, but. Right. So those are the things I'd like to see. That would
be awesome. And again, that kind of shows you that the breeder did some work with it. They at least
ran the offspring. Anytime he has one come out, they always come with a nice, good breakdown of
information that's definitely vital to what you would need.
That's great. Nice. Yeah. I like seeing that there. And what was that? Is Gany skunk?
Dominion skunk, granny skunk and Munson. And Munson is Munson a skunk as well?
Yes. It's the Dominion skunk hit with the NL5. Okay. Right on. Yeah. Can't go wrong.
No. And that's again, that's part of the fun skunk hunts. There's a lot of skunks out there.
There's a lot of great skunks out there. Not really road kills, but still a lot of great
stuff out there. And let's see here. What is everything delightful? That sounds like.
I wasn't expecting this question. Most interesting names. But this, I just, I love this. This is,
will you indulge a bit of a tangent here? This is great. So this is DJ short.
Um, this pack, everything delightful is about like 50%. No, I'm sorry. Like 30% cheaper than
his normal packs. Um, still not inexpensive. It's still about a hundred bucks. Um, and this is a,
a random medley. You do not know what you're getting in this pack. You have some idea.
It's, you know, possibly leftover blueberry, new berry, velvet crush, first light readers choice,
mixes, uh, two, three, and four, um, temple flow could be in here.
So you really don't know. And I love that idea. And the reason I do is it's like, it's like, um,
what, how do I, it's like going in blind, you know, like a true blind, um, experiment.
You don't know. You'll never know. Unfortunately, what, what, uh, bridal you were growing,
but that makes you more objective. I think like you're really just, you have to appreciate the
plant for what it is and set aside any, any preconceived notions about what it's going to do.
Um, but then again, you don't know what it's going to do. So there's that, right?
There is, I do like that aspect though. And, you know, a lot of times we'll see that pop up,
uh, you'll get like an indoor mix or an outdoor mix, because if you've ever dealt with seeds,
they they're around, they roll, they fall on the floor. And if you're working with multiple
strains, you can't pick that seed up off the floor and be like, well, I think it's this.
So good breeders, seed houses like that will come up with fun pecks like that. You're like,
I've got a jar in there. It's like, I know it's one of six plants. I don't know which of the six
it is, but I know it's one of six. So yeah, those do offer opportunities. And you know,
in the case of DJ short, who puts in a lot of great work to stabilize lines, uh, make them
very homozygous. Um, if you've grown a bunch of his, if you've grown the flow for many years
and all of a sudden a flow pops up out of that pack, you're going to be like,
I know which one this is. So that's kind of fun too. I think.
Yeah. It's not like he's giving out testers here, you know, that's not what they're doing,
but you are signing up for a bit of an experiment, you know?
Yeah. That's why I have the jar in there. It's one of those, but I have enough to, to go through.
Always want to talk about more inbred lines. Yeah, please. Let's, let's keep going on that
one. What, uh, what are some of your favorites there that you haven't shown us yet?
Okay. So this is absolutely one of my favorites. This is Pakistani. Yes.
And, uh, this is from, uh, Humboldt CSI, um, inspector, um, and, uh, little, I will say a
little hard to get seeds from, um, just that I, without getting into how he does transactions,
a little bit old school, um, still very secure, very trustworthy, really great value. I can't
recommend that seed bank enough to anyone. Uh, but he just feels direct. You're feeling,
you're going breeder direct with him. Um, it'll take a little while to get your stuff,
but you will get it. And, um, I'm just, I'm really excited about this. So I have,
I have 31 of these seeds in total. Uh, my plan not right now, I don't know when I'm going to
schedule it in, but I'm going to open, I think I'm going to open all of them up or at least half of
them up and then just do a really large seed increase, uh, to preserve this and, um, have
stuff to play with stuff to give away stuff to play with, um, stuff to back up for later.
Now, now as a plant, what about it? Did you like, was it a really good one to grow?
Was it the flower at the end? Cause sometimes the flower is great. It's a horrible to grow,
but you do it anyways. Or, you know, vice versa. Sometimes something that always yields and as
easy as maybe an eight, not a 10, you still keep it around. Yeah. I haven't grown this myself yet.
The reason that I'm so excited about it is that I had a cross of, well, okay. It was,
it was presented as a cross of black domino and a Pakistani central cush. And it gave me
amazing sciatica relief, just best night's sleep in a long time. Now I do not expect
to find that again, but if I do, I'll be really excited.
Okay. I'm, I'm writing it down. My wife deals with sciatica and again, I realize everybody
is different, but Hey, you know, sometimes if I hear it, I'll, I'll try it. Um, because that
is a strain that we do see every so often around here. Uh, and I'm always excited when we do. So
good, good to hear. Good to know. I at least know the nose that I'm looking for. You know,
I'll know it when I smell it. Um, and hopefully that gives me an idea of the chemo bar,
you know, like I'm getting closer to what I'm looking for. Um, so yeah, that's, um, Humboldt
CSI. This is under the pirates of the Emerald triangle label, which confused me a bit. Um,
so he just decided to do some of his releases under this label. Yeah. It's all the regular
stuff. All the regular scenes are released under the pirates of the Emerald triangle line.
Mr. Toad is saying the PCK line is great. Hardy seeds has some killer PCK work,
Peter. Yep. Hardy's got the PCK. That is awesome. And Alex Hardy, um, you know, for a lot of you
guys who don't know, uh, he's kind of a regular here on future cannabis project and FCPO too.
And, uh, we do have a lot of his gear, Mr. Toad's gear as well. I'm just putting this up because
we're all seed collectors here, but, uh, dog, I got that love. You can always check that out.
We got a ton of awesome stuff there, but not to, not to distract you guys. I just saw that
in comments. Cause again, the finding that in seed form, uh, not as easy for me as finding it
in the flower form. So I wanted to get that one up there and Mike Denver here. He says the green
Fino of PCK is good too. I just like the flavor. So how can you have a plant called purple and
he'll still have it green? That's it. That's me. I'm silly. All right. I'm still highlighted. So
I'll jump right forward. So, um, uh, so this is Uzbekistani inbred line, and I actually don't
have any more information on it than that. I, you know, I didn't really get anything from, uh,
Inspecta. And if you look at the website, you're really not getting any more information than that.
Um, just the name of it. Um, and I guess because I haven't heard anything about it, I'm really
interested in what's inside here. Um, so again, it'll be sort of more of a land race. I, I expect
something sort of, well, I don't know what to expect. Um, but we'll see, but I trust Inspecta
like, you know what I mean? I just feel like he's not going to put out something that's not good
or not, you know, uh, of utility in some way. Reputation goes a long way and, you know, it's
easy to maybe be the hot shit for a year and a few releases, but the longer you stay around,
you have to come through with good gear and that's what builds a good reputation. So when you
do find breeders like that, yeah, it's nice to have that peace of mind of like, I know I'm going
to get something solid. It may not be exactly what I'm looking for, but I know it's not going to be,
uh, you know, a herm monster or just something that is just don't even want to give it to
anybody really for that matter. Well, let's assume for a second that this is, it's a land
race that's been cultivated and, um, you know, it's been, seed has been made year after year
through mass selection. So the genotype as a whole is, it's just going to contain so much.
It's going to be a cultivatable plant, but there could be flavors in here that just aren't in the
market. They're just not commercially available for one reason or another. You won't know it
until you grow it. Right. Um, but that's sort of my feeling on something like this. I have never
heard of an Uzbekistani, uh, spring. I mean, no, never heard of something like that. No.
Yeah. Honestly, the only time I only other, only one I have is the, uh, from snow high and
legendary genetics and it's just the male and Uzbekistani male that was used.
And he even recommends, please make more. I would love to have back.
Right. Yeah. Preserve it, kind of crowdsource it. That's a, that definitely can be done
with somebody who specifically works with, with older stock.
Deep chunk, Pachyceteva, Panama poison.
Now deep chunk that, uh, Tom Hill, was that? Yes. Yeah. His father,
his father worked it and he's continuing to work it.
And then it brings it into like a Pakistani sativa. So, uh, you know, I might be using it
improper, but like the land race, you know, I always picture the side of the mountain, you know,
they're going and pulling some seeds and then planting that and whatever it is beautiful or
beautiful or not, that's what we're running with. And that's where you do. That's where,
you know, again, I think that's going to open up a lot of the gene pool, uh, but
it still has to be worked sometimes into something desirable. Absolutely.
The other thing is we're taking them out of their natural environment and it's really difficult to
acclimatize something like that. Like that shouldn't be anyone who's looking at something
like this and going, Oh yeah, I'm going to definitely grow that. Like you're signing up
for something, uh, potentially. I mean, again, and I don't know, but if you take an actual land
race, if you went to Uzbekistan and grab a handful of seeds and bring them back, and I've done this
before, it's, you are, you're taming something. That's really what you're doing. I mean,
it's tame in its native environment. It's been cultivated by definition. The land race has been
cultivated by the people that live there, but you're maybe trying to replicate that dry,
that dry environment that it's used to, the altitude it's used to,
the type of sun and soil and everything else that it's used to. And it can be, it could be a lot.
I've never had success at it myself.
Yes. Yeah. I guess you, you are signing up for something and taking kind of a high risk.
And I guess knowing the origins and your geographical location too will be a benefit.
Uh, you know, if you could get same latitude at least, uh, or longitude, you guys know what I mean.
Um, then that, that would be helpful or at least increase your chances, but, uh, taking an
equatorial sativa and bringing it up to Homer, Alaska might not be ideal. Whereas maybe one of the,
uh, strains from the Hindu Kush mountain range might be a little more accustomed to that type
of environment. So, yeah, I could, I could see that. I don't know about you, Chad, but Dave,
you'd be indoors just like me. And, um, like I don't have room for, you know, nine foot tall
plant. I don't either. I can't, I, uh, I had some I read genetics that actually is sitting around
here somewhere. Um, lemon sunrise, uh, it's, you, that just took over my tent. Wonderful strain,
loved it. We'll grow it again. But in my head, I'm like, when, and if I grow outdoors,
this is the first one going in, but until then, uh, or until I get a larger tent,
but I do, I see that, you know, there's, um, like mean gene, uh, Mendocino freeborn selections.
He does a lot of breeding and selecting for outdoor cultivars and just crushes it. Um,
but that's not my environment. So sometimes I've, I've kind of shied away from maybe putting in a
bid. Um, I don't know. Have you, have you had much experience with that? Trying to run some
strains regardless of breeder, um, that were bred outdoors, trying to run them indoors and had
success, mixed success, anything like that, Dave, I know you've tried some of, uh, mean genes.
So far I've had success with this stuff. I haven't had anything, had any issues with any intersex
traits or anything like that coming out on me. Um, but that's something that, uh, it definitely
can be a problem when you, when you go indoors with, with something that's bred outdoors
specifically to be run outdoors. Yeah. And I'll specifically, and I just want to give him credit
too. Um, I, I kind of learned that or know that because of him, he's the one who explained it to
me. So yeah, he's very upfront for all breeders, you know, he's talking about everything in general.
He's, he's a good educator and he's got some killer gear, but that's good to hear in your
experience that, you know, it has, he hasn't run into it. I'm, I'm always kind of like over cautious
to like, it's, it's a great thing to like undersell and overperform, you know, or over deliver that.
That's what I like to do. And I think, you know, he might be doing a little bit of that as well,
just underselling and over delivering. Cause that's what makes people happy. You don't want to
oversell and under deliver. I think you hit the nail on the head as far as, uh, how he, uh, how
he works and operates. Cause that's everything I've grown from him has been phenomenal so far. So
definitely worth the price of admission. Yes. Still must be this tall to ride this ride. No.
Yeah. Your wallet must be that tall. Yes. Uh, but that was good. So,
you know, kind of one, one that we mentioned, or I mentioned earlier before the show, cause I,
I just got a new pack. Um, and I'll give you guys time to maybe dig out a pack, but what is,
what is one of the fun or more enjoyable or silly, even though we already saw that ice cream cake or
ice cream cake, uh, enjoyable packaging that you guys have got. I got so little story the other day.
Um, when I went to Amsterdam a couple of years ago, Katsu cafe, it was the big Buddha cheese.
That was the favorite strain of the trip. We tried a lot, but yeah, the big Buddha cheese, uh, and he,
he has his own C company. So I was going to try to get some of that from him. I wasn't able to,
but I got something it's called. It's called, um, big Buddha's King Kong. It's a gorilla glue.
Number four. There we go. Times cheese times a white widow feminized. Uh, and this is kind of
some of the, you know, the smell, the taste and the info on the back, um, femmes. Yeah. I'll give
it a shot. So big Buddha seeds there. Anyways, he's, he's the big Buddha cheese guys, but the
reason I brought it up and I brought up the fun packs to use because it's sent in like a little
Buddha, like, is this is the coolest thing or what? That's awesome. Like his head pops off right
there. His head pops off and the seeds are inside. If I tilt it, you might be able to see him. But
so in terms of like fun packaging, I'm like, Oh, cause you know, I'm going to take the seeds out
and keep this little thing. Right. So I saw that one. You beat me. That was fun. Actually got this
whole time. I'm not even like full crease, full screening myself. Come on. Give myself some credit
here. But yeah, it's even a little detail. He's got a little hand and that's cool. But yeah. One
more time. I'll get you guys the back there. That's kind of the, the details on it. But, uh,
yeah. Fun packaging. You can do all kinds of stuff with this, but I thought, I thought that was great
and yeah, I'll probably open this one up sooner than later. I'm going back to Amsterdam, uh,
in February. So a lot of the things that I want to pop right now, I'm going to wait
till I get back because there is no guarantee there'll be alive when I get back. So yeah.
But see, I eat Eli, big Buddha, blue cheese is the King. Yes. You definitely win. I mean, my,
my, my little, uh, box here from Pacific Northwest Northwest roots is, is nice and cool, but it,
it doesn't have a little Buddha guy in there. Like that's awesome. Those are cool. I bought
this one specifically because I grew up and I loved transformers. So auto bots auto, that just,
I mean, I'm not, I'm never going to grow it, but I, I loved that name. That's awesome.
Just another name that I kind of forgot. That was funny that I should have brought up before
fire crotch. Oh, good Lord. What is that? A, a five Hayes, the caramel F one from
skunk bank. So skunk tech, man, fire crotch, it better have some big red hairs on it. Like
that's all I'm saying. Yeah. The name like that. I totally agree. It's got to,
Oh, some of these names though. Some of these names, uh, what do we got here? Keystone. Oh,
Mandalorian. Oh yeah. Those are the, uh, the that's what everybody's going for when it comes
to autos. It seems to be the one you want to change his name or something like that.
And isn't he like gnome genetics or something like that now? He didn't have to, he got out in
front of it, which is smart. Yeah. Before Disney comes after you, that's, that's not a battle
anyone wants. Um, nice little glass file cork in here. Um, little wax seal on it. Uh, so this is
alien life force number five. And this is back to the inbred line. This is an inbred line,
regular auto flower seed. Um, and I think it wouldn't surprise me if most of the auto flowers
that are, you know, on the market and popular for more than a few years are actually inbred
lines because it's just not possible really to, to keep, you know, you can't keep mothers really.
So, um, you're just, you know, uh, making your seed, I guess every year, um, to keep it fresh.
Um, so this was kind of his, I don't know how familiar you guys are with, uh, with full duplex.
That's the breeder. Um, but, uh, this is sort of his flagship for a long while. He isn't making it
anymore. As far as I know, I have the F5 and the F6. Um, and in addition to that, I also have,
this was a, what he called a phenotype isolation. Uh, this is coal miner's daughter. And so, um,
it is, if I remember correctly, this is ALF, um, but it's actually a really, he just kept
breeding, narrowing down on a darker, darker representation of that. Um, and so it really,
really gets black. I haven't grown this. I haven't grown auto flowers since the nineties.
Yeah. Um, but I am determined to get back to these. Um, I have a project in mind that, uh,
auto flowers would be perfect for, um, so Connecticut, which is where I'm at.
Uh, we just passed legalization, uh, this past year and I'm a medical patient. I have the right
to home grow. Um, and recreational home grow has been decriminalized for non-medical patients,
but it's becoming fully legal in, uh, 2023. And ahead of that, I want to have seeds to pass out
to people just to get people growing. Um, and so I'm, I'm thinking maybe doing a multi-packs, uh,
so a feminized seed, a feminized variety, uh, an auto flower variety, and, um, uh, just a regular
seed variety as well, uh, with instructions just, or linking to a website they can go to and just
figure out how to grow. It doesn't have to be my website. It can be growweedeasy. You know,
there's plenty of information on there. Um, so I was thinking about, you know, opening up ALF,
you never know. I had enough time, but sort of just enough time to make something and then really
rigorously test it. Um, but yeah. Well, I go ahead and finish your thoughts. Sorry. Uh, well, no,
please. I was just going to say, I like your sentiment there though. It really is about,
you know, overgrow, um, getting seeds or getting clones is usually one of the larger barriers to
anybody in a legal market. They just don't know where to get them. Uh, and when you have people
that are willing to create seeds, actually test seeds and then give them out for free,
just so other people can do the same. Uh, that's what we all need to be doing in my opinion. Uh,
and you know, a lot of us are, but that's something, uh, we can all do to overgrow,
overgrow. How old does that get? Overgrow? I was in the growth store, you know, a couple of weeks
ago and there was this just really nice old couple and they're trying to get set up and
they're sort of getting taken advantage of by the guys. Not really, but you know, they're getting,
they're buying like $2,500 worth of grow equipment, which might've been $700 worth of
grow equipment. And, um, you know, I just, afterwards I was thinking, man, I just, I wish
I had like 20 seeds to give them. Just here you go. At least you're coming out ahead in that respect.
Um, this is another Mandalorian genetics, uh, again, gnome automatics now. Um, and this is
gem. Uh, so this is an inbred line. Uh, and at this point it's been taken to F9. I don't,
off the top of my head, I don't, I don't know too much about this. Um, I, oh, I do. It's not
a heavy hitter. This has, if I remember correctly, this is high in, right? Tested high in CBG,
if I remember correctly. And he tested it, it came in at about 13% THC. And again, I don't put
much credence in any of that stuff. I've had some 14% THC things make the room spin. Um, so I, I'm
not concerned with that, but really his focus was that it's got a broad spectrum of, uh, cannabinoids
and maybe there, there's some anti-inflammatory relief in here. Um, so that's what interested
me about this. Um, and again, because he's taken it to F9, hopefully without even using lab testing,
I can continue that chemotype forward on my own. That's my hope. Right. And, and if you're a child
of the eighties, like me, you just going to say, Jim, it's probably truly outrageous.
Oh, I'm there with you. Get a winner. Truly, truly, truly outrageous.
More of the Misfits fan myself.
Ooh, okay. All right. We are the Misfits. Yeah. Okay. I won't say I'm an eighties cartoon.
I learn things about myself.
Let's see. Let's see what Dave's changed the plot here.
I don't know if they're going to come up on screen. Oh, there they are.
Oh, it's that's like some blue, uh, black light.
It's tough to see them when you put it directly on there, but
that's another thing that night owls put out there.
Nice. That's a cool packaging. So does that have the, uh, strain type,
uh, and everything on there or what's I can see like a logo there on the bottom.
I can tell by like, you know, the secrets. This is this one here that I'm looking at right now
is a Pope banner three, which is Bruce banner number three, auto hit with purple Pope.
Huh? Okay. I haven't heard that one myself. Blue sprayed shoes. Remix.
She's a Tyrone stomper. F six. It's a blue micro verse F four.
And then you got Pope sickle. I don't stop or F six. Get to that purple Pope.
A lot of this release was the purple Pope. That's probably why you haven't heard of it.
Okay. The male used on most of it.
So you got Makita here. Another one. It's tough to see, but, but yeah, we can get some of their
not so tough to see ones. I get the idea there.
And now do, do you see like a lot of breeders go in cycles, like harvest seasons, like
a particular month or two out of the year, they have a lot of selections and then nothing new
for another, you know, nine months or do a lot of these breeders like night owl
kind of consistently, maybe every two or three months come out with another line.
Some of them, it depends. You'll see a lot of bigger lines will tend to come out around the
harvest times just because people will generally have more space than, you know, it's you got the
sun, which is free, but there will be people who release lines every couple of months just because
why not? You know, you've, you've got the hype strains.
Well, I guess maybe speaking, Oh, go ahead. Keystone.
I was just going to say that's a bit of a red flag to me.
I agree.
And actually a breeder offering, you know, really more than five or six varieties at once.
You know, new varieties at once is I'm like, how are you really rigorously testing these?
You're more than likely not.
For me. Yeah.
Yeah. And that, you know, that does make me wonder. And that's why I kind of asked you,
because some of these, you know, again, I'm not super immersed in the seed collection world. So
there's going to be a lot of strains I've never heard of a lot of readers that I've not heard of.
And I have seen, you know, night owl around, but like those, that was one of the strains
or cultivars. I'm trying to train myself to say cultivar and not strain anymore.
So I'll say both back to back anyways. One of the ones that I wasn't familiar with.
So that's kind of why I was wondering, you know, do, what is the release schedule for a lot of
these companies, but we're all on the same boat there. Be suspect of people that come out with
new stuff every, every few months, but kind of on that same note, and you had just brought out the
Mandalorian Keystone, which was in a little box. Maybe let's go with like one of the newest
things that you've got. One of the newest thing that came to me came in a box and that's why
it came to me. But it was Beeleaf Cannabis. It's actually, let's see here.
Oh, I can't get the light there, but it is a collaboration with Lit that they had. It's a
watermelon mimosa from Lit times the creature from Beelief Cannabis. It's called Kool-Aid Man.
And I don't know if anybody's familiar with Beelief. He's in Oklahoma, puts out some super
fire stuff. You can find him on Instagram. And if you do, dude, just like, where's the
weed underneath the trichromes? Trichromes. Trichomes. So yeah, he puts out some amazing
stuff, super tasty stuff, super fruity stuff, which I'm excited to try. I'm kind of going back
into that phase of I want to find something super fruity, which is again, why I planted that Sunday
fun day mimosa, times sour tangy. I'm a sucker for the fruit sometimes and I want something that's
just going to be, I want that soccer mom strain, damn it. Now, when you grow it out, you have to
let me know if it makes you go, oh yeah. Oh yeah. It's going to bust through my tent and break all
my stuff. Harvest me. But yeah, I'm really excited for that one. And that was actually Brian and
Marco. The Brian and Marco show had him on and that was like a three hour conversation.
If you guys have three hours and want to listen to some awesome philosophy and breeding stuff,
Beelief, cannabis was awesome. That was a fun show. But back to the question, this was my
newest acquisition. What has been the newest acquisition for you guys? I'm still digging,
Dave. You want to help me out here? Let me pull something else out. What do I got?
Jinx Proof. Everybody loves Jinx Proof. Jinx Proof Genetics. This one's kind of a fun name.
And this came from, shout out 710 or 71 DPO had a little contest online. I won it. It's called
It's Fire, which is a combination of straight fire times. It's it talk about names. So that's
a fun one. Shiny, shiny package. And again, Jinx Proof is kind of part of that, you know, TGA dank
collective back from the day. He actually is the reason I was able to buy these TGA seeds.
Jinx Proof. I think it was 2012 or something. Basically got pissed off because he drove all
the way to Tacoma for a place that said they had packs. They didn't have the pack that he wanted.
And I'm paraphrasing, but he called up Subcool or Miss Jill and said, this is bullshit. You need a
real rep. Let me get your seeds in the stores in this state. And so he did. He went around. He got
he's he's responsible for me being able to pick this up in my dispensary. So shout out Jinx Proof
there, too. That's awesome. Yeah. The most recent, I would say, would probably be the
Saeed Gelato Cushman's 11 from Seed Junkie.
OK, that could be good. We'll see. Now, here's I showed it before the firecrouch. That's another
one that just came in. That one's burning. The question was seed junkies, man. I've just on
Instagram. I just got hit up by like five different seed junkie official seed junkie
accounts, whatever. And the first one, like instantly, as soon as I said that,
sent me like a price list with the cultivars they had available. Now, typically when you're that
big of a company, you don't search out business that hard. How do you weed out the bullshit
accounts? Because you mentioned seed junk. And I'm like, dude, I just got five of them hit me up
all saying like, dude, buy this, buy that. I never buy off Instagram guys. So sorry.
That's just me. I don't. Yeah. Anyways, I get you. There's definitely lots of fakers out there,
especially something as big as Seed Junkie is and as desired as his seeds tend to be.
I tend to get mine from more reliable sources, like more of the seed banks that have been around
for a little while. That tends to be a good place to go. Like actually earlier today, I hate to say,
I want to see it's here now auctioned for a seed junkie pack. It was the Cushmints and the Triangle
Triangle, Triangle Cush BX3. So that's when you at least can trust the source it's coming from to
know that it's not going to be, you know, Joe Bob Dick Bag on fucking Instagram just trying
to rip you off. Right, right. No, that's a good point there. Wait, Dave, is Joe Bob not legit?
Because I just sent him a bunch of money. Oh no! Yeah. Well, you know, sometimes people want to
believe like, you know, if Bodie, some dude like portrayed as Bodie for a while and pulled it off,
I might think he's legit and I would love some Bodie seeds. And if he had like a,
you know, a special price discount pack, I'd be like, probably tempted. So yeah, it's just,
I guess, I guess that point with that going back to the seed junkies, it's like,
don't just believe it because you want to. And especially because you think it's a good deal.
A lot of these big breeders, dude, they don't need to search out your business. Business finds them.
So just keep that one in mind. But what did you have there, Keystone?
So this is some JD Short work, second generation genetics, second generation. Yeah. This is Blue
Muda Triangle and it is a cross of Trinity Lavender and DJ Short's Blueberry. I really
got to be honest, I have picked up a lot of JD's work because they're about like,
they're under $100 a pack, usually about $80 a pack. And they're just like killer lines crossed
with each other. Often it's blueberry crossed with something else, but we're not talking about like
hot height strain. We're talking about like, you know, older stuff, harder to find stuff. And you
know, he's using legit cultivars. So you just know someone with his clout is getting the real
deal, the actual clone and not, you know, just sort of believing the providence of something
someone hands to him from somewhere, who knows. Trinity Lavender, I don't know too much about it.
I've heard Inspecta talking about it. And it's supposed to be very different from
the European Lavender. They're just distinct, right? Like Lavender is a common name. You can
imagine two people independently pulling on it. And the last time I was in Seattle, I had some
Lavender and I thought it was Somas, but now it's leading me to believe that it's actually Trinity
Lavender. Who knows? Anyway, it was interesting. It was good. I do know that actually the TGA and
Jinx Proof back in the day, they were putting out testers that were called a Lavender. So
there was a Lavender from them up in the Seattle area as well. I know that much.
I'm going to go back to the inbred line for a bit. And this is going to be a popular one.
Again, from Humboldt CSI, this is Pine Tar Cush. Another one that I can't wait to just do a big
increase on. Just, you know, grow as many of these as I can, open pollinate them and just get a
thousand seeds to go through. Well, not personally, but yeah. I'm a seed hoarder. I definitely have a
problem. Of course, not all of us call it a problem, but wow, that Pine Tar Cush, man. I've
told the story many times, but I have a story about me, the Cannabis Cafe in Canada in the
Pine Tar Cush and being higher than I've ever freaking been. Holy cow. That's one heck of a
strain. I'm hoping that I find, there are just some flavors from the 90s that I remember, but I
haven't seen since. Just spicy, piney, skunky, just almost like pepperoni-ish almost.
You know what I'm talking about? Like kind of like meat spice.
Italian sausage. Yeah, like Italian sausage. Yes. There was a strain called Buddha going around
in the 90s. Do you remember that? You guys ever hear that? This is sort of before things were
being named, but not really. Anyway, and that was a flavor that was an East Coast thing.
And that was a flavor that, I mean, it got me like hallucinating. It was so strong.
Jealous I never got to try it.
Yeah. Skunk Cape Glassworks in chat is mentioning dog shit, which actually until a few years ago,
I thought it was just kind of a joke, but I do remember that being a strain name.
You know, in the 90s to me, a lot of things had like a spicy kind of 90s spice taste. I always
associate with kind of like Afghanis, you know, similar to like you're saying and searching for.
So to me, a lot of that brings back those memories to me. And that was at a time when strains to me
didn't have a lot of names. You know, one of the few names that I remember is like AK-47
and Alaska Thunderfuck and then the dog shit. But yeah, a lot of, you know, and it just probably
was my level experience. Everything was chronic or drow, you know, whatever. Or kind. Yeah,
kind. But yeah, a lot of the 90s, a lot of 90s weed, as I say, did have that spicy taste,
which I in my head associate back to Dutch genetics and a lot of the older strains. So
interesting. Let's see here, what did Dave throw up here? Well, you mentioned dog shit. So this
is Hong Kong Phuoi, which is dog shit hit with the old family purple, the T-1000.
OK, because not many people even remember it. I've only heard it mentioned a few times and I've
asked, you know, like the, you know, the James Louds and all the breeders that come on future
cannabis project. I'm like, what about that dog shit? And only one of them was like, yeah, I think
it might have been something. But I'm pretty sure inspectors worked a few of them. So wow, that is
awesome. That gets me this awesome. This gets me closer to tracking down something from the past
because I'd love to just even smoke it again just to see if it same thing, you know, that's rad.
So Hong Kong Phuoi, Humboldt, CSI, was it? Yes. Yes. OK, cool. Dog shit and old family purple.
Wow. I will go down that road. Yeah, I'm a big fan of that old family purple. Here's it in the S1.
And there's me actually working with it myself. It hit with some T-1000 hits of the Jaro from
from Mean Gene and Freeborn Selections. Then I also took a male of the Katsu Bubba hit with
the Jaro and then hit that to the T-1000 Jaro. That's my own personal work, but we'll get that
out of there. We're talking about other people's real, real deal seeds, not not me making my own
crap. It's good. It's good starting material, though, that I'll actually really my stomach
loves the Katsu Bubba. Like that's one that will treat my stomach right when it's not having a good
day. So good starting material there. Let me ask you guys, so you make seeds,
too. You're not trying to sell them. I make seeds. I'm not trying to sell them. I'm motivated just
by preserving stuff. I just want to. It's not always about opening it up, but it's about just
having access to it. And for me, like I can only legally keep six plants, maybe 12 plants.
I don't really have the option of keeping a lot of clones. It's risky for me to do that,
but I can keep as many seeds as I want. Even before legalization, I could keep a ton of seeds.
So that's sort of why I'm like so seed obsessed. What what causes you to make seeds? I mean,
what what compels you? Because it's you're sacrificing a lot to make seed. It's not
the end of the world, but it's not, you know, for everybody either. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
personally, I still will break down the break down the buds and smoke them. It's not the end
of the world. But for me, it's just about playing. Yeah. Yeah. It's just that, yeah,
of course, I love it without the seeds, but, you know, I'll still still make do. But it's just a
bit to me. It's a matter of playing around. It's it's just having some fun. There are. Would I like
to have a purpose sometimes? Yes, I do have a purpose sometimes. But for the most part, it's
hey, I really like this male. I like the characteristics I see in him. Let's see what
he does in the tent. Let's see what he does with these ladies I have here. And we'll go from there.
Yeah, just get involved, be part of the game, you know, get some more experience. It's another
aspect of growing plants that not everybody gets into. For me, it was just preservation.
Of my ability to be able to grow again, it was is back in the medical days. And once it went
recreational, well, you can't buy seeds and you can't buy clones anymore. So I kind of saw the
writing on the wall and I wasn't really hip to all the seed banks and all the other varieties
of ways to get them. So I was like, you know, I need to start making some seeds. And so I just
started making seeds. And now I have, you know, obviously enough of a base and I get new stuff.
But if I find something that really hits my body, well, again, I kind of, you know, I love the
recreational side of cannabis, but it's really medicinal for me. So if I find something that
does my body good, damn right, I'm going to make some more seeds of it and keep playing with it
and see if it's, you know, continues to do that. So it's really just about preserving and going
forward and meeting my own needs. Really. That's why I started doing it. But you're right, though.
Sorry to say that, but you're right. It does eat into your plant count. So be it.
So be it. My plant count isn't high. Washington's a pretty dang low state and you have to have
the MedCard for it. But even at that, it's me and my wife. So we're good. We're fine.
Let's see here. Let me dig into my box. What?
That sounds dirty. Yeah, I know. Right. Okay. So I mentioned this one. I showed it last time,
but the who dropped it. Twin Peaks. This is chem 91 is like one of my all time favorite strains
and fresh baked. He was on last time. He heard that he sent me these. But chem 91 BX two times
twin peaks. I mean, to come on, twin peaks right over the shoulder. Can that not be a better fit?
Lucky dog. So skunk VA. So if you're going to get anything, Cam, that's really kind of the one
person you want to be getting it from. So that one I've got excited. What?
It's another cheese, another greenhouse cheese. So we'll give we'll give their cheese a try as well.
What? Have you ever tried the Inspecta? His his UK cheese? No, no, I'd give it a shot though. I honestly
repeatedly say United States does not have a good cheese anywhere available for me.
Repeatedly say United States does not have a good cheese anywhere available for me to smoke.
So I'm willing to try anything. Yeah, I've that's that's another profile I'd love to find myself.
That's why when I saw that this was a freebie that came with with this bad guy right here,
I was more than happy to to bring that aboard and just give it a chance. I just you know,
it just gets keeps getting pushed back because I grab something else and then I grab something
else and then I grab something else and. Right, eventually I'll get there and now the chem in me
sees in that dead zone, I can't quite read it, but it looks like something times a chem dog.
It is it's patient zero and chem 91. Oh, look at that. My chem knows that one out.
OK, I wonder, do you ever on the website? Do they give much of a profile or what to expect from it?
Do they know not so much that just more of like a breakdown of the lineage,
maybe a somewhat of a description of the smell.
But certain times of the year, if you hit up his website directly, like Keystone was saying,
like Keystone was saying, you can get some good stuff and he'll have some great deals like around
7, 10, 4, 20 really good deals. But it's an old school kind of way of getting it. It's,
you know, without going into too much detail, it's no credit cards involved.
Right. Yeah. I don't want to set anyone's expectations extra high, but every time I've
spent a couple hundred bucks with him, he's just packed the envelope full of stuff. I mean,
stuff that I didn't actually just and not like irrelevant stuff. I mean, sometimes you get
freebies and they're just like. They're not even related to what you're ordering, so it's like,
great, thank you, but I'm never going to grow this tester you're sending me. You know, I'm
not your guinea pig, but he's sending really neat stuff along with it. Along with what you order.
That is cool when people stoke you out. But yeah, I did get a pack of Santa Marta haze,
which is cool if I was outdoors in a equatorial climate, I'd probably grow it, but it was a 15
weeker. I'm not fucking growing 15 weeker in well, a 15 week flowering strain. Hell no. Inside.
Sorry. Stick it in a corner of your flower tent, leave it on 1212 the whole time.
Right? Oh no, I'm not going to do it, but it's still there. It's a thought again. That'll be
a one day I could play with it because it's a phenomenal strain. Like I really would love to
smoke it. I just can't be bothered to grow it. Oh well. A couple, couple more. Oh, let's see here.
I saw someone in chat say ghost OG and sky Jaro. So I had to, uh,
well, that was your winner from last episode. That was the one that exceeded all your
expectations. Right? No, this one, this one, this one, the, uh, the runs, every, you know,
everybody hates on rice, but, uh, that gelato 33 cherry limeade mail. Yeah. Oh my God. Everything
it touches is just the winner. I can't wait to run the purple unicorn, which I showed the last time
from Bodhi, the Bodhi-Ninjiin collab.
Is that, that mail is just a winner.
Huh, okay.
If you can find it guys, get your hands on that.
Anything with that mail.
Yeah, let's see.
The closest I have is the Temple Runts.
This is from Ethos.
Let's see, yeah, Temple Runts, F1.
That was from Ethos Collective, so.
That's the closest I have to like a Skittles or a Runts,
and it's a Temple Kush times just Runts.
But Ethos is fairly good.
They put out frosty stuff.
Honestly, had one of them throw Nanners in the third week,
which is typical.
Cookies, it can happen.
But I also had two that were perfectly fine
and stayed perfectly female, so that's fun.
Actually, let's see if I've got a,
got a little bud of it right here, actually.
Let's see.
And this is weird,
because I was hoping for something like super fruity,
but this thing has like oregano turps.
Like, I don't get it.
It's not even, it doesn't even necessarily taste like Kush.
And again, I only planted a few,
so it's probably not representative of the whole,
but good smoke, man.
Powerful smoke.
I smoke it at night, so yeah.
That's what the Temple Runts did for me.
I wanted fruity explosion.
I got oregano.
Ha ha ha.
It looked raw.
Right?
Still not disappointed, though.
Still good smoke.
And then I guess the other one that I got from them,
and this, again, this was courtesy of a grower from the DGC.
He has two subscriptions to the multi-pass,
so he gets like two of everything.
He's like, dude, I cannot grow anything.
He put up a list on the DGC and said,
hey, anybody want anything?
Holler.
And this was a Chemo G.
Hey, you can't read it, can't see it.
But this was my first, a Chemo G BX3.
This was my first something official with Chem in it.
And then I got that Twin Peaks.
And then the other day I just got a Cali Connection
Chem Dog number four.
Let's see.
You can see in the bottom there, but yeah, Cali Connection.
So these will go in.
I'm gonna see what that Chem 91
or what the Twin Peaks gives me first.
And then I'll probably stick with that for a while again,
because of limited plant count
and so many things you wanna go through.
I'm not trying to fully exhaust my Chem options yet
to find the winner.
But that is that.
They're loving our discussion of plant count in chat.
But there's just like practical limitations to it as well.
You know, like I can't fill my whole house.
I've got a wife.
You know, I'm trying to carve out space for myself
to have a few tents, you know,
and that's sort of, if I can get 50 square feet,
you know, for my grove, that's awesome.
And, you know, if we could do things outdoors,
if I could have a hoop house, it'd be a different story.
But we have practical limitations, I think,
just in addition to legal possible, legal consequences.
You know, it'd be stupid to go to jail at this point.
It'd be so stupid.
It really would.
And you'd have to be kind of a,
just like the raging asshole, I think,
or the just like, there's, again,
I think if you can show that what you're doing
is really personal consumption,
I think you're, you know, you can still get in trouble,
but I think it's gonna be a lot better
than trying to explain a warehouse for yourself.
Right.
Yeah.
Because we'd all love the warehouse, damn it.
But it's just not practical.
Not yet.
Someday, one day, who knows?
Let's see, what are we bringing up here now?
Another COPPA.
So we're going back to COPPA genetics,
and again, I just, I love the stuff
he's bringing out of his catalog.
And so this is Ethos purple Skittles
crossed with 90s black domino.
And this is just a really, really great buy
if anyone's thinking about,
you were just mentioning something fruity.
You were looking for something with a little fruit to it.
You could find that in here.
I'm getting like grape candy, cherry candy,
orange candy, lots of candy flavors out of it.
And also like just 90s funk too,
you know, just like swampy funk as well.
So I liked this so much, I started working with it myself.
And at this point, I've taken it to the F4.
So I've been going right towards that citrus,
like the citrus notes that it sometimes gets.
And you saw the plant that I showed before.
I'll bring it up again.
This is an F3.
It's in pretty rough shape too.
It's pretty well into senescence,
but this is just, I mean, the terpenes coming off of this
are just wonderful.
And yeah, it's great.
So, you know, this is my own inbred line work.
And I have seen a lot of vigor loss in these generations,
but it still goes.
I mean, it's starting to lock in,
which is really neat to see,
you know, really, really cool to see.
Well, it definitely would be.
What kind of traits or what were you going for
from the outset that you're now kind of seeing
being locked in?
Or were you just the happy observer
seeing what did lock itself in through your selections?
So I prefer a sea of green style of growing.
So I was sort of putting that pressure on it.
I mean, as I pointed out before,
I'll just make a single meristem
and just let buds form up that.
So, you know, squat plants, really squat morphology.
I wasn't breeding for color or selecting for color.
It just sort of happened that way.
I was just selecting for the chemovar.
That was really my primary driver
and then vigor after that.
And I'll go on something, I'll baby something.
If, you know, it's gonna have the effect
that I'm looking for, but it's just good medicine for me.
It's just really close to that,
that black domino across with PCK
that I was talking about before.
It's not quite there.
There's like a bit more grape in it.
So it's not like Sprite, but it's getting closer to it.
So that's what I was going for.
Okay, that's pretty cool.
Right now I have a Welch's grape juice
that the company probably saw they were gonna get in trouble
and renamed their strain.
So it's fricking Westport's grape juice now,
but it's beauty, man.
That feels like my candy category for the grape flavor.
Growing smells absolutely great candy,
like carnival candy grape,
but smoking it is the darndest thing.
You smoke it and you'll get grape going on the inhale,
but then the exhale, you get like a slight gas to it.
And it's just, it's a fun flavor mix,
but that one is definitely a keeper
and something that I'll be working with soon.
I've gone through three rounds of kind of stress testing
and abuse with one particular clone of it right now,
and everything is holding up good.
So that might be seeing some pollen at some point,
but yeah, grape is kind of a flavor candy grape.
I see coming up from a lot of breeders,
something that's being put out there.
I also see a lot of peach flavor going on right now.
So it's almost again,
kind of the Renaissance of the flavor,
the candies, the grapes, the fruits.
That's the word I'm looking for.
Geez, wow.
I don't know, Dave,
do you have anything that's kind of falling
under that flavor kind of category or flavor profile
for some outrageous fruit flavors?
Something that you've grown
or maybe just description wise that you've picked up?
I tend to lean my personal choices towards more gassy.
Okay.
That's just my own vibe,
but I do like a good mix of it in there.
I do want to get definitely some,
grape is definitely a flavor
I've personally looked out for myself.
I tried a mass medical grape pupil
that definitely gave a lot of that off
on the more purple pheno.
The more pink pheno was more like a,
kind of like a strawberry margarita
mixed with a little bit of gas.
My only gripe with that was it,
it hermed out early,
like around week two, week three.
So it definitely, to me that,
you know, it said it was more along the lines
of not so much the environment,
more along the lines of the genetics.
And I had heard other people report that too with it.
So it lived up to that,
but it flavor wise, it was off the charts.
That's awesome.
I'm seeing Mike Debra kind of nailed it.
Yes, this does come from Oregon and Gorski.
That might be part of the equation of it.
So yeah, it's a fun one.
That's a good one.
And I hear you too, Dave, you know,
it's like, if I don't like a fricking snow,
why would I buy a pair of skis?
Right.
So I guess that was a loaded question to you.
Apologize for that one.
But I guess on gassy then,
there's all kinds of gas.
Gas is kind of one of those descriptor words
that I think sometimes can be watered down
until you've had that super eye watering gas.
But you were saying earlier that you like the sour D.
So what has been some of the gassier strains for you
that maybe you've tried or have picked up genetics from
or a breeder?
Because again, gas tends to impart itself
in many generations or offspring.
I guess that's the word I'm looking for.
Well, the gassiest that I've personally grown myself
and from what I found was from Katsu,
it was a collab between him and Romulan.
It was the space fuel.
It was the East Coast sour diesel and Romulan.
And that, it was basically like you were just lighting up
some gasoline right in your mouth.
That's the profile of its flavor.
And that's just a winner, winner.
That's what I was looking for.
And for a second, I got confused there
because you said East Coast sour diesel.
Yeah, no, that is the official like,
woo, burn your eyes, nose kind of one.
But there was also the New York sour diesel,
which actually had nothing to do with sour diesel,
just the name, which I always found interesting
because it doesn't pass it off.
And it's from Soma, who's a great breeder,
established breeder in his own day.
But yeah, New York City diesel
didn't really have any diesel in it.
Space fuel?
Not the, my camera's not the best, but yeah, it's.
Nice, good green colors.
That's, you know, I almost miss green sometimes.
Yeah, it's a winner.
I heard Keystone chuckle there.
Yeah, sir, a lot of the strains that you have there
are gonna put off that nice neon green color
that I almost don't see anymore.
Well, I just, sometimes I just, I shake my head.
I get caught up in this as well.
But like I talk with people I don't know
that I only interact with over the internet
way more about cannabis than I talk with people I know.
How about that?
Does that make, does that sentence make sense?
Like, you know, in my friend group,
I absolutely have friends that are, you know,
really into weed, but I spend a lot more time
talking on the internet with people.
And like, we're just talking about what it looks like.
You know, and so it's, we're spending a lot of time
on pretty colors and presentation and dense,
you know, symmetrical nugs.
But like, who cares, right?
Like at the end of the day, I mean, you care,
but who cares?
Right, well, it's all consumer, it's the bag appeal,
but we know as connoisseurs that the smoke test
is the only test that matters.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
But everyone, I mean, everyone listening here, right?
Like just remind yourself, we're growing it
to get things that are connoisseur quality
that you're not gonna see in the dispensary, right?
Like let the chumps go and buy with their eyes, right?
But we should be looking for things that have the effect.
DJ Short is great, you know, talking about this.
What does it do to my head, right?
That's what I'm growing for, you know.
Anyway, I digress.
Yeah, no, well, well put.
And you're right, we are searching for,
oh God, this is a rad pun, but the cut above the rest.
And what do you guys do when you find something like that?
Because that's how I typically fill up my room.
I just reset my room a couple of runs ago.
I got rid of, I put everything into seed form,
but I got rid of the genetics that I was running
because again, limited plant count.
I wanna try new stuff, so I started.
But eventually I'm gonna pick my winners
and then my room's gonna be full again.
So how do you guys go about that process?
Like usually that will take me a couple of years
until I find enough like true winners
to say I've got that room full and then have to restart.
But how do you guys go about keeping those clones alive
or the winners alive after you find it?
What do you do with your winners?
Well, just, you go, Dave.
I was just gonna say, I basically just keep clones going.
And then when I find something better
than what I perceived that I already have,
it's gonna replace it.
So I just kinda keep that perpetually going.
So just to keep that stable alive of what you love
or what you've liked so far.
Nice.
Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding.
Yeah, so one thing I might do is if things are similar,
I'll take clones of them and breed them together
to see if they're getting there with different genes.
So maybe they can, if it's too limey strain,
maybe they can be really limey when they're combined.
It doesn't usually work out that way.
Or I just cry and sacrifice stuff.
Now, I think homebrew tissue culture
is becoming more of a reality for most of us.
I just picked up a book, I think it was called,
like affordable at home tissue culture.
And it's a guy telling you how to set up
a tissue culture lab at home.
If you can do that, you can keep a lot of material backed up.
I'm not doing that yet.
I do have a little bit of an in at a lab through friends,
but it's expensive no matter how you do it.
It's pretty expensive.
So like you were saying, Chad, going to seed,
like just getting the genes into seeds
so you can at least sift forward again later.
But sacrifices have to be made.
And sometimes you just lose stuff.
So like give everything away if you can.
Yes.
Yeah, and that is kind of one of the hard things
for some people you had mentioned,
a lot of the cannabis related conversations
you have is all online.
And I know infinitely more people online than I do locally,
but that's always kind of been by design.
You know, it's not something that you just willy nilly
talk about with people.
And even though it's been okay here in this state
for a decade now, sometimes, you know,
you can't deprogram your brain.
So yeah, it's still just like,
I don't talk about it really locally.
You know, my neighbor asks,
it's I, you know, I usually say, no, I don't really smoke
or maybe once in a blue moon, something like that.
I don't think any of my neighbors would watch this show,
but yeah, if they knew how I got down,
that'd be totally different.
Shoot.
I started growing in the bad old days
where you did not talk about it at all.
You were really foolish if you did.
And every time I saw someone talk about their grow,
you know, someone else would get rolled over
for a couple ounces at a traffic stop and then flip on them.
And it's, yeah, it's a nightmare.
And don't talk about it.
Yeah, and that's back when growing four plants at home
could get you in serious fricking trouble.
And that's so, you know, I'm very fortunate
and I don't take it for granted,
but I do forget sometimes how lucky we are.
I am geographically compared to some other places
in this country and even in the old world,
there's still places where like a joint is a death sentence,
like fricking mind blown.
I can't even comprehend that
as I'm sitting around like plenty of joints, you know?
So that does happen.
A little anecdote here.
I mean, I have a family member who,
and I had no idea that this was going on,
but they wanted to grow.
For the last 20, 30 years,
they were afraid to even seek out pot somewhere.
And just waiting, waiting and waiting for the right to grow.
And now that legalization has passed,
but it's not taking effect, they were super frustrated.
And I kind of came out green to them.
You know, I wasn't totally sure they were serious about it,
but once I felt them out, I was like, okay,
here's how it is, here's what we're gonna do.
But there's just tons of people that are super scared,
just super scared about it.
But it doesn't have to be this way.
I was in Switzerland living there
right when they rolled back legalization
in the early 2000s, around 2002.
And it was just really open.
Meaning they had it and it was legal
and then it went to not okay?
Yeah, so you could grow it
and you could buy it as a bath potpourri.
You know, it's just very liberal in that sense, right?
Everyone just sort of minds their own business
in that way.
But then they decided, no, we don't like this anymore.
It's gotta go.
It's weird.
I don't see that happening in the US.
Yeah, I mean, there's always the threat of it,
but you know, the old antidote of
you can't put the toothpaste back in the tube once it's out.
It crosses political lines too.
I mean, it doesn't seem to matter
what affiliation people have,
what politician they're following.
Like 70% of everyone, every constituency
seems to love pot.
Yeah, I think that's gonna be,
or I think that's one of the issues
that politicians in the higher ranks will hold onto
as a kind of like, I'll play that card if I have to.
Because whoever comes out and fully says
that they're going to legalize cannabis
and has even a ounce of framework to it,
they're gonna pick up a lot of undecided voters.
So I'm just waiting for that day.
But anyways, that's politics.
Politics suck.
But you're right, it is.
70% and probably climbing across all parties of those polled.
We've reached a point where cannabis,
yeah, but business will business.
They just need to figure out how to cut it up
and divide it first before they say
we have the chance to participate in it.
So that'll be that.
But keep giving out seeds like you've been doing.
Keep making seeds like we are and just overgrow.
Kind of back to what we were saying earlier.
It's intimidating for some of those people
to talk about it or step up or when they do.
Seeds is one of the scarier things
to purchase for a lot of people.
There's a lot of unknown here.
It's not even like a guy in a hoodie
in a back alley on a dark rain night.
No, it's somebody that you totally don't even know.
But again, reputation and good seed houses.
And I'm just gonna throw up
because I feel like throwing it out
because I know this place is good.
Where to go, where to go, where to go, where to go?
Where's my dog?
Yeah, I'll find it.
Well, having used it personally myself,
it's definitely a great website, very quick.
Can't argue with it.
Yeah, and you've done a lot of ordering through,
well, you've won a lot of the auctions
which typically come up through the DAGA.
So that's a place where you can find a lot of good breeders,
a lot of breeders that you see on these shows.
Definitely go and check it out.
It just got back up.
I was looking at it the other day,
a lot more selections than I'm used to seeing.
So that's always an option too.
But I don't know, did you guys have any special packs
or anything that you guys kind of wanted to throw out
or put up before we kind of wrap up?
Well, just in honor of your love for chem,
here's some chem 91 and Williams Wonder from Skunk Tech.
All right, that's awesome.
Willy dog.
That is awesome.
Untested, but from what I've seen, fantastic.
Okay, I was gonna say, yeah, have you popped any yourself?
No, I only recently acquired these,
maybe a month or two ago.
Okay, fresh, fresh.
Yes.
Let's see, I've got in the terms of my next skunk hunt
or some skunk, this is from,
it's a seven leaf there, but Chiara skunk,
Uncle Fester's skunk times Chiara Kush.
I know I'm saying that wrong, I've gotta be.
But Uncle Fester's skunk is one that I've heard
a lot about or used in a few.
I don't know if either of you guys have tried any of those
or had any crosses with the Uncle Fester's in there.
I haven't personally.
I've never even, never heard of it, actually.
Okay, okay.
Maybe it's just the circle that I run in,
it's getting around, but I'm curious.
So I wanna give that a shot.
You know, Kush's are generally a winner.
Skunks are generally a winner.
It might be one of those older, you know,
90s tasting strains that just knocks you in the dirt.
That would be great.
Kind of, there we go, South Bay Genetics.
That's what I was trying to think.
Same company there, Topanga Pines.
I popped just one of these again
because I had room for just one more.
Turned out to be male, damn it, so I chopped that one down.
That was the Animal Larry BX3 times Triangle Canyon.
I think Triangle Canyon was the Jungle Boys.
Let's see, there's one other one from them,
a Cherry Pine, oh yeah, Cherry Pines.
That was the other one from South Bay Genetics
that I've got here.
Hard to get the focus there, but Cherry Pines,
I'll give that a shot.
You know, Cherry Cobbler times Triangle Canyon.
I'd love to get some Alpha Pinene terpenes
off that one if I can.
It's in the name, so who knows, right?
That's why names are important, damn it.
They're descriptors.
Just the classic blueberry straight from DJ Short.
Can't go wrong with this.
It's really all of DJ's work.
I mean, and even just supporting the guy.
You know, if you want blueberry,
instead of getting it from Seed's Bend
or another white label place, get it from DJ.
He gives you so many seeds, too.
And, you know, I think there was some flow
included with this as well when I bought it.
Classics.
Yeah.
Can I add one thing?
Chat is, they're talking about, you know, overgrowing.
We've been talking about overgrowing and putting seeds out.
But just to circle back to this for a second,
I did run into some hermaphrodism
only in the male population in this.
And so males and females,
hermaphrodites, they,
current intersex for different reasons.
I won't get into that,
but I'm gonna do some stress testing
on the F3 population before I go forward with the F4.
And I just wanna remind everyone,
like the worst thing you can do is pollen shuck,
and then, or make seeds and then just give them away
without stress testing them yourself.
Don't do that.
Don't be that person.
No, you're not doing anybody a favor.
I'm glad you brought that up
because your intentions may be good,
but they may lead to disaster.
And again, think about it,
especially for a person who has a six plant limit.
If they plant, you know,
two, even maybe three of those seeds
along with their old reliables that they keep cloning,
and they have to pull out two or three of those plants
from a garden that's supposed to have six flowering plants,
you've just A, wasted their time,
but also B, taken away their medicine.
Because when you have six plants,
you really count on all six plants going to harvest.
So yeah, stress tests,
pick good genetics to start with,
and then do a little bit of testing,
and be honest with people about how often they've been run.
There's no shame in saying,
hey, this hasn't really been run, keep an eye on it.
If you start with good genetics, you know,
then you at least know there's a solid backbone to it.
Sorry, go ahead.
If stressing it, like root stress
is gonna cause it to go intersex,
then disclose that, just let people know.
Give them the resources to avoid the problems
that they're gonna potentially encounter.
That's all.
Good point, and I'm glad you brought that up, so thank you.
And real quick, Dave, Ryan in chat,
I don't know if this was pointed at you, Dave's not there,
but he says, how far along is the sour mac
you're growing from Bless Coast?
Is that you or is that somebody else?
That's 100% me, yeah, that's on day 64 right now,
and that is one that got hit with that Katsu Bubba jar o' mail.
So we'll see what that brings too.
Sour mac, okay.
She's frosty and super stinky.
What, stinky how?
Stinky, what does it smell like?
Imagine like a citrus, like a sour citrus
combined with little hints of petrol.
Okay, sounds good.
There's a lot of gas in a lot of things these days.
Sour mac, okay, interesting.
And big ups, Ryan, yep, called that one.
Now this is a name that I recognize.
He's up in my state, so I always love seeing that,
but Dutch Blooms, he's also on Future Cannabis Project
as well, what are we looking at here, Dave?
Well, you're looking at some Roberts Creek Congo
hit with the Mean Mug, which is GMO and root beer,
hit to root beer again, the Backcross II.
Then you've also got Kaya's Coffee,
the original first Kaya's Coffee hit
with that Mean Mug mail as well.
So it should hopefully be good.
I mean, these are another ones that come untested,
so I do know that going into them,
but it's the most inexpensive way
if you wanna get root beer in your garden.
Nice, and here's actually another question.
I don't know if you know the answer to this one,
but Lawrence Popper in chat, Dave, he says,
what were the stem rubs on the Katsu, Bubba,
and Jaro females, if that was something
that you took mental note of in the moment?
The females were definitely more of that kind of earthy,
I don't wanna say coffee, but just that kind
of a smell and flavor to it.
The actual buds themselves definitely give that off as well,
but very similar to the male itself.
The male was definitely a lot
of that good earthy flavor to it.
It was basically like you'd rub the stem
and it would give you that kind of like almost
of a fresh dirt kind of a smell.
It was very unique.
Yeah, I totally understand that smell.
It's like walking in the forest every step.
Yes.
Awesome, awesome.
And so those were a couple recent pickups from Dutch Blooms.
I know there's one of the gentlemen's I've had
on my show before, Mr. Magpie, he's running some
of that Roberts Creek Congo, Congo Creek, Roberts?
Yeah, Roberts Creek Congo.
There we go, that combination right now.
So it's kind of fun seeing those come around.
It's fun getting to see everybody grow different things
because once again, there's only so much space
and there's only so much time.
It's not a fast flowering plant.
So it's fun to see other people grow things out.
And that's why I grow journals
and grow diaries are important
because it helps me make a decision
about sometimes what I'm gonna put in next.
If I see something that is maybe super stretchy,
I'm like, not this run, maybe I'll hold off.
So those things are beneficial too.
But whoops, wrong button there.
Let's see here, we got those pine tar cushions out front.
You guys, thank you, thank you for coming
and sharing a lot of your collections with us.
It's been fun and it's a great thing to do.
I always like to talk about different cultivars
and different stories and collecting.
We've all been a little bit of a collector in life
on many different things.
And I didn't ask you that one, I guess,
in the beginning, Keystone.
Were you like a baseball card person, a stamp person?
You collect scabs?
When did you realize you were a collector?
I don't know when I realized I was a collector.
I collect European board games.
And what else do I collect?
Collect bicycles.
I collect other seeds.
I love other plants too.
Got a pretty extensive seed library.
I don't know, I'm more of a...
How do I put it?
Yeah, no, I'm just a seed collector, seed hoarder.
You hate that as well.
I'm a connoisseur, but no, I'm just a seed hoarder.
I mean, you guys were talking about it on the last episode.
I've done the math.
Long, long ago, I passed the point where
I had more seeds than I could possibly grow
in my entire life.
So it's about scheduling now and figuring out
how many runs I have in me before I depart this earth.
And at that point you realize
you've got to give some stuff away too.
So.
Yeah.
Well, cool, man.
Thank you.
Thank you for doing that and raising the awareness.
And again, thanks for coming and sharing.
It's cool seeing a lot of these things.
Cause again, there's so many different places
and breeders and strains out there
that not one person is gonna see them all or know them all.
So it's fun to see some things.
And it's cool to see a lot of the DJ short stuff
in packaging.
It's not something that I see very often.
So that's awesome.
Wrapping up, cause this is only like 6% of the...
I thought you guys were long format.
All right, all right.
I see how it really is.
You know, we got to save some for another time.
But no, we can go if you guys have a couple more
that you wanted to put out.
I was making a joke.
I'm not gonna stop it.
Okay, okay.
Yeah, no, no, no.
This was, yeah, no, this is awesome.
And again, it was fun.
I kind of got to share a little bit of,
well, actually a lot of my collection.
I don't necessarily have much of a collection,
but I have more things that I can pop at the moment.
So that's a good place to be.
I was gonna say.
I think you're selling yourself short, Chad.
You pulled out a lot of seats tonight.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I'm more than happy with them.
And they're a big part, again, thanks to the community.
A lot of some of these, you know,
Tommy, this is a contest from Tommy Tricomes on Eagle Show.
South Bay Genetics just reached out to me.
We've gone back and forth in chat many times.
Had great conversations.
I talk shit about cookies.
He grows fire cookies.
So he's like, let me get you something
with some cookies in it
so I know you'll be growing some damn cookies.
And of course I did, but I regretted it.
It was a male.
No, yeah, it's fun.
And I'm actually looking in chat too.
I don't know if you guys caught a conversation
about genomics last week between me and Sun Grown Mids.
Sun Grown Mids is another awesome breeder.
If you've ever listened to him,
you know he has the knowledge and experience
to do these things proper.
If anybody was gonna get close to an IBL and do it right,
that would be one of the people to do it.
I just mentioned that I saw Peter in chat
mentioned that we're gonna have some of that stuff
of his stuff up on Daga.love as well.
So that'll be cool.
A whole bunch of stuff coming to Daga.love.
That'll be awesome.
But yeah, please guys, if you'd like,
you know, it's hard to stop
because I know we could keep going,
but we'll save some for another time.
Anybody, place, thing that you'd like to give a shout out,
any websites that you want to let people know
they can find you on or whatever, go ahead and do so.
I guess we can maybe start with you, Dave.
Any shout outs or anything to wrap it up for the evening?
Well, first off, I just wanna say
you're gonna have to send me your address
because I wanna send this out to you.
Get you some dog shit in your life.
As far as any website you could find me on,
I'm on Instagram, Dave underscore is not here.
Just like you see it on the screen there.
You could find me on Cannabuzz,
although I don't really use that that often.
Dave's not here, same name.
Yeah, but volume three, here we go.
Right on, right on.
Sorry, I'm cheesing over here.
How about you, Keystone?
Any favorites or anything you wanna shout out?
Any websites?
Yeah, I'm on Coco for Cannabis
and the username there is Keystone Cops.
So you can follow my pro journals
and troubles and foibles and successes.
And Instagram, my IG handle is Keystone Cops.
Someone else had the other.
And that's the best way to get ahold of me.
Awesome, very cool.
And I like that website.
That is a great resource.
I go there for a variety of reasons.
Excellent, I did not know you were over there.
I need to get over there a little bit more.
I usually just read topics versus get back into the forums,
but I do have an account.
So hop back in there.
Cool, cool.
I'll have to check that out myself.
Yeah, Coco for Cannabis, really cool, really cool website.
Definitely check it out
and check out the light calculator there.
I use that a ton.
I refer people to that a ton.
They have some good information there to compare lights
and at least prepare yourself
to make a better buying decision.
So I love that place for that.
And I guess I'll just throw this out too,
because I love saving money.
AC Infinity is good gear.
I like it, I've used it.
You guys can make your own decisions,
but if you wanna save some money anyways,
if you use Westport as your coupon code
for AC Infinity on their website, you get 15% off.
Not a commercial.
I just wanna toss that coupon code out there.
Good gear, save some money, buy some more seats.
So that's that, but I'm Chad Westport.
You can find me Chad.Westport on Instagram.
Also my website, ChadWestport.com.
And you can find out more info there.
That's gonna be updated with some cool stuff soon.
Got a couple of projects going.
That'll be fun.
And for future cannabis projects, FCPO2,
tomorrow I believe there is a show.
There's Hota Herbs on FCPO2 in the evening, 6 p.m.
on the West Coast.
That's a fun show.
In the morning, we got Living Soil Conversations
with Brian and Leighton.
That's 10 a.m. on the West Coast.
And Saturday, I know I'll be back here on FCPO2
for another Perfectly Imperfect Grow Show.
Let me put up the flyer for that.
This week we've got Hemp with Gigi,
Max Geiber, Red Primo, and some guy named Garth Algar.
So that's gonna be this Saturday, 2 p.m.
on the West Coast, 5 p.m. on the East Coast.
Perfectly Imperfect Grow Show.
That's all about home grows.
So that's what we got coming up, guys.
Again, sincere thanks for joining us tonight.
My salivation is off the hook.
Good thing I have a beard, it hides it all.
Thanks for sharing all the joys and toys with us.
But I appreciate it.
And chat too, let me give a shout out to chat.
C. Miranda Family Farms, actually he's just in here.
Totally represent.
I told the story about bike seat.
I told it, but I probably got it wrong.
So anyways, I try to get it right every time
because I love that story.
But see you in chat.
But yeah, again, dude.
I'll keep talking for hours.
I'm baked and we could do this endlessly.
So I'm just gonna hit the stop button
and thanks everybody for joining.
We'll catch you next time.
