West Fork, do it.
West Fork, we are live.
And if I knew what the sound, okay, everybody on three,
we have to make our best caribou sound.
I don't know what they sound like,
but we're gonna try it.
So one, two, three.
Ah.
Ah.
And we are live.
Hey everybody, thank you for joining us.
What's cracking, Mr. West Fork?
Do I really have, did we not just talk about
this freaking YouTube in the background
and only I can hear it?
I just did it again, guys.
Excellent, hey, if anything, you are consistent, bro.
Yeah.
Hey, there's something to be said for consistency.
And we're back on our first and third Thursdays,
so Saturdays.
So we are consistent with that one.
And we, you guys, we're already off to a great start.
I hope you're laughing and smiling already,
because that is gonna be the theme of the day.
We got some really fun people and cool people with us
that I enjoy hanging out with.
I met you guys all over at the Caribou Heart TV channel.
So let's go around the horn and say hello.
We're gonna start with you though, caribou.
How you doing today, brother?
Oh man, I'm doing great, I'm doing great.
My blue jays, we'll just get that out of the way.
They're up right now.
There is a hope in hell we might make the playoffs.
You know, I got some beautiful plans right behind me.
We'll get to show you those in a little bit.
Maybe a little bit of stuff that's in early bloom.
Nothing special to look at,
but it's fun to talk about, is it not?
It's a lot of fun.
So, man, it's gonna be a great show
hanging with some homies, girl homies.
Yeah, yeah.
Life is good, life is good.
How are you doing?
Hell yeah, doing awesome.
I don't really care too much about the Seattle Mariners,
but I guess there's like three games left
and if we win them all or something,
then we're in the playoffs.
And if we don't, then we're not.
But I've lived in Seattle for over 20 years
and we're not gonna win, guys.
So I don't need to concern myself.
I'm focused on the hockey team.
Well, I'll take your non-caring there
because your Mariners losing is one of the things
that my team depends on.
Well, hey, you can pretty much count on it then.
So good on you.
All right, thanks for your support, brother.
I love it, I love it.
I can tell already.
And below me, I don't know where you're at
on the YouTube screen, but below me, I got Fluffikens.
How you doing, buddy?
Oh man, I'm just fucking hanging out.
I'm excited to be here, talk with you.
You're always one of my favorite people.
I think we had a lot in common, so go way back.
And I mean, you got the love for Jankos, brother.
So, shit.
All about that old school fun.
No, we had a Janko signing earlier
and anybody in chat who can tell me what Janko is,
we might have you DM me and I might send you something.
So yeah, chat, what is Janko?
So we'll start with that one.
Oh, come on.
Randomness.
This is a room full of stoners.
You think that they don't know what Janko is?
We're only hoping that there's no old people signed on yet
is what it really is.
Aw, there we go.
We got, let's see, let me put this up there.
Boom, Kazunarm, best teams ever.
That's a way to do it.
Yes, sir.
Hit me up on Instagram.
I am Chad.Westport.
Hit me up on Instagram and we'll work out
something fun and funky for you.
But yeah, I'm actually surprised at the amount of people
that are getting this right.
Hey, who knows?
Jankos, Jankos.
They're making a comeback, man, and it's starting here.
Yeah, we're bringing it back.
We're bringing it.
Yep.
And man, over to my right,
we got some lovely plants in the natural daylight.
And front and center, Indica Bee, how you doing, man?
Good, man.
Good, good.
How about you, brother?
Excellent, excellent.
How is it out there?
Is it a warm or chilly day?
It looks sunny.
It's 71 inside here.
It's mid-60s outside, give or take.
Okay, not really bad at all.
No, not bad at all.
And humidity, about 60% finally.
I've been battling humidity like a mofo, man,
the last few weeks.
But yeah, I'm pumped to be here, man,
and I'm pumped to finally kick it with Fluff and Caribou.
It's been a while.
We know I've been busy as hell.
But yeah, man, I'm fucking pumped.
And looking forward to it, yeah.
So looking forward to take you guys around the garden.
Not the best year, man.
Like I said, we've been fighting the high humidity,
bud rot, some PM, but pushing through it.
And yeah, so cheers, everyone.
That's all part of growing outdoors.
You have to deal with those things.
And that's one thing that a grower like me,
who's indoor, who loves the control,
and if some parameter is out of whack,
well, I can get a tool to fix that.
But outdoors, it's definitely a lot trickier,
and you are at the mercy of nature.
Are you having kind of a typical year
where you're at right now,
as far as when the frost or the cold or the rain comes?
Because it's hit here.
Like we're officially in the cold rainy season now.
Yeah, we're starting to get...
So this year from last year,
it's getting a lot colder a lot quicker.
I noticed that.
And this year, we're just battling the rain
and high humidity.
We haven't had that in a couple of years out here.
So it's been keeping us on our feet.
I'll say that for the most.
It's been rough, but easier,
because this is the first year
we're actually in something enclosed, a hoop house.
All the other years we've been growing here,
we've been just right here in the plain open.
But it's besides humidity,
blood rot, PM that we're fighting,
this has been by far easiest year, pest wise,
I will say being pretty much enclosed.
That's good.
So you did notice a difference then
going into the hoop house
versus just open plants with the pest pressure?
Absolutely, yes, absolutely.
And I only found, believe it or not,
I got them so far before they could land anywhere,
as far as I know,
but I just two moths snuck in here
and that was it this year.
So we did pretty well sealing it off
for being a hoop house, I guess you could say.
But yeah, the pest pressure this year was far the best.
We did your normal weekly IPM no matter what,
but just from scoping the plants every day
and going through them by far,
this has been the best year, pest wise, we'll say.
Two moths, that's great.
Like I wish I could say that,
when I did my outdoor, I saw two moths,
like I could count it on my hand.
That man's doing something right, right there.
So you've tried the outdoor as well too then?
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I've played around in the outdoor a little bit.
Cool.
That used to kind of be my thing.
I mean, my roots, I kind of come as,
I was just like a veggie gardener
and I stuck my plants in here and there when I could.
Used to do it out in the forest.
You do your gorilla grows way back in the day.
But I kind of gave all that up for a long time
and when I came back to it,
I went back into the indoor right now,
but I throw a little bit out when I can.
Cool.
How about you, Caribou?
Have you given the outdoor a shot?
Last summer, fall, it would have been,
we had a couple of hush plant and OG Kush Oak
in the back that did really well.
This year, due to change in living circumstances,
our backyard is literally about maybe 20 feet by 30 feet
with just anybody can see on another side.
So it was like, I just did it out.
I went to the farmer's market
and I got some haz cap plants.
They're just like a honeysuckle berry
that can be found on growing out in the area.
I was like, oh, it's the next best thing to cannabis, right?
Gotta do something to make the heart feel good.
Totally.
Peppers.
Peppers is the next trend.
Peppers is where the cannabis growers are going.
Doink.
I thought it's where a lot of the cannabis growers
came from.
I mean, I was all about the fucking reapers
and all that stuff.
When those things were going for like $100 a pack,
and I had friends breeding out peppers and things,
just exactly like this community.
So we had friends breeding them out
and growing them out.
That's where a lot of my stuff comes from.
Well, it's funny you say that
because traditionally a lot of the people
who were into the indoor and the home gardening,
they were looking for a crop
that was gonna give them the most return.
And for the longest time, that was cannabis.
But Carolina reapers, that's awesome, man.
I'd love to get my hands on that.
But when things started shifting,
the prices are a lot lower.
I, like probably a lot of other people,
looked at different crops.
I'm like, what can I grow in a certain amount of space
and maximize it?
Ginseng is a great one.
You get a ton of money for ginseng,
but it takes a long time.
So peppers is another one though.
If you have them, if you do them right
and they're the specialty, it's a special start.
Yeah, especially your reapers,
like your jalapenos, stuff like that.
You get a ton of those peppers per plant.
So square footage wise, just like you said, man,
it's all about fucking getting as much as you can
out of that fucking tent.
So the reapers, those small peppers,
they packed in fucking tons of fruit.
That's the way to go.
So I totally understand that.
And when you thought about it, you said ginseng.
I thought about it at one point, it was a micro greens.
I mean, son of a biscuit,
how easy would it be to put a bed down
and just put a T5 above it
and just harvest micro greens right and left, man?
Just as easy as could be.
And go vertical with it.
One of my professors for the sustainable ag program,
that was his thing.
He started a micro greens business
in this trailer that he had.
And yeah, he would just sell it to a local restaurant.
It's great, takes about three weeks to grow.
Three weeks isn't enough
to really get pest pressure or diseases.
Just cut, drop.
Yeah, if you find the,
if you are in an area where restaurants,
local restaurants can support it,
micro greens are awesome.
That's a good one.
Yeah, if you can make that relationship,
that's a great route to go.
Yep.
So that makes me wonder, Indica,
are you growing anything else in your hoop house?
Do you have any like trap plants or veggie plants?
Not this year.
We did everything on the outsides of like we have.
We did some peppers, we did tomatoes.
And I believe squash it was again this year.
And then there's a raspberry tree
kind of like in the back over there as well that we have.
That's been here for 20, 30 years, I wanna say.
So, but yeah, that's all we did.
Nothing inside the hoop house.
We just maxed it out with cannabis pretty much this year.
So.
Smart, smart man.
And that, you know, that does make sense.
You know, now that you mentioned it,
you have a lot of the things on the outside
and hey, if there were pests that were attracted to those,
yeah, I'd rather have them on the outside
than something trying to get inside to find it.
Yeah, and we did marigold rounds all around too.
I always use those for keep, you know,
certain pests away or certain pests
attracted to those as well, you know.
So have you ever done anything like the mints
or rosemary in those pots just to use that
kind of the same way as marigold?
You know, it's that natural pest deterrent.
So have you used any of that?
Not in the pots inside, but there is natural mint
that's been planted, you know what I mean, over there.
That just grows, there's like cilantro.
There's a bunch of stuff.
So this is a second property from my house
so that we have, you know, a lot of,
a lot of different shit over here.
I mean, I'll take you guys out after
and I'll show you kind of around too.
There's all different sorts of stuff, you know,
and what have you, but yeah.
That's awesome.
That's awesome.
And I know you do a little bit of gardening as well though.
Right, Caribou?
Yeah, I enjoy a big garden.
Back at the last place I was living,
we had a nice 23 by 64 foot garden
that we'd fenced off and just,
and you know what, most of the,
like it sounds impressive.
Most of the stuff we did there was kind of failures.
You're trial and error, right?
You get a piece of property to play with.
We did that and you know, we found like raised beds works,
but stuff like now, just for indoor fun,
we've got a couple of spaghetti squash
that we're trying to do and just, you know,
like we grow cannabis as of what we do,
medicine, rec, whatever your purposes is,
but there's so many other plants out there.
And like, so we're growing these squash.
So we got kids that live in the house also, right?
They have nothing to do with the cannabis,
but there's no reason you can't grow, say spaghetti squash
and teach your kids how to grow a plant.
It's useful knowledge, right?
So we're trying a few different things around here.
I've got some living soil that I made up a while ago.
We've brought squash to go on in there.
And then I just mentioned I germinated
four Carolina reapers, actually,
I think like within an hour before the show started
and we're going to try doing those in a hydroponic solution.
I was thinking of maybe trying one or two in a cocoa
just because I got a bag of cocoa to play around with
and maybe a couple in the living soil
and just side by side, look at me, see what we got.
We got an old cloning bucky.
You don't use throw one in there too.
It's kind of fun to do them in one of those.
Okay.
I'll keep that in mind.
And yeah, it's just to like,
and the other one is succulents.
We've gotten into succulents.
So I've got a pickle plant in there
that I just, I've absolutely come to love, right?
You see these little insignificant plants
and then you see the way they just like will swell off
or start like exploding.
I had an aloe that we threw in a tent
and didn't like it at first.
It turned all kind of brownie, dark green
and just wasn't happy.
Took it out, got scared.
But like that pickle plant I was just talking about,
right, it was just like, wow,
you could tell this thing was happy.
And then like talking about a couple of people
within our crew, they take pride in growing aloes.
Fluff's got one to be very proud of, right?
So you see that, I was kind of talking to guys
about the one that didn't like it in the tent at first.
Fluff was just like, oh no, that thing was acclimatizing.
Just put, throw it back in there,
but just give it time if it starts to turn on you.
And sure enough, I've got that aloe back in there
and that's loving it.
There's not enough room in this living space period.
It's real hard not to smile
when he talks about his pickle plant.
My stoner brain is like trying to picture
like a pickle plant.
I'm like, what, they really grow pickle?
It's a cucumber, dude, that gets pickled,
but stoner brain, I'm picturing a pickle on a vine.
I'm like a pickle plant.
Oh, I mean, to be fair,
I mean, it kind of looks like a little gherkin
on a fucking stem, man.
So that's where it gets its name from.
And it's funny he says that,
because me and my wife been,
well, my wife was working on her succulents
and I was annoying her the whole time,
as we're trying to do some work and stuff.
But yeah, Ms. Fluff up there just killing it
with the succulents, man.
We love to play with our plants in this house.
You know, it's good.
It's good practice.
It's an addictive hobby.
You know, cannabis is the gateway drug to gardening.
Oh, let's see.
Let's see what Caribou's brought out for us here.
Right, so there it is.
Oh yeah, yeah.
We see it's got all these little things on it.
They got these soft spine.
Not sure how well they show up,
but they're, you know, they don't prickle or anything.
And to get transplanted desperately,
I just haven't got around to it,
but you just, before we put it in the tent,
it was sitting outside on it.
Well, not outside, but like in a different room
on a counter getting just sunlight
and not very direct sunlight at that.
And it was starting to lose the little pickles and stuff
or whatever falling off.
And like I said, we threw it in that first tent
and it just, it picked up.
It was happy.
And so I could see like,
I could see myself getting,
uh, building a long, like a narrow trough type bed
and just having it on the,
raised up inside a tent like that
and just having a succulent garden
because that's this nerdy type stuff that is awesome.
Cool. Let's see, to be fair, correct.
Not all pickling is of cucumbers.
All right.
I'm in another spot.
That is true.
There's weird people out there
who do like the pickled eggs in like,
people pickle all kinds of things.
Like pickled asparagus, they've had.
Pickled, pickled everything, dude.
I think, wasn't that like one of the,
that was like the pre-sourdough trend before COVID.
It's like, what can I pickle?
And people would like pickle a Twinkie.
Don't they say like, fuck,
you really should pickle more stuff
because it's actually like pretty good
for our fricking gut biome?
The vinegar?
Yeah.
Yeah. The acidity.
I mean, I'd believe it, man.
I remember being a kid and like going into the root cellar
at my grandma's farm.
They had a cattle ranch and all kinds of livestock.
And that shit was lined with like enough jars
for Armageddon, like for the whole town.
Well, as you can see this here,
yeah, I have basically what is a root cellar in here.
And that's actually my drying area,
which keeps everything pretty fricking stable.
Unfortunately, the humidity is always just a little bit low
and the temperature is just a hair hot,
but it's steady all year long.
So I get a very consistent dry, you know,
and it's just a matter of figuring that out
without getting too much into it, you know?
Yeah. Let's see here.
Pickled green tomatoes.
Yeah.
You got pickled eggplants.
Does this smiley, smiley hit the one I was thinking of.
Pickled pig's feet.
That's the one that always comes to mind
when people are like, pickled.
I think you can get that at a bar by me.
Oh, I bet you can.
That's a total bar food.
Total bar food.
So real quick, like the root cellar,
the whole kind of principle behind that
is you're below ground and below ground,
the soil kind of helps keep everything
a constant temperature.
So you're not seeing the fluctuations
in the summer, in the winter.
It's usually what, around like 55, 60 degrees down there?
Usually mine stays right at like 63 degrees actually.
So it's just, you know, that's where mine is.
Mine's not as low as it should be.
It's not a perfect root cellar, but it's made often.
You know, it works in its way.
It's just a hair high.
So yeah, it'd be nice if it was down like another two foot,
you know, and then it'd be perfect.
Yeah. It'd probably sit right there
at about like 58, 60 degrees.
Sorry, I didn't mean to cover your face there.
It's all new.
That's okay.
Nobody want to look at this.
It's quite all right.
I almost advertised you as the 1990s Tank Abbott.
So we didn't.
Hey, you know, and it's funny.
I used to fight too.
So, I mean, I've got the scars and shit.
He was actually one that I would be terrified to fight.
That man, I think he wouldn't stop until he killed you.
But man, I've heard stories.
He's one, I used to hang out a little bit
with people kind of in those circles
and knew some people here and there.
And he's one I always wanted to hang out with.
Cause I've heard that dude talk about some drinking stories
and man, I bet he's a fucking riot.
Yeah. He's a danger.
I don't know what he's up to or where he's at these days,
but damn.
Yeah. The coincidence is striking.
But back to kind of caribou you were talking about,
you were going to do some of those peppers
and you know, the hydroponics,
you were going to do some in cocoa.
I absolutely love the A and B's type of mentality,
but let's kind of go around the horn here.
And what kind of medium are you working with now?
And how do you kind of get those fed caribou?
Okay. Well, so right now everything is I'm doing
is kind of starting over from fresh.
I had a change of living circumstances,
basically just getting a divorce.
I don't need to go into detail,
but so I had to,
what I changed went into a new living situation
and starting everything over.
So I went out and made myself a batch of my own living soil
where like I literally went out in the forest
and like, you know, like those down red rotted trees
that are like under all the moss and stuff.
I harvested a bunch of that.
And went into like the creek bed
and pulled up a bunch of silt and mix that in there
and through some sea kelp and other stuff
that I had to go out and buy.
Crab, oyster, shell meal, and all this other stuff.
So to say like getting them big and fat right now,
we're still in the watch, wait and see.
But I went through my,
all that soil I made faster than I thought it would be.
Cause you know how it is when you start popping seeds,
it's like you start off,
just like these five seeds right here
and this is gonna be it.
And then two weeks later you kind of get the itch
and then before you know it,
you had like all that soil that you had prepared
where you thought it was gonna get you through
the next six months is suddenly gone.
And then I started seeing deficiencies
pretty soon after that.
So I had to go to a line of nutrients
that I used to use before I tried becoming
one of the organic savior types.
It's a high output garden by Innovating Plant Products,
they're a Canadian company.
And this to me, they were the company where like,
when I first started growing,
I went into the local feed store and I was just like,
hey, I'm growing pot, can you tell me anything?
Cause I like at this point, I just,
I didn't even know that you had to flip them
to a 12 cycle, that's how great that was.
And they gave me this stuff called plant prod.
And I tried that for a year.
And for like the first year there,
I was like the best yield I could get
was like maybe an ounce and a quarter.
And I was like, I should be doing better than this
after a year of growing, there's no real improvement.
Then I went into the local growth store
and was like, okay, this is what I'm doing,
I'm not happy, can you recommend anything?
And so the pink bottle stuff I have here of the bloom,
and this was, she gave me this.
And like almost immediately my plants perked up,
it was a chem dog, which I've told the story of this one.
It was like, well, this is the first plant.
And due to the hydro nukes line there,
that really showed me that, oh wow,
I can actually kind of grow successfully, right?
It had that, the trichomes, the stickiness,
it had that real fuel stank.
And it was like that first plant,
I went from an ounce and a quarter-ish was my best yield
to I had about four and a half ounces off that.
And you're just like, when you go from that to that,
you're just like, oh, you get this, your plate's off.
And nothing else really changed, did it?
It was pretty much just strictly the nutrients?
There was a light change in there too,
but like it was early enough in the,
late enough in the bloom, sorry,
that I think it was like the nutrients
were showing you there.
And then the light, if anything, just the last,
I think it was three weeks,
probably just helped kick it into really overdrive.
But it was just like, yeah.
So now being nervous, like I said,
I'm already seeing deficiencies in my living soil.
I'm flowering stuff out in two gallon pots,
partly just a field of greenish kind of,
looking for that just to have a full canopy.
And like I said, if I see deficiencies, it scares me.
Last Christmas-ish around there,
I had a really wicked cow mag deficiency
just fly through my room.
And it was like a recycling living soil
and not reamending properly.
And it didn't matter what stage of growth it was in.
It was, if it was from that batch of soil.
So like I said, it's this like,
it was just so horrid.
Like within a couple of days,
the leaves were scabbed, falling off and dying.
You didn't have any real typical time to see it coming,
go, what the heck is this?
Figure it out and start acting.
It was just seemed so fast.
And that scares me.
I don't wanna pay for my medicine anymore.
My girlfriend and I, we consume a lot of cannabis.
And so that gets expensive.
So out of nervousness and precaution,
I'm going back to something I know.
Yeah, that absolutely makes sense.
You gotta get results.
That's one thing with a lot of traditional farmers
when people are like,
why aren't you switching to this organic?
They're like, we like the idea.
We hear what you're saying,
but I can't afford a season of down production.
And sometimes when you're making your own medicine,
we'll find a way to do it.
We may sneak it back in,
but I've always been concerned too about mixing,
making my own mixes and running into those type
of deficiencies or something that I didn't realize
would counteract something else.
We're kind of lucky today though.
Now there's a lot of recipes online that you can follow.
There's even stuff you can buy pre-mixed in the bag.
So that does help.
But yeah, that was, it's funny you mentioned that
because that was one of the things that held me back
from going that route initially.
Yeah.
So I think some kind of mixture of synganix
is ultimately what I'll be doing for at least a bit.
But I think I'm only gonna try and reserve a corner in there
where I'll have a little sip pot.
That'll be my living soil project where,
because like organics is what makes my heart feel good.
There's the chemist and the nerd in me that wants to play
with all the bright, colorful bottles and stuff.
So like, you know, look for an excuse to bring that in
and turn it.
So maybe that's the project part, right?
Where you have a hydro DWC bucket,
just see what we can do or whatever it can be.
But it's, yeah, but until I can,
cause I've always been the guy where I'll pull off
a really good crop with your organics,
but I'll fail to reamend it properly.
And I might not have a drastic failure
like the cow mag I was just talking about,
but the result is clearly lacking.
And you know, you're taking clones off of clones.
And it's just, something's not there.
So we'll, it's a work in progress.
That's the word I'm looking for.
Yeah. And you know, good point,
little nugget that you dropped there.
It's handy when you're working with the same strain
time after time, because you're familiar with it.
You know what it should do in comparable conditions.
And then, yeah, you're really able to isolate
what the feed is or isn't doing for you.
So that was a good point.
You know, we're starting everything new.
Is all our, every, all my plants are fresh from beans.
So, you know, all my genetics kind of went away.
Actually, there is a gorilla glue number four cut.
Nice.
I never got, I never got to flower it out.
That's like the one lasting thing.
Cause like all my stuff went to my parents' place
in Prince George, four hours away.
And just, here you go.
Whatever happens, happens.
Had a couple breeding projects,
kind of work out, not work out and stuff like that.
And anyways, I got the gorilla glue four cuts.
So that's, I guess I told a bit of a lie.
But it was looking like I was going to be able to
save some of those genetics, bring them back.
You know, when you have those cuts,
they, well, I've had it for years.
Yeah. Well, the GGV4 would be one
that I would be happy to keep.
So that's good.
Good. You got that one.
Hold onto that one forever.
How about yourself, Indica?
You're out there in the ground,
in the hoop house or in your pots.
What did you do there?
Did you just dig a hole?
Did you re-amend?
So yeah, we're just in pots.
I dig underneath though, before.
So where I put the pots or where I set them,
I do dig underneath that.
So the roots can go down into the ground
if they do make it through the pots.
But yeah, I've always just used pots out here.
Never gone in the ground out here.
Okay. Have you, you know, looked at the soil
as far as like, oh, it's, you know,
it's predominantly clay or it's, you know, a loam?
So here, yeah, it's pretty, underneath this,
it's pretty, I'd say I've never had it tested,
but it's pretty well-mended and rich.
Before I started growing cannabis here,
my mom was primarily her garden.
So she's been gardening here, shit, 10, 15 years now
at this property that we have.
So it's, I've never, you know,
I've never gave it any idea or thought,
you know what I mean?
I think I would like to, you know what I mean,
next season if we're still here, but yeah.
Yeah, you know, healthy soil is great
when you keep building it over time.
Are you using anything as like kind of a cover crop
or do you put straw down when it's not being planted
or anything to protect it?
Do you keep the house up?
No, no.
So I also, here we just, I just put a,
like the black landscape and fabric down over
what was here for soil after we leveled it out.
And that was it, you know?
So I'm sure it's pretty well, you know what I mean?
If we're gonna be here next year,
I'm not sure we were getting ready to move out of state,
but I might, if we're gonna be here for the season,
those holes that I dig for the pots,
I might try amending it
and then going right in the ground next year
and see what happens.
That'd be cool.
I'd probably try to do a little bit of each there
because going back to what we were just saying,
it's so hard to like hedge your bets
on something new or different.
Absolutely, man.
I know, I agree.
I do wish the lemon Jeffery got this year out here, man.
I wish I would have put that A in a bigger pot
or in the ground because it's just,
after I take you around, you can see the yellowing on it.
I mean, she's just, she's huge.
I didn't expect her to get this big.
I'm like, holy shit, you know?
Is that the Irie genetic?
Yeah, Irie genetic.
Yeah, I should have known it was a clone that I've had.
I've been growing now that from a well over a year now,
say, give or take.
And this is the second year we've grown it outdoors,
you know, but I should have known,
but I didn't think, you know,
it was gonna get this big.
Yeah, I had a lemon sunrise from Irie genetics,
which is probably similar lineage there,
given the names, but yeah, indoors,
it would do that thing just got big.
And I'm like, if I ever grow outdoors,
this is the one I'm gonna wanna grow outdoors.
So let's see here.
Let me go back here.
Oh, geez, let me guess, the one on the right?
Yes, so that's the one.
Wow, yeah, well, dude, I loved the smoke from it.
Like I was bummed when my jar was empty.
I'll tell you that much.
Yeah, I'm pretty bummed too,
because I've been out of it now,
I'd say probably a good month now.
We just, me and Mrs. B finished up
what we had from the indoor harvest.
So I'm hoping, I don't know,
this, it flowered pretty late this year too,
which it was a little, last year,
St. Fino, it was a lot earlier.
So I'm gonna, if I had to guess,
this will go probably shit until November.
Wow, wow.
So we'll see if it makes it, I'm hoping.
Yeah, well, you got the hoop house.
So that's, I mean, that's a huge advantage right there.
I'm like, back of my mind, there's no way it wouldn't.
Right, he's got cover, he's got everything he needs.
All you gotta do is buy a salamander
and we can get through an extra month.
And hell, it might even be a little extra CO2 turbocharge
for it at the end.
Yeah, hell yeah.
I don't think that's a good idea.
Actually, it'd probably make the whole damn thing
taste like kerosene.
Real quick, let's go through,
since we're in here right now,
let's go through the garden, Indica.
What do you got?
Tell us a little bit about your setup and what you do.
Yeah, absolutely, man.
So here it's 10 and a half, if I remember correctly,
10 and a half wide by 22 and a half feet long hoop house,
just PVC, six mil clear.
And then we got 15 gallon pots.
We went with, we always last three years out here,
we've been using the Costa Maine
Platinum Growers Series mix.
So, and yeah, that's not much,
much equipment just besides fans in here this year.
That was it because of wood prices.
I didn't, when we built it this year,
it's when we were pricing for like, so it's sky high.
So it was almost double than what I budgeted.
You know, I was like, geez.
So yeah, we just got fans this year
and that's pretty much it for, you know,
everything's pressure treated wood, door,
got the water coming in where it's coming off
down by the garage.
I got a filter over there, so.
So perfect, you're not lugging buckets of water
like for hours a day.
No, thank God we, me and my amazing wife, Mrs. Beef,
she's been doing this a couple of years.
She was helped me year after year down by the garage
where we did it, where the water is.
And we had the filter.
We used to lug five gallon buckets up,
back and forth, back and forth, back and forth.
So yeah, it was, that was nice this year.
And what kind of strains do you have?
Are you doing some monocropping
or are you running a few different things?
Yeah, so this year we'll start here then.
Yeah, this year we got Mrs. Bee took all these clones here.
This is a Orange Gasm here.
And then another Orange Gasm here by Irie Genetics.
First year ever running an outdoors.
And then here, this is the Cuvée, sub-cool TGA.
I got this cut, shout out to Spartan Grown out in Michigan
when I met him and in Luzerne.
I got a cut from him and I was blessed
that made it all the way home.
And then we took a bunch of cuts off of it
that we have at home.
They're all rooted.
So we just decided to put this out
and see what happens, you know?
So, and then we got another Orange Gasm right here.
And then this one right here is the Sour,
I believe this is, isn't this the Sour?
No, this is the OKC by Ethos.
Okay, she got a lot of color comparatively.
So as you can see, we've been unfortunately chopping
because of bud rot, but this will be coming down soon.
Yeah, that's where those two caterpillars landed.
They said, what is this color?
It's different.
And then this is Mrs. B's Orange Gasm.
This is, this plant's probably,
almost a year old, I would say.
We've been taking cuts off of it.
Okay, you decided to finally flower her out?
Yeah, finally just flower her out.
We put her in a 30 gallon pot.
We had, that one I believe was Roots Organics
that we went with with Matt.
Okay.
So, this is the biggest plant I've ever grown, will say.
You know, like I usually like to keep them nice
and shout, store it like the rest of them are in the garden.
I mean, just the bud rot we've been fighting on,
this is just, it's been a pain,
a real pain in the ass being this big.
Yeah, and you were talking about humidity earlier as well.
How do you, do you have any ventilation running out
or do you just kind of lift the sides?
How are you controlling?
Yeah, you can lift the backside.
We've been doing that.
And then just this back wall's open.
We have it fully screened though.
And then just up there, we have a screen and that's it.
So, we've just been using the box fans.
Sometimes they're in the back pulling out
on the real bad days.
And that's really about it, you know?
Yeah, it's nice and clean in there,
which definitely helps you on the IPM front.
Yes, thank you, thank you.
And yeah, so here we have,
this is the Sour Bubba by Katsu Seeds.
Okay.
Katsu Bluebirds, yep, okay, man.
She's looking good.
And you said these are about six weeks along,
seven weeks along?
Yeah, so I got my calendar in the garage.
I keep everything recorded, write it down every season.
I got a whole box full of shit, but I'm old school, man.
You know, with it, I guess you could say,
I wanna say, yeah, I believe Tuesday,
we're gonna be hitting week seven of flower
on most of these, except for this Lemon Jeffrey
because it just took so damn long.
I wanna say on the Lemon Jeffrey,
we're like two and a half, three weeks,
if I had to guess it was.
Here is a different pheno of the OKC.
So both OKCs were from seed.
This one's just super, super frosty.
Nice, yeah, you can see,
you can see like the Diamond Taco there.
Yes, yeah, but yeah, she, you know,
unfortunately on the other side too,
we've just been fighting Bud Rot on some of this,
but this, you know, so far,
the rest of it seems to be okay, so, but yeah.
And the Bud Rot kind of seems to be hitting everything,
or, well, I should say it's not just picking on one.
Correct.
Correct?
No, no, it's not.
So far this one, we haven't had any Bud Rot.
This is Candy Store by Ethos.
This is my second year running this outdoors.
So we've ran this outdoors twice.
Last year was in the wide open out here
and it did phenomenal, you know,
Bud Rot wise, PM, any of those things, you know.
Nice, yeah, it's another thing you have to consider
when growing outdoors is you really do have to find
hardy strains for your environment.
Absolutely.
We, you know, the last couple of years we've just been,
so everything pretty much out here besides,
like I said, the Lemon Jeffrey, the Candy Store,
everything else, we've, this is all new this year
for us running it outdoors.
So, you know, just trying to see what works out here
and keeping log of it.
And, you know, this is kind of, you know,
like we like to have fun, I guess, you know,
we take the indoors a little bit more serious,
you know what I mean?
Then I guess you could say outdoor wise, you know, but yeah.
Well, you know, it's an additional skillset too.
Like if I were to say which one is easier,
I'm gonna say indoors,
just because you can't have all the control.
So yeah, you have to be on top of your game.
You have to learn a lot more to do outdoors,
to do it right and to not have a broken heart
at the end of the year.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, I agree, man.
You know, I've been growing outdoors
since I was a shit 14 years old, 13, 14,
when I first learned the girl of days, you know,
from my next door neighbor.
And then, you know, I went on, did other things in life
and I came back to it probably about seven years ago
outdoors and I absolutely love it, man.
You know, I can't wait till we make the move,
me and my wife and just be able to have, you know,
property and really be able to do a lot of different stuff
outdoors, you know?
Yeah, absolutely, man.
That is the dream.
That is the dream.
Hey, Fluff, I wanted to get to you here real quick.
We were asking, you know, we're going around the horn
kind of talking about mediums and soils and feeding
and you know, what everybody is doing here.
How about yourself?
Are you doing with what you started with
or have you kind of changed over the course of your growing?
I am, yeah, mine has been an evolution of how
to best suit my needs.
And trying to kind of mimic outdoors
as much as I possibly could was kind of the route for me
because just the route of water retention
and the care, you know, the amount of care that I need
to personally give to the plant every day
in order for it to thrive,
I needed something that kind of managed itself.
You know, once I did all the forward work
and I've got that soil built and I've got that system,
you know, happy and I've got my environment ready to go,
then, you know, that system really does,
it just needs me to throw water on it.
And I never did automate.
So mine was kind of like,
can I get away with watering it once a week?
You know, no matter what, you know,
whether it's in heavy flower and I'm trying to, you know,
push it hard as hell or whether it's just, you know,
a seedling, you know what I mean?
Obviously we can do it with seedling,
but sometimes it gets real hard to keep, you know,
that much water, you know, for your flowering plants
when you can't be there to take care of it.
So that's kind of why my direction went into that.
Well, that's awesome.
And that's such a,
it's such a very important point that a lot of new growers
need to probably consider,
but they don't know because they don't know.
But yeah, what kind of time commitment
can you give to this plant?
Everybody has a different lifestyle.
Everybody has different time constraints.
And if you, you know,
if you were wanting to water once a week
and you chose cocoa, that's not a good choice.
No, no.
It's not gonna work out so good.
No, no.
I remember the first year we did outdoors out here,
I didn't, you know, it was like,
I'm just gonna try it, you know what I mean?
What have you, it's a long story to it,
but why we got,
why I got back into growing just illnesses
and things like that, you know,
so I really rely on this as medication.
And I think that was shit.
I had like a Mars hydro inside.
I started them and it was the first year for my wife,
you know, too, as well.
Her time ever growing in her life
or even being around cannabis and et cetera.
I went with fucking three gallon pots out here, man.
And I was like, I think,
well, we were out here four or five,
six times a day watering those, you know what I mean?
And, you know, I just, you know,
I was so, so far away from growing for so long.
And when I came back to it, you know,
you kind of forgot, you know,
I was always old school from the five gallon buckets,
you know, gorilla days,
loving them through the woods and shit,
the Home Depot buckets and what have you.
But yeah, I definitely, excuse me.
I made that mistake.
I can say that, you know, so.
Right, yeah.
That's, again, you don't know it until you know it,
but that's an important consideration for new growers.
So if you're out there or even thinking of switching to,
again, just be realistic.
How much time can you give it?
Yeah, I mean, you know,
there was a good point for, you know,
two, three years where I was basically home on the weekends
and that was it.
And, you know, when you have to take care of your garden
that way, you know, I can top dress
and I can water once a week and I can, you know,
hurry up, do my defoliation, do all that.
And then come back, you know, shut the door,
come back in a week and everything is gonna be just fine.
And I need to continue on, you know, growing that way.
It's always like a chase, but, you know,
I'd rather run that race and, you know,
chase that son of a bitch all day and get, you know,
the meds that work for me rather than, you know,
have to be forced to go out and buy stuff that,
you know, is subpar, so.
That's a huge reason why a lot of us do what we're doing,
myself included, you know?
You know what goes into it.
You know what you're putting into your body.
That's why a lot of people like organic foods,
fruits and vegetables, you know?
You shit in, shit out, pretty much.
And then on top of it, I have a tendency to just kind of,
just not be very good with money sometimes.
So, you know, my wife kind of set ground rules and said,
hey, this needs to be done.
You can do this, but it's not gonna break my bank.
I said, okay, I can do that.
So that's, you know, that's another reason I do everything.
I try to harvest and self-sustain everything possible
for my garden.
Like I love this time of year
because the leaves are falling and shit,
and I'm gonna get ready to make leaf mold, you know,
that's gonna, you know, for my garden, you know,
that's gonna last me through the next year,
and it's gonna go in and amend soils of mine
and feed my worms and, you know, things like that.
I love foraging to make my garden work
and do it just as much on the cheap as possible.
It's so awesome that a lot of the solutions are around us.
You know, I just wonder how to use them.
Yeah, you had that great guest.
You know, they were talking about the Jadon.
Yeah, Jadon.
Jadon, Jadon.
I always mess that up, yeah.
And I always laugh
because, you know, I played around with it a little bit,
and, you know, I think I mentioned it
when you were on the other day, right?
You don't do that in your basement.
It's not a thing you wanna do,
but it is amazing fertilizer, man.
And you let it sit there.
You can make it out of grass clippings.
I mean, it's so easy, you know?
It's all right there.
That is pretty amazing.
So what are you doing, excuse me,
to kind of help keep that moisture?
Like what size of pots are you in
or how are you managing the water once a week?
Because I'm sure there's a lot of people
would love kind of a system like that.
Really big pots.
Really big pots is part of it.
And I mean, there's also a huge,
because I've been experimenting.
I've been very bad about getting diversity in my stash,
I will say, you know.
Grow one big ass plant is kind of how I always did it.
Really fucking big, get my yields, get my quality.
But, you know, really I was only working with one plant.
So I'm very much a big pot guy.
In the corner of my tent,
I have a 50 gallon pot that is my favorite thing
to just put one plant in,
set it in the middle of the tent and watch it go to town.
Wow.
I have a two by four grassroots bed that is just,
I mean, it's like Instagram's friend, man.
Everything you put in,
it just comes out looking like it wants to be a model.
It's great.
I really do think that, you know,
the biggest part of my success is, you know,
I use those big pots and I throw worms and everything, man.
You know, there's a lot, you've seen,
I'm sure if you've played with castings,
you know how much, you know, water, moisture retention,
you know, like castings has.
So to have them, you know, cruising through, you know,
they've got their biofilm that comes off in there.
All that helps add to, you know, moisture retention in that.
And I use, you know, heavy, you know, nitrogen fixing
and just other random cover crops to help keep my soil
from not, you know, just shooting it right out,
you know, into the atmosphere, you know?
Right.
And that provides so many other things, you know,
home for the bugs and everything else.
So you're using beneficial insects then,
is that part of your IPM or?
Beneficials and then just detritivores and everything else,
you know, the life that works in the soil, beneficials.
Yeah.
I throw everything in my garden, man.
It's all there.
Like I said, I really tried to replicate
as much as outside as possible.
So, yeah.
That sounds.
You know, if there's some spider mites there, you know,
they might end up staying there,
but there's gonna be other mites that are eating them
and keeping them in control and keeping that balance.
And, you know, as long as there's balance in there,
everything's good.
Yeah.
All right.
Have you run into any like spider mite problems
or pest issues being away from the garden
and not being able to put eyes on them every night?
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Yeah.
My son gets mad when I tell people about this story,
but I, you know, I'm out at work, right?
And I'm just like, hey,
all you have to do is look at my garden, water it.
That's all you have to do.
Look at it and then give me an update.
Make sure everything's all right, you know?
And he's like, okay.
So I think I was gone for about a month at this point.
And he sends me a picture back and I just look at him
and something didn't look right.
It was overly, what looked like overly frosty.
And, you know, he didn't give a shit.
He's just taking some random picture.
He's like walking by the tent, you know?
So I, you know, I'm scrolling and zooming
and really inspecting.
I'm like, that's not like extra frosty.
That's like coated.
And I said, hey, go in there
and get me a really good picture of just like one nug
over in the back corner real quick.
And he goes, okay.
And I mean, that motherfucker was just tented, dude.
Just my whole fucking tent was just fucking gone.
Just, it looked like Halloween time, man.
And it was about, I don't know,
week four and a half of flower.
So, I mean, what can you do at that point?
I mean, yeah, I did my best to save as much of it
as I could.
You know, there was some of it over like in this one area
that wasn't really infested.
So everything else, you know,
I think maybe I got like a quarter out of that fucking run.
And even that I fucking took and washed, you know,
with mud wash and everything.
It was terrible.
But yeah, that shit pops up.
I mean, it was all environment.
My environment was off and I wasn't asking him
to make sure that my shit was, you know,
where it needed to be.
Right.
So usually once you get something like that
and you've seen it, it's like the, you know,
that spider that crawled across the floor.
All of a sudden you just start feeling that spider.
You start seeing like spider mites everywhere
and you're never like really convinced that you're safe.
How did it turn out?
And how did you get to that point?
What did you do?
Did you burn the tent, buy a new one?
What happened there?
And did they return?
They did not return.
I make a IPM like soap and things
that I've kind of went in and showed everybody.
So after I chopped that son of a bitch,
I came through my whole room and in a pump sprayer,
I filled with alcohol.
I filled the, I made, so I did this to the whole room
like multiple times.
So the first time I used my IPM spray,
which is like some Bronner's soap,
some hydrogen peroxide and alcohol,
sprayed down literally the whole room.
If it was in this room, it got fucking sprayed.
And then a week later I sprayed the whole room
with a hundred percent alcohol.
Yeah.
And then after that,
and then after that I fucking bleached everything.
I did not go crazy with the bleach like that,
but all tents surfaces that could be wiped
and wiped easily and excessively and corners got sprayed,
but surfaces got wiped after that.
And so that's what I did to kind of get rid of them.
And always made sure that my mint and my rosemary
and everything is planted somewhere
and thriving in my garden, in my little New York garden.
Wow. Well, good job, man.
And that I'm glad that did the trick being thorough,
using multiple modes of action.
Those are always good for IPM.
Cause for real, dude, you're like, is that a spider mite?
Oh no, that's just a little piece of dirt.
Okay. That's right.
I just transplanted.
Wait, but is that, you know?
Yeah. My wife was working on some soil today
on some like creeping Jenny that we needed to transplant.
And it still had the soil from the,
wherever we bought it from.
So we go to put it in my soil and she spread some of the,
like the top of whatever was in that pot.
And there was a bunch of sand in it.
And I just looked down
and I thought I saw a bunch of little eggs.
I was like, oh, you motherfuckers.
Like, what is that?
Oh, I realized it was sand,
but I sprayed that motherfucker down
with hydrogen peroxide and shit anyway.
I was like, uh-uh, not my fucking house.
Yeah. Yeah.
Good, good call there.
What are you doing Caribou, as far as like IPM?
Is there anything in specific that you try
as far as like a strategy?
Is there anything that you apply to the plants?
Yeah. Well, once again,
we're kind of starting out the beginning.
I had kind of a similar event of fluff years ago
and I managed to just kind of just make sure
stuff was clean when it went into the grow area.
And that seemed to work for me.
I didn't know much about IPM.
I come from a little community
where I don't really know many people to ask questions about
on how can I get rid of these issues.
But now due to like this tent here,
see that right behind me,
this is my bedroom right here.
And trying to work at a garden,
I got a really bad fungus gnats infestation
and a few gnats here and there might not be bad
if they're just in the tent.
But when it gets to the point where it's in the bedroom,
the girlfriend not so happy.
So right now I've been trying a product
called Resistance is Futile by a local grower
who I've talked to on Instagram.
And he's been on the show Canada's Finest on our show.
And I've been trying that
and it seems to knock them down.
I've paired that up with, what is it?
I think it was actually Dr. Doom.
He's trying to get sick and tired of this stuff.
Like I just, yeah, it seemed to be working.
I've got Fluff's recipe that he was mentioning
and I've been trying to use it as a last resort
because we were both kind of, he was said same thing.
Like he wants to see if what I'm doing works first
before we really drop the hammer
because he says it'll work.
Everything I've done to this point seems to,
it's knocked everything down.
And even in my little bloom town downstairs,
I've almost got rid of the gnats altogether.
But there's always seems to be just a few residuals
floating on the top.
And it's a kind of a pain because I top cast,
there are a whole bunch of new dry amendments on there
about a week ago,
just waiting for everything to be all dry
before I top water it down
and get the moisture back in there.
But you still see the little few gnats in there
just like take off, like go away.
I'm ready to try and water this stuff from the top,
this one shot here.
But we'll see, we'll, oh, peroxide's actually another one.
I knew there was a third one.
I just couldn't think of it.
Is I just using the 30% peroxide, watering that down
and throwing that in with my foliar feeds
and a little bit of a top.
Like I said, everything's knocked it down
to a lot less than it was, but it's.
It's good.
It's still, it's hard to get them all the way gone,
but yeah, there definitely is a difference
between a few in the tent
and then like doing this like every five minutes.
You know, shout out, I saw him in chat earlier,
but Spartan Grown, some of the Michigan bro guys,
they're their go-to answer, the butt chug.
Have you tried doing that yet?
Or does that work in your system as far as kind of.
Oh, and don't forget the soap nuts too.
Soap nuts and butt chugs.
Yes.
So the soap nuts that Fluff just mentioned is a great thing.
Our great pickup that I just added or picked up
and is I'm starting to implement too.
I'd actually reached out to Smiley's Garden
asking him about that.
So we're using those now and the butt chugging.
What I, yes and no.
It's trying to fit like all the plants in there.
If you're trying to give them individual saucers
and try to figure out how to do that,
water each of the individual without spilling,
making a mess.
What I'm doing now for the organic stuff
that'll remain organics in the tent downstairs
is you just get two of those or three of those
propagation trays that we've all seen in the black dough
when you put the domes on them.
I know you can fit two, three gallon pots in those.
So I'll just fill those up to a certain point with water
and let them bottom feed that way.
You still got a open reservoir area
that they're sucking from.
There's a lot less gnats in that tent downstairs.
So there might be something to it.
Whereas this one is all where I've started going back
towards the synganics or the hydroponic nutrients.
And for, it's been my experience top watering
so you get a bit of a runoff to runoff excess salt buildup
and stuff like that.
That's been my experience.
If a bunch of hugging is still a better way to go,
hey, you're running that kind of system
and I'd definitely be up to it
because I've kind of filled that tent up.
Same thing, the two trays,
or the trays, two pots per tray.
And so that way, when you do drip from pot to pot,
you're not making such a mess.
Yeah, that makes sense.
That definitely makes sense.
And you mentioned Smiley's Garden,
who I freaking love and look up to as well as Smart Dude,
but I always love giving them crap for organic.
So I always say fungus gnats are a product of organics
and you sir are making that example true.
So thank you.
Well, I can't get rid of them too.
So here's what'll be really great, Chad.
Like so I'm excited to make a switch over
to the freaking synganics
or get rid of all the organic amendments or some whatever.
You start running straight peat and hydro dutes
and all the fungus gnats take a hike.
Well, then it's like case in point.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I mean, we all know what it is, right?
I mean, the fungus gnat eats on the organic material
in the soil.
Yes, if you are organic, you are gonna have fungus gnats.
Sorry, it's a thing.
You can help control them.
You are gonna have one.
It's like, it's just gonna happen.
I've done everything to get rid of them too,
but you're always gonna see one of them little bastards
around somewhere.
Yeah, yeah.
Brofren just walked into the room and heard you say this.
Now you're not doing me any favors by saying yes,
you're gonna continue to-
You just said, hey, hey,
you just said you were gonna throw peat
and freaking hydro dutes on it.
Tell her that's what you're doing and be quiet.
And if she argues, hey, hey.
She can still hear you, bro.
Hey, put the fucking headphones in.
I'm trying to give you some info here.
What are you doing?
I'll DM you later.
So all you have to do, yes, if you bring in crystals,
enough crystals in the room, they will go away.
I think I actually figured it out.
So what you need to do is you need to start
a carnivorous garden in the corner.
So get yourself some pitcher plants,
some fly traps, fly traps, a few sundews.
Get yourself a real nice little terrarium.
Fungus gnats are not a problem anymore.
You actually need the fungus gnats
to help feed your fucking carnivorous garden.
There you go.
See, it's actually helping the other garden.
It sounds very symbiotic in nature-like.
I don't know why we're not all doing this for IPM.
Come on.
Come on, guys, let's get with it.
And I mean, to be real,
most commonly it's over-watering
or poor watering practices that are gonna lead
to your fungus gnats,
that are gonna lead to the infestation.
And the kind of the common thought there is like,
well, you can bottom feed, you let the top dry out,
and they'll go away, the eggs won't be in there.
They can still kind of go down the sides
when it pulls away from the top of your container.
They'll still go down and try to find moisture.
So you can still get them.
I don't know if any of you guys have ever tried,
but a common one that comes up in forums
and chat rooms is diatomaceous earth.
It's a great one,
but it also comes with some warnings or whatever.
I don't know.
Have you guys ever tried that
and has it been effective for you?
Well, I was actually wondering,
thinking about now that I've got the top of my pots dried out
and dry amendments sitting on there,
if I were to put another layer of diatomaceous earth
over top of that,
so that anything crawling up and out of there
for the next little while gets scarred up or whatever
and dries out or however that works.
So vicious.
Yeah, no, no, it's fine.
It's just the mode of action there
is pretty fucking ruthless,
but you can't have them in there.
I'm sorry to interrupt you there, but-
It's all good.
It's all good.
It's the worst IPM I ever tried
because it's like you start scanning the internet
looking for how-tos and stuff like that.
And I found someone was like,
you dice up habanero peppers
and put them on a little simmer on that
and strain that off.
Yeah, I thought about that.
I remember back in high school,
I got banana pepper oil in my eyes
and I spent like 40 minutes
in the emergency eyewash station in the school,
in the science lab, right?
Where it's two cups of pepper.
Yeah.
So I was thinking about that.
Like, yeah, like that would be like any mucus membrane,
like, yeah, you're not happy.
And then you think any kind of soft shell critter
that might not have like that to work.
But that's another one of those things
it seems to knock them down.
But that was at the very beginning of learning to grow
where I didn't know that it's actually best
to combine IPMs.
Don't hit them with just one thing
because they will get used to that eventually.
So had I had multiple modes of action,
that might've worked.
Another one I really want to try is beneficial bugs.
It's just, I haven't gotten around to it
for a couple of various reasons.
And, but it's really high on the list
because I like the idea of creepy crawlies
as long as they'll kind of stay in the tent
and do their thing, right?
It's when they-
I like what a soul seeker over here in chat said,
said alfalfa meals should have just some nematodes in it.
So, maybe a little regular top dressing
with a little bit of alfalfa meal might help out.
Yeah, that's interesting.
I've, one of my-
I've never heard that one.
I like that.
And then I run alfalfa meal quite frequently.
So that's very interesting.
One of my favorite finds is alfalfa meal pellets
that you can get from the feed store.
It's just repackaged stuff.
It's like, it's five bucks for four kilograms of this stuff.
It goes a long ways.
You throw a handful of those in a blender or whatever
to just bust them down to powder.
And it's-
You know, I've heard other people say that,
I don't know why they have a problem
with using that specific, like the feed pellet for alfalfa.
But I have heard people say
that they're not into using those.
I don't know if it's something that they,
if it's the binder that puts them together or what.
But I've heard people say, don't,
that it's not the best thing to use.
You know, it's okay if it's like your only option,
but I'm not a hundred percent certain on that one.
That might be something you want to look into just in case.
Oh yeah. Okay.
Here's another one from Spartan Grown Other Bugs.
He uses a combo of nematodes, SF,
and stratiolapidans skidamus with great results.
So that's awesome.
And that's, yeah, definitely.
If you're curious, look into that.
Real quick with diatomaceous earth.
Yeah. The mode of action is very effective and it can work.
The one thing that you want to try to be careful of
is reapplying it a lot.
Because once you wet it down, it neutralizes it.
But the more you put it on and the more you wet it down,
it kind of cakes and it can form like a hydrophobic layer
in your soil to where the water is just going to kind of
not go through it and just run off basically.
So that's one of the drawbacks of diatomaceous earth
if you are using it frequently
and then watering frequently and watering.
But if you've knocked it down to, again,
to that point to where there's,
you just see in a little bit, might not be a bad idea
because you're going a long time in between waterings.
So, you know, do your water
and then give it a little bit to dry, at least a little bit,
and then apply it.
That might work.
Yeah, put some sticky traps out too, you know,
some big yellow sticky ones.
So you can grab those last few
that are flying around as well, you know,
if you got it under control too.
Hopefully we've got plenty of sticky traps.
It's like, it's like shaker.
It's like, are we even winning this battle?
Got them hanging from the bedroom ceiling everywhere.
Yeah.
The second one of those little curly fly traps
gets caught in your hair, it's fucking game over.
So man, you better get that shit under control.
Well, that's happened a few times.
It's hilarious that you mentioned it.
Like it's, it's always POs you a little bit when,
it's just like you said, you're bending under there,
just trying to kind of get under the light
to the far corner of the tent.
You feel it hit you in the back all the way up
into your hair and you're just like, son of a bitch again.
I've knocked small plants over with this shit.
Like reach into the bag, come back.
Oh yeah.
And I remember back in the day
when I actually had some hair up here to say,
yeah, man, you be doing something,
all of a sudden your hair just pulls something right off.
And you're like, what the fuck?
I almost feel sometimes like it's wood shop
when I get near a fan.
Like I need to like put it up and under the hat,
like no loose hair, no loose clothing,
nothing near the fan, man.
One of these days, I don't know if I would.
Yeah, dude, that's why I don't have hair anymore.
Like my shit got into a fire and my head got on fire
and it was game over.
I've never had hair since then.
I'm not bald, dude.
I shaved my shit off.
Wow.
Yeah, I was welding and I had my shit off
in a ponytail up in my hard hat.
And I was going over something like this
and my ponytail just crept right out of my fucking hard hat,
fell right into my fucking welded zone.
And it just lit up like a whip, dude,
right up into my fucking head, gone.
I smelt like burnt hair for like two weeks.
I've never had hair since then.
I get rid of it.
Damn, yeah, yeah.
Well, hey, at least you look decent that way.
Again, you're channeling Tinker.
I feel like it took a while.
I don't feel like people naturally have a good bald head.
I feel like you gotta work on it somehow.
Like you gotta take the hair off
and then the head realizes it needs to look good
without hair on it.
So like it starts working towards that.
Is dude, it definitely looked better
than it did like 10 years ago when I started.
Or it's been longer than 10 years, but yeah,
it definitely looks a lot better than it used to.
Hey, I just got a message from Opie.
I didn't get to read the full thing.
Anybody within our circle knows who Opie is.
He's a Solo Cup Challenge guy from Cannibuzz.
He's got some really tough shit going on, guys.
Let's send him some positive thoughts and prayers.
Opie, I don't know if you're watching this, brother,
but we love you.
We're all here for you.
And you got my number, man.
Call me, call any of us if you need to chat.
We'll drop what we're doing for you.
And also while we're talking about hard times,
Uncle Rick, if you're watching, we love you, brother.
He should be traveling down to the coast
to go take care of some family business.
He's had issues going on for a little over a week now.
Rick himself is in good health.
Just in case anyone's wondering,
it's just family comes first before shows and all that.
And we love you guys.
Sorry to interrupt.
I just saw it scroll across the screen.
It's one of those oh shit moments.
Opie, we truly do love you, brother.
We really do.
Yeah, and no apologies needed, man.
That's who we are.
We're a community.
And Uncle Rick, Opie, definitely in our thoughts.
And I love it, Caribou.
We all need to make ourselves available.
And let people know that.
Let people know that we're available.
Call me any time of day.
You've got my number, you have my DMs.
Just tell me to shut up and I'll sit there and listen.
So, good on you and good on this community too.
A lot of people in chat,
we were talking about Uncle Rick the other day on your show.
And yeah, it's easy to keep doing this.
It really is.
It's fun and it's a blessing and it's a treat
to be able to hang around with a lot of people,
like-minded people.
And if anything has come from this last few years
is I've met a lot of damn cool people.
Everybody in chat, so many of these names
I know I communicate with on a daily basis, basically.
You guys, it's fricking fun.
We just hang out, shoot the shit.
It's the times I almost used to miss.
One of the things I say that the kids these days
don't get out of the cannabis experience
is the experience of the dealer's couch.
The dealer's couch is where you met people
from other schools, other districts.
You told stories, you made shit up like cow tipping.
I've never tipped a cow over, okay?
I'm coming fucking clean right now.
But yeah, the dealer's couch.
And so, these types of things that we do,
it reminds me of those.
And again, it all boils down to community.
I tried that shit once.
I fucking think I really honestly hurt myself.
Like I got a running start.
Like I fucking plowed that motherfucker with my shoulder.
There is no knocking one of them motherfuckers down
if they don't wanna go down.
I know, like they really need to do a Mythbusters
on that one.
Cause I swear like every kid in my school is like,
yeah, bro, we went couch.
We went and tried and you failed.
Is what happened.
It's one of those things that is fun.
We've done it a fair bit of it,
but it's the anytime you hear about it in the movies,
they always about make it sound and look so easy.
It's not, you think about like, say, okay,
we're a bunch of music fans watching.
I'm guessing how many of y'all been in a mosh pit?
Now, how many of y'all been in a mosh pit
where you look across and you see a monster
standing across from you and you just kind of look at it.
Oh, I've got to do it.
And you run in, okay, that guy weighs what?
Two, maybe 300 pounds.
These cows are like 1500 pounds more.
Like, I don't know.
They're big.
Like it takes some effort.
You got to hit them low, man.
Hit them low.
It's not a one person job.
I mean, that's, let's be honest.
That shit is not a one person job.
You need a friend.
I've never done it on my own.
Never been able to get one over shot it.
So.
He's gone cow tipping.
Not that successful.
Kind of like you say.
Let's be honest, man.
Cow tipping, you know how cow tipping started?
Bunch of motherfuckers going to look for mushrooms
and then decided to fuck with the cows.
And probably sat there eating fucking mushrooms,
forgot that the cow was sleeping next to him on the ground
and thought they tipped it over.
Work with cows, no way.
That's all I'm saying.
That seems to be the consensus, man.
There's.
I'm telling you, I tried.
I think I hurt myself when I did it.
God, yeah, no, that's a great example.
Great example too.
The hardest I've ever been hit in hockey
was by a guy who was just probably had 100 pounds on me.
I broke the number one rule of skating with my head down,
looking for a pass.
He was just planted.
He wasn't even moving.
He just stood there like this.
Oh, dude, I kicked him in the armpits.
That's how fast I stopped.
Like, yeah, chipped a tooth.
It was fucking awesome.
Tried to get up, like got to about one knee.
Nope.
Sitting back down.
He was throwing the fuck out of that bell, didn't he?
Oh yeah, yeah.
That's the hardest I've ever been hit by a person.
But that's not cannabis.
Who cares about me playing hockey?
Nobody.
Not even the Canadian, man.
You're a Blue Jays fan.
That's baseball.
He doesn't count.
He's like a fake Canadian.
He doesn't watch hockey.
It's weird.
Well, I got the facial coverings like a Canadian should.
You know, we're running into that time of year
where it's chilly up here.
I don't know.
I don't, honestly, you know what it was?
It was like, I've never been a huge, huge hockey fan,
but I never actually played hockey as a kid either.
Baseball, I played those as a kid.
So that might be something to do with it.
But for me, what it really was was
I stopped watching after the last strike.
What is that, like eight years ago?
So it's like, I just,
I have a hard time listening to millionaires bitch
about how much money they make.
Ah, well, me and most of the people I know struggle.
It's just like, so it just,
I don't need your entertainment that much.
If they had the tent growers league, then we'd be stoked.
Cause those are, you know, those are the people who I like
and love to see and love to support.
And that's what we're doing here.
We could start that, could we?
Could we, oh, we could start like some sort of a bot.
Okay, so I think I just thought this on the spot.
Uh oh, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Okay, go.
Individual submissions.
Cause you'd have like millions of people
wanting to get involved in this.
Cause this was the greatest idea ever that you just had.
Millions possibly even.
Every cannabis podcast that we all kind of talk in
to each other and associate,
every crew kind of submits a tent
and pick which genetics you're going to throw in that tent.
And your style of grow, all that.
And just having like the grow tent Olympics or whatever.
How's that sound?
The tent grow league, that would be pretty fun.
And you know, I think we actually probably know enough people
at enough shows between us and someone with genetics
that that could be pretty interesting.
Just toss out the same beans to everybody.
Yeah.
And you have to show us grow off.
What was that?
I just blanked.
I had something really intelligent to add to all that,
but we're-
And then the idea was forgotten.
Maybe there was a grow tent league before.
Yeah.
Who knows?
Yeah, just like, oh yeah, there was.
So you know how there's like fantasy football leagues
or baseball, hockey leagues and all that.
There you go.
All the people in chat like that will forget
and have some kind of prize for their role.
Take their bets or whatever like that
and see who wins at the end of the season.
That could be great, right?
Winner gets like seeds.
Someone's got seeds and stuff we can donate.
I've got finally caught up with people I would like to.
What if the chat had to build like a team of five growers
that they could choose from?
And then there's like certain categories.
There's no, I don't know.
Yeah, like colors.
Like whose grows can bring out the most colors
out of their grow?
Whose grows gonna bring out the most terpenes?
Canvanoid profiles, biggest plant.
I mean, there's a lot of things
that you can tailor it towards.
That would be fun.
That would be cool.
I think this is a great idea, at least in theory.
It deserves at least a second visitation
of thought at some point, I think.
Yes, that sounds good to me.
That sounds good to me.
Well, speaking of grow tents and grow leagues,
let's take a look at some more gardens.
And it can be, we've got some cool tour of the hoop house.
I know caribou and let's see here, fluff.
I see fluff.
I'm gonna add you to the stream.
Do you see the little sprocket there
to flip front back rear?
Yeah, it doesn't say front back yet, though.
Let's see if that's-
Okay, yeah, a little sprocket says Cam Mike.
I'm just gonna flip.
Okay, there you go.
I was just gonna flip the camera
so it's everybody staring at your face,
trying to figure out technology.
That's always fun.
You get the look.
When you got that, it's like a flip.
You know what I'm talking about.
Let's see here.
I'll go ahead and add this into the screen.
Oh, you're upside down.
There we go.
And then can you turn it the long ways?
All right, we just need to have it.
Yep, and then unmute the laptop.
And then if you mute the laptop
and then unmute your phone.
Oh, I think I'm on my headset, so I should be.
Oh, okay.
And I think I muted my camera here.
Yep.
And we'll flip it out this way.
I'll just give you a quick one of this.
Let's see.
Can you actually, right now, fluff,
your camera, your phone is muted
and your laptop is unmuted.
Can you, well, let's see.
Can I reverse that?
Let's play with buttons.
Chad, play with buttons.
Okay, and then unmute the phone.
And I'm gonna try to hit the button myself.
And it says, you can't unmute your guests
because they chose to mute themselves.
Well, F you, StreamYard.
Okay, we're good.
We're good, we're back.
I was just cussing out technology, don't mind me.
All right, we're just gonna go with,
so there's the two by four bed.
Okay, and then can you turn it,
turn the phone, there we go, beautiful.
So it just got reset.
So we're gonna grab these seedlings right here.
And those were bred by Rosamond 82.
So this bed just got chopped down.
We're letting these cover crop go over.
We added a bunch of compost and amendments.
So you got some clover in there, yeah.
Yep, yeah, we got some clovers, some mint, some rosemary,
a lot of, yeah, there's some mint right there.
Oh, nice.
So a lot of it just got chopped down.
So it's got to reestablish.
Put a little bit more in.
The flower hips.
And that was the two by four, the two by four grassroots.
Yeah, that two by four grassroots bed.
Okay, and then it looks-
It's been for about two years now.
Okay, and is that PVC with the screws?
Are you hooking a Scrognett up to that?
Or what was that?
Yes, sir, that is Scrognett on that.
See if the lights went off in here, but-
Oh.
Okay, yeah, those things are looking chunked out already.
So yeah, those are things are getting close to done.
Nice and frosty.
Which strains are we looking at here?
So right here, this is another local breeder.
This was North North Herbs is cut up,
actually in collaboration with a Rossman ADT.
This is the Daddy Ultra.
It's a Granddaddy Purple by MK Ultra.
Okay, nice, nice genetics there.
Oh, wow, look at that color.
There's that big ass pot in the back.
Damn, 55 gallons, you said?
50.
50, huge.
I see a plant in there.
There we go.
We got four little autos in there right now.
Those autos are Bobby's Bears,
bred by Day Natural Preserves.
Okay.
It's a cross of Bobby's Widow,
and I'm not, don't remember the other part of it.
Bobby's Widow, where I'm looking at that.
I was looking at my sheet the other day
of what I need to plant.
Bobby's Widow times Skywalker.
I got that as a auto tester from Kazoo, Kazoo Kush.
Yeah, a couple of guys in our crew
have been growing those Bobby's Bears and whatnot,
and he's been having some great results.
Nice, frosty, potent, good looking flowers.
I'll be curious, and we'll be posting them, so.
Nice, yes.
We have a Golden Goat, BX1 from Irie.
Cool, that's a pretty damn famous strain.
Yes, sir.
And then we have a Super Silver Haze from Caribou.
Nice.
Love the way that little dude's growing, man.
I love those structures like that.
Well, that thing is just stacked.
The nodal space does not look very, very big.
There's a lot going on.
Those are kind of my favorite too, you know, little.
They're ideal for tent situations,
especially when you have limited head space.
You can't grow something that's super tall.
You still have to leave room between your light
and the top of the tent and the canopy.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, there's my mint.
So this has been in the tent for about three,
three, four years now.
Same mint plant, I just recycle it.
You know, make tea and stuff out of it,
but my son tried to kill it like five times.
It survived the spider mites though?
Yes, sir.
Yes, it survived the spider mites.
They didn't want to go anywhere near the damn thing.
Nice, interesting.
Yeah, so let's go over here to like the young veg.
Little ghetto tent I made up.
This is just a little 100 watt HLG.
It's about a two by three area.
We have another super silver haze from Caribbean.
Looking good.
This is called Jungle Berry Bunnies by Jeff Banger.
Sounds good.
This is my cut of Hawaiian that we've had around forever.
We've got a couple.
We're gonna do a little breeding projects with that.
And then we have a stranger danger,
right by a ye motherfucking hawk.
I love that guy.
He's in there right now.
He's got one of those fun names to say.
Every time I see it and chat, I'm like,
I gotta say it out loud.
Ye motherfucking hawk.
Hey, real quick, that tent that you were just looking at,
you're saying, you know, hey,
this was just kind of a portable quick thing
that I threw together.
The one that we were just in.
Tell me about that.
How did you do it?
What did you use?
Because so many of us,
especially those of us who have problems popping seeds,
we'll find ourselves with a need for something like this
for just like a month or maybe-
Like a little extra space.
Yeah, yeah.
So how did you set that up?
What did it involve?
Well, that's just PVC frame,
made out to whatever I wanted.
And it's that like tin foily bubble wrap insulation.
Oh, wow.
You can just buy it by like 50 foot rolls.
Okay, and it's like, what is it?
Does it come in like four foot lengths
or can you get five foot?
I believe it was four foot length, yeah.
Four foot by like 50 rolls or something like that.
Dude, that's fricking awesome.
Yeah, so then I just, some of the spots,
I didn't, I need to do some work to it.
It's falling apart.
It's been together for about two years now.
Yeah.
Like the super shiny HVAC tape and stuff.
That's what I kind of stuck it all together with
to do the seams and light tight it.
Yeah, that's the greatest tape.
That's what I use to seal all my corners and all my seams.
That is one tape that light won't grow through.
Light will go through duct tape.
Light will go through a lot of shit,
but that tin foil, like HVAC tape,
that stuff is awesome.
That stuff will cut the crap out of your fingers too,
but that stuff is awesome.
Yeah, crazy paper cut you never realized.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay, well, yeah, thanks for showing us that
because that is a perfect,
that's a rad little grow hack right there.
Anybody can go to the hardware store and get the PVC.
You could cut it to whatever length you need it
and then throw the wrap on.
I like that.
Yeah, and in here we have, this is my breeding tent.
This is a little like three by four.
This is another Fino of golden goat.
It's gonna go in the tent when I have room.
And then this big bitch is just gonna get spread out,
flowered, and I'm gonna pollinate, say like a branch,
and then, which will probably pollinate the whole rest.
I know, accidentally, right?
I decided to pollinate one branch
in my freak show last night.
We'll see if it really stays to one branch.
Nice.
Yeah, I wasn't going to do it.
Yeah, I wasn't gonna do it,
but then I had some pollen that I was gonna get rid of,
and I was like, yeah, okay, fuck it.
I'll just do one branch.
I'm sorry to interrupt.
No, that's okay.
I was just going to say that me and Smiley
were actually talking last time you guys were on,
and this is a perfect example of what he was telling me
is that this is some recycled soil,
and I have been fighting this damn plant the whole time.
I made this with some cow manure compost and stuff.
That just has been a pain in my butt.
I've been chasing deficiencies and stuff.
So when he told me about soil testing and everything,
I was kind of really biting my lip.
It's something I need to get done
because I am fighting those issues.
I just wanted to send a shout out to him
and say that, yeah, you're right.
There's an example, and I need to do that shit.
Yeah, definitely.
I mean, one of the things that I've talked with him about too
is so what do you do when you're noticing deficiencies
in an organic system?
And his answer is to increase your microbial activity
because if the food really is there in the soil,
it's just not accessible to the plant.
If you increase the microbial activity,
they're gonna break it down.
It's gonna be more plant available.
And that's kind of how you address it that way.
But to your point, without the soil testing,
you don't really know that you're deficient
in these particular areas.
So you could increase the microbe activity,
but it's not gonna do anything
because they don't have the raw materials to work with.
Exactly, that's how I test that stuff.
I just throw microbes at it.
I throw my compost tees at it and all that stuff.
Whereas the compost tea, you're feeding it a little bit,
but when you notice it helps that deficiency a little bit,
but it's not cure that deficiency,
yeah, then you know you're screwed.
You know, your organic matter is all off,
but that is exactly how I do it.
When I see something a little messed up,
I really buff up the microbes and everything.
And I decide whether it's locked out,
whether it's a deficiency
or like an antagonistic thing,
or am I just out of the raw material?
And in this case, right over there,
I was out of the raw material.
I just bought a real bad batch of cow manure compost
and it hit me right in the butt.
I'll never use that shit again.
Pun intended.
That's so hard.
And that can happen to any company or any type of soil
that does anything in volume.
The Fox Farm is your most notorious one
because everybody uses it,
but you could definitely tell
sometimes there's different batches
and that's just a quality control.
So win some, lose some on that one.
And you know what?
I'm an avid gardener.
I know what compost is supposed to look like
and I still used it and that's my fault.
I have nobody to blame but myself for the situation.
And the fact like Smiley said,
if you didn't test your shit, you would've known better.
So there you go.
Yeah, that's some bad shit.
Oh, but I'm bumped.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Oh shit.
Now, how about you Caribou?
As far as taking us into the tent,
do you wanna, are you able to kind of bring us over there
and take a little look?
And thank you, Fluff.
Appreciate that, man.
That's awesome.
Uh-oh, I just did fall.
Literally, I just hate being that guy
who messes it all up.
Like you gotta walk it through.
I had to throw it down for him a little bit.
That's what we do for him.
So I had to be him a little bit right now.
There you go.
So if your garden were on a hand,
where would it be located?
You are really putting the pressure on right now.
Shit, shit.
Shout out.
I gotta look, I gotta look.
It's right there.
For Uncle Rick.
There you go, buddy.
Uncle Rick.
Okay, let's see.
He's back here.
I don't know what I did.
Wrong button.
That's okay.
I hit the camera button and it brings me to another one
where it says camera and audio.
What I hit that.
Oh, the camera mic.
And then it should have front and back.
If you were on a phone, it should have front and back.
I would think that would apply to, there we go.
There we go.
So you're gonna go the long way instead of up and down.
Yeah.
Yeah, there we are.
All right, let me spotlight you.
I'll go out of there.
Okay, so I'm already gonna ask those can things
that are hanging.
Those are your lights?
Yeah, those are lights.
Those will be Canon LEDs from Black Sale Market.
All right, tell me about those.
Cause that's new to me.
I have not seen something like that before.
Okay, so I'm just gonna slap out of the way
so we got a little bit more room.
Okay, so when my change of living circumstances happened,
I was kind of forced to buy all new equipment.
I was just like, hey, well, let's get LEDs.
I've been wanting to try LEDs for a while.
And you've been hearing about Canon
buying Black Sale Market.
They've kind of been all the rage these days.
So I went and bought seven of them
so I can get a bunch of different,
bunch of tents outfitted.
It was my first run with them
and so far everything seems to be doing well.
I believe they're 325 Watts a piece when maxed out.
Awesome, 325 a piece.
And what size, I'm sorry, what size tent was that again?
This is a four by four tent.
Okay, perfect.
The Fusion Hut grow tent.
We've got ourself an eight inch AC Infinity fan,
carbon filter.
It's beginning of the month time here.
So it's been a while.
It's time to probably get a little dirty there.
I give everything a scrub down.
I try and do that every week or two,
just to keep everything's tidy.
Change strips.
Now, oh, my hands in the way.
Looking at the goodies here.
So everything's been moved around recently.
Okay, so right there,
we're looking at some like great diamonds by Ethos.
Okay.
One right here is a Jack the Ripper.
That's kind of become a little bit famous, I guess,
you could say within our crew.
When, after I topped it and the sides just brought it out,
my girlfriend decided to name it Fluffy.
And I guess she just has like a crush
and wants to get dirty with our pal over there.
And I don't know.
It's just funny joke that we got running around.
But I saw this one,
just I liked the structure and the growth of it.
And I'm really hoping it was a male.
And I said that to the girlfriend a couple of weeks ago.
And I would come in the bedroom from,
oh, in the hallway doing whatever.
She's sitting here in front of the tent,
just kind of petting it.
You're gonna be a boy.
You're gonna be a boy.
And I down there pissed myself laughing when I saw that.
So yeah, we're hoping that's something worth breeding.
I guess I'm looking for a structure.
Is one of the things,
Kat looking for that.
Right here, we've got an orange chasm.
That's another Irie.
And over here is another grape diamonds from Ethos.
Nice.
It looks like everything is kind of nice
and trimmed up underneath.
Yeah, yeah.
We've been doing that.
It's one of the things I,
pulling leaves is kind of fun,
especially when you're first getting into it.
So I let the girlfriend try and take care of that.
We got ourselves some Rachel over there.
Nice.
She's her DX.
She got me a pack of freak shows from someone else
there a while back.
So I took those, made some F2s
or whatever you would call that at this point.
Yeah.
Just had some in there.
My thoughts was,
we're not allowed to grow where we're at right now.
And the girlfriend is kind of very staunch about,
you're not growing, at least not right now.
So I was like, okay, well, let's stealth grow.
I'll just start growing freak shows.
That way nobody will say shit.
And then eventually she just kind of gave up
and you see what's going on here.
So it's awesome.
It was a great fight that I won.
Not that it was very hard.
No, it's totally true.
So did the freak show, did the F2,
if you planted them, did they keep the same morphology?
Did they look the same?
Yeah, these ones look like bang on.
And in that room, like Kay,
so earlier in the show,
I mentioned when the ex and I kind of had our sudden split.
I sent a bunch of genetics to my parents.
Well, the freak shows,
the parents of these were part of those.
Also, there's like some arise,
purple punch 2.0, a bunch of violator crosses.
And it got to the point where like I asked my folks,
hey, can you please keep my genetics alive?
And they did that.
But they're not ganja farmers.
They just, they did what they could,
but through lack of care, stuff just started blooming.
And I tried throwing those arise
and those other genetics in with the freak shows.
And I had very bad pollination rates.
Like the seeds just didn't finish.
When I went done, I should say it's probably,
but again, you look like you got a bunch
of nice healthy seeds,
but you got to put pressure on them to pop them
or crack them or whatever.
And they're all just hollow.
It's kind of heartbreaking,
but I don't think I'm done messing with the freak show.
I'm going to have to put it away for a bit
after I bloom these out, see what they do.
But I liked the idea.
And we've talked about it on our show a few times
of having like a stealth line
where you could have something like that.
You'd be growing right out in front of your yard.
Oh yeah.
I mean, nobody's going to see that.
Like if you didn't know what that was right now,
you'd have no idea that was a cannabis plant.
Now you might have a few kind of smelly weeks
to get through when it gets towards the end of bloom
where it's kind of obvious to anybody
and they can maybe figure it out.
But in the meantime, and so I was thinking,
beef it up, make it,
cause it's a pretty slow growing plant
has been my experience.
We can make it grow a little faster, bigger,
maybe we thought potency, maybe add other cannabinoids,
like CBD, CBDs, all that other good stuff
we keep hearing about in there.
Yeah.
Yeah, no, I totally agree.
That is the ninja plant.
I'm growing a couple of my first ones right now.
They're bang on for what you're showing in the corner.
So yeah, if that's the F2 generation,
it totally morphology stuck, which is rad.
They're definitely were slow growing.
And I think it's about third, second or third,
probably third week of budding right now.
So it's cool.
I was a little disappointed at first
cause I didn't get like the true fan or fern look to mine.
But once it started sending off the secondary branches
and shoots, that's when I start to see a lot more
of the fern like leaves.
This guy, figure your own guy, girl, whatever.
This is one of my crosses.
This is a violator crossed with a chem dog Afghani.
And this is an F2.
Got this line in a white widow Afghani line
that are at F2 stage right now
that I would like to try and carry forward.
Like this one and there's a few others.
It's hard to point them out as you know how it is
trying to reach over into the far side of the tent
and discern what's what.
With these ones, I think we're just,
we're probably not gonna breed any of these ones necessarily
just do an overall pheno hunt,
get an idea of what we're looking at,
see how it smokes and all that.
And then probably kick ourselves for not cutting any clones.
So maybe we should just cut.
I'm not gonna say anything.
We've all been victimized that way before.
Like what else do we got moving on in there?
So like there's some grape ape
from Barney seed farm in there somewhere.
A couple more of these violator crosses.
Over there, so that's like one of those spaghetti squash
I was talking about.
Okay, well, I'd always be careful
with any squashes in the grow tent.
For me, particularly outside, they always tend to get a PM.
Always get a little bit of mold with them.
Okay, I'll keep that in mind.
And here's another one that I think is kind of interesting.
This is mullin.
I'm gonna try and grow my own indoor mullin.
Just throw one, see if I can mount it in the corner there
a few inches up the wall of the tent.
And see if I can grow my own mullin plant.
It's something that I've learned.
Like I haven't had a cigarette in over 10 years
but I got a smoker's cough.
Gee, I wonder where that's from.
So I've learned that you can dry and smoke mullin
and it'll help ease your cough.
And it's a bit of a bronchial dilator.
It'll put up your airways.
And it's also, I believe it's got pathogenic,
if that's the word I'm looking for, properties
where I've heard of, I think it was from Potent Ponic.
Steve was talking about he'll put mullin in joints
if he's going to like cup events and stuff
where you'll be sharing joints with a few hundred people.
Just cause you know, like that'd be a good way for a cold
or say like COVID with all that stuff going on right now,
right, to maybe spread around.
It says you sprinkle a lot of it in your joints
and it'll help fight anything like that on.
And so I heard that and I was like, instantly Googled it.
Oh, what are these guys talking about?
And I was like, I Googled it and I was like, oh shit.
I see that stuff growing on the side of the road here
all the time.
So you go off into the two-leaves a little bit
and you know, you harvest some of that stuff
cause it hasn't been sitting on the side of the road
getting road dust, exhaust
and all that other gross stuff on there.
No.
Is that your aloe to the left?
Yeah, it's the aloes I was talking about there.
He got the one unhappy branch and it's kind of covered,
but.
Yeah, it's unhappy.
You got a plant sitting on it.
Only on the one branch.
It's tough getting around in here right now.
You know how it is.
And I'm trying to figure out how I'm about to shoehorn
even more, but what ones are we looking at here?
So these ones, so fluff,
these are those wedding cake
by white widow Afghanis right here.
These are the ones that I'm hoping to be able to get
across going on with the fluffy Jack here.
And this is like a tribute strain that I'm trying to breed
up for my pal fluffy here on the panel with us.
Most of the people that I hang with in our crew
will probably end up with strains named after him
at some point in time,
just cause I think that's the coolest shit.
And I'm very thankful to have these people in my life.
So I just think it's a great way to say,
Hey man, thanks for being my friend.
And I may have named a strain after him,
but they're looking good.
All of these are looking good.
Nice, decent little stalks on them.
You go over to this way
and we've got a mixture of that one.
So that's a spider girl.
That's my own strain there.
That's Charlotte's web famous for high CBD.
We don't, most of us probably heard
that Charlotte's web story.
We got some of this and I bred it with the violator
that would have made that.
Just, you know, how did you throw a bunch of stuff
in the room?
So this is going to be my shot at trying to make like a one
to one ratio THC CBD and just see how that all works.
Then we've got some orange gasm, lemon Jeffrey,
a lemon berry by ethos.
What's the dying one?
It looks like I killed a lemon Jeffrey.
Let's see, what are you going to do?
And then in here, we got a bunch of space dose
by the Hurt and Albert.
He's a good friend of ours that's always hanging out with us
really excited for those space dose.
When that is, that's space force crossed with do-si-do
I believe, or do-si-do by space force.
I believe would be the proper way to put that out there.
Nice, I've got a couple of those beans myself
I'm waiting to crack into.
We had one question in chat about the contraption
you have on the back wall there, the tan deal.
What is that?
Okay, so that's a great how it's a very poor attempt
to jam more stuff in there.
You get like say this plant, I'm not sure what it is.
It's the girlfriends, but we like it.
And you know how that looks like it almost fit
just right in one of those.
I love it.
So that's where you could fit up to four
one gallon pots on a wall.
And we sat there for about six hours
before they fell down crushing plants below them.
And it was like, yeah.
You got to get around your ass.
You don't try to toss that cup in there.
Yeah.
Right, that's hilarious.
That's funny.
Cause dude, we always, again, for those of us
who have seed popping problems,
you always need to set up something else.
That's why I wanted to get that explanation from you fluff.
Cause yeah, having did where we never have enough space.
And then when we find space, we fill it
and we then had never have enough space again.
Oh, it's crazy.
You know, I've got another four by four tent
identical to this.
The lights, the fan, everything to be able to run it
but I don't have the space to run it
cause it's such a small area we're living in.
So it's fun.
We went and bought a 20 by 36 inch tent
which is the next one I'll take you to.
And it just, it's like, you can fit that
into just a little nook in the closet over here.
We're looking at maybe so that,
and that'll eventually become a breeding tent
when I'm ready to start breeding again.
But because we can't get another tent this size going
we're looking at maybe a two by four.
So that's half this size.
I can shoe horn that in somewhere else.
And then like, well, where am I going to do my clones
and stuff like that?
So I'll probably find a third or another what's that?
How many tents is that by now?
I can't even count that.
Grower problems.
Yeah, it's good problems to have, right?
We talk like we're so hard done by
but life really is so rough.
Yeah.
So anyway, this is what I've got going on in this one.
And this is the first growing I've been doing
since February 12th was the day that I had
to shut everything down at the last living situation.
Another couple of weeks like this,
let everything fill out a little bit more
and we'll be able to flip this one over.
Oh, I'll get downstairs.
Oh, hello.
Let's see, it looks like in Indica Bee,
it's getting a little dark over there.
A little too dark for the hoop house.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's getting dark, man.
It's that time of year.
Sun's going down.
That's a good thing.
Thank you for hanging in there.
Absolutely, man.
Absolutely.
It's an honor and it's a pleasure to be here, man.
You know, and it's been forever
since I kicked it with Fluff and Caribou, man.
I've been so busy.
It's just, yeah, man.
It's much needed time, you know.
Good.
Welcome to my couch.
Yeah.
All right.
We're back with Caribou here.
Whoa, wrong screen.
There we go.
So this is a 20 by 36 inch tent
running under a single cannon.
We got six inch ducting coming out of the top,
which is hooked up to another AC Infinity eight inch
with the carbon filter hidden down there.
I had to run it outside of the tent
because as well as you, I just told you it's a tiny tent.
There really just isn't room for that stuff.
It's not physically possible.
So I contacted Fluff, man, just to kind of ask him
and is it going to be okay to kind of run everything
in reverse and force your air out
through the carbon filter?
He says, yeah, you should be good.
Especially if you're not running crazy high CFM.
Yeah, I've done it both ways.
And so the goodies in here, right over here,
this is a Lemon Jeffrey.
So this would be like the mother of the clone I killed
that we were talking about.
This is my first time growing anything from Irene
and being able to see it through properly.
I mentioned some of our eyes before,
but due to just my parents just aren't daven enough
to, you know, it doesn't make it.
We've all been, this one here is an Orange Gasm.
I'm liking it.
It was having some real bad growth problems on this side.
You see it's a little bit lower than the tops there,
but it recovered really nicely.
Came all back.
We'll get you get a couple of nice little.
This down in front is another violator.
Chemdog Afghani Cross.
I just like the one I mentioned.
I just, I had an open spot in here.
So I just needed something to fill it.
So it's in a two gallon pot.
We'll see how it does.
But for all it seems pretty happy.
Right behind that is a Meathead Cross.
So this is Meathead by Inhouse Genetics.
And I crossed it with either a White Widow Afghani
or a Chemdog Afghani.
I popped both of those at the same time
and got cups mixed up and didn't label stuff properly.
Once again, we've all been there.
Yep. It'll happen at least 10 times.
At least I know what it is though,
or what the idea of others.
So it's easy enough to figure out.
And Meathead is one of my favorite strains,
probably the top two that I found as a drawer.
Now that one, that one I've never, I'm not familiar with.
That hasn't made it this way yet.
What is Meathead all about?
Okay. So it's, if I recall correctly,
I think it's a Meat Breath crossed with Goliath.
And for me to say, oh, this is a Meathead Cross.
It's kind of funny because this doesn't look anything
like the mother.
The mother was very stringy and gangly.
Like, you got like, those are kind of average looking
node spaces, I would say right there.
And this thing was like, you could go from say that node
where I'm moving the ring finger there
all the way up to the top.
And like, that might be a node space,
probably even closer to the tip of this.
Okay. Yeah. I've definitely seen those.
Yeah. It's weird.
And three bleeded leaves.
So it makes it easy to go pheno hunting.
And for me to look at this and say,
no, those are all fives.
Definitely not the same plant.
But it was just, it was kick-ass strong.
And it was, the first one I did was very poorly grown
to say the best.
I got like maybe a quarter off of it.
But it was like, you know, when you have that smoke
and like, anytime you ever give someone a little bit
of weed to sample, you give them enough
for at least two joints, right?
Cause it was kind of same thing with that Meathead.
You smoke that first joint, right?
And you're just like, okay, there's something there.
Okay. So you smoke that second one and you're like,
hey, I like that.
So it was like, okay, I got a key.
I'm glad I cut cones and kept that one around.
So at some point I'm going to go pheno hunting
and I'm going to see how close
to the original maw bite you get.
Cause that's just, yeah, like I said,
it's one of my favorites, right?
So if you can go back and try and find it,
why wouldn't you want to try that at some point?
Absolutely.
This one here, this is a Lemonberry by Ethos.
And I'm liking this one.
And he used to have another arm that was just as big
as these three, but I tore that off
in my gardening mishaps.
Well, it's a good situation one,
but I'm sure the plant did nothing to deserve it.
And it was just me being rough with it.
This one here, this is a Spider Girl number one.
So this was, once again, be the mother
of that Spider Girl clone I was showing you.
And as I said, this is Charlotte's Web
crossed with Violator by Chemdog Afghani.
So I got high hopes for this one
as a strain to develop into,
possibly like F4, F5, but not just like,
say one lane with it.
I'd like to,
like this, the mother, this plant right here,
it looked a lot like the Charlotte's Web.
So I'm hoping there's a lot of CBD in this one.
From there, if it, when it's finished off,
if it seems a lot like a mom,
I might send it into testing and just find out
what is the CBD in there.
And if there is a good amount,
start breeding that with higher THC
to get close to that one to one.
But I've also got a pack of CBG regular seeds
that I would like to try,
maybe breed that in there as well.
It seems, research just seems to indicate
that like the more cannabinoids and whatnot
you can get in there, the better it seems to be.
There's a lot of talk between growers in our circle
about how over the years with everything bred for stealth
and whatnot, we kind of bred out a lot of the stuff
that we actually want in there today.
So I'm lucky, like I've,
I recently had an experience with someone
who means the world to me where you had
what appears to be seizures and whatnot.
And I was already working with this.
Spider girl was already a thing when this happened.
But when I was a witness to this,
one of the worst things I'd ever seen,
it kind of, you know, and then I've already read
into research prior to this about the benefits
of CB seizures and stuff like that.
But that incident just renewed
and relit the fire under my ass to what we can do with this.
So it's just, another thing is a breeder.
There's multiple lanes, multiple things I'm trying to do.
It's awesome.
Direction is so important in what we do or breeding.
Direction is very important there, yeah.
Yeah, but everything looks real happy in here.
Actually, one thing I'm gonna shout out to Zozo Jay
is he's got a spider girl one in flower
that is like maybe a couple of days ahead of this
and his looked much farther along than this,
which just shout out to gardening experience
and whatnot like that.
But it's, there's no competition there,
but it's like when you look at someone and be like,
yeah, you grew that better than I did.
Good on you, you know.
Yeah, and like we said earlier,
you made that change in feed
and you just saw dramatic results.
Environments always make big results.
And that's something too that a lot of times new growers
or even experienced growers, when you get a new place,
you have to take a couple of runs
to really dial it in almost.
You learn along the way
and then your experience lets you fix it.
But yeah, to start, if you start completely dialed in,
you had a great budget to work with.
Yeah, well, that's another thing.
So I was for the longest time,
I was the guy that was, well, fuck,
I had extension cords going out to the shed I was growing in.
And then it was like,
we just got our grow space out there,
dialed into a reasonable level
where we're getting good stuff.
And then it's okay, you're not living there anymore
and you're starting everything fresh.
And I was like, the last thing I wanted to be
is going back to chasing every little problem
from the beginning again.
So I was like, okay, you're just,
you're gonna go straight to tents.
You're not gonna go try and put something in a closet,
hang tarps or whatever over there to try and keep,
you know what I mean?
You just go straight to a tarp.
Instead of getting like the six inch fan,
which will probably work in that four by four tent,
just go straight to eight
because I've had ventilation problems.
And it was like an extra 50 bucks
for almost double the CFM at the time I was ordering it.
So it just kind of made sense to me.
And then also with lights,
I knew I wanted to go towards LEDs.
And it's all the thing nowadays.
And at that moment in time,
I had the money to be able to drop them
on these cannons here.
And from what I'm seeing so far, I'm happy.
Definitely.
Everything looks happy.
It's a great stuff.
You know, more than anything right now,
having my therapy back, this is,
I, how many of you watching right now relate to this,
but this is almost,
this almost maybe more enjoyable
than the actual ingesting of the cannabis
and enjoying of it.
Just that time you spend with your class.
I locked this for a good few months
and now here it is, it feels good.
Dude, a hundred percent.
And I'm glad that you have it back in your life
because yeah, I, you know, there's,
sometimes the garden is like the shower.
Nobody interrupts you when you're in the shower.
And when I could go into like my little tent,
my little closet, it's like, that's the, you know,
on air button right there.
I'm just, I'm in there.
I'm with my thoughts, I'm with the plants.
And usually it's just me and the plants.
So, you know, all that other stuff is pushed,
kind of pushed out.
Right, dude, my plants don't give me shit
when I talk to them.
They just fucking sit there and fucking smile at me,
all happy and stuff.
Yeah, exactly.
And another great thing is like say
in my last relationship I was in,
she just, she didn't care about gardening,
growing pot.
And you know what, that's fair enough.
I get it.
This isn't for everybody, you know,
but whereas the relationship I'm in now,
she was already, she went to horticulture school
years ago, long before I'd ever met her, right?
And so now she's got like, we're growing this together.
And it's like, oh, so our first date,
it went like this.
I picked her up.
We went to the dispensary to pick up some weed.
From the dispensary, we went to the grow store
and bought the entire line of Blue Sky Organics stuff
so we could start growing and gardening together
because we knew we were gonna do that.
And then from there, we went and smoked those joints
out in Overlook, that kind of overlooks our city
where you can just sit there and smoke joints.
So like our very beginning of our relationship
started off with growing pot in mind.
That is a win.
Oh, I'm sorry, don't let me stop you.
I'm just thinking out loud.
I'm like, that's such a winner right there.
Is that not like one of the best first dates ever?
Like, I think I was on social media
bragging the shit out of that.
But like, cause we sit there, like I was saying earlier,
that tent is in my bedroom, right beside the bed.
So you open up one of those side hatch doors
and you both kind of lay there side by side
with your heads in there, just look in.
And it's, you know, you get that childish giddy talk.
Oh, look at this one starting to do this.
And all of this one's starting to grow this way.
Oh, we're gonna have to start bending that arm down
so that everything else near it can catch up.
And it's just, it's not,
I've not had that kind of companionship in growing
like in my life and having that is just amazing.
So shout out to BT Stoner Mom.
She's probably not watching,
but she can probably hear me yammering on somewhere.
Yeah, that's, I mean,
when the plant is such a huge part of our life,
there, you know, it comes with the territory.
It's a package deal, you know,
there's no such thing as a part-time or a half-time grower
when you love the plant, you know.
I don't know, I can't switch it off.
I'm always thinking of something,
trying to think of something.
It's how we get better.
Yeah, well, and you remember the myth
that we all talk about where it's like,
I'm done buying seeds,
or it's like, you know, you might be done buying seeds,
but you're certainly not done acquiring them.
Cause it's always like, even when you're like,
think you are, it's always just, you know,
your buddy hands you a bag of weed and it's fire stuff
and there's a seed in it.
It's like, oh, what do we have?
Yeah, this is true.
Let's see here.
Let's see if we can put our heads together.
We had a question from chat here.
I'll put it up.
Let me just switch the background on this real quick.
It's one of those questions where we're probably
gonna have to get a few responses,
but it says, I've got a few girls budding 22 days in,
and they're showing a light green color
and a few leaves are yellowing right there.
My first initial thought is where is this happening
on the plant?
Is it the entire plant being the same light green color
or is it the top portion being light green?
And is it the bottom being yellow?
Cause that'll kind of-
Where's the yellowing coloring and starting?
Because you know, yeah, if the yellowing is starting up top,
then you have a quick eight different problem.
Yeah, definitely.
Mobile versus immobile nutrients.
The mobile ones like nitrogen, as the top wants more,
it's gonna send it up from the bottom.
So that might be why you see some yellowing at the bottom.
But if you saw the yellowing at the top
and the bottom is still green,
then it's immobile nutrients and it's having a problem
getting to the top, which is your new growth.
So that could be a problem with your soil or your feed.
So that question and Hugh, please feel free to DM me
as well on Instagram.
I'm happy to follow up with these.
My last run, I experienced a light green all over the plant.
I looked at the veins of the leaves,
like the veins on your leaves,
are they still like a nice green yellow color
or have they turned purple?
That's something that can also kind of tip you off.
My solution, and maybe you could send me a picture too,
my solution was I actually did just an Epson salt,
bumped up the sulfur.
Sometimes when you see the entire plant
kind of getting a light green around at that point,
sulfur is a macro nutrient
that you're usually not supplementing.
Some plants want it more than others.
So that might be something to it.
And then as for the transplant,
I mean, he can do the transplant, but you are getting,
I mean, it's so hard to transplant something
that size usually without shocking it
in some form or manner.
Like if you do it good enough,
you might only have like two or three days loss
on your growth, but you are definitely gonna shock it.
And I'd probably say more like a week.
But if you have the time, I mean, go ahead and do it.
It's not a horrible option.
And I've never actually tried transplanting
that late myself.
Because like you mentioned,
I wouldn't wanna shock it or put it back.
But at the same time, a lot of people
are always concerned about that
when transplanting at any stage.
And I usually do not see a huge setback as far as growth.
Typically, I mean, it's not usually too bad.
With the five gallons,
it's just you're dealing with such a bigger,
heavier root mass, a bigger plant,
you're just swinging shit around.
It's just easier to get problems with your root,
like an infection or something,
just to transfer some kind of disease
or something to those roots.
So just to keep them a little bit clean,
take care in what you're doing.
And then make sure that the soil you're putting it back into
is like available.
Because if you're just throwing it into something
that's not like cooked off and stuff,
then at that point, you might as well just top dress
and start really going heavy on your microbes
because you're basically doing the same thing.
Does that make sense?
To me, yes.
And you see here, it says just two plants out of the 13.
That would make me said the entire,
okay, let's see here.
Entire plant went lime green and yellowing
started in the bottom and the middle.
That could be kind of what I was alluding to.
I would also ask if it's drinking the same.
So it's just two out of the 13 plants,
which means typically it's something particular
about that pot or the soil that it's sitting in,
especially if it's the same cultivar
because otherwise it's in the same conditions,
has the same environmental influences.
But I would also ask, yeah, if it's just drinking as fast
or if it's drinking less,
because again, that's an indication of lack of uptake
and problems potentially pH related in the root zone.
So yeah, diagnosing is always one of the harder things to do
just because there's so many variables
and so many things that can contribute to it.
But it's usually that from my audio engineering days,
it's that signal flow.
You kind of start in the middle
and see what the problem is and where you're hitting it.
So I always go to-
You went up and down a little bit.
Yeah, yeah.
It's just, okay, where's it showing up on the plant?
Bottom, top, that's a train of thought.
Particularly if it's in the same environment
and same cultivar, is it drinking the same
as every other plant?
That can give you a lot of hints too.
I like the way you think about it.
When I start doing that stuff for people,
it's always like, all right,
first thing you need to do is write me a novel.
I need to know what you're doing to it,
what your pH levels are, how you're growing it,
what your environment is.
Where did that yellowing start?
How long ago did it?
I need a whole lot of information usually
before I start throwing out
because people get real fucking pitchy about that stuff.
Especially if you kill their plant from something you did.
And it's hard too.
Sometimes a lot of deficiencies will look like,
well, it looks like a deficiency.
So you're like, well, add this to it.
But you don't realize that it's the pH
not making it available or, again,
a ton of varieties that, oh, there's plenty of this there.
So you're adding more.
Yeah, yeah, because something's like antagonistic now.
Now you got something just fighting
and that's why it's plenty of it's there.
It's not available for it.
So yeah, there's so many options that you have to look at.
It's so hard, but we do the best we can.
Exactly, and pictures are worth a thousand words too.
And group minds too.
Because again, we all have different sets of eyes.
I'm the only one with four, fuck you.
But everybody has different experiences.
And like we were saying-
I got them right here.
Oh, there we go, all right.
Top row, four eyes.
We were saying earlier though,
sometimes something that just seems common knowledge
to one of us may not be common knowledge
to the rest of the world.
So it's always fun when you just hear those little things
or say those little things.
It's always good to get multiple opinions there.
Yeah, and I don't know how many times
have you ever come across something,
somebody does something so obvious,
you're like, how in the fuck did I never see that?
Like, I've had things just blow my mind
after like 20 years and I'm like, what?
That is, okay, all right.
So there's even those things that get us,
it's like, oh shit, that's-
Why could I have not invented the pet rock?
Damn, you know?
It's a great way to send messages to people,
write it on rocks and just keep throwing them out there
and just wait for people to find them.
Definitely, I guess kind of along the same vein though,
you know, we are getting close to 420, we got seven minutes.
So for all of you on the West Coast, get ready for 420.
We'll light it up.
But what is a piece of advice, you know,
and I'd love to get everybody's opinion on this,
but just a new piece of advice
or a good piece of advice for a new grower,
someone who may be starting out
or a mistake that you kind of made upfront
that you learned from.
Just trying to help, you know,
the inspiring growers out there
learn from some of the shared experience.
So, you know, Indica, you've been hanging in there,
you're in the dark, brother.
Thank you again for hanging in there.
Absolutely, man.
Absolutely.
Yeah, I guess, yeah, for me, man, like, you know,
more indoor when I started indoor, I was just, you know,
I was so excited, man.
And I wanted to do everything and everything right at once.
Like, I mean, my fucking head was just, you know,
from growing outdoors so long and stuff like that,
I was just, you know, I'm obsessed with this plant.
You know, I'm dedicated to this plant
and I love this plant in many ways, you know?
And, you know, I just, for a new grower,
if you have that mindset, being excited, you know,
just stick to something simple, you know?
Don't try to go down 20 different avenues at once.
Start with one thing and master that.
And I think another thing to go with that for me,
speaking from personal experience,
is stick to one cultivar, one strain,
and master that strain, learn that strain.
Let that strain teach you.
And then move on from there, you know?
I made a lot of mistakes.
I've wasted a lot of money
just from going down rabbit holes, you know,
before meeting this amazing community,
the Caribou Crew, Cannabis.
You know, I didn't talk to nobody.
It was where I was.
It's, you know, it was still kind of at that time,
it wasn't, the medical was here,
but it was still kind of like hush hush, you know?
So until I found all those guys, you know,
I was going down many of those online feed,
you know, rabbit holes, I guess you could say.
So that's another thing I would say too,
for, you know, experience wise,
is try to stay off, you know,
or go off of those shitty forums that are out there,
you know, that you'll get nothing but grief
and bullshit and hate and, you know,
20 million different opinions
is just gonna make you more frustrated.
And I feel like, you know,
you're more likely to fail, you know,
and et cetera, you know?
So, you know, stick to shows like this one right here
with Chad, you know, Michigan Bro Grow show out there.
You've got Ivory Genetics, man.
I mean, there's so many amazing podcasts,
GGC, you know, that you can learn from, you know?
You know, I think those were some of my biggest mistakes
ever first starting out.
And then for me, it's not listening to my wife, Mrs. B,
you know, I thought, you know,
cause she was just learning,
she didn't know much and this and that.
And let me tell you, man,
a lot of times I should have listened to that woman.
So I thank her a lot, you know,
for keeping me, you know,
straight and focused and centered, you know?
So yeah, I guess that's, you know,
my, you know, yeah, my opinion or my, yeah.
Yeah.
Your two cents and it was a damn good two cents, man.
That's, you know, the first point you brought up
and I love that is learn a plant, master a plant
before moving on to so many other things.
I totally started that way because that's just what I had.
I didn't have access to other stuff.
Now that I do, I've been growing a lot of different things
and I've recently kind of had that thought,
like you said, you know, I'm like, you know,
it's really fun when you can master a particular cultivar.
And a lot of people will talk about, you know,
just the little nuances and you know,
nuances between like a synthetic or organically grown.
But those are the things that you get
when you've really mastered a particular strain,
whether it's the feeding, whether it's the humidity,
whether it's the temperature,
whether it's the distance to the light,
those are all things that, yeah,
if you can truly dial in a strain,
I think that's an awesome thing,
but it takes a while and it takes note taking.
So there's a lot of exciting opportunities out there,
but I'm glad you mentioned that in the Gubby
because that's a great one.
Yeah, get to know your plants.
Absolutely, I think that's a good thing.
And just to add onto it, I think just stick with your instinct,
your gut, you know, like that was another one of my failures
is I listened to, you know, I guess people
that were at that time just with me
because of what I was getting ready to do.
And they just, you know, seen dollar signs, apparently,
you know, those people are no longer around,
but anyways, you know, don't listen to, you know,
go with your gut, man, go with your heart, you know,
and yeah, you know, just don't,
just one step at a time, one day at a time,
one step at a time in the garden, you know, and yeah.
Right on, man, right on.
How about yourself, Caribou?
One minute until the magic moment,
but I just wanted to get down,
say that before we get down to you too.
What, you know, what's a good piece of advice
for the new person?
I think one is you can grow cannabis for cheap
and you can get good cannabis for cheap,
but there's certain areas where you don't necessarily
have to like, don't buy the cheapest of everything you can
because eventually you're gonna get caught
and they're a bit in the butt.
That was my way for the first like a while there,
like examples, like proper grow lights, right?
Like people were telling me I was growing
under a single T5, was the first thing
I started growing under.
And people are saying, well, no, you need brighter lights.
And I'm just like, well, I'm a F you, right?
I've got my light, it says grow light on it
and stuff like that.
And then soon enough you realize that, you know,
then from there, that clearly wasn't enough, right?
Figured out soon.
And then the next was like another cheap light.
I can't remember what the name of it was,
but it was very affordable, but it burned out within,
it was like, I didn't even get through a cycle.
And that's actually, I've mentioned before,
like how I had a light burn out
and I had to make a lighting change near the end.
Not that would have been the one I was referring to, right?
If you buy the cheapest of everything,
every time there's stuff just starts burning out
and you keep replacing that,
that would be more of a cost in the long run.
It's just, yeah, it's bit my ass.
And then also another one is,
if you're asking for help on your grow,
put your ego aside.
If you're asking for someone for help,
nobody really wants to be told that they're not doing well
or like receive criticism necessarily, right?
It doesn't feel good.
But like when someone comes into your grow,
a more experienced grower and is like,
hey, you're doing this wrong, this wrong,
this wrong, this wrong, you gotta change all this shit.
And you just kinda, it doesn't feel good
when you hear that, but sometimes you need to be told that
because that really is the difference
in pulling a C and D grade bud
and pulling A or B grade bud, right?
And it's just, I'm stubborn.
I've got a real strong, stubborn streak
and I've tried to fight that.
This is why I'm saying this.
It's not because,
cause I'm not the expert that gets donged off.
I'm the guy that oftentimes would be told,
well, you gotta change your ventilation here or this there.
And just about every single time those people were right.
So it's all that I was butthurt about.
It's just that, it just listens when you ask.
When you ask these people stuff,
they generally know what they're talking about.
Good, definitely good input there.
And then before we get to you, Fluff,
I just have to put up a comment.
I have absolutely no idea where this come from.
I have absolutely no idea how it even relates
to what we're talking about, but it's, I fully agree.
And it's the raddest thing I've read in a long time.
So Jolly Canna, vanilla ice never really sucked.
He dropped what he had
and then went and killed it on motocross.
Then was hilarious in that movie with Donnie Berger.
Amen, ice ice baby, shout it.
Fucking A and let's not forget,
that dude actually makes some fucking
pretty rad ass heavy metal music.
I don't know if you've heard his fucking shit,
but he does not just get down with that white boy rap.
He can fucking get down.
Yes, yes.
That hard to swallow album where he remade ice ice baby
into the small food cold.
That's good shit, man.
His album bipolar.
I could sit here and I could talk vanilla ice with you.
And not just-
I saw him do that fucking album live, bro.
It was awesome at a fucking bar,
like literally walking distance from my house.
It was amazing.
Yeah, dude, me and the wife were like,
one night they're like, vanilla ice is gonna be at the bar.
I'm like, well, fuck yeah, we're going to that.
Oh yeah.
And it was amazing.
We had a blast and he hates that song
and he fucking does it with a smile on his face
and everybody fucking loves it.
Oh yeah.
Just-
He's known for that one and only thing really, right?
And the eyebrow, and the eyebrow, bro.
Don't forget the eyebrow.
Oh bro, don't forget about that hair.
Like that thing he had fucking going on.
I don't even know how to do it on this camera right now.
I remember I was in grade three
when to the extreme dropped, right?
I had an older brother and all his friends
started like walking around with like lines
shaved into their eyebrows after that.
And who can't respect a guy who did a show
for the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movie?
Now, granted it wasn't the first one,
but he was in Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle movie.
Are you that cool?
T-U-R-T-L-E power, T-U-R-T-L-E power,
Teenage Mutant Ninja, Heroes in a half shell.
Is this live?
Yeah.
Okay.
Wrapping it up here real quick.
We're gonna get your input Fluffy Garden
on something that a new grower could benefit from hearing
or maybe just a tough lesson that you learned along the way.
Learn to clone, all right?
And then experiment because once you have one plant,
you have a lot of plants.
So get your cloning game down
and then do not be afraid to play with your plants
because that's really how a lot of us end up learning
more than anything is failures.
So you have one plant, you learn your cloning game,
get your cloning game down
and it doesn't matter how many times you fail,
you can just get more and more and keep going
until you get your shit right.
So try, just try.
There's a reason they call it weed, man.
This plant is very forgiving.
You know, we're all striving
to get the most out of our plant
but this is a very forgiving plant
and you can get something out of it,
you know, with a very, very little bit.
So do your experiments and get your game on point
and you'll see results very quickly
and you'll start becoming much more comfortable
playing with the plant and, you know,
getting your genetics out.
You know, there's so many things,
just getting comfortable helps out with
because, you know, much like everybody, man,
I'm a, well, not everybody, I've heard tell,
you know, you say you're a notorious seed killer.
I am, dude.
Me and fucking seeds, we don't get along sometimes.
So it's just like, ugh, but I don't need a seed
if I've got a plant already going, man, I've got a cut.
So, you know, I can play with that from now until forever.
Yeah.
So.
Yeah, that's, you know, that's huge.
That's cloning.
It's a big thing.
That's something, you know, I had to do out of necessity
and you're right, there's nothing to lose.
And, you know, we're looking at caribou's plants earlier
and I mentioned, you know, this, you know,
trimmed up the bottom.
Those bottoms that you're trimming up
and you're just gonna throw away
or put in your compost, whatever,
try cloning those because if they don't clone,
you didn't lose anything.
And the more practice you can get,
the better off you are.
And, you know, even for, you know, trying to revege,
revege, I don't encourage people to revege,
but it's something that you do in a worst case scenario.
So even practice that.
There's usually that one little branch
somewhere in your flowering plant
that didn't grow more than three inches.
It's just kind of like a waste of bud and energy.
Just try cloning that.
Again, if it doesn't clone, what did you lose?
So huge, huge point.
All of you guys, really good points today.
So thank you.
I appreciate that.
Yeah. And you know, I think that's the thing
people forget, you know, I mean,
once you have that one plant,
you have so many of them that you can do
whatever you want to it.
Just make sure you baby that one.
And so you have a plant, but you know,
the rest of them, you can try all your wild shit,
do your fucking crazy stuff
and figure out what works for you.
Yep.
Absolutely.
Before I ever cut a clone,
I was so nervous about like fucking it up or something like that.
I went to the tomato plant that I had growing on
in an aquaponic system in the front window
and I made a bunch of cuts off that
and I dipped those in cloning solution and powder
and did what you will to get the clones.
And I might have fired call all of them
or whatever sprouted, right?
But then you get into actually doing clones
and you realize, yeah, this is really
one of the easiest processes that you can think of.
Yeah, you will lose clones,
but like it's a 99% success rate
unless you're having like environmental problems.
Yeah.
Yep.
And again, you know,
that's just a way to keep a plant that you love going.
It's gonna be the same expression.
It's not gonna be a different expression
from the same seed pack.
It's the same thing going time and time again.
So that's huge advantage to it.
Yeah, especially for experimentation.
You know this plant so well
that you know when you do this to it,
now I'm gonna change this and what's gonna happen.
You know, it makes it so obvious that it's ridiculous.
And to tail on what you said, you know,
when you're trimming your plants,
that's the exact time that like you said,
you should clone like that
because you can just throw fricking cuts everywhere.
I mean, you could fill a hundred solo cups
just to fill them.
You know, once they bust roots,
fucking throw them away, who cares?
What do you, what do you know?
And you don't even have to lose the dirt.
Just recycle that dirt.
It only had roots in it for a week.
You know, what's the difference?
So you can think of it that way.
It's just plucking them in there,
see if it roots, if it roots, cool.
You ain't gotta keep it.
But you all know we're gonna keep it.
And that's when we need to add those portable tents.
Absolutely.
I always take two cuts when I need only one
and then I have two and well shit,
you know what happens next.
Oh shit, I take eight when I need one.
Right.
And I'm always at, you can ask anybody who knows me.
Every time I take cuts, fucking two weeks later,
I'm like, hey man, y'all need some fucking plants.
I way over cloned everything again, every time.
Yeah.
I've lost strains through cloning though,
where the one instance I'm thinking of,
like it was in the middle of a heat wave that we had
where I think everything just got too hot
and I lost just about everything.
So there's always a fear of if you do cut
just one or two and shit does go south on you, right?
So take what Fluff was just saying,
clone way more than you need.
And then if like,
I just threw out a bunch of clones this morning.
I took them out of the cloner.
I was talking Lemon Jeffery, Spider Girls,
basically sisters to the ones
that I was showing you in the tent.
And it just, you know, like throw them in the cloner
for two weeks or whatever.
Some of them didn't have roots
or the root systems weren't as nice.
And it's just like, bye bye.
Now imagine if I'd only taken say four clones
and while I threw out four cuts, right?
Okay, well you see, right?
It could be bad.
I just, it's a plan,
but it does suck when you have to actually throw them out.
It's, it always does.
You know, I came up with a,
so I, I, I worm farm.
No, shouldn't be a surprise to anybody.
I've got worms everywhere.
So I actually just had to kind of read,
mentally think about it.
Any clone I throw away is feeding my worms.
It's feeding my soil.
It's going back onto the top dress.
So in essence, it's like growing lettuce for me.
I'm just cutting it down to eat the damn thing.
It's not, you know, so I kind of had, you know,
if I over clone, it's cool.
I got more food and very specific food
that I want for my worms.
And, and that provides the right nutrient levels
or you know what I mean?
The right nutrients for the plant because it is the plant.
So.
Yeah.
And I always say, you know,
kind of like we're all hinting at here is I always say,
you know, best practices for cloning is to take more clones
than you're going to need and make sure they root
before you actually put your plant into flower.
Cause again, I'm not into reversing the hormones
to bring it back to a veg state.
That's the best practices.
I've gotten a little cocky over the years
cause my arrow cloner knock on wood has not failed me
in like two years.
So I just put things into flower the other day
and just took one clone of each plant.
And you know, they're not rooted yet, who knows,
but I know they're going to root knock on wood.
I did the same thing and just lost a fucking wonderful
strain because the one cut I took did not fucking make it.
And the guy who told me, the breeder told me this thing
does not like the fucking root, like does not like
the clone.
He goes, so do a lot and do it a lot of different ways.
And I was like, eh, I'm good.
I threw one in my cloner and it did not fucking work.
Damn.
Well, yeah.
And then, you know, being familiar with the strains too
will help you, but yeah.
Hey man, rotations.
I'm trying to tightly manage things here.
It's all about timing, crop rotation.
Yeah.
You know what, it was a new plant too.
So it had just earned its spot.
So it didn't actually have a spot yet.
So it got thrown in and that was, you know,
just exactly what you thought, you know,
it's just screwed up all around.
Yep.
Well, hey, real quick, I want to let Indica B get going.
We're all going to hang it up here.
But one last question, cause I know you're driving.
Please give us a shout out or tell us where people
can find you, sir.
Yeah, absolutely, man.
Yeah, we're getting going.
We got the pups at home.
So they've been there for a few hours.
So we want to get them, get them fed, et cetera.
But yeah, man, thank you for having me.
It was a blessing.
It was a pleasure.
Shout out to everybody in chat.
And yeah, you can find me on Instagram
at Mr. and Mrs. Indica B and Cannabuzz, Indica B.
And we haven't really been updating as much.
We've been so busy, but we're going to get back
to really posting on Instagram and Cannabuzz again.
So as the season comes to an end,
we have a little bit more time, but yeah.
And it was awesome kicking it with you, Chad
and Fluff and Caribou.
I miss you guys.
I love you guys, man.
Definitely see you guys in the morning for the show.
I've been busy as hell, but we're slowing down here,
which is good.
So getting more cannabis time stuff.
So I'm looking forward to it, man.
Cool, dude.
Thank you.
Thank you so much for joining us and sharing
and driving safe, man.
I'll see you at Caribou Heart TV.
Hell yeah, man.
You all have a good night and yeah,
everybody have a blessed weekend, man.
Cheers.
Thank you.
Peace out, brother.
Thanks for joining us.
Love you, B.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Okay, well, we'll let him get home safe, safely.
That was nice.
Definitely appreciate his time.
And it's always interesting when you start something
while it's sunny and then all of a sudden it's dark.
You're like, that happened quick.
Yeah, and when you pay attention,
it really does happen quicker than you think.
It's like so quick.
It really is amazing.
Yeah.
Well, hey, one last question.
And sometimes the answer is no.
So if the answer is no, just say so.
But I always like to ask everybody,
is there something that I didn't ask you
that you wanted to talk about
or that you thought people should know
other than Caribou Heart is the funniest show
on the webcast?
That's, wow.
That's awesome.
Well, thank you for that.
But there is actually one thing I want to do.
So many times they have bad cut that,
send that to us.
We need that.
Yeah, before he deletes it, quick.
Don't give him a call.
One thing I want to do, my shirt right here,
hypothetical genetics.
This is a brother of ours that I do show with.
He's into breeding autoflowers,
but more specifically in the one-to-one CBD THC ratios.
He's doing a hell of a job making a great name
for himself without out there.
So if you're interested in breeding up his beans there,
you can get ahold of him on cannabis,
hypothetical genetics.
Great guy, one of the nicest people
you're ever going to meet too.
Flop, you've grown his stuff.
Yeah, absolutely dude.
Wonderful medicine.
I can't say enough about him.
I've had very similar turf profiles
and very similar smoking experiences
with some very high-end breeders as to what he's growing.
So yeah, man, if you guys can get ahold of it,
it's wonderful medicine for sure, man.
He doesn't always like to say that it's a one-to-one
because he says it's one-to-one ish.
He's never had personal testing,
but he is breeding for high CBD with high CBD cultivars
that he knows with nice high THC strains.
So man, he's getting great profiles.
His new generation, I just ran some testers for him
and the plants are just getting stronger
and stronger as he goes.
So yeah, support this local brother
because he's making great meds for everybody.
Awesome, man.
That's the kind of stuff I like to hear,
growing great meds for people.
That's what it is, man.
And you know what?
I just chopped mine down.
We all kind of laughed.
We made it a competition between all of us,
Cariboovers, just to kind of fuck with each other,
have a good time, grow some plants out,
talk some shit to each other.
But in reality, a lot of the guys
have never got to try this.
So this is their first foray into it.
And for me, it was a great excuse to grow more meds
because as soon as I chopped down,
I talked to a patient of mine and said,
hey, do you remember that stuff I gave you last time?
I just chopped down a bunch more.
Do you want me to hold some back for you?
And they couldn't have been more excited.
Nice, nice.
Perfect.
I love hearing that, man.
That's the way it should be.
I like it.
Well, let's go through and just give you guys,
give yourselves a shout out.
Tell us about your Instagram.
Tell us about your YouTube channels,
any other place that people could find you.
Definitely would love to hear it.
We'll go to you, Caribou here real quick.
But yeah, please tell people where they can find
and learn more about you guys.
All right, well, I'm on Instagram.
I think it's caribouheartTV.
I believe we've added caribouheartorganics.
I'm pretty sure it's been switched to TV.
You go on Cannabuzz.
I'm trying to get more active on there
now that I'm growing again.
So you'll see me popping up on there.
It's caribouheartgenetics on Cannabuzz.
And we got our show that we do on YouTube
three times a week right now.
We'll be live tomorrow morning at 6 a.m. Pacific,
9 Eastern.
It's, Fluff is gonna be there.
Indicabee's gonna be there.
We have a great casting crew.
Got 71DPO.
He's one of the best new artists within the scene right now.
That's another guy you guys should be checking out
if you're into cannabis art.
Man, check out 71DPO, man.
My brother's a fire.
And we just chat and sometimes we have guests on
and I get to know them a little bit more.
But like you said, it's just kind of a,
laughter is kind of one of the things we shoot for.
Tuesday nights is more of a guest-friendly night
that we have.
We try and have a dedicated guest night.
And that's at 6 p.m. Pacific, which would be 9 Eastern.
And I believe we have Zoso J coming up this Tuesday,
which that's gonna be freaking awesome.
If you've ever watched what he's doing
on Instagram or cannabis,
this guy can organic grow with the best of them.
He's the guy that I was saying is growing my own strains
better than I can grow them, right?
So shout out to him.
And if I got the scheduling mixed up on that,
well, my apologies.
So.
That's that's-
And his photography is fucking amazing.
The dude's macro photography is outstanding.
Yeah.
And we, Friday nights, same time, 6 p.m. Eastern,
6 Pacific, 9 Eastern.
We have a community session where it's like,
hey man, you wanna come hang out with us live on the Zoom?
Everybody's welcome.
We post the link up there,
so you can just click it, jump in on Zoom with us.
If you'd rather just hang out in the live chat,
it's always a great atmosphere there.
We've got a wicked group of people.
Chad, you can attest to that, man.
You've been one of them many times.
Yeah, it's a great time.
It's shits and giggles is what we're all about.
And if we can learn a thing or two about this great plant
while we're at it, even better, right?
Yeah.
Well said, well said.
We could sit on a fucking screen
and probably just stare like this and let Chad go,
and they'd probably be just fine.
I don't think they need us on the screen.
Like, we just are a good spot for time slot
for them to get in on our chat.
Because they're fucking great, man.
Yeah.
Well, how about yourself though, Fluffy?
Tell us where can people find you
and learn a little bit more or give you a follow-up.
Well, I was one of the,
I've been a long time cannabis person.
It's kind of a rough thing to be on,
but you can find me there under Fluffykins.
I still support it.
I still post on it.
And I need to get back to it a little heavier.
I recently started an Instagram.
It's at Fluffs Gardens.
I try to do what I can.
I'm not an Instagram person,
but I'm trying to work my way through there.
I just like to show off pictures.
I guess I kind of found out I like to take pictures of pot
and show people.
So it's kind of a fun platform, I guess.
We'll see.
Yeah.
And then you can find me Tuesdays and Sundays
with Caribou Art TV on YouTube.
I show up Tuesdays and Sundays.
And we're just,
we try to keep a great community together.
And that's really what our show is all about, man.
It's having fun with this community.
It's family.
It's, you know what, it's just, it's good vibes.
And we keep it that way.
And we want to keep it that way.
You know what?
We're not there to fucking start any shit.
We're not there for trauma.
We just want to hang out, enjoy our medicine,
and talk with amazing people from all over the world.
So, and that's what we're all about.
And that's why our chat's so fucking awesome.
And the community that's around us, and you also.
So, just say thanks to everybody out there for that.
Well, well, well said, man.
I agree.
And you guys remind me of mushrooms
because you're a couple of fun guys.
So, thanks.
Thanks for-
You know, you already gave us the biggest,
the biggest compliment ever when you said
that you were hanging out with the cool kids once with us.
And we all just kind of were like, what?
Jiggling like little school girls.
So, you know what?
Stop it.
Stop it, stop it.
It's fun, man.
It's-
You can see if you're talking about someone else.
Yeah, right?
No, no, man.
It's fucking good times and good people.
And again, that's what we gravitate to.
Cause yeah, there are the shit shows out there,
but that's not where I gravitate.
So, I'm happy to-
No, we are the biggest of the shit shows.
Yeah.
We're a shit show in a different way.
We're a shit show in comical ways.
Self-deprecating.
So, we all have our finer points.
But no, thank you guys for allowing me into your orbit
and kind of actually coming here and sharing today
with a lot of the viewers over here.
Cause you know, I've been reading chat.
Everybody's enjoying it, having a good time.
And you know, community kicks ass.
So, thank you guys.
And thank you, chat.
Really appreciate that.
Thank you.
And thank you for all that you do on your side, man.
You put out a ton of informative content
that, you know, I've told you, man.
I'll pat your back all day long, brother, man.
You put out stuff that people need to hear.
It's intelligent.
It's amazing.
The guests are awesome.
Commend yourself on the work you do, brother.
Cause you're doing it out there.
And you, like me, you know,
you say you're for the meds, man.
It's all about the medicine and helping people.
So, big props to you, brother.
Thank you, man.
100%, thank you.
And, you know, thank you twice
because you actually reminded me.
I probably should let people know.
We've got a whole bunch of shows coming up this next week.
We do, we got some more content coming.
I know we're gonna, on this channel,
I know Tuesday, we're gonna be doing Hash Tuesdays again.
That starts at 9 p.m. Pacific Standard Time.
So, nine on the West Coast, midnight on the East Coast.
Pretty much when the Caribou Heart TV show is wrapping up,
we're gonna kick it off.
Wednesday afternoon, we've got Brian and Marco.
They're gonna be doing some living soil conversations.
And I believe Wednesday, yeah, this upcoming week.
God, I'm getting schedules.
But this upcoming week,
I'm gonna have another one of the boofers on,
one of the Cariboofers.
I'm gonna have Dave's not here.
And Fresh Baked as well.
And guys, we're talking seed collections.
There's a lot of collectors out there.
You got a good man right there
for seed collections, brother.
Yes, we do.
I'm excited for that, and that's gonna be fun.
Because whether it's seeds, shoes, skateboards, watches,
there's a little bit of a collector in all of us.
So, we're gonna be coming proper with that.
And that will be Wednesday evening,
7 p.m. Pacific Standard Time.
So, yeah, 7 p.m.
We'll get that started.
But hey, keep an eye on my Instagram.
It is chad.westport.
I'll be putting up a flyer for that.
And then I guess just keep it locked here on the FCP02.
Plenty of content coming for you guys.
So, I guess with that, again,
thank you guys one more time.
I'm gonna hit this wrap it up button.
And thank you, chat.
So, peace out.
Over here.
