I'm not much brother. Just hoping to have a good show today, man. How you doing good man rolling up this dube
right on
So, how does this work I'm not used to this clubhouse thing
What is this just this is it like is there a chat that goes along or?
There's a chat on YouTube if you put on the YouTube future cannabis channel
There will be folks there chatting you can do both at the same time by just close like opening one app
Your computer
Yeah, I got a lot of shit to do. I'm just gonna get so talk on this thing
How's that we'll handle the questions brother and you just take care of?
Just looking pretty brother
The fact that it's a boy helps out with that a lot
You know, I got a beautiful face for radio
What was that Peter I was gonna say we're live
So why don't you and I'll take it away and give everyone some context of all righty
All right, you want to do the introduction Tony sure I'll go for brother appreciate it today
Everybody I want to introduce you to a friend of mine and a lot of folks here
You might know about him. His name is to he owns the seed company. He also has a company called himpin
He does a lot of work with a
Strain that you guys might have heard back in the day called the r4 the woo also known as Charlotte's web
He does a lot of CBD work through a seed company with a lot of the lines that he produces
If you haven't heard about him, there's
The bird I believe there's the Shirley temple that he does in there TNT
The
Shirley high voltage
Yeah, all these these are killer lines for people to dig through if you haven't heard about him
Besides that he's a guy with a good heart when my mom was sick. He helped me out him and his partner Kyle. So
You know a lot of yeah big ups to Kyle for sure man, so this guy's got passion he's got heart
He's got mentality a lot of things that we all look for on this channel
So we thought we'd bring him on today since he's came up a few times and topics
Because of the work that he's done with the plant from the electric lemon G
Coming in second place at the High Times Cup to again
Like I said working with the Charlotte's web, which is known as the Charlotte's web. It's not its real name
But yeah, we wanted to bring
Those guys those guys have a brand now
Yeah promoting them or anything
That's why I brought up the wool for and the are for as the original names of these were to give
To the breeder my buddy Wu Tang back in Ohio. He he was the one that made that actually
And then I got seeds of it when I got out here
Well, you just had him labeled one and four and you know what it is
And so the idiot at the warehouse read him wrong. So it became the are
You know
Yeah, yeah, I stole him. But anyway
Yeah
I'm getting ready to do a THC line. Thanks to stuff like people like yourself that have sent me some winners there
Yes, sir. Put some of that on my other gear. That'll be cool
So, yeah
CBD I had put a picture up today on my
Instagram showing the mother to that shirt to the woo the
The wolf's taint there was something out. Maybe you want to talk about?
So the cream the cream is the cream the cream
Cream is the code name the wolf. Thanks to Mitch from the Adam Dunn show. He called it that it's it was funny
Cuz it does stink that is actually just an old-school Ohio strain. It's the
it's Jack Herrera with this old Afghani that we used to grow which stinks and
The reason I thought that it was what was bringing the magic into the woo
And all that is because when you'd smoke it it would tear you up
You know you would like forget
But you stand up to go wash the dishes and be like what the fuck was I doing?
You know, you get like halfway there you like forget everything
So I was like that's the medicine and then when we got here and we tested it
We figured out what it was and that all the CBD actually came
From Alex who just passed away from resin seeds and Soma was a really one of the guys
it was his reclining Buddha that him and Alex are working out that really had a lot of
CBD influence and what we're looking at now, you know
Yes, sir
We did I mean you couldn't test that shit in Ohio we just knew it was good herb, you know
That once I got out here, you know, you get the lab and everything. So it was like oh shit. That's uh,
That's pretty impressive, you know
It is awesome to hear the history of how that thing came to be
This isn't something that you can just look up you got to have the the people that were there
To tell you what actually happened back then because you're not gonna be able to Google the wolf's taint
in most cases
Maybe like that's okay. That's just the code name for the Ohio creep. It's so good man. It's like I don't know
I don't even think it's that high THC. But man is it wreck you up in a in a like a brain numbing kind of way
But yeah, so the Wu Tang put those together in Cleveland and then
my buddy had you know gotten some seeds from him and started some because I was trying to get the cream out here and
We couldn't like get the it took a second. Somebody had a cut couldn't get it right away
But I had those two so I came out here with that
you know and then landed in Denver and I
Was still carrying around a felony from it was like eight years before that
At ten years when they made that in Denver, so I had a drug felony so they wouldn't they wouldn't let me work in the
industry per se, you know in the
You know, I couldn't get badged until ten years after by then. I was like
Fuck the industry
Kind of a blessing in disguise I guess huh? Yeah, man, I so much bullshit in that hole
I'm so glad I don't I mean, I wish I owned a giant
Warehouse or something stupid like that, but I'm so glad I'm not somebody schlep
You know, like I don't know
It just seems silly to bust your ass to make and then like my buddy Ian perfect example
He's a bike. I taught him how to man. He's so good
He'll go into a grow and flip it over fix it make it look so nice
And then you know almost double the yields and then when he goes and asks for more money
They're like nope and get rid of him and fire and then like hire some idiot kid and then the idiot kid comes in and screws
Everything up again, and they gotta like beg him to come back and stuff like that
It was be easier if people just
You know paid what people are actually worth in this industry, you know
Absolutely as
It's every industry though, that's the people on top or always the shit rolls downhill as they say, you know, oh, yeah
It's why it's good to live this high
Here yeah
What about the you got any experience with a dumpster out there in Ohio?
Yeah, I used to grow the shit out of it somebody said it was an AK I brought it out here
It's just I lost a lot of stuff with a shuffle
Because they just stole it all or whatever. So I I have a buddy who's got it. I you know, it's it's good
It's not like my most favorite strain really but it used to dump
I mean nothing would but then it would get little
Like it would you get bananas on the bottom if you didn't clean it up well enough
So it kind of you know
No one needs random pollen floating around
Yeah, I hear that but it was especially with what you're doing. Yeah, you know, oh
Man, I can't wait. I'm about to run a
Dirty taxi run JJ from top dog. I'm sure you guys are familiar
He put together some CD. I need to buy some GMO that just turned into my favorite strain lately
That's what I'm smoking now
So I'm gonna I got a good mail out and I asked him if I could you know
I think it'll go good on my lemon be like funky
Nasty lemon food turps
Awesome talk about that lemon a little bit. That's something that our people are very familiar with of yours. So the lemon
The lemon I just you know, it was I have been growing that g13 that is the mom of the lemon for like
25 plus years
it used to be like the like
Ohio g13, you know that we were it was known for that kind of thing and
Someone hit it with something good and lemony. I'm not sure my buddy had given it to me and then I brought it out here
and then
So one day I'm in my garage and my grow and like I got a metal shelf
but that's tubbed out with some pond liner, you know, I mean like some thick-ass stuff to like some eight mil and
then I got my heating mat on top of that and I got my
my plants and like gallon, you know pots just on top of that and
And
You know and water in there and the tub would hold all the water and then I mean I guess you're not supposed to immerse
those
the
Seed bats, you know, I mean the heating mats
Cuz I went in there and the plants look great
They were like a foot ish tall
Maybe a little taller the bottom of the stems were like the size of my pinky finger like a nice number two pencil
you know like just and they were like the nicest plants I've ever ever seen ever actually and I
Went and I rubbed my arm across a man. I was like fuck I got shocked right? I'm like what in the
Seriously, so I got out the multimeter and I like scraped the ground and I tested it like 64
I think 62 or 64 volts to the top of the plant
So I was like, wow, this is cool. So, you know, I realized what's going on there
It says, you know the heating mat
So I rocked it like that for a while while I was thinking about how to apply this
I called a friend back in Ohio like a good good smart good friend. One of my best friends
and I was like dude check this out and what do you think of this and so we started doing some research and
You know, he was working at a medical supply place that was you know, and they have tens units
You know
Like you put the little patch on your arm and then on the other half and it shoots the electricity through
You know to play rebuild muscle and do stuff like that
So he sent me a bunch of those so I transferred from
the heating mat which was
Clearly shorting out because after a while I pulled the plug at 105
I was like, I'm gonna burn my garage down if I'm not careful. So I pulled the plug and
Then I got the tens unit. So those were more, you know, instead of the patches
I hooked I like put alligator clips and like use some copper probes
You know and that's you know, then I would I had those run into the plants and you could like adjust
This was cool, so I had some bugs on the you know, the plants like some aphids which are stupid but you know
and I could so the tens units have a power adjustment and then they have a
like a wavelength adjustment, you know, like speed of a Hertz, you know kind of thing and
So I could turn the bugs I could turn the power all the way up and the bugs would just be hauling ass and then you
Turn the power the wavelength out and the bugs would start moving slower or faster
You could just see him and they just spray him and they just kind of exploded like little capacitors
Once I could get the power up high enough. So I was like damn. This is great. I know Noah
you know, unfortunately like when I plugged them in all the
Beneficial stuff from my soil, you know like mites and you know, whatever like I had a soil wasp living in there, man
Everybody moved out but the bacterial levels went up like considerably
and
So I started looking at this so it's called electro culture. That's what this technique is called and it's been used since like I'm talking
Hundreds of years like yeah in the late 1800s
Belgian monk those guys that brew the beer and at the Trappist guys. They're also scientists. So this dude he did some
Experiments on static discharge from your foot into the ground and realized that where the static was being discharged
Increased bacterial levels and they didn't know it was good bad because this is the 1800s in the soil by 400%
so
And it strengthened the cells. I mean the plants were like just unstoppable. So
We went to the cop. I
That was a long time ago. I could talk about that
So we shot some herb over there more than we needed we just got everybody high and it was a good time and
The lemon itself is like such a turpy
stupidest looking plant ever but such a turpy monster, you know, like
People were coming up like this reminds me of old Thai and stuff. So when we got back we decided to buy like a
proper
not quite the right one electrical in like delivery machine, you know, like the head adjustable amps and
Wattage because I wasn't thinking right man, you know, like I know I'm a decent electrician
But if you know the difference between running in series and running in parallel
So, you know like in parallel you would run
like one to the next one of the next one the next one that make like a big circuit out of the whole thing out
Of all the plants and for that you need to push a bunch of amperage
which I
Come to find out murderous plants pretty easily and people like so
You know if you're thinking about doing this at home, and I encourage all kinds of stuff like this
Go with low amps like so I got this machine
It was pushing 5 amps and like 100 watts
But it would only be I was using 25 gallon pots and they act as giant capacitors
So they hold all the energy so to get a lot of energy to pass from one of the pots
To the next pot the next pot was damn near impossible what I should have been doing
I should have run like two main leads down the wall and then had like plugs where I could plug in each
Individual pot off the main leads which would have helped get the power right there
So I wouldn't had to increase the amp so much
So I fried out like half a crop and then I kind of set it down for a while
There was an expensive lesson in amperage and plants
But when I was in Amsterdam, I give a speech Adam got me up stage and stuff
And I was giving a speech about you know what I did and all this stuff and after I don't think anybody half the crowd
Didn't even speak English, but this one kid rolled up on me afterwards. It was like dude. I
lined my tent and
Aluminum foil and I'm like oh, dude
And then I had my ballast sitting down there and I like the ballast got immersed in water
And I'm like did you really lucky you're not dead?
He's like yeah
But I grew like a real football size bud and I'm like yeah
It like definitely increases the metabolism of the plant like for you
You know like we all run on electricity and when our electrical impulses get low we don't have enough magnesium
We get like issues in our bodies. You know so like same with plants, and then it came to
you know the the realization that I
can work out diseases and
Viruses and stuff out of these plants with electrical stimulation
so
Like there's multiple articles
And if these guys were doing this in cloning where they were just using like milliamps
I'm talking like super low amounts of amperage to rid
You know of like tobacco mosaic or like all that crap that goes along in there. You know
and
So like I have a g13 that I've been carrying around it gets variegated
I haven't had it tested, but I noticed when I plug that thing in it juices up real nice the green
You know if there's no variegation and the plants just grow phenomenally
So I think when I'm
You know what I'm eventually gonna get to is when I make the seeds I got to make another batch for Adam and stuff
I'll be electric lemon. I'm just going to
Plug the whole thing in you know so then that way like we have a higher propensity to fight off diseases that could be incurred
And all these older genetics. You know and stuff. That's been passed around from everybody to everybody. It's like that girl. You know
You know
Well yeah, so that's what I was doing that's what I'm trying to get out
I'm trying to like start back up the electrical stimulation
That that's awesome that's that's that's the main reason
I wanted you on here man because I love the fact that you're open with this information and
I'll remember how you put it earlier, but she's you highly encourage people doing this just watch the amperage. Yeah, I'll kill yourself
what I want to really get into next is
Like
What's called a like a Tesla coil so a Tesla coil operates?
I want an adjustable and they operated
50,000 volts and
0.5 amps
That's why those that's why I like Tesla could guess why you could like make one and shoot energy around you know what I mean
Because it's not gonna kill you. It's just high voltage
For the low amperage so then I want it to be adjustable
So I can adjust the amount of voltage because I don't know if I
Don't know if
50,000 volts would
Fry somebody out or not just yet people and plants, but uh yeah, if you google electroculture
There's tons of information everything from like okay check this out. This is cool, so
1930 something right right pre
petroleum takeover
The this dude for the World Fair decided he was gonna get like telephone poles on each end of his property
And I think it was either north as north and south like a pole and then wrap that shit with copper like 15 times with
the rotation of the earth
Blah blah blah and then sink it into the ground with like a chunk of metal
At one you know on each end. That's like tacked into the ground
And he won the World's Fair that year with he grew clovers. You know good old
Three inch tall clovers, but they grew eight feet tall
Just off the passive amount of electricity running through the air
Like he met and like you know he managed to get these clovers like literally eight feet tall
So I mean the technology has been there and then what happened man was a
You know petroleum took over we stopped being organic and nobody cared about you know you could just feed them all this crap
and they'll grow faster, but I
mean I
Highly recommend this kind of thing
That's awesome where I have a tens unit, and I was wondering like where do you where do you start with that?
No, you said that you really can't damage anything
But like where what would you recommend setting one of those tens units at because that's that's a lot of people have those as you
You well know is it you get them as good from the physical therapist when you hurt yourself
Yeah
One of the important parts about this is you get one that can plug into the wall
Because nine-volt batteries are like fucking ten bucks a piece
You know what I mean like you don't want like you're gonna go and you got to keep the plants not grounded
You don't want them sitting on the floor
Because then the energy won't be in the plant. It'll just get sucked into the ground. You know
That's why this was working so effective so you can put like a plastic saucer
You know I mean or like no well. Yeah, I guess that would work. You just got to keep it on grounded like yeah, so
The tens units don't really that's once you
So we get one with a plug and then you switch out the leads
Well, you know I like copper. Here's something real interesting, too
I have a bed like now
I'm rocking four by eight cloth beds you know with living soil and stuff in them and when we were filling up the beds
I was like well
I want to wire this one up so I went and bought like some two or four gauge copper roll like you know we
Wired it like up and down and up and down and up and down
Pulled the leads out of the soil
You know and I never really plugged it in because I haven't gotten the machine yet, but that bed
Runs shit like that bed any there's four beds and that one by far all the plants look way better
Not way better, but they
consistently like no problems
No, you know like just beautiful
And I think it has something to do with the actual copper in the bottom of the bed cuz that is like a I know
It's antibacterial and antimicrobial and stuff which can't be too good for your living stuff
But obviously like if this at the bottom you know and those beds are deep
it seems to be you know helping with any kind of root issues and the roots look real nice and
So now if I was gonna do the tens unit. I would just clip one on to the other
I don't know if that's enough power to run that hole because that's a lot of resistance through that thick piece of wire
But I might do that actually now that I'm thinking about it
Yeah, so you just put the probes in copper school now what you could do like a we were looking to
Graphene because you can buy graph like graphite probes. They're really brittle, but they would be less likely to transmit like
Copper ions that they started degrading and too much copper ions will throw off your soil into like a copper
You know I mean you'll lock out
so
you know
Start googling stuff. There's there's a lot of stuff out there
Start googling stuff. There's it's it's a cool technique, and I think it's a great way to really
You know better health through science. You know better living through electricity. How's that?
Yeah, I like the concept because you can clean stuff up like periodically. That's that's what attracts me to it
I hate the fact that I'm gonna zap my worms in there, but if I if I
Fix a degraded plant, then you know I can I've got plenty of worms that I can get get back from outside
So yeah
I'm really that I dig the concept
I'll go ahead to oh, it's just proven. I'm not like I'm not speculating. There's actually you know hardcore
Yeah, it's proven science for sure. Yeah, there's hardcore research scientists out there like
I just posted a link on YouTube here that to removing bean mosaic virus and plants using the same
The same technique so this isn't made-up science isn't just some shit that he happened upon and then he got the feels on it
He happened upon it found out that there's actual information on it and science behind it now
He's trying to utilize this in his own
Specific environments and techniques for cannabis right these breed specific types of cannabis for specific reasons these guys are just doing it for one
specific reason if we all set our own
reasons
Together we're gonna end up learning a lot more about this, so this is something
I encourage a lot of people to dive into that's why I'm wondering where
Cheddar Bob is me and him have had quite a few in our talks on this exact topic with growing with the lecture
I'd say I would that dude on the Adam done
Because I listen, you know, that's my homie so I'm listening to that all the time but cheddar Bob's up on there
That's how I met Elka
Yeah, who else is on there's a brand and he's good yeah cheddar's one of my testers
He's actually tried this his self in his own garden a few times
It's something of interest to him
I guarantee there's more growers out there and
farmers that are also interested and just don't know where to look to someone to talk to or
Any kind of successes from it happening like you using this technique with the electric lemon G that you play second with it's a technique that
Other farmers have utilized in multiple different crops
Yeah, I mean, I think it's great. I mean it helps the bacteria levels jump up which is gonna help chelation and you know uptake ability
And I mean no bugs want to go near that thing, you know, I mean it's plugged the fuck in like
You know, you don't want to bite into that you don't want you don't want to see it like that's just gonna yeah
That's gonna mess you up
That story you told about the monk running across this way way back in the day is very interesting too because
The Catholic Church has been holding on to all kinds of electrical secrets for a long time
That's where Franklin got a lot of his
Knowledge from is that he was reading some of their he could read Latin and all of that
So he was going through some of those old
Catholic documents and ran across the static electricity and all of that and started having those parties where he was shocking everybody like holding hands
in a circle and shit, so
School that you brought up that that the church was playing with this in the garden a long time ago
They just didn't know whether it was a good thing or a bad thing
Yeah, I mean it won't see ya he could see you know, there's you could see the amount of bacteria under a
Rudimentary microscope, but at that point I don't think they knew beneficial versus you know
Bad bacteria
You know and but it improved 400% it was and then like
Have you ever heard of the I got one for you? Have you ever heard of the sonic bloom?
No, I'm done turn me on it I met him on my 30th birthday in Amsterdam
He's like you ever heard of this and I was like, hold on wait, so basically
this fucking dude out and
Where were they at like mid America?
He had a giant
Walnut black walnut farm, you know, like those things come like the size of golf balls. They don't get real big
So yeah, I just collected a whole bunch of them for this winter man. I've been that squirreling for the past two months
I love those things. I'll shut up. Nice. No, no, no, it's cool. I love them. Man. Walnuts are good for you
So this dude was why he sat on his porch
I don't he was getting stoned or everybody's out of sports in the morning
The birds are chirping and he notices like the the stone. Well, he notices the leaves are all perking up, right?
They're all like hot like like, you know leaves in the air. And so this dude
samples
records all these birds and
Just starts playing them to these plants and what's going on is the I got five megahertz warbled frequency and that causes the stone
The stone would open up fully like like you can't do this if it's too hot
you'll kill him right but you can like play this sound to him and
The
The stoma will open up and then they were offering like an amino blend
to spray to encourage
Growth, so he took this
Regular ass house plant that grew like a foot tall started doing this to it and grew like 15 foot long
So I bought into this a while ago
I was one of their distributors and so I got all this stuff is sure enough and you could
You can play this song this sound in your garden and within I would say
20 minutes the plant is like
Jumping like just up taken like just breathing it. You know, I mean like it's light and it's just because of a sound causing
Yeah, just because of a sound causing the stone would open. It's crazy
That's that's how nature works
So anyway, he got his yields of black walnuts now. He's got him the size of baseballs
We died but his kids got you know, like they went from golf balls to baseballs using this technique that he embedded
That's incredible because the health of walnut trees do
Equate to the size of their fruits like with a lot of things
But I have a really old walnut tree that's in a bad spot that has small walnuts and I have a younger walnut tree
Not far from it, but in a better spot
It's in more of a wet area and that thing has huge they're not quite baseballs, but they're a normal size walnut
So that's yeah, that's very interesting. So this sound you said it's like a
Frequency of like a warbler. Did I catch that right? Yeah, yeah
All these birds that he sampled this shit and somehow like overlapped it it sounds like a
lightweight car alarm like a whistling car alarm going off, but I
Get into this other hard drive. I have I would publish it because I mean I just can't figure out to find it in my
I'll figure it out because I
Say I can't figure it out. I can't figure it out. I can't figure it out. I can't figure it out
I'll figure it out because uh, I say I took taking it through like
What I did was I loaded it into my sound programs and I like made it like more sonic, you know
I like turned up the frequencies within the so I got it and it screams
I mean like and the thing was my buddy who also was using this out in Cali on the side of a mountain said one
Little they call them warble be the warbler
So one little because they make boxes and then you get CDs too
So the box that they had would cover like the whole side of the mountain. It doesn't even need to be that loud
You know what? I mean? It doesn't need to be like, you know making you deaf for it to work
And so they would do it the morning in the evening because you can't like I said if it's over I
want to say I
Think it was over like 80 anything over 80 or
Approaching there would like the plant would be up like it's too hot
It'd be up taking and just you would kill it with that technique
But uh, yeah, there's tons of like that's why people who grow in salts to crack me up
They're like, oh you're gonna do so much like bro. Listen shit's been growing
fucking fantastic for the eternity like the
History of all the world the universe. I'm pretty sure you know like
Through nature, you know, we've evolved to like fix every you know
I said plants and nature like everything evolved together to make it work, you know
And it's just it's amazing. I don't know. I like nature science kicks ass
Sound like an idiot, but you know
I'll let you guys
Yeah, so that was about to say it was what you got to say cheddar
I
Don't know Peter Peter just sent me a little
Okay, I'm sorry as a Tony said that you that you would be digging this electrical conversation that we were having I'm very sorry
Yeah
Electroculture. Yes. Yes. Yes, too. We've got our buddy to on here from the seed company
and he's talking about electroculture that he used when he was growing the electric g13 and you're one of the first cats I thought about
because of our
Conversations with this topic and your conversations with two's on the same topic
yeah, I
Don't know where I first heard about that years ago
but I was always intrigued by you know, the the electrical current in soil and
I had always thought about you know, what if you bump that up, you know, like
Like those machines that work your muscles, you know, like Bruce Lee used to use yeah, that's what we're talking about
Yeah, the tens unit. Yeah the tens unit. So I was like, yeah
How could you apply that to the plants and would that stimulate?
Growth and so I started playing around with that with like a little solar panel and some copper and stuff
And it was a total trial and error with lots and lots of error
But I've kind of foregone that right now
I want to jump back into it when I get a little bit more of a head around it, but
The the theory around it is I think sound you know
No, it's electrical stimulation within the there's sound you can do electrical and sound like I'm talking like I mean
Like I was telling these guys I had I had my plants up to a hundred and five volts at the tip
Like at one point and they were humming I mean they were like, yeah, they were there's also
MagnaCulture that you guys can look magnetized magnetized fertilization
You got all that cool like what do they call that magnetic?
Paramagnetic dirt, you know talking about yeah
Put the paramagnetic rock within the dirt and then and then you got those idiots over at gauge green with their little crystals in the soil
But you know holistically and energetically like everything works on a frequency and a vibration so, you know
the physical manifestation of that
Can be seen, you know
Relatively I think
Like so my buddy built a big pyramid they have raves down there and they built a big pyramid out of like I
Don't know like big metal like square, you know, like metal stuff and I'll tell you what I'm out in the middle of the cut
but when it when
When we had the party the I had better cell reception standing directly under the pyramid than anywhere else on the property
So there is something to be said about it
Oh
Shit I'm gonna walk away from that. Damn it
Yeah, there's a guy in Austria. I can't remember his name
He's got a thing on YouTube about magnetized fertilization and that's you know
like sticking grounding rods and
running a certain type of copper wire of
garden in drawing the electrical current through that and then you're
Drawing like positive ions from the air and those are over your plants and like it's supposed to
kind of simulate
The atmosphere after a thunderstorm
Yeah, you know when things are really positively charged and you see a lot of growth
and stuff after a thunderstorm, so I
Think that
You know like the guy that I was talking about with the
One the world's fair where he had that he built the towers coming out of the ground
That's something that I've been working on with
neighbors like that passive system
So like next year
Cuz they have a retro
so I'm gonna try and
Get them to put up this system, you know that with the poles at each end over like maybe a half an acre
So we can like actually test this old dude told the older hypothesis of what do you know had going on I
think that like not only simulation the ground like that would do but it would also be through the air because I
would think the two poles between them would be
have like a
We call it electromagnetic
kind of thing going on
yeah, there's um for the
magnetized fertilization there's you know, you want to
Have your your gardens and your wires and such
Set up north to south just the way as the poles go, you know, there's there's a lot of intricate stuff into it
but it's a it's a system that
That Jesus as far as I've seen
Shows some pretty amazing results. I mean the Chinese use it for their agriculture programs and they
They they produce a lot of friggin stuff under that program
So yeah, the guy that originally came up with it. He wrapped the poles. I gotta say it
Clock like clockwise with the rotation of the earth
when he when he did it, you know like a coil and then he put the poles on the north and south and he buried like
a chunk of
Iron below each one maybe copper on it
I think copper on one side iron on the other would make a pretty good with it
Earth battery or whatever the hell you want to call it
and
Then like while we're researching this my buddy is like check this out and these dudes
We're doing like the same thing without the agriculture aspect
they like ran these poles way up and
you know like with wire on them and everything and brought it and
hooked them to a charger charging unit and
Or some way and they were they were like pulling electricity out of the air like enough to like run their houses and stuff on
just cuz there's that you know, like
You can actually steal electricity by doing that next to a pole, you know
you don't want to get caught or anything, but like yeah, you could put up like
like poles that are like near the power lines that'll pick up the
Stuff shedding off of the lines and then you can like capture that and they don't like you knowing that in fact
I think that the power company probably came and shut those dudes down
Cuz they're not yeah, that's what I was about to say is they can tell when you're doing shit like that
Yeah, well, no these guys they weren't doing it next to the poles
they were just doing right in the middle of the air like right in there that a big field and they just had in their
field and we're collecting power and
not next to anything but uh
Yeah, I think like what happens when you start talking about that kind of stuff online and all this stuff
They just kind of it's harder to find your links and you know, they take your stuff offline and stuff, you know
Gotcha, you got me thinking about Ed leads Gal and then you ever heard of that cat. No
He's this guy down in Florida and people think he like moved a bunch of big rocks around back in the 20s down in Florida
And he did it twice. He built like this castle thing out of these huge pieces of coral rock and then he
Something bad happened to him in the first town
He was in down there and he moved the entire thing and built it again and no and he always did it at night
So people didn't know how he was building this and they thought he was doing it with magnets and stuff
But he just knew how to use levers and chains his anyway long story, but he did power his own
Make his own power back then when you could do it and the power companies weren't really as
Like it was just kind of new like not many people had
Large like appliances that were pulling a lot of electricity. It was like the beginning of refrigeration and stuff
This is like in the 20s and 30s
Anyway, yeah, check him out man. He was playing around with the
Basically the same kind of thing that you were talking about is pulling the energy out of the air using coils of copper
He used chains and he also built like a an alternator kind of thing. There's pieces of it left on this property and
It's it's basically like an alternator in the car. You can see what's left of it
But he was essentially just pulling energy out of the air and lighting and running his refrigeration
Running his refrigerator and stuff like that. Yeah, that's the guy that developed free energy and then the government came in and took everything
Well Tesla could screw white bulbs into the ground in the Springs and it would light up
Just right into the ground he had something going on like where he could just like his pathways were lit with light bulbs
Just screwed it. No, no, no receptacles just screwed into the ground and somehow they were running
I
Always wondered if that was just like a Hollywood thing or if that actually happened
So this is like in his been what's left of his information that this the people saw this shit happening
Yeah, maybe you had a wired underground or something because that's just my brain doesn't work that well
My brain doesn't like how the fuck do you do that? You know, like you're not uncle faster
Yeah, who knows this he was a magician, right?
That movie was awesome, too
You've ever seen that you ever seen that what was that?
Where they do the magician had Tesla build him
The teleportation you ever see that the magnet? Yeah, I think that was it the prestige the prestige. Yeah
Yeah, that's a badass movie. It's even got Merconi in there. It's got the fucking that shows his little ass the guy that
Stole I guess it was just one one of his many ideas, but like radio I guess
Right
Anyway, it truly is that we live in a more magical world than people imagine some of the stuff that is a that's
going on around us
it's just some of the
Magic is just technology. You don't understand yet and
That monk playing with the static electricity and looking at the that's just as
Interesting stuff to be doing back then, you know
Most people were just trying to survive
So, I mean if you want to get real weird in the biblical
the what is that the Ark of the Coven is like
Electrical like a microwave box that was supposed to be able to be you could talk to God
The priests of the temples would wear like metal chains and bells that would
Ground them out because the temple was like supposedly like lit up
Electrically to that's why only the priests to go in there, you know
because they were the ones that like and they were wear those like those
like basically like
Chains of they would drag the ground behind them so they wouldn't get electrocuted
So they would just be like a bunch of like a bunch of like
That would drag the ground behind them so they wouldn't get electrocuted when they were in the temple and then the Egyptians man if you look
they supposedly had light bulbs coming off like to light up the
To light up the pyramids and stuff
There's that you know, there's a couple hieroglyphics that would
lean towards that belief
So, yeah, man the world's a weird place I don't think we're getting all of it
I'm not a conspiracy theorist, but I definitely think that we don't get
Near the information that is out there
Well static electricity is very powerful and an easy to produce
as I always thought that Ark of the Covenant was just a metal box that they were rubbing sheepskins over and shocking the hell out
Of people with and destroying armies. I mean, it's just as simple as that. You got to hold it with wooden stakes
It's like if you I grew up in the Bible Belt
So as I had to read a lot of that thing
So it's just the you look back on some of those stories and you get older and you gain more knowledge
It's like yeah, if you're carrying a metal box around and it's got sheepskin rubbing over it building a charge
Yeah, you better carry that with metal poles
Yeah, cuz static can get you good too, man, like
Stop your heart. You know, I mean it takes like five milliamps. I think to actually kill you if you're not careful
You know, yeah, you become the circuit I think like yeah, it's pretty easy to I mean, yeah
I would like to think that's you know, I
Think we downplay a lot of humans
People always want blaming on aliens or something but like literally humans are pretty and I believe in aliens too, but humans are pretty
resourceful and you know
It only takes one guy to get electrical shock before like hey, how'd you do that?
You know
And
An invisible thing like that's easy to attribute to God and then they
Talk about God and relate it to light and all of that stuff. So this yeah, it's a anyway
Yeah, this is let's get really weird. So we're getting weird now. Yeah. Anyway, let's uh, you want to bring it back to plants?
So what you what you doing right now?
So right like what you working on?
Well, I'm actually gonna start back up my breeding like
And I got a ton of stuff to work with but I'm opening up I got an extra
like a quick like a big room to work in and I was gonna
So I got a couple tents and I was gonna do a couple of smaller breeding projects like right now
I'm just I'm I got this g13
I've been carrying around that I really want to unleash to everybody and the lemon I gotta
Do some I gotta make more electric lemons for Adam
So I started I got those northern lights because that's what I used to cross with the lemon. I got it from
Who's that Greg McAllister, right Todd McCormick's Todd McCormick. Thank you very much
Yeah, so I bought those from him and so I'm gonna start I started those up
And those are looking real nice they all popped which is really cool
So then I was going to wire up all this breeding because I think I'm just gonna want to like make electric seeds
You know cuz I mean I got old stuff like Tony sent me some pretty cool
OG's and stuff that you know potentially could have some gack up in them
So I think you know, I'm gonna get a three foot by three foot
What do you call it? Like the raised bed, you know with the PVC from Jeremy out of build a soil
Big ups to Jeremy out of build a soil and then put the soil in it
Maybe wired all up in the bottom and plant all the plants that I'm gonna
breed together in one so then I only have to like hook up two wires as opposed to have a
Billion things going on and then you know, I was gonna do the dirty taxi because I really like that
I mean find a real nice male
so I was gonna
You know just I really enjoyed that was like one of my favorite plants that I've grown in a long time
so I was gonna do a dirty taxi run on some of my stuff like the cream and
This dude sending me back like my mango Afghani, which is amazing and the G and the lemon and I got this stuff
called the ute which is a
PCK lashkar ga and lashkar ga up until probably a minute ago
Was the last place in Afghanistan that they actually smoked flour as opposed to hashish and this is great man
they're like chocolate undertones leather undertones like
just
Real Afghanis, you know what? I mean? I do a lot of land race work, too
so, you know, I want to put I want to get because I live really at a little bit eight thousand eighty feet and
A lot of strains don't finish up out here. So I'm trying to get some you know
more
Shorter bread stuff with weird turf profiles because the you taste crazy one of them smells just like sprite
like the yeah lemon lime and the other one smells like
Chocolate mint
kind of like a
Fake chocolate mint but like real it smells like yeah
So trying to bring out, you know mix myself up into some other gear that people might like and then I'll do another
I want to do some CBG stuff because I grew a bunch of that
I got a plant that I got this four-way plant that is one quarter THC one quarter
THC V one quarter CBD and one quarter CBD V that I was gonna start doing some stuff with
Just like her
Yeah, you know what? She is a bitch. So she's like just wants to flower doing nothing
I think she's like susceptible to like, you know, like some plants like Afghanis and stuff when they get rooted
They'll start to flower a little harder. Yeah root restriction issues of many Afghanis will do that
Hindus have that in them bottle if you start f2 f3 and f4 in those and you're gonna start finding those
bad alleles lining up and some of your
Genotypes pop out of there. We'll start showing that and they're a bitch to fucking pull in and out of it
Once they start it, but you can
Luckily though I have like dude
I have males in my bedroom and that just kind of drop pollen in there and then I got those in there
so they're just like passively breeding in the
Bedroom just because they got flowers on them and the dudes are like they're you know what I mean?
So I get seeds on them when I like when I first
Launched a seed company when it was all CBD and stuff
I had taken that Cory cut of the star dog wonderful plant and my cherry condor
Which was the basis for not only all my gear but actually HGH, you know those guys that made like cherry wine and all that
That's that's what they used to make all their hemp. So that's kind of an honor
but I when I mix the Corey and the
The cherry condor heart it leveled out at a one-to-one that was hitting like 16 and a half and 17 and a half
like CBD and THC and
It grows like star dogs. Yeah, so I'm gonna try and remake that one because that's one of my favorites
What am I getting CBG and because it did the I grew their giant yielders like they look like old Big Bud
You know like giant
massive
Colas and stuff so they were there bigger yielding than any of the herb I grew outside this year
They were just giant freaking Cola. So I think you know and CBG has a ton of awesome
Applications, you know, it's it's kind of better than CBD in fact
So, you know, I like I want to I like to put more stuff back in the plant like I like smoking
23% weed, you know THC we would like all kinds of other shit in it rather than like that 30 stuff, you know
Like turps
Yes, sir. That's something that we talked about a lot out here
going from high THC
cultivars back to the
Basically the entourage group where you're getting
everything from the plant that you're after instead of having to dig into some bud to smoke and something to dab into and an edible to
Eat to keep you going. It's like let me get a hit up some weed. That's gonna keep me high for 12 hours
I think we're getting to that now where people are
Breed to that to that specific technique. We're gonna start getting these lines back there
They're not gonna come back testing high, but they're gonna come back devastating folks and be completely medicinal
Yeah, like a lot of one of the main
You know terpenes in hemp is mercy. Yeah, I mean like that's what you like
When you know when you do the hemp test, that's what you see a lot of like so
I mean it was just up until a minute ago that we realized her beans had an effect on you
You know, I mean, oh, it just tastes good. Well, I mean, no
You're kind of medicinally drawn to the medicine that helps you, you know
I mean like for some reason I hate purple weed that tastes like grapes. Yeah, I think it's garbage
Some people love it, you know, like I like I don't know. It's just weird
You know you find what you like, but I think that's your brain like going. Hey, this is what you need
That's why you like that
That's you got that loser there
We're here
Okay, see what's going on
well, yeah, so
Get back to full spectrum strains and stuff. I think it's that's one of my goals pretty much
And I see dr. Lori on stage you have a question or comment
Hey, yeah
I'm just I'm just coming in and listening
I'm hearing what y'all have to offer as a caregiver and as a patient and as a patient
advocate I
Hear y'all guys because guess what?
I'm going through a hair right now with my patient that I'm taking care of who is 89
Who tells me I don't need your help. So guess what?
Love y'all guys to life. I'm just here listening and
Trying to figure out how the hell to take care of this 89 year old
But guess what? She is
She's
Utilizing
medical cannabis
I'm rubbing her down with it because I have tinctures and everything that else and
I'm putting a little bit in her oils and
I am
grateful for you guys
Cuz guess what if I didn't have you guys I was like
I'm like nobody else knows
Understands what I'm going through so y'all do and I love you guys to life. Love you to life Papa pants
Hey, dr. Lori. What?
Maybe products would be able to help her out. I
Do make good CBD stuff. What's wrong with the what's wrong with your patient?
My auntie my hunting has congestive heart failure
she also has
kidney failure
20% and
When I got here in May, they told me that she was
Supposed to be around for three weeks
And
What's it today? May 15 14 something. No, it's November. No, they're close though
November something I feel like it's next May already
That's what she they told me that what they told me that she was supposed to be passed away in
three weeks when I got here and
I've been here since May
And it's now November and I've been I've been using medical cannabis and I've been using the tinctures that I make
for her and her tea and her food I use
the I
Infuse olive oil avocado oil and grapeseed oil to cook her food with and she's still here
So are you just using THC? I'm sorry to interrupt you. Are you just using THC or using more of a full spectrum?
I'm using full spectrum right now because CBD actually helps me as well because I am one with
I am one with I
Have a mess I
Have
PTSD I have CPTS do in everything else
So while I'm taking care of my auntie with all that she has everything that's going on. I
Have the other stuff too that I am
Utilizing and
Everything has been helping me as well CBD CBG CBN
THC THC a has also been helping me with my my
my appetite THC V has also been helping me as a
as a
researcher
I'm trying to figure out everything that's gonna help all of us
So if you want to shake off that PTSD, it's not cannabis, but I I recommend
Dosing psilocybin along with a lion's mane extract up in there
Like, you know, you got to work on your brain a little bit, you know
You got to like rewire yourself so you're not triggered by those Trump traumatic situations look into it
microdosing a mushroom
Mushrooms I did micro dosing that but I need to I told my
My plug I told my cousin who's also my plug
Who's supposed to be getting me some more micro dosing of mushrooms?
Assurance because I need that I
Told her auntie needs it auntie needs some as well so that she can micro dose and get better
But I haven't but we can't get it because it's freaking
Illegal
In our state it's illegal mostly everywhere that just doesn't seem to stop people
Spores have been to bring I'm trying I'm like
forget illegal
Think about what it is
Guaranteeing us as a part of our healing
That's the piece
So, I'm Laurie. I'm done. I love you guys to life
Cool you have a wonderful day
Thank you. And hopefully I send all your positivity you and your family ma'am
Yeah, absolutely
As far as the the silly goes I think that there's a reason why they've allowed those spores to be quote-unquote researched
For all these years they they they learned something along the lines of what to was getting at with her a
long time ago with the I think is the Oryx is the
Husband and wife team that first went down to Mexico and started playing. I have a book
I just can never pronounce their name, right? It's some strange name, but they
with
Watson to I think Gordon Watson where this husband and wife team worked with them
But when when they when they were researching that I think that they found something that they just couldn't
As as horrible as they are they couldn't eradicate it
They knew that people would go grab the spores again. Anyway, so it'd be better just to let
because this is
I'm gonna get onto a rabbit hole here, too
but if you look into the history of Silicon Valley and how all of the
All of the computer work was done there my LSD and psilocybin yeah LSD and psilocybin had a lot to do with that
You start thinking in ones and zeros when you're on that stuff
You start seeing things in grids and it's very helpful for that kind of work. I imagine you know, I started
microdosing a little while ago
my buddy
So I live in the southern part of Colorado
Like I'm closer to New Mexico than I am anything else and my buddy down there he
He's got a license or like he's got a medicinal excuse
So like I asked him for some of his medicine, you know, and I've been taking
Some days I think I'm not microdosing some days. I'm like, whoa
Like running around the house like a madman like that might have been a micro dose, you know
Uh, but then I take this lion's mane extract where they do like a water or alcohol extraction and pull the
The good stuff out. So you're not eating as much of the tissue and stuff and that's supposed to help rebuild your neural network in your brain
and when you add the
Psilocybin in there that's been shown to rebuild your neural clusters that have been damaged by things like PTSD or trauma and all that
Like tenfold what they were when you got them
So if you do both of those you're just like and then if you follow stamets he says to add in
Niacin and you got to get the flush. So stamets has this thing called the stamets stack. It's psilocybin
Lions mane and niacin to the point of flush and he says that'll increase your intelligence by 5%
Every year that you do it
I'm just wondering if I could do that for like 10 years and be like, you know
My brains all swell up like a Marvel character or something, you know
that's I could only imagine what that's like because
Well, whenever you're brought up
I always like to say that to dances to the beat of his own drum as same with Tony up
There is you guys just do things differently. You're not like following trends
You're you're just kind of doing your own thing and the trend kind of follows you eventually
it's
It's interesting it's like people people like yourselves make the world a more interesting place I
Mean, I've you know what? I was 17 years old. I got in on the weed thing late
I never wanted to smoke as my parents were cigarette smokers
But when I was a kid my mom who just passed away, unfortunately
COPD don't smoke cigarettes man. That shit'll fucking kill you
she would tell me when I was a kid stories about Timothy Leary and Woodstock and all that shit and like so I
Like was like, you know 12 years old I was like
LSD makes you see cartoons. That sounds wonderful. So like I saw it like that was my goal
I never you know, like I was I was probably freaking people out that this young kid was like looking for acid, you know
and then 17 I
smoked and I got high on weed for my first time and I was on like that I was the first kid on
Adderall and Prozac and the day I got stoned was the day I quit doing all that shit and I was like
Fuck these shitty chemicals, you know weed is where it's at and this is like
And so I've just been preaching the the that whole thing, you know
Like good drugs got me and I used to do bad drugs, too
You know
I was like a drug chemist back in the day
Making weird shit and you know, I eventually got hooked on the mess cuz that shit's bad for you
but it's really easy to do and
You know when I went I ended up going to jail when I got out I was like, you know what?
No more anything stupid just weed. It's medicine. I'm gonna go pursue my
You know cuz that's all I really wanted to do was just grow weed. I was never really planning on
You know trying I was gonna take over the world with ecstasy and strippers. That was the plan
It made sense in my head
But yeah, there's a lot of people's I believe I
Had a plan it didn't work, but it was a great idea
but yeah, I mean
it
And you know like I kind of date this girl who I don't want to call her normal
But she's kind of normal and she smokes weed
She's just like a normal chick and like it's weird because I can't imagine
Being normal like that, you know, and I can't imagine like that
You know nuclear family growing up. Everything is great. You're like, you know, like it just
Just normal people kind of freak me out. That's why I live out here. I can't handle it. Can't handle the city anymore too many weirdos
Oh
Siri was trying to get in on this one
Does Siri like Indica's or Sativa?
This is gonna be gold see because she knows it's not a topic of discussion
Hello
Respect I just wanted to say reiterate what you guys were promoting the psilocybin use
I've had about five major concussions like ko out for a while and came back to and a
handful of minor concussions and dealt with migraines and all types of
neurological issues and when I started incorporating
psilocybin mushrooms for more of a
Medicinal aspect and not just for fun. I
Definitely saw a benefit to my neurological function and you know, I continue to do micro dosing
safely and
but I also want to promote like
macro dosing
And the benefits of macro dosing and communicating with your plants and on a breeding level anybody else do that
Like give her a high talk to plants. Yeah, that's me. I
I used to do that a long time ago before I lost the body parts and now me and
Me and cyclopens don't get along
So but yeah
I used to eat as many mushrooms as I could and go hang out in the woods and touch trees dog
I was uh, I was doing naughty things with plants for a long time. I
try not to
Get really high and screw with my plants anymore because that's usually what I'm like I could do something stupid
You know what? I mean? So
Paul Stamets method that's how Paul Stamets would learn
We the guys ever heard the story of him going out when he was young and climbing in the tree during the storm
And yeah, he like a half-ounce
Yeah, man
It went legendary the first time and talked to the universe and that's why he's on that mission and that mushroom spoke to him
If you speak to a plant on the basic level like that
It somehow connects to your soul and just keeps driving like I'm not joking when I say I used to go out and do that
I would be out in the forest eat mushrooms
And the only thing I wanted to talk to was the plants like they spoke to me. I can't repeat the words
They said I just know it put me on a life mission to where this is
The only thing I've ever wanted to continue to
Over and over and over and keep learning as much about the plant as I can so that
Microtocin with the plant is something I
Encourage folks that are that are into cycle bins to go try and I don't want you to go take your grandmother out there and give
Heroic dose to try to cure one of her diseases, but you can get over a lot of your own
Misconceptions with the world your environment by letting the plant talk to you man
We're I'm under the impression that the plants are ancestors and on a way we have a cellular
Way to speak to the plant and that's why it makes a connection through our bodies our cells
That's why it works in the soil. That's why the universe looks like the same thing underneath a microscope
That's that's just my feelings
You know, we're definitely related to mushrooms man, and they're the first things that ever like like basically fungus
I think you know, it's like one of the first things to like start growing on the planet
You know, we're like more related to mushrooms than we are apes or something along those lines
Don't quote me on that but something along that line
So, yeah, plus I mean all the energy is one big ball of energy we're just pieces of it
So so is that tree and so you know?
Yeah, I feel like the psilocybin
Makes humans a little bit more
understanding of each other too and that's something that the world needs a little bit more of out there as
It seems to be a common thread as people people that eat a little bit of mushrooms
They like is well known now
You don't it doesn't take much but it creates a little bit of empathy
I've seen mushrooms really like change a person
between that and
the lifesaver from bog
That really just like completely altered this this person's course in life
And he died a much happier man than he lived most of his life
So yes, there is definitely something to psilocybin and pain relief because that's what the that's what the lifesaver was providing and sleep
but
For sure you guys you guys definitely know what's up. Yeah, that psilocybin really helps with pain
You know, it's something about the serotonin release and the ease of pain
It's pretty funny to think you know, like happiness eases pain, you know and psilocybin and marijuana or cannabis help with that
so it's just
More the merrier, right?
I actually suffer from low serotonin aka depression and that shit sucks because it'll fuck me up along with anxiety
Like those two things mess me up real bad
So I have two avenues of uh,
Attack one is the psilocybin
every uh
Like I do like five on two off, but I might do it four on three off just because it's
It climbs up on you after a while and then uh
I do ketamine like once every few months like enough to reset my whole brain
And then reboot it like you're resetting your router or your computer
And then reboot it like you're resetting your router or your computer
and uh, then that shit excretes something it makes your brain excrete some chemical that fights off those two
The depression makes logic in your brain for like the next month
I don't recommend that to everybody but uh, that is that it's how I handle my
Mental health and then I have a therapist that I talk to while i'm on ketamine and he loves that shit
and uh
Yeah, it just works
I don't know how you guys feel about ketamine
How did you uh
Stumble into that I don't know how to word this question, but how did you get into the the ketamine as a therapeutic?
well, man, um
I started raving when I was 18 and I you know
That was a party drug back then and I liked doing that and I never realized why
And then like in the last what 10 years it's come about like I got a buddy who owns a ketamine clinic out in boston
man, he'll he'll like
and he does like, um
like what's that stuff michael jackson died on the he'll like turn the ketamine way up and turn the
the the
The stuff that keeps you chill a little up
like, uh
It's been shown like recently to help with that so much and they've been doing a lot of studies
and it's actually becoming more like uh
More but i've just been doing it like uh
Some of my greatest and some of my not so greatest moments in my life
Were caused by ketamine like I wouldn't be in colorado
I wouldn't uh have been able you know, like because I get weird like I don't like leaving my house
So like the ketamine like throws off all that
But not like when i'm on it like when i'm on it you're fucked up, you know, I mean i'm like jet
I'm like tripping balls. It's and I want to be alone. But when it's over like I feel like a human it's real weird and uh
Like they're you know
It gives me a time to like really just focus on what I got going on in life my real problems
And kind of whittles down all that stuff on the outside
I've literally been doing it. What since I was 18. I'm 44 now. So like 26 years
Like now back when I was doing it, I was abusing it now
It's like occasionally like once or maybe three times a year
You know and I I go hard on it and I quit back in the day. I was like, you know
Months on like losing my brain out in la la land, you know, those disassociatives are
uh, what some people believe like the
I don't know. I have been more i've had more of a religious and god weird experience
on uh
Dissociatives on acrylocyclohexamines is the name of the uh than I ever have off of lsd or mushrooms
Like it was like I was like I became like I felt like I became god but then again, you know, they do incur
Hysteria or mania, you know, so it is easy to get carried away with yourself
in your brain, but um
I don't know ketamine is a one
Like if you're if you really don't if you like have like horrible depression and you're thinking about
Like just offing yourself or something, you know that you shouldn't do or you can't get out of your funk or anything
Go find one of those clinics and get hooked up man for 500 bucks that they'll they'll turn you out to where you're like
a squeaky clean brain, you know, I mean you just walk out of that place like
I just don't do needles. So I I use it at home. Plus I don't like that clinical, you know, but uh
I don't you know, I don't want to get shot up with drugs
that's not my goal, but I recommend if you're really having some problems in life just
Go find one of those people man, because they got them all over now like almost in every state ketamine
you can just go and they'll
They'll like you though. You can even get like a therapist to sit there and help you. It's crazy
There's a guy out and uh durango, uh, dr. Mark with a k he does ketamine assisted psychotherapy
and they're saying like one
Uh one session is equal to like 10 sessions or even years of like regular psychotherapy, you know
Like you can get more accomplished
Because you know, you're really focused. I don't know. It's so
I think it's a good thing
I'm on team ketamine you guys still there
Yeah, i'm here man, it takes a while for my uh
when I unmute my mic it takes a second for it starts working for some reason, but
Yeah, this is the dr. Mark. He's been on done a few times too. And he's he's an interesting cat. That's
is
Well, I i'm not gonna ask that question. Uh, anyway move on
You can ask me anything. I haven't done. I haven't done that kind of uh
Therapy or anything yet. I prefer to do that kind of thing in my own home, but I gotta
You know joy, I think everybody could use a therapist sometimes man, and I mean that I gotta you know, like, uh,
where we as humans are definitely not perfect and you know as
I mean I see, you know, we all go through some bullshit sometimes so it's nice to have somebody who isn't a friend
Like who's somebody who can like give you like an honest opinion not your friends because they're not therapists and they're you know
And and it's good to like, you know have somebody actually to
You know make sense out of your life occasionally
It's kind of cool. I recommend that
Yeah, whenever I was around that so you were talking about not liking certain methodologies and i'm not one to like snorting things
So whenever I was around k that's how it was administered. So it was just not something that I ever did
So not an experience that I have your tongue
you put on your tongue that would taste like shit, but
Yeah, it's just that was a long time ago when I was around that stuff who knows if it was even real
You know how that goes back in the day that everything was real nowadays. It's all fentanyl. You can't like I would
it would suck to be like a
somebody who wanted to do drugs now and in nowadays because
They're just sneaking you could just like hey that lsd looks good. Oh, it was fentanyl. You know
Yeah
shit's getting weird man, like
I don't I definitely don't do speed anymore
But my buddy was telling me that he thinks he bought some back in ohio that had fentanyl in it. Like what?
What the fuck is wrong with people like that shit's addictive enough. Why would you uh,
You know, like why would you add?
And it's not the effect that that customer was looking for
Yeah
Yeah, what you got dr. Lori
Hey
Because people are trying to get
Trying to figure out
What we are supposed to have in this season?
I'm a patient
I'm an advocate
And guess what
I had something that had fentanyl in it and it it
I was like, why would they?
Put that in
Our medicine
Because it's hard
It's not healing
And everything we have is healing
So guess what we have to move forward and what we do
We have to make sure that people understand our medicine
We have to move forward in our education
We have to move forward in anything that we do
And
We
are
Look auntie told me to leave her alone
Let her die
Let her fall in the floor
Let her do whatever and i'm like auntie i'm here with you. She was she was supposed to be dead in may
I've been here since may
And our medicine has been keeping her alive since may
So we have to do whatever we are supposed to do
and anybody else
Cut them off cut them off. Cut them off. Cut them off. Please cut them off
because
I don't know if she gonna see 2022
But I know that they told me she was not supposed to see 2021
Love y'all guys to life
Puff up past
Okay, all right
I'm the only one not muted I guess is what i'm looking at here. Oh, there you are
All right. Hey, hey, tony. Are you inventing anything recently you playing with that? Uh 3d printer anymore?
You designing anything at the moment you keep that kind of stuff under wraps until it's done
And you're muted was that
Let's see, um when I injured myself, uh when I broke my leg
I had to move my printers out of the way and I haven't been able to pull them back out
so I have been designing some stuff, but it's kind of refinements on uh, like the uh, the um,
There's a pot that i'm trying to make that. Um, it's kind of like a uh miniature version of a earth box
i'm trying to make some that fit my my system to have my mom's on a
a system where they're
going to uh, actually be able to
Kind of water themselves. I want to set up a system that each one has a float on it where I can
run a tube through the uh
The feeder tube on side of there with the input and be able to add water to the system
Just from a basis of floats on uh the whole system
It's just uh, it takes a while to 3d print that stuff to compute computer-aided drafting
And then I got to print out uh prototypes and run the prototypes through the system
It takes a while besides that i've got the uh, the seed winnowers that i'm doing
I've got to get a couple of those put together for some of the homies
I got to send one out for nick rised in and uh, one of the homies, uh, I smell
420 on instagram. He's the cat that passed me the uh, sour diesel or the uh, kim d cut that I have and the fire
og and the skywalker
um, he's a partner of mine that
Uh
I've been helping with the breeding aspect of stuff, uh teaching them how to get some breeding accomplished
And uh, we've been homies for years, uh with growing and stuff like that
He's been testing some of my gear also, but yeah, eric's one of the homies man. Uh,
he's one of the last guys that I uh
Hung out with when I went to kevin jodry's uh wonderland seed series me kevin and erica
Well all went out into the forest out there into the redwoods. It's the last time I got to go touch some trees, man
You brought up nick nick doing. All right, man
Yeah from what i'm doing nick's been doing a lot of uh better than lately man. He um anybody that supports that cat
Uh should know the some of the new stuff that he's been going through
I don't want to mention on here because it's a public forum
But he is doing a little bit better through some of the medical treatments. He's going through
um
That's a great thing to see because that cat has been battling
Through some serious shit in life and when you can get some positivity in there. It's the best medicine you can get
Yes, sir, yes, sir, that's good to hear
and he's uh
Oh, go ahead. My bet. No, no after you did. Go ahead
No, I was just gonna say I believe we just dropped some new gear over there on uh,
Dutch bloom site if anybody wants to go check that out and support the homie
Uh, tony man, listen you ever I just installed the blue mat system you ever do that
I haven't used the blue mat myself, but we have had uh, look it's fuck. I I I gotta say man
It keeps so you adjust it down and it keeps it perfectly watered no matter what like i'm a shit water
that's my main complaint and like
I got it. I gotta say man, like I got it all
it's beautiful and the plants are reacting and you can get the carrots to go in each pot like if you weren't
Like and what will happen is like, you know, you go off. Uh, it's gravity fed
You can do that
you know put something up a little higher or you can use a pump and it would go if you put a carrot in each
pot, then it would uh
To detect how wet you know, and it would keep it perfectly watered
I'm trying to figure out how to feed on top of it. But dude, these things are great
I I I don't I mean i'm not working for him or anything, but like I recommend them there
It's it's let it I feel a lot better about my garden in the last week
Then I have a lot of folks on here that are running the blue mat systems
Uh, we've done a couple shows on there. Um, but yeah, there's a lot of cats on instagram
You guys can go check out the show. Uh, what uh, what kind of um,
It's what kind of results are getting from their systems using it a lot of people like them
I believe cheddar bob's uh got that in a couple of his systems
Um, brandon russ is using that. Uh, they just started at one of their beds, I believe
I think blue out of here blue green tank. He's also
Rocking some blue mats. Uh, so yeah, there's uh, there's quite a few people that are running those systems
So i'm trying to figure out how to get the food to so, you know, I got cheese
I use ambessa nutrients, which my buddy rich makes they're the top
Dollar the top love the line low dollar organic stuff. He like grinds all the stuff down
Uh, it's great. And but it's it's it's like low heavy metals like no a lot of stuff. You don't usually see in
and um
in organic fertilizers, but uh
but uh
It's tea and I can't figure out how to I don't want to over water these plants
Like how am I going to get the tea into the plants without the blue because the blue mats keep it
Perfect and i'm over watering at one point when I you know
And are they i'm just kind of i'm kind of having I don't know
I should probably go ask all those guys who use them
You know like maybe some folks in there anybody in here using them
I don't use them, but my buddy uses them and when he feeds he'll just turn the blue mat system off the day before
He does like a tea like you're talking about and then he'll put it back on the sensor to turn the sensor thing back on
uh
After he waters his food, um, but I think his day before is so that it dries out a tiny bit
Yes, that's what he was explaining to me because i'm really curious about blue mats as well
It's just he was he was uh, kind of breaking it down for me and that's what he does
You know what man? I think it's cool because I suck at watering like uh, and these giant beds
They're two foot deep. There's there's 420 gallons of soil in each one
But uh, that's like almost it's a literal ton two yards and like the you know, six plants in the top really isn't
Using up all that soil. So there's a lot of places
I even have air stones in the bottom because the first time I ran them I saw
Like some funk
You know, so I put eight air stones in the bottom of each tray
Each bed now and then uh that shit runs through a pump and then uh, I put the
The blue mat on top and
I gotta say man, like my tops aren't drying out and now i'm noticing a population of uh,
They better be soil mites. That's pretty sure i'm 94 percent sure that they're beneficial soil mites, but they're just
Covering the whole top of the thing. You can see them like
They're like are they moving fast?
Oh, yeah
Yeah, then they're they're good if they're moving quick. They're uh,
Probably good bet that they're going to be beneficials for you. Yeah, they're moving fast as shit man
Like I mean and they're just moving soil around they're doing stuff
and that that appeared the minute I started using the blue mats like the minute I started they just I don't know where the
hell they came from but
um
Yeah, they manifested and I mean there's they're all over so I assume that means I got
Uh really healthy soil, you know
That's a cool little tip i've never heard that before if they're running around quick they're most likely beneficial that's that's good to know
nugget
In my experience usually uh
If you can't really spot them if you just if they're quick if they're running around super fast
Like you can spot the movement without even trying to see it. They're usually going to be a beneficial those like
Root mites and shit those are going to move extremely slow and you can
Pull out a scope and you'll see them and they're just barely moving around on a root but they'll
The beneficial for you the predator mites
There's those suckers are just fucking bombing everywhere because of their uh, their appetite they need to they need to feast fast
They're not uh feasting off the plant that's not moving. They got to find those pests
So they're moving a lot quicker to get to the pest. So usually your beneficials like you'll find soil mites you got uh,
The rove beetles you've got springtails and all those those things all move faster than anything that's going to be a uh,
A pest in your garden be it a thrip, uh soil mite. That's usually a way to to go in there quick
How is the uh the offspring moving? Um, you know, how are they moving when they're young or actually, uh,
When they're feeding just check them out
Yeah, so I wouldn't even notice these things except I had to get down and adjust the uh
Well, I've been cleaning up the plants i've been defoilating a lot but I had to get down and adjust the blue mat
so i'm down there and they're like
Crawling all over the the carrots and stuff. Like it's like they're and they're like
No joke, they're so fast and you like they're so small you
It looks like the soil is moving and then you get in on them and there's like, you know
um
But yeah, they they really did come apart and I wanted to get uh, worms too. So I have to keep the soil at a
And letting them dry out naturally that top would go
you know the top would start to dry out first and then when I watered it would get real wet at the bottom and
So the blue mats are definitely uh, I think it's great
I think it's a great idea
I bet you those would be killer for a worm bin man to keep a worm bed of proper moisture
So you don't end up with too much moisture in there going, uh anaerobic
I wonder if that'd be a good option
Yeah
That would make sense. I mean
They should make longer carrots because I mean these beds are two
Feet deep and the longest one's like nine inches, but I guess if it's damp at nine inches
Then it's damp all the way down, you know
At least that's what she said
That's interesting that that was
The blue mats is I don't I don't run enough plants to be needing something like that, but it is
Listen to things like this and I develop questions in my head is like cannabis
I've noticed and a lot of other garden plants like to like to dry out in between
And I have worms in my beds and when whenever it gets dry on top
There really seems that all that they do is turn it into their toilet
They start pushing the castings up to the top and you start getting little piles
right before it's time to water again, and then you just water it and it disperses all of those castings across the top and
Anyway, that's so you're not
What about are you planning on running these these things during flowering too?
They're just keeping it really wet during flowering into flower. No. No, it's not really wet
So the thing is is the blue mats are adjustable through a little valve at the top and the way it works
Okay, so it works on osmotic pressure like the tip is a clay
That and you soak these in water and then there's a little
Like the tube that goes up is actually a tube that you have to fill with water
and then the tops have the little mechanism in them that are like, uh,
They might actually have some clay in them, too
I'm, not sure but they have a valve so when you put them all together and you punch them in the soil
as the soil dries out the
The clay dries out and then it pulls a vacuum down the tube which opens. Uh, uh
the uh
The valve at the top allowing the tiny eight or three millimeter watering thing to start dripping
um
So you can kind of like i'm i've been working with them the last like four days
And I almost got them dialed into where
You can you can actually dial them back to make it a little drier if you want you could make it. Uh,
You could dry out like the because i'm using two different sizes
So there's a long one and the short one they sit on opposite ends of the beds
So the longer one in the the bed is measuring down low you can turn that down a little
You can basically like adjust your moisture level. It doesn't have to be
damp like they they sent me a um,
A moisture meter like a one of their ones that you like punch in the soil. It's the same mechanism
And like that measures, uh, put like from zero to like 250
Zero being like water and 250 being like the desert, you know, they say like 80 is like the perfect
um
Like that's where you're at. That's your sweet spot
So I was talking to my buddy sunny, uh, sunny chiba like him and I grew up together. We were raving back in cleveland. Uh,
Yeah, he's a good guy and he says, you know, they don't let shit dry out like they you know
Like they don't you like you used to you know, like to maintain that that perfect
dampness and amount of oxygen in there is more
Uh beneficial to the roots and letting them
Dry out because then you're going to get dead root and all you know
But you got to be careful when you're rooting like when you're going hard on your roots to get them into your container that you're not
Overwatering you're not going to get the root formation, you know
Yeah, there's a lot of information on watering the plant with a more frequent waterings but with uh,
Like a lesser amount overall so it keeps it at a lighter
Even moisture level constantly and it's also bringing in dissolved oxygen into the soil
Through the through the actual waters that's feeding the system
So one of the coolest things about the blue mat is i'm using one of those ibc 275 gallon totes, you know
um
and I
Just basically hooked the whole system
Up to the like I I plumbed it all out real nice
And then I ran it like 50 feet to the growth but like the thing is on the ibc tote
They have the graduations of how full it is. So I went and highlighted them and now I can like
Uh monitor exactly how much water
they're going through like during the day and night and like
So when I first set it up and I was watering real heavy they sucked through
50 gallons in the course of a night and I was like, whoa
Pulled that back dialed it in a little bit and last night. It looks like they went through
In the last day about 20 gallons which over four beds like that's like almost what's 18 16
1700 gallons of soil they went through 20 gallons so I could like monitor
the
with the with the
With the reservoir I can monitor the amount of water they're drinking and then I can go in that room and hit their
moisture meter and see if it's over or you know
It's kind of cool. I'm enjoying this. I've been looking at them for years and I guess I just kind of
Finally pulled the trigger because I was having some watering issues
So I think it was a good I think it was a good idea
I'll let you know if it sucks, but i'm pretty sure it was a good idea
Yeah, I dig it man. I can see why your worms would like that that consistent thing because that's that's what I have going outside
I don't do the same inside but that
That's that's really cool. And the other night when you were saying you were dialing it in that was a literal statement
I didn't realize that as until you were just explaining how these little things work
Yeah, they had little dials on the tides. Yeah
Yeah
Yeah, that's badass
So how far along with your tesla coil have you started? Is it still in concept? Do you guys it's when's that thing gonna be operational?
the guy i'm designing it with like i'm trying to
You were asking tony what he was inventing and i've been talking to adam about
uh
Dry sift separation, you know when you make dry sift you're gonna pretend, you know, it's this much heads and this much
um
You know plant matter and then if you've ever watched he turned me on to the uh paint roller tech
You know
And you know same with like a balloon tech kind of thing, but I am going to i'm working on this with a buddy
It's kind of put on the back burner, but I got to get back on it a literal
Static electricity one that you can just run over and it'll pick up all the heads or if you run the other polarity the other
Way, it'll pick up all the crap
And then you just turn it off over your collection vessel
Beautiful like a little like a little magic wand kind of thing instead of a vandegraff generator
Yeah
Awesome. Awesome. Yes. Yeah, I see where you're headed with this be careful
Well, I mean it would be like a 12 volt thing, you know, oh, okay gotcha gotcha
Yeah, because it doesn't need much you don't need much at all if you can do it with uh, like you said a balloon
Got it. Yeah, that's I dig it
The the tesla coil I just I should go
I just need to come up with enough loot like uh to purchase one like so basically believe it or not check this is cool
fun fact
uh
Neon lights, you know what I mean? Like neon light tubes, you know
They run off of a tesla coil
That's how you light up gas with 50 000 volts and 0.5 amps
Same thing
Wow
Yeah, I guess that's why you don't see those much anymore because there's a lot of power rules around now
Yeah, how were those like how did they do that on like a sign? That's amazing. I never heard that before
Please explain this sir
No, okay. So a neon gas sign runs off of these like a tesla coil per se
So like the it's 50 000 volts at 0.5 amps and then you put the leads into the hand-blown glass once you pull the vacuum
And insert the gas, you know, I mean so you
so you have leads running in there and then
When you light that up that amount of electricity, uh agitates the gas
into a plasma
And that's what you're seeing go on there, right if i'm not wrong. I want to say that's how that works
Yeah, is it fluorescent lights are sort of the same way, but it's not a plasma coil doing the job
I just never heard that that's pretty cool or a tesla coil. Sorry plasma. Is that what that is?
I might be wrong. No, no fluorescence. I'm talking i'm saying that fluorescence work in a similar way
That's that's one of tesla's things too is that he was heating a fluorescent bulb
with uh, I don't know if that
I can't remember how how uh, I I use a lot of cfl's for uv and stuff like that, but I can't
Can't remember how uh fluorescent but it's I don't think that it's using a tesla coil in there to do it like a neon bulb
Was because it's it's not pushing that much. It's not pushing the kind of voltage that you were talking about
I mean does no so when you light up the neon does that change the gas to a plasma?
That's why it lights up or that's where I think I might be wrong in my statement there
I'm, not sure how i'm not sure what happens it lights up. That's i'm not sure why that's I guess that's what i'm
uh
But so for you for uv I only rock. Um
4k eight a metal dual-ended metal halides in my
Uh garden right now like no I have one high pressure sodium and I fucking hate it
Even though the yields are a little better under it every time
But my chirps and my oils and stuff are better produced under the uv
Like full spectrum. I got you know, why I don't like the spectrum of a high pressure sodium. It's kind of stupid. Uh,
When you look at like the I mean, it's cool. It's got those spikes, but you want like a more
Full
uv and even
Infrared if you can I would think would be beneficial in flowering
Yeah, I use those little uh reptile bulbs the reptile
Cfl's the tens and they they do really well
I've used them for years and it makes it like outdoor bud it even has kind of like an open outdoor structure on it
And I don't like just use a lot of people say that they I don't know what kind of uvs are putting being put out
There that people are using
From some of these light companies
But with my little cfl's you can run it the whole run
Like you said full spectrum and you get something that's close to outdoor real terpy and and nice
It's the closest thing that I could find is like a hybrid
Between either a hps or i've never ran one of those cmhs, but you're saying they're a little bit nicer, huh?
well, no, so I use uh, I got the
Illuminar right? I rock illuminar
Okay, scott scott's a great dude he's he brought he brought awesome lighting to america, I don't know scott's a great dude, uh
They make you know a good de so they make metal halide, uh 4k like de bulbs not a cmh
Gotcha. I missed a little bit now. I have a ton of 315s
Uh, and I think they're great. Actually. I got a dual
uh double ended 315 from those guys and that shit is
That's the best light ever if I could have there
yeah, it puts out like such a
I don't like working in things that strain my eyes. I used to have those, uh, those, uh, stupid purple fucking
uh
leds
And like you would walk out of your grow and everything would be green and black your clothes would be all flipped around and
You know, like I can't like so I like to just like to be able to see what i'm looking at like not washed out
plus
I mean you want that blue light blue light is definitely better. Well full spectrum not just those big reds, you know
I don't think that's like they don't keep the plant the healthiest while you're flowering the hps in my opinion
Yeah
I feel the same way that blue light really adds a lot to it. I picked that up from dj short in his book
He talked about using blue light in there quite a bit and he was uh getting a little bit better
Uh results out of some of his uh sativa finos
Don't holler at me tony for using the word that's what he called it in the book
as but anyways
Oh, wait, we don't have hey listen
It's still a thing. Okay
It's silly it's uh
As long as we're not using strands
Strands as long as we're not using strands and stuff like that. We're still you know
it's a thing when they're selling to people in the uh,
regulated
Cannabis market because they they just haven't realized that there's types one two, three, four and five and there's even more coming as we find
these novel
cannabinoids and terpene profiles when you when you breed a plant you like your four-way that's
Going to be categorized as a different type of cannabis if it can breed true for those four different
Novel cannabinoids on one specific chemovar or cultivar
So that's what's coming stupid variety because this grows like a dipshit
Well that worse
Well that that doesn't matter how it grows really because when you're trying to breed for specific cannabinoids and terpenes and such
It doesn't matter what that plant looks like or how much it produces on the biomass level
It matters basically like what I say
It's glands not grams because we're trying to extra
That's good I like those from the glands
That's good I like those from the glands
and we're not we don't give a shit about the stems and the stalks and the the stigmas and
That part of the plant we're not using we throw that shit in the trash. Basically once we've uh,
Extracted what we're after unless we're growing hemp for the biomass to actually maybe use it for
biodiesel or for making different, uh, well, that's a whole different thing, man
Yeah, like we're not even thinking about that like they're breeding hemp to like, you know be more
uh to produce more paper or better fiber or you know, I mean like, uh, I work with a
I'm in new mexico. She's a good friend and a business partner at times
Uh, she runs the lab down there. She's super smart. So she's got all kinds of crazy
crazy strange she's working on and like
Like she's like they're so she's seeing good stuff come out like, uh, she went and got some of her stuff. Um,
run
By medical genomics like what right they do like dna testing and stuff
Yeah, and they hit her back up and were like you should get a lawyer
Why because we're seeing some stuff like okay. So for instance
um
The thc gene is responsible for pests and disease resistance
And disease resistance, right? So if you get a hemp plant without the thc gene, you're gonna have more of a propensity
of
Uh, you know, especially pests because it's the thc is mainly yeah, I mean that's what it's there
You're like trying to fight off. So anyway, she's got
a hemp plant
That has a non-expressive thc gene
So meaning that it is like got the immune system of a normal plant, but they're lacking thc in it whatsoever
But it's got yeah, so there's some new shit that's coming out that is just like mind-blowing
With like the d you know once you man the fact that's where
Yeah
Well, that's where the typing of cannabis is going to come that does not fall in the indica or sativa category
It's a hybrid probably or even if it's a landrace line. It's been bred to a specific
uh
Status right? So if we can actually breed that chemovar status and that genotype
Very true. It has its own new category of what kind of
Cannabis sativa l it is right or whatever people want to get into that's where we need to educate the consumer
And the breeder and the people that just want to grow in their garden
So they understand what they're looking for the lady on here that talks about having ms
There's specific cannabinoids and terpene profiles that will benefit that specific ailment
And if you start diving into lines that don't help you you're wasting your time
You're wasting your life when you can actually that's what michael j fox has right?
Uh, he's got parkinson disease. It's also a neurological disease. So hey tony
Yeah, uh, what is it in the the train wrecks that helps people with ms?
Is since you're on this uh subject because it so the people don't have to grain grow train wreck to have that
What is it that they're actually looking for?
Oh man on the train wreck, I I really don't know brother 100. Okay. Gotcha
Appreciate an honest answer. Thank you. No, it's the same way with my mud bone line. I had
Hey, hey. Hey. Yes, dr. Laurie
Can I talk to somebody?
Somebody yes, ma'am because I have ms
Yeah, that's why I brought you up. You had said that um, there are specific plants that I know work with ms
Patients that I like I ran a club and we had it's not we had a lot it's it's not yes
Yes, ma'am cannabinoids and terpene profiles
We have to make sure
So guess what?
as one with ms
and as one who lives
and moves
and our medicine
We have to look at and research the terpenes
That we have we have to research and understand a medicine
lemon meringue
Lemon skunk afghanis
Afghan
Afghan
All the kind of afghans are helping me to be able to walk
Move and have my being so yes
Hey, what does it work what is the opposite what doesn't work for you?
What strains are the opposite that you would think don't work?
um
The things that I I don't know that work are um, I I've been using
Gorilla glue, so that's good but gelatos
And some others are not helping me
To be able to walk
So
Gorilla glue
Gelatos
Gelato moss cush and everything else. That's what's not working for me
So I cannot talk to anyone else
Because i'm not a medical doctor
And I can't I can't tell y'all what what what's good for y'all
But I can tell y'all what's working for me
So those are the things that are not working for me. I'm lori. I'm complete
I'm gonna say mercy
Yeah, that's so yeah, so like uh, the the
Stoney or stuff you're saying because a lot believe it or not
Lemon strains have an enormous amount of mercy in it for some reason even more some than delimiting which is weird
like uh
And then of course afghanis are just rocking tons of mercy up in there, you know
yeah, I thought that's where I had the highest amount of success with the ms patients was uh,
afghani lines the bubble cush, uh, my mud bone line and my
Uh bat crosses that used uh, the bubble cush in it on the skeet that I made
um
The organ afghani those helped the ms patients quite a lot. Um, but then there would come to the point where some of the folks
didn't like the uh
The strong effect that's where you get into being able to breed some of those cultivars
To make uh some new varietals that are going to show the same medicinal effect
But also up some of the other cannabinoids that can help fight against that high
So you add cbg and cbd to a line or if you can get thcva into there
You increase the medicinal quality of that plant. It's going to help far higher amount of patients than by just taking that original
bubble cush which does work
And just stay in with that plant now
You need to introduce it to breeders that understand some of the other cultivars
Like your four-way one you're talking about we take that and add that to a bubble and keep back breeding the bubble with the new novel
cultivar we pull out of the f generations or even out of a bat cross generation and you're going to be able to find plants that
Are going to be more effective at producing the terpenes and cannabinoids that you need out of the gardens that they're in
That's where we start steering our breeding for
actual commercial production in a medical and
Recreational system some people want ice cream cake and there's nothing wrong with that. But if they're not going to
Yeah, it's good weed
But if like i'm not knocking the medicinal side either but because of the plant not being here a long time
We don't have this history of medicinal use through that plant
Like it kind of goes back to the r4 and the woof or right?
We know that plant has a specific chemo of our status that can be used to breed other plants to bring that same status to it
if we
Start with a brand new line that just came out two years ago
That's only two years of available breeding that we could possibly see any
actual provenance coming from these cultivars when we use plants that already
Have those and introduce them to our breeding when to breeders that understand their cultivars
This is where we get these brand new novel cultivars that can be added with
not just a medicinal property, but also now that if you introduce them on a um, a
smaller scale to just
One facility or one area and they have the ability to profit off that plant on a higher level
So they're not running that same bubble cut now
They're running a new cut that retains most of that medicinal side, but it's got brand new terpenes on it
Which we all know is where the market's all going to if we just keep pumping that same thing to everybody
You end up shooting yourself in the foot on a economic side
And you also start shooting patients in the foot on the medicinal side
So if you're going to breed we can't just keep breeding the same thing over and over that's where
We end up finding these killer plants, right?
That's where the r4 comes out and the woo4 comes out
They start breeding to plants that at one time didn't do what the breeding
The progeny came out, you know the plants you find out of the crosses to the the wolf's taint
For some people like children is a hundred times better medicine. You know what I mean?
Um, yeah an interesting point, you know trevor brought this up the other day on his breeding panel. Um about terpene
Um driving thc, uh, trevor, could you speak on that I was curious about that. Is that true?
Uh, so that's true according to a particular
Oh man, you roboted out on us
Yeah, you're max head roaming on us brother i'm driving i'm driving guys i'll chime in in a second on that well
Actually, you're you said you sound great now just
Repeat it again
Okay, well i'm driving so it could go out again. Um,
The paper was by elizabeth mudge. M-u-d-g-e
um, she specifically identified how
particular
genes that synthesize thc
are upregulated when terpinaline is also
upregulated and so
Essentially what she was finding was that in a subset of high potency thc varieties there is
an
An accentuated
Terpinaline expression and I think we're seeing that with a lot of the haze work that neville did back in the day
Um, there's a lot of really high thc really high terpinaline
um
linked traits it seems and
That's what that paper was bringing up was that there seems to be
almost a threshold where
A hundred feeds, uh, and you tested them all for terpinaline
then you would want to keep the highest one of that to do your breeding because it has the highest propensity to
uh
To increase the amount of thc that is available in the plant, right? Is that what you're saying?
Yes, uh and that there's at least a
I learned something some correlation
within the populations
showing that and so
it's something that
um got brought up in the discussion, I believe that like
You can use some markers as proxies for other markers once you start getting into marker assisted breeding
and
So you could start targeting those genes
Which were specifically identified by the paper like she she goes through and names and specifies
what genes are the synthase genes that
Are associated with the terpinaline expression
and so
You could essentially
Have the markers
They're already
And uh
kind of like your preference on how you like to smoke her I like to take her a
Little longer because she does have that ability to retain that terpene profile
um, if it was a
More of a lemon like terpene I would have pulled it earlier
So I don't end up losing some of that going too far
But that gmo she holds that funk pretty far in there
You take her to 12 weeks and she becomes a whole different beast
It's like that gorilla glue for everybody was cutting her eight weeks
If you took that girl to 11 weeks a whole different beast people see a whole different expression from the plants
So i'll do a tiva in here soon. I got some panama reds
M2b
Like I got my super silver. I got all kinds of so i'm gonna put that in there, too
We got to get you the congo brother
That sounds great
She's so loud high enter penaline
Um greasy is all kale man. She's just a plant that
You can feel it on the fingers. It's a greasy velvet that just comes across on there. She also goes 12 weeks
She doesn't stretch like your normal. Um equatorial
she's going to be a
Shorter than the rest she doesn't stretch like a haze at all or the ties or even that um
Anything close to the colombians like that, but she's killer as smoke. She takes you way back. It's me high as shit, man
Yeah, that congo is special. I love how she stays short and doesn't stretch like other sativas
I love that but and she stacks flowers no matter what she just stacks flowers. So
um
I
I just love her in there some of the crosses are coming out very much close to her profile
and that's because of the work that was done to take her to that f4 status from uh, the work that
Was done on that that line that came from uh, lorana negra. Yeah
Well that it comes from a cat named lomano negra alex. He's the guy that passed the original seed line that uh, that congo comes from
He was the black hand. He passed away in 2008, right?
He's he passed all kinds of land race and actual like wild eco types of cannabis to the community
And then that got passed through and ended up into a vision creators hands
Vision creator, I believe they took it to an f4
on the breeding status through the work they did and then the
the selection was ended up passed to the community on a kind of a um,
more of a limited fashion so that
they can
Again, bring up the the economic value of the plant if you saturate the market
It's not worth a damn
And to put it in the hands of some breeders that could do some work with it to actually
Get some of those crosses out to people that don't have access to that actual line because lomano negra passed that cut
And didn't want people to profit off the plant. He was a cat that was more into the side of
The plants for everybody so he passed the seeds for people to work on to continue to pass it
so if you'd like
Make an s1 or if you continue to a different generation
You're supposed to give those seeds away and use it in your breeding
and if you need to make any kind of profits off of that you learn to hustle through that type of that side of the
plant, but
That plant has such novel terpenes and cannabinoids that come off it that
It's killer to add into breeding projects. It just it's something completely new that is not like any of the other stuff out there
That's on the market
You know, like when I got to colorado like I tried, you know, uh, we went to some dispensary
I owned like four dispensaries when I got here. That's the worst part out I
uh at any rate
So we started going around and one of the most
Unique things that I saw going around colorado like in 2011 and still today and colin
He just started working with it is the colorado durban
i'm, not really sure where it came from but like the plant is just
It grows like a normal plant but it just it shows like this crazy durban side with all these weird turps and stuff
Like it's not like i've tried to grow a few durbans that my buddy had collected like by hand and they were it's
it's a pain, you know, like but uh
there's just some there it's a weird flat fast flowering sativa that
Like just smokes terrific. Yeah, she flowers in like 10 weeks, doesn't she?
With nice buds and structure, but like it keeps that real dirt like it's real it's it's foreign
You know, yeah
I like I believe I use that's the cut I believe that that's the durban cut I used in my um,
Durban put my uh poison toad cross. I never got it verified as the corral colorado durban, but I sourced it from
extreme far down south and uh
Far down south and uh a lot of my friends from colorado when I send pictures to them
They all say it looks like that plant. Yeah, like i've started different than everything else short 10 weeks
Durban since i've started tons and like
They're all shit not shit, but they're all land racing. You know what I mean? And that thing like had a real structure
Yeah
serrated, uh, very serrated, uh
fan leaves
long
Columned, uh with very pointy flowers on that girl. She didn't grow scraggly at all like some of the
Other yeah, like the durbans from uh, cano biogen. They have a land race durban. That's uh,
Real lanky can also throw some homoerphanites out of it. Um
It doesn't grow anything like that
That speaking of structure. I was going to ask a structure question on that congo as i'm i'm usually not lusting after cuts
It's not my thing
but uh that congo is a cut that i'd like to get a hold of and one of the things i'm curious about it is
Uh, how how strong is it? Like can it stand a windstorm or is it going to break all over the place on you because
No, you never know. It's fine. It's uh, she's odd for an equatorial like she she holds her structure
Just fine. She handles wind find out here. I can get wind that actually hits up to 70 mile an hour
We didn't get it this year. We only hit about 45. I didn't lose a branch on a plant out here
um, she's also
Holds her own under any kind of like high humidity
Kev's ran that girl up in his own personal garden up there and it's a very high humidity area and she
She doesn't mold very easily up there. She actually kind of
Shows the same, uh trait that like the haze does where she handles high humidity levels
She's just going to take longer to finish in specific areas
So she's better. She actually grows better indoor in the northern areas. But if you have the ability to grow her
Like in southern california or maybe even south of that where the you get plenty of light
Don't have to worry about any kind of uh weather taking you out from freezing
She's going to be killer dude. She produces massive ass buds
stacks uh colas
Big old three four foot cola is no problem. You could get those indoors. I mean she stacks
And she's going to smell very different than air i'm telling everything yeah, it's
so
So good
Yeah, i've got like 28 plants here and there's nothing here that has anything close to her at all not from
triangle cush uh
I mean anything i've got so many different plants that i've ran over the years that I haven't found anything
that actually
Comes across with that complex terpene profile that she has it's been a while
Everybody I passed it to her that was I tried to give her just some cats that were over 50 to get their reaction
And them cats were like where the hell did you get this shit?
It felt like i'm in high school again, man. It just like took them way back. This is where I talk about
where we chase cannabis lines from what we remember our memory of what was
Like what got us the highest first or what we had our greatest times with with our friends in high school
Or when we started as young adults and these guys all started smoking
early, uh teens
And they're they're 10 years older than me. So this puts them in the 70s smoking weed
uh
And in the early 80s, so i'm like here try this shit out and these guys were like wow, man
This is it's a whole nother level. Kevin talks about it on the same way. It's real refreshing and bright but
It's real. She she can lay you out really like depending on some like your chemistry
Like a lot of people want to know if my haze is racy and a lot of people will get that effect from it
When I smoke the haze or the congo
For me it sets me on my ass like I don't want to get up
But i'm thinking about everything in the world at one time, right? It's it's crazy ass weed
I love that shit, man. She's nice
That's how she got into my breeding this year
Yeah, that sounds right up my alley it sounds like the the way that it grows would do really well for me too
So yeah, she'll get a hold of that someday
Just get at me man. I'll i'll help you out brothers. No problem. Like I said, she was gifted to me
I'll give her to you. I'll see if I can find it out here. I've been thinking about getting a hill colin
I've got her in my garden. So I have it here if you if you two guys
No, the uh congo we're talking about that
Yeah, I lost that durban, um in 2012
I had some uh problems with the garden and I ended up losing that dark that durban back then
But I had used it in my poison toad from 2008 to 2012
and that line throws some very interesting terpene profiles and there's even some color that ends up popping out of there like
One in a hundred throws like a completely purple phenotypes
That that are just insane. They come out smelling like black licorice
And they're like jet black purple. They're not i'm gonna send you my you man. I think you'd like that. It's a weird. It's super pachy
Super weird terps. Yeah, that's i'll get you that one man. I think you'd like that
I've been being a killer see what you want
Yeah, man, like the same thing for you brother, you know, what's up with me anything I got in my garden
There's only one plan I can't pass. So
What is that?
Uh, well the sort the triangle kush my partner that gave it to me he was told not to pass like because
On a commercial level because there's cats out there you give a cut next thing, you know, they're selling it to everybody
so like
My partner passed the cut to me so I could smoke it
I wanted to use it for smoking herb because it's a plant that I I lost in 2017
And it was one that I always grew along with the fire. Ogee. Those are plants
I always had in my garden to smoke indoor and outdoor
And I barely ever used them in breeding projects because of how I got the plants and how I was allowed to use them
so um like
fire ogee is my favorite
og and
i've only made about
35 seeds with that cross directly and only from there
did I pull out some breeders that I used to then breed into other seed lines because
The cats that gave it to me out of respect. I didn't want to profit directly off that plant
So I took that plant made a fucking line and pulled the father out of there and from there
Made f2s and f3s and started doing another breed. How's that topanga?
Uh
The topanga she's nice man, but she's kind of unruly she's the stretchiest of the ogs that I have out here
um, she's she stretches more than the uh, the gmo she's gonna run the same time frame 11 to 12 weeks, uh, she's
she's
She's terpene profiles is real close to a triangle cush that comes out of there. The bud structure is more
um
It's more of a rounder bud than the triangle cush can produce a spear
But like I said, she's like
Mine is like real
Actually, it's real branchy and i'm not noticing a lot
I noticed that it's kind of stretch, but I haven't got into flower yet
She'll stretch and she she grows vining. She's going to grow similar to to fire the uh, gcut
sf or the gcut skywalker or sfv
It's a vining og so she all her branches want to just keep going straight up
and on that topanga if uh
If you especially under low lights, um, but in a highlight system, she produces killer
But she's gonna stretch on you if you haven't put her in flower
Oh, I did the sfv you gave me I got some right here. It smells like men's cologne
right, like I mean it smells like some cool water shit or some I was like
I was like, hey bud smell this does this smell like men's cologne? My buddy was like, holy shit. That shit smells good, too
Yeah, she's nice. I did a bunch outside this year did like two and my buddy's greenhouse and
They were just nasty i'm looking forward. Um, so looking forward to it. They're hanging over there
Go ahead what's that? No after you was trying to give me what?
Um, maybe the pure kush you might want to put that pure kush on that cherry candahar you have and see what comes out of
That that's one of the best cuts I have for uh
for neurological issues, uh that thing, um,
kevin has been using for years for that, uh specific type of reasons and
That cherry candahar you have would would cross killer with it. I bet. Yeah, I got a ton of like, uh,
I got a ton of cbd like because everybody like when I went to the emerald cup years ago with sunny and od and those guys
uh
I I was like, well, I I sold seeds and people like, you know, we're gonna we're gonna breed these and i'm like
Yeah, fucking go for it. You know, I mean like please and that made hemp fucking amazingly like
Every like everybody went and took all this shit and worked it and now there's all this hemp around and it's fucking awesome
but like
uh, one of the coolest things
Like I saw out of that whole show
Was this dude who had uh parkinson's that's why I asked you earlier like ms of bargains
This dude walked up and he was with his wife or whatever and he was shaking like a leaf
I mean dude was just you know, I mean like
Like halfway it looked like a you know, he couldn't so I squirted cbd in his mouth
and uh
And he walked I was like go fuck off and walk around for a minute, you know
He came back like 20 minutes later and he was
like chill like the dude could
It was it was one of the most amazing things i've ever seen in my life like the how quick that worked
you know, I mean at the same time we were doing work like
uh
buddy, todd and I were like
Some of the first
people
In the in the country to be able to administer
uh cd to children in the hospital
It was fucking awesome, dude
so like the fact that I watched that medicine work like
If you got some stuff that helps with awesome stuff
I think that adding cbd up in there and getting it more full spectrum is definitely a
uh way to
You know round out the medicine kind of thing, you know
Yeah, for sure brother and I hear you on that kids the helping the children because when I was we worked at the club there
I have a partner that had a line. He called the ambiguous purple appy
Uh, and he had passed that cut to one of the gardens here because at that time we were able to do a
99 plants and this cat was running big time plants at his spot
And we gave him that cut so he could produce some oil
There was a child here named spencer that had brain cancer and we had been passing him oil for free
and while he had that oil his tumor was shrinking to where it almost completely went away and then the
Guy that was growing the plant got busted by the city because the city had a hard-on for his ass
Because he was loud about growing cannabis and he didn't give a shit because the way
215 went he was one of the guys that was
he's the guys that
Louder than shit that i'm always champion where?
Get off the ass and quit wishing cannabis was legal and make it legal
Where at no matter what it takes because you seen kids like spencer dying and shit and they didn't have any options
Once they arrested this cat they took the plant and we lost the cutting and the next thing I know spencer ends up
Doesn't have a plan for sure so I give you big respects for saying that man about going in there and helping children
Oh, it was the coolest thing man, but I grew it and my buddy. Todd made it into an oil. We put in a roll on
Dude, it's all it's all over the internet. I could probably find it but like uh
Man like so the kid goes into a seizure you rub it on the bottom of his feet and 30 seconds
He's like out of the seizure. It was one of the coolest things i've ever seen
uh
also during that time like this dude had a
Melanoma on his face like a big old gnarly one
And so when you get melanoma that affects your heart like uh, it's actually one of the skin cancer
Well, it doesn't seem like it's that bad just because it's your skin like fucks your heart all up
So like uh, we made a paste for him and he would put it on in the morning
and then on in the night, you know and within a week like the whole melanoma like
Just fell out of his face and he had a hole in his face and then it was gone
Like he was wiping it off in the morning and like the whole tumor just ripped out of his face and let go
It was ridiculous like that
back then I was I felt so good about life because it was like man, we're like literally fucking helping people like
you know people are like because once that all that should happen people just came out of the wood were like yo, dude, I got
all these problems and it was really nice like that's uh, I I actually live off of that kind of energy like
Uh, if I know i'm helping people like not die. I feel better about
My life in general
You know what? I mean
It's awesome you guys are talking about this this subject because that's one of the reasons why I wanted both of you on here
Is because you you've seen a lot more of these cannabis miracles than i've had and my limited
uh
Experience due to my situation is you only see a few but what you see really amazes me
So it's it's really cool that you you guys are sharing some of these stories of how how this plant has
before your very eyes and in two's case
Like finding the golden ticket
Well, I guess so I got a good one here the one
I wanted to murder people like just because they stole all that shit. I'll be honest like
The I was like pissed, you know and like the the sanjay gupta
like I was the pit I was so pissed and depressed and I was like
destroying myself with uh,
alcohol and
other stuff and uh
My buddy was like you gotta watch this this show like they the weed, you know, I mean that was sanjay gupta about charlotte
and I was like
Fuck that, you know these cats stole from me like I I want to see him like in a ditch
And my dude's like no, no, man, you gotta watch this. You gotta watch this and go and he kept just hammering me. So
finally
I was like fuck it, you know and I sat down I downloaded it and I watched it
And uh, there was a point in there where like because they showed pictures of the plants and like the the variegation
Was like the inkling that yeah, that's my shit
You know and like I was like, ah and then came this girl charlotte feige
Who had nothing to do with any of the drama but was like not having 100 seizures a day
Because it's something that I did
you know, I mean like no matter what like I came out like I had a hand in making sure at least one human beings like
Like existence was like bearable
And I just I just started I burst into tears I had like a
Totally like a moment where then I was like, you know, I gotta get back to work
because like if that's like
That's what people should be doing is just trying to see how many people you can help before you die
Right
Fucking a brother 100 behind that absolutely
Absolutely
That's why I brought up that train wreck specifically earlier
I haven't known known many strains that were uh genuine
That actually because this guy traveled across the country to go get this for his wife that had ms really bad
And it it really did help her
So that's the only reason that I I brought up that specific thing because I saw it like you guys were talking about with my own
Eyes, that's what was helping her
The more than likely my cern and terpene lean combination that was helping
With ms on that train wreck, but the issue with train wreck and that's a whole nother
episode is
uh
There are specific cultivars that are train wreck and then like in the early days that I know of cannabis
Up in the hills of homebolt and medicino and shit like that
There was lines that they were called train wreck that came out of seeds found in
Uh, centimelia gardens that were supposed to have any males presence and when you found a seed in there
They would call that shit a train wreck, right? So there was sometimes I got you
you know, so, uh
It just depends on what you're talking about. Um
But it's in what what time period of cats that kind of goes into the skunk and catfish stuff
But I know what you're talking about. It's tall and when it flowers it swallows over itself
Yeah, that's that's the train wreck. I know is a cut. Um to me
I believe that to be the um creeper candor that's in the um, super sativa catalog
It if you guys look that picture up, um
I'm gonna try to pass it to peter if I can find one
It looks exactly what I know of the train wreck that was passed around. It's a plant that can barely hold itself. Uh
She goes about 11 weeks and can go longer. She never likes to amber out her trichomes completely
Um, she's just an unruly plant but some of the best smoke you're ever going to come across that buzz is the whip
It's not a commercial plant because most cats don't want to put the time into uh
Training that plant into a system unless you're going to run like a sea of green
But if you're growing big plants
She gets kind of unruly in that plant and it starts to stretch to where she's hard to handle
So you have to have a large lighting system. You have to have a good crew of cats that are in there
You're not going to run a big facility by yourself a train wreck, but she's killer smoke for sure
but then there's also a cut of train wreck that's passed around that's very uh,
Short a dozen stretch like the cat we had um what we called the grape wreck
We knew it as train wreck in 1988
Uh, we held that cut I held it until 2012
I lost it with that durban, you know when I ended up leaving the club
I lost that cut and my grape wreck cut the grape wreck was a train wreck that grew eight weeks 56 days
Every time it would start to throw stamina nodes out that were sterile at the top of the buds on basically day 57
That's why we cut them on 56
Uh, I used her to breed with and everything out of there was stable
But we knew her as a train wreck since 1988
And she was very different than that train wreck that I just talked about that's um,
Very long and unruly lanky. I think that train wreck there came out of that seed catalog the super sativa seed catalog
I can't remember what number it is. I I can't get to my catalogs right now. They're stashed in my
In some of my files, but that I hate to change the subject
I hate to change the subject but before two bounces on us because this thing's getting kind of long
I'd like to thank you two for helping my dog out with that dog food recipe
Is what do you mean your dog?
Uh, I was i'm making that uh beef stew kind of thing that you I asked you for the recipe on dunn's chat one night
And you were kind enough to give it to me because he was a recovering from a serious issue
And it's really helped him bounce out of that quite a a little bit faster than he may have not otherwise
So as I really enjoy making it for him and what's that? Do you give him cbd?
No, it's just it's just uh, uh,
healthier more balanced food than what we were giving him before I wasn't like making my dog's food before
This this happened with his uh health so I decided to
since we we were
Helping him bounce out of it
We were going to help him stay a little healthy
For the rest of his life by upping the ante a little bit and providing him
I just wanted to thank you for that little dog food recipe. You're more than welcome. Listen, uh,
I mean honestly like send me your like you got my email like go ahead and send me a message send me your address and
I'll send you some cbd to go on top of it
I was reading articles that were like if you make your dog, uh homemade dogs, they're gonna live
Three years longer. It's actually more beneficial than neutering or fixing your dog. Like, you know the
the
I actually like
So I got a puppy now and i'm looking into like how to because my dogs eat every day they eat elk peas
Carrots bragg's amino acids. I think that stuff's really important man that bragg's amino acids
Uh, like we don't get enough aminos and that's like the building block of life, you know, and then uh,
I do some glucosamine for my older dog and then they each get lion's mane and cordyceps
And uh yogurt like yogurt health. So that's more for me. So I don't have to smell them. Uh,
but the cbd in there man, I
if you feed your dog, right like
Listen, I would eat my dog's food, but I would not eat kibble. Do you know what I mean? Uh,
I don't yeah, that's
I love it when i'm making it for him because i'm eating it too tasting it seeing if it tastes right like how much of
That aminos would you say you had i've been putting like, uh, eight tablespoons in like a large like I guess it's a
two three gallon, uh stock pot
Oh, are you making? Okay, so
I uh, I live alone and I like to cook a lot
So basically like I cook my dog's food twice a day like some sort of dog slave
uh
but if you're making like a big so I use like a squirt, I don't know man like
um
You know, I like when i'm making it squirt squirt on the bottom on the top of the food then I mix it in
All right
But i'm glad that's working man. Like you were let me send you some cbd. Uh that you'll notice like, uh, an immediate
Like your dog becomes a puppy again
I recommend everybody feed their dog at least like homemade dog food
Like listen, if you love your animal to the point where they're like your fucking homie
And you know like when they die that's gonna suck balls like you don't want to fucking go through that
I just went through that twice this year. It was the worst
uh
You why not take better care of them? Why not like, you know
like especially if you don't have a kids and a bunch of huge workload man, like take the time to
Take care of your dogs. They're gonna live longer. That's gonna make you happier. That's gonna be better
For you as a human and them as pets like for everybody that's listening on that one
Yeah, I was I was hoping you were going to share the recipe with everybody because I don't have it here with me
I just said so basically I don't have it memorized yet. So
Like a recipe for dog food and that's healthy, right? Like, uh
I use uh red meat because I uh, just so I would be friends
I live in the country way in the country and everybody I know gets elk and like I get the scraps
I know the butcher and he cuts all this stuff, but you could like probably source this by going, you know
I'm sure there's people that do this
You know and they have to throw out stuff. Like there's a ton of uh scraps like would you kill an elk or deer?
Whatever that you don't use. So, um, I i'm fortunate enough to get it
for free but like
When I didn't I was using
at least ground beef
So, you know and you could uh, so ground beef unlike pork and chicken you can like you don't have to cook all the way
in fact
It's better to like keep red meat a little raw for the dogs because they're dogs and that that that doesn't kill all the enzymes
And stuff in there
So I use that, you know, sometimes I throw in coconut oil because it's good for them
uh
um
Carrots because they're easy. They're cheap. They're easy to grate and uh, they're you know, uh, good roughage and then peas
um
Because I buy them frozen and it's pretty easy. But I mean I fed them everything and it's you know, uh
But they need like like at least 10 to 20 percent vegetables
And then I use bragg's amino acids because that shit's really good for you
Like if you use soy sauce at home or you make like asian food or whatever like switch to the bragg's
It's like a full set of aminos and like way less sodium
So I use that in there and then yogurt because dogs are pre and probiotic like we are they're you know
basically the same and uh, then I use a
A glucosamine supplement to help with the
Because doja's almost 12. So she needs some mobility
and uh, and then just because I eat lion's mane and cordyceps cordyceps are going to be anti
uh
like tumor
They also help put oxygen in your blood
And like they oxygenate your blood at a cellular level so like you can like pound more oxygen in india
And as we all know cells
Are like you're building, you know, that's how you stay
Healthy and fight off disease. So the more you can strengthen your cell health the better off you are
uh
And then yeah
So another thing I noticed from switching from dog food like normal kibble even the good stuff like i'm talking $80 bags
To like the the dog food is they take
Considerably less shits and I mean that there's not as much filler in there
uh, and and it smells
Something that I know actually my wife noticed at first, but then I noticed it after she told me about it
So yeah, sorry for interrupting, but that's just
That what did I do? Oh, I had a call coming in
uh
But yeah, so like and the shits break down faster
Like they're not like saying like they're not giant
Uh, it's so gross like the
I don't know kibble is disgusting. I can't I mean it's convenient. You know what I mean? Like people who feed their dog
You know, it's just easy. You got dog food. You got cat food
You just but like it's not the best thing for them like they definitely don't use
Very good grade, uh meats and stuff in there
One of the things that I think that you didn't mention that I think helped him out a lot too
Is the bone broth I made made a big batch of bone broth for him, too
And I said i'm about to have to make some more of that to add in there
but yeah
that's the
I talked to the vet after I had this conversation with you and got the recipe
I went and talked to the vet it was like how do I do this?
Because I know that when you switch up a dog's food, they have stomach issues and everything
so I I got some advice on how to I didn't want to just
Switch him up to you know, you know a little bit
Yeah, that's what they told us to do and they they were actually they
Handed him the list of what you said to put in there and they were down with everything except for the mercola powder
And I guess because it was around the time that mercola was getting a lot of shit
I'm not trying to bring that up, but
That mercola powder is the jam though, dude like
If I could afford that for like my friend works, she's a doctor mercola
Uh, if she'd send it to me, she doesn't listen to this. So there's no point in calling her out. But uh
dude, that is like
if I could find a vitamin supplement for the dog to go on top of the that was like, uh affordable because mercola is like
Uh, that's just not cheap, but it definitely works like uh, you gotta think like
You know, you're a mammal like the dog's a mammal like it needs
like you know
you just want to
Yeah, we should all be eating vitamins too, by the way, you know and bone broth that would make you healthier, too
Yeah, we made some chicken noodle soup with it it was pretty good
Yeah, I also feed them turmeric sometimes
And some black pepper just like when i've got a wild hair up my ass like that's really good for everybody too
that's that
to uh, it's all you know as animals get older just like people they have the
ability to succumb to things like cancer and
Like, you know other health problems like we have you know, their hips hurt so
When you give them the glucose to me, you know, you start giving them nutrients that help them
They seem to I mean my last two dogs live to be 17
And I didn't get them on that whole diet till like halfway through their live, you know, how they see their lives
That's that's awesome that's the situation i'm in i'm hoping i'm i've got a little bit more than half left with mine
The
Yeah, I could see the difference now
I think that do you think that that I know that cbd is really good for hair and nails and skin and stuff like that
What we're dealing with now is now that he's uh recovering when he was uh,
healing
His body wasn't focused on like making nails and stuff for instance
So, uh this week we had to take him to a vet because he broke a nail in half and exposed the quick
and uh
That's what the doctor explained is that it's just that him he wasn't his body wasn't focused on making those cells when he was
healing his ass
I'll tell you what man. I eat cbd more than most. So when I make the bottles I use
Uh, like two grams it depends on the concentration of the oil like right now. I got like 55
Cbd, so I use two grams to equate it to the bottle
I eat that shit. I'll send you some I eat that
That crude that I make the bottles out of every day and I shit you not man
Like i'm going bald and stuff, but my hair grows fast and shit and my nails grow like talons
Like I have to trim them like at least once a week
uh
And i'm sure my bones are extra strong and that's a good thing about cbg too that kind of the g
uh has a little more focus on that like bone density health and like, uh
You know
I I recommend the cbd man. I recommend it for everything and everybody
like if anybody needs some um
Like don't don't murder me on this but anybody that's listening and get my information I generally send out one for free
Because I you know, if you follow me on what I do
Like I i'm not like faking this like it works and i'm like crack the first one is free
Yeah
It does work though man what he's talking about
100
Yeah, I mean I feel better. You know what I started eating this shit right before I go to bed and I wake up like
Feeling like I slept like awesome and I jump out of bed and I I and that's not me like in general
it just so you know, like not at all like i'm a i'm like a slug of a human at times, you know, like
uh, and I drink I drink beer every day because I um
Because I drink uh
but like I don't have any hangover I don't get drunk like
the cbd like for some reason just I go to bed I wake up and i'm feeling like a
millionaire
That's awesome to hear as I drink every day but myself it's
No hangover. I usually don't have a hangover, but it's nice to not deal with one the rare occasion that it does happen
Yeah, I mean I like I like beer man, I don't like like yo, oh soda or beer like I like tea also
I drink a lot of tea. But like when it comes down to it like
My anxiety rails through me and then I have a beer and it's like oh cool. I'm feeling better
So I actually like in my mind helps me get I don't know. I'm whatever this is something I talk about with my therapist, but
cbd definitely helps without the like keeps me like, uh
Yeah, I don't know I think it's great I sleep
Like I swear I get deep REM sleep
Like the best ever and when I wake up I feel
Like refreshed and awakened unless I eat too much and I feel like I got kicked in the ass
Because I don't do edibles, you know that much
Right on right on
Well, this has gone on for a while. I don't know if we should keep you any longer
I really appreciate you coming on here with us and dropping all this knowledge. That's that
I it's been a lot of fun for me
What I don't know if you mentioned what what carrier oil you like and why?
Well, my first go-to would be hemp oil hemp seed oil
Right. That's what I use too. I use organic hemp seed oil. Um something
I don't know why people don't use it more often. They always want to get into medium track the you know mctb oils, but
Like when you go to coconut oil if the people you're dealing with your patients have liver issues or liver disease
It's something you might want to look into because it can help
trap fatty uh
Deposits on one's liver. That's one reason why myself I went to uh, organic, uh hemp seed oil. I get it so good
Yeah, I get manitoba's best out of canada. It's 100 organic. Um, i've been using that for
like 15 years myself
Nice I like it it makes like it. Okay. So everything I do is organic like I make sure that the farm
Was growing, you know, no chemicals there. I mean, maybe the alcohol that they're extracting it with wasn't organic alcohol, but
uh
It's still fucking 95, you know, I mean, uh
And then I try and get organic carrier oils because the price of cbd is super cheap
so I used to pay like 3500 a kilo and it's
Considerably more cheaper than that so I can afford to like put more money into
The carrier oils like and the flavoring like I have a top secret location out in california
And these cats are like flavor scientists. They're like turf wizards. I swear to god like they
You can I can get any
Any flavor you could possibly imagine?
like uh
If you want like cheese curds, you know
I mean i'll make you some cheese curd and it's all like organic and like, uh, they they send you a coas
I get coas with everything I get now
So I and then I make a topical the tiger's blood
Which I think you could probably use. Uh, tony. I don't know if I sent you some but uh,
and all the that uses a lot of
uh
oils like peppermint and clove and stuff so I I
Can get all those organically now too because if you look into like
Oils man, like if they're not made right if you buy like some cheap ass essential oil or something off of amazon
you end up getting like
like a bunch of
Leftover residual solvents like you wouldn't like shitty dabs, you know
Yeah, I hear you brother I used to work in a candle factory I was the sentin um die guy so
I I kind of understand what you're talking about with all the residuals that come in those things. There's some nasty stuff
That's one thing that it kind of messed me up with sense and stuff so I I really can't um
I can't have a lot of products that have a high
amount of like uh lavender oil in there or
um that little will get you
yeah, lavender oil basically makes me turn into a
Piece of shit. It just devastates me that I can't breathe my fucking sinuses lock up I get into a very tense state
I feel very uh aggravated
um, I I used to I'd have my arms like elbow deep in barrels of uh,
concentrated scent so like if uh, there was a lavender scent a rose scent or uh,
If you lived on the west coast the the the factory I worked at I was the guy that poured the scent blocks
For that was on the west coast the guy that had the company I worked for he'd been
His family had it here since like the 20s. They were the largest wax producer on the west coast
I got hired there and I was doing dyes and scents and they made me highly sensitive to a lot of different
Concentrated scents and shit. So I got to be careful that shit especially like perfumes man
There'll be ladies that pass me here in the store and I can't breathe for like two hours after they walk past me
It's just insane my landlord next door his wife's sister judy. She's uh
She was the perfume lady at the counter like her whole life
Her lungs are fucked up like her lungs are coated in like, uh, uh scar tissue and like all she only gets like
Like 50 of the oxygen she tries to breathe in because she was yeah like uh, yeah
I was in contact with
Terpenes and a lot of wax and both together will fucking destroy your lungs
I just when I went to the hospital with my broken femur
They found a mass on my lungs, which I didn't want to talk to him about I was
I
Should probably talk to people about that kind of thing though
Oh, man, it's it's all they're gonna tell me is i'm about to die. I already know that shit
So like I ain't paying the next motherfucker some more money to fucking
Cut me up. My family's had it. So I know what's coming. I don't need them to tell me nothing
They can't do nothing about it. I've worked with enough people that
Have dealed with what I believe I got
As soon as they chop into it you're pretty much faded so
I just don't want to deal with any of that stuff right now
but I believe I got it from the same thing from working at the the candle factory and being in a
Very close proximity with the high amount of waxes because there's actually federal
Limitations to the amount of wax a person can be around the concentrated
Because they will just shut your lungs down completely and that comes into the dabbing with cannabis the amount of fats and lipids that are
Left in the concentrates that we're smoking
If you start smoking too much of that shit
You will start having issues if it hasn't been what they're a lot of people call winterized if you don't remove those lipids and fats
Out of what you're inhaling in your lungs and you do that on a large scale
You could start having issues with smoking. That's where introducing those concentrates
Into a uh, like an edible form is much better for some folks. Uh, because lipids and fats are actually healthy for you
Ingested through the stomach but you start breathing that shit in and you're gonna have issues after a while
Popcorn lung is a real thing
Yeah, exactly. Exactly rather than popcorn lung
That's that's where you can look to get uh
the actual information without introducing cannabis to it because cannabis smokers are always going to be like
Nah, we don't do that shit to you or some other crap and it's like bro
Shut the fuck up and do some research so you can actually harm yourself from a product that comes off of this
Majestic plant if you don't know what the fuck you're doing
That's why you don't pick up people are gonna from uh, their vape pen like they're I know
Yeah, I know a dude who got it like he was vaping. Uh nicotine and stuff and he got polyps in one of his lungs
It's because they're putting um
The glycerin as a base in some of those things. That's what the carrier oil or that you're putting in there and the concentrated. Uh,
Cannabinoids because if they start putting in say they put uh rosin in there
And they haven't removed the lipids and fats out of there
You're gonna start inhaling that and if you're doing that all the time
You see the clouds people are puffing in shit trying to enter
Impress people on instagram and shit. I'm gonna fuck yourself up
You know
Actually, I watch some of those kids like blow smoke rings inside of smoke rings inside of smoke rings
they blow like a heart and then like stick their head through it and then
Yeah, they they can do some shit but they're also gonna end up when they're about 50 years old going
What the fuck's wrong with my left lobe in my lung here?
Like it's turned black it it looks like a meteor hit me and shit and
I can't puff big clouds no more like you can get to the point where it fucks you up because
Nobody ever told you that the waxes and lipids that are in that concentrate
Are gonna fuck you up if you keep puffing them on those levels. That's the problem
And I only knew that shit from where I worked, right?
that's how I found out about waxes and lipids and then we move over to concentrate cannabis and
I I just knew I should look into that shit because what's coming off the plant. I know it was in a track on
I I de-wax all my signatures and stuff for the most part because uh, a it makes it cloudy
And be like, uh, the wax usually can carry some water
Which will carry chlorophyll and stuff like that
Which will carry chlorophyll and the next thing you know, it all tastes
like you're sucking a
You know, like when you used to make butter, uh, you know what I mean? Like it just tastes yeah
like that
so like I I try and make it as uh,
Lipid free as I can and if I you know
Sometimes it like actually I got some bottles now where like the little bit of fats that remain like stuck to the side of the
bottle
And that's like a form of purification right there, you know, because that's not
In your uh, but it looks bad
so I like scrapped a whole couple hundred bottles just because I should have cooled it down a little bit more to
Because no one wants like shit sticking. Yeah, it looks bad
I see a chad and chad westport on youtube asked the popcorn lung
Search it up on google brother. There's people working in popcorn factories ending up what they call popcorn lung from actually inhaling
All the uh contaminants that are in the environment
Talk more towards the microphone
I'm, sorry. How's that? Is that better?
Yep
Yeah, um popcorn lung. It's can the
The reference comes from people that worked in popcorn factories making microwave popcorn and them putting the flavorings on the popcorn
They were inhaling
different uh
contaminants from the air and it became known as popcorn lung but uh
It's just in reference to the waxes and shit that can contaminate a person's lung from the atmosphere or from
Whatever they've introduced through like, uh two brought up a vape
You can start vaping and the next thing you know, you're inhaling all kinds of fucking contaminants
Not just the the beautiful part of the plant that we're after
Hey, what do you what do you think about? Uh, uh cannabis hypermesia, man. My buddy's got it. Um
Uh, that's that's for me that's controversial on the subject it comes from a study that was done in australia when it was called
Uh, man, i'm probably gonna
forget the name here, uh
cyclical vomiting
Syndrome, they're they're the 11 patient study
That's where it ends up coming out of the hyperme cannabis hypermesis. But if you start to research hypermesis and other
um
Other types of hypermesis you can find hypermesis. Garbarium, which is basically morning sickness in women which they've traced back to
different
hormone imbalances in a person
Right. So I believe what's happening is the person has
some form of a
Hormonal reaction to either the cannabis or possibly what's been used on the cannabis maybe here's the thing
Yeah, hold on check it so my buddy josh pitts has it man, he's a great dude
He loves smoking weed. So and he grew he like turned out some some kush
No neem or anything in there didn't spray anything on it like and it still did that to him
You know what? I mean? There's a terpene pro. It's not neem
That's the people been using neem for centuries man, and they've never reported neem causing this it has some
Something yeah neem's a different thing
Did I have the neem problem and it messes with my bronchial tubes? It's not the hypermesis thing. No, so
and
Like I said, I believe it's
hormonal reactions of either a terpene profile and people can be growing that plant with all kinds of different shit
They could be using bat guanos on the plant. There's different aminos that are they're spraying on the plant
Maybe there's a fungal contaminant or a yeast contaminant on the plant on a micro level that this person's sensitive to
I myself i'm highly sensitive to uh,
Sulfur I'll have a breakouts like a son of a bitch. There's different pesticides that
That have fucked me up that other people don't get messed up by like if I try to bring it up
People think i'm hating on particular companies because they contain it and i'm trying to give people
An experience that you know would actually made me sick and some other people that I know
but
Cannabis hypermesis if you take the word cannabis out of it look up hypermesis you find out
A lot of it's traced back to hormonal reactions in the person
So now we add cannabis back to it. Why does it become a whole new species? Why is it brand new?
Cannabis could be the reason why it's happening
Or being the trigger issue, but that's not the causation. You know what I mean?
Like sure the hormone imbalance which could be now that can be dealt with or maybe not
But we have so
He'll smoke and he'll smoke and he's cool and then all of a sudden
Like I thought he was on dope one day dude. I was like what the fuck is wrong with you? Because uh
All right, he was going to jail so
uh, I made up all these like balls of like, uh,
extract like uh, basically like we were blowing butane back in the day and uh,
We we mix them all because you know, you got to make some money in the joint
So like we fucking put you know, so we were getting all these little balls together and one burst in his stomach
like what because he was you know, I know this is a weird topic, but like
It happens, you know anyway, so he got like super sick and this is like the first time it ever expressed itself
And like he was like all fucked up and I was like dude
Are you on drugs and he's like no man
And then like it started happening with the more and the more he smoked weed
He would get like super sick and then he had to take like baths
Like hot showers and like baths and then as it was it was a couple days after he was coming off of it. He uh
He would start smoking weed again to make himself feel better. It was like an endless cycle of uh,
of uh
Like feeling shitty and then feeling better because of the weed and then feeling shitty
Uh, and he still gets it like it sucks
It's a weird story, uh, but yeah
You know, sometimes you gotta smuggle drugs into jail to make your dude someone
I'm gonna share a link to the study that I referenced in australia
The cyclical vomiting syndrome from which this originated the cannabis
Hypermesia syndrome, but actually came from a study done in australia
um, I want to say
2011 possibly i'm going to be off on that date
I'm going to try to post it here on uh, those comments on youtube for anyone that wants to try to dive into that
The fact that it had a different name
To begin with gives you a different direction to look at causation
right
The only thing that that linked a lot of these patients in that original study that I believe
Ended up with 11 patients at the end only 11
Was cannabis and that's why they end up linking it to cannabis back then
On then they don't do a follow-up for a long time
So i'm gonna post that on if anyone wants to dive into that
I I do have experience with uh cannabis fucking with my hormones because I had a man boo problem for a while
And i'm not a big guy. So it's kind of weird for a fit dude to have man boobs
Yeah
Gynecomasticism and it was a combination. I was eating a lot of peanut butter sandwiches
Basically, I was eating all legumes and smoking a ton of weed and I was just like estrogen out
Like I was all soybeans and peanuts and weed so I just started growing boobs and I like had to uh,
It actually worked. I ate parsley and uh button mushrooms
Like that's all I ate for a couple weeks and the boobs started to go away
I had to like balance my testosterone out with my diet
This is a crazy-ass story. But as a cannabis does have an effect with your uh,
parsley
That's what he that's what this guy told me he's he's a very he's a health nut kind of guy man
You should see this dude. He kind of looks like a cop, but he's not he's just uh,
He's just one of those dudes. We all know him. But that's what he like. He called me out
He said you're smoking too much weed. He said what you've been eating. I told him and he's like, yeah
You get this guy no
Masticism because it was worse on one side. Like when I was walking motherfucker was bouncing and shit. It was weird
Anyway, that's telling too much about myself here, but
Actually when I got to jail because I did something wrong. Uh
Yeah, like uh, I got him too and I was like what the fuck that's how I know the word the nurse is like
Yeah, I don't worry
but they feed you like
You know, I was eating a ton of peanut butter and like all kinds of shit. So
uh, they went away I guess you know, it was weird though, it was like
I'm getting tits
I need to start working out. That was my first thought, you know, like I need to start working out
Like this is not like the yeah
Uh, that's crazy though that you did that just from eating and smoking
That's what he claimed and what he told me to do like like I said, he made fun of me
He just called me out for it. What what was going on? You know, it's he knew exactly what what was happening
But I had the same thought that I was like, I I mean i'm throwing logs around man. How about how are my pecs?
flabby
Because he was a health guy. That's why I went and talked to him. So is it funny?
That's the titties
Oh man, we've been all over the place on this conversation. Yeah, have you had any titty problems tony man?
We need to cover like
We can't get into that here man, we want to be correct so have a test but uh, not my own
Like of all the places you don't want to get breasts that's in prison, you know what I mean
It's a bad look. You know what I mean?
Going in with long hair and boobs you're in for a rough time, man
Speaking of prison your buddy's gonna have a good christmas, correct?
Who's that
Is is it uh duke getting out before christmas duke should uh, apparently yes, that's what I've heard
All right
Yeah, I ran i've been running some of his gear like the skunk man. It was real nice. Uh,
Yeah, hopefully I would like to think so man. I mean
It's not my place to say but like this should have been over a long time or they hired a bad lawyer like the whole
like if the
if the locals wouldn't have slept on it like
what happened was uh
It was a legal surgeon seizure, right? Like he was out there partying with his buddies who like
Are into that you know what I mean? Like it was like like
Like if instead of weasel, you know, weasel, weasel, weasel, weasel, weasel
Like if instead of weed, you know when we go to weed parties, it's uh
You know, we all bring our shit to show everybody right like you know, and we all switch and trade
Well, it was like that but they're like weird gun nuts or uh, what do you call them? Like preppers or whatever, you know, I mean
so he just went out there and then traded all kinds of cool shit, which
Who cares, you know, and then he got pulled over in in a legal like he he
Changed the lane properly
uh
You know and then he just got pulled over with his toys
so if they would have if they would have got a better lawyer, he probably wouldn't be in this situation because
Like it was totally pulled him over illegally. He was
Completely in his own right?
But uh, it would be cool. Yeah, I would love to I don't know man. He's he's up there. He's getting closer. He's actually located
Closer he was out and wherever the hell they got him and now he's up
um near
In where wherever el chapo is, you know
Not in the same place where he's at but like in that whole prison complex that they got going on
Gotcha it sucks to hear that this could this time frame could have been avoided for him if things would have gone
Differently at the beginning that's that sucks
You know, man, i'm a felon and that sucks and i'll never be able to shake it. I learned my lesson
Don't make crazy chemicals in your own house
Whatever at the same point like uh, i'm not allowed to own a gun so I don't feel the need to own a gun
Like I know, you know if I had a gun i'd be more
Like then you get weapons under duress and the next thing, you know, you're in jail because you're not allowed to own guns. So
uh
I guess the whole thing could have been avoided if
Uh, you you know, you just didn't have a ton of guns, but it's whatever he's having a good time. I guess whatever
prison is uh
Kind of fun. Sometimes I guess it's hilarious to tell you the truth, but uh, i'm not trying to advocate for
Anybody going but it's it's a fucking funny place sometimes man. It sucks. But at the same time it's
uh
Yeah, like you you see some shit. You don't really ever get to see
out on the street, so
um
I don't know but yeah, so he should be out soon. Um, I was trying to get him in on some breeding projects so that
You know because he's gonna need I don't know like everybody the whole the whole uh
Community came through and helped him and and the bird out. That's his wife. Uh
But i'm sure when he gets out he's gonna, you know need a good. Uh solid support team, right?
Yeah, well it should take a break for a little while just chill and reacclimate. You know how it is is
It's kind of it. Well, you said he's been having fun in there. So it might not be so much of a shock
I mean i'm pretty sure man. It's still prison and when you get out it it's a
You know, it's a it's a weird thing man
Like you want people to leave you the fuck alone, but you want to hang out with them
you know, I mean it's like
yeah, you're used to keeping people like this far away, but
you know
Yeah, so
I don't know
I hear you
It sucks to be locked up. So i'm sure he'll be real happy to get out
Yeah, see his family again and stuff, I'm sorry to bring it to a down note
But it's kind of an up note too. I knew you you all were sort of friends
yeah, like uh, listen the
The thing is like back in the day man when you were growing weed the or doing illegal stuff like the
The threat or the the risk of going to jail was always
Like looming over your head, you know
Like looming over your head, you know like that
that's what one of my favorite parts about like living where I live and
You know, like I don't
I like to sell seeds. I like to work on this stuff. I'm selling it
You know, I can sell cbd and the cops like they know what i'm doing
And I get to sleep well at night
You know
Like when I go to the post office to send off like a bunch of packages like you and brandon and all those guys
It's not a bunch of weed and I go back to bed and I sleep well at night and the lady the post office
Like around now she's like you're not sending thc. Are you?
And it's like every year i'm like no dude, like I get to go home
And I get to uh sleep knowing you're not kicking my door down because i'm doing something stupid
uh
Because like I I don't know
While it was funny and uh at times hilarious like i'm not trying to go
Like return myself to that, you know
so
Being locked up sucks. I'm sure when he gets out he's gonna
Uh, at least I I would think he would uh
Share his appreciation for everybody that helped out, you know, because people the community really came through like james bean
From uh seeds here now you guys talk to him
Oh, yeah. Yeah has donated to that that whole fundraiser. Yeah. So like that's yeah good looking out. You know what I mean? Like, uh
it's yeah like uh
The only thing you hope for if you actually get stuck in jail is that people outside care about you enough to like help
You out and send you money. So
Like that, you know, that's that's huge
Yeah, we've sent in a bunch of stuff a lot of us here and helped out when uh, james started that uh,
that uh
For duke also when he did boggs family fundraiser me and him started that up and we also helped out leo when leo needed help
Like this community helps out a ton of people like you
And kyle helping me out with my mom when she had a stroke brother like there's so many people out here that are hiding
Well, not like hiding on purpose, but people just don't see the type of shit that they're out there doing
We're not out here. Just trying to take advantage of nobody on the side. We're doing
We're doing shit that makes our souls feel better and helping other people out man
Like like helping duke out. He can't do nothing from inside of there
So all of us out here that could do something started to donate
It helps people out man
100
Word is he got?
ted kaczynski before he died's commissary list signed by ted kaczynski, so
That sounds like a duke thing to do right there
You know what I mean? Like
That's awesome
Yeah, this community is really badass
So I sent those those seeds for that donation to somebody that i'd never even heard of james bean didn't have
Auction capabilities at that time. So he told me to do it through blockchain novelties and since then they've had their own problems
but uh, yeah, this
This this community is something special. I've never experienced anything like it
I'm a jeep guy the jeep is about as close as it gets but it's not as tight a community as the cannabis people because
They're not like like you were mentioning. It's like some of us are still risking our freedom for it
And i'm not sure if like you got cancer your jeep community would be like yo, bro. I'm gonna ride by my uh,
my, you know 1984
Explorer over there and you know help you out with your answer
You're right, it's not it's not the same kind of thing man. So the
The empathy of the the cannabis community is something very special. Yeah, we out here doing more than car washes, baby. That's for sure
But if I have to put a bikini on to get a couple extra pennies to help out a homie, let's do it
I actually make uh christmas
I know this is gonna sound weird, but I make christmas dessert not last year because of covid
but I make christmas dessert for the entire sheriff's department downtown and all the inmates that are stuck in there because
a nobody wants to work on christmas and b
Nobody wants to be in jail on christmas
so
Plus it's a good way to like, you know, nobody fucks with me around here, you know
like uh, but yeah, I make the I mean last time I made cheesecakes, uh
And they wouldn't let me put cbd in them
so I got a bunch of pine extract with pining in it, which is a natural antidepressant and I made like a
I made like a uh, uh compote with uh, cranberries strawberries and blueberries
And pining and cinnamon and then I took them
Uh cheesecakes and the cops cheesecake had a thin line of blueberries all the way around the outside
and uh
Yeah, so I yeah, basically I just went down there and gave everybody cheesecake for christmas
Because I mean I literally the front of the building says happen
I mean, I they know exactly not exactly what I do, but they know what I do
And like it's it's uh, like I said, it's comforting to be able to sleep at night knowing that you're like, uh helping in the community
As you know, like so you're not gonna get your door kicked in or anything stupid like that your dog shot
Yeah, I hear you on that man went at our club. We actually used to be the club that the sheriffs used to send the um,
the uh
the uh retired cats to because they knew we weren't fucking around and we we were like the first club that went and got
FBI background checks and we let him come in and do a walkthrough so they could see everything we were doing
So when it was time for some cat that was retired and he wanted to start using cannabis, uh, the police chief and the sheriff's
Department would send everybody down to our club so they knew everything we were doing man. We could drive around town
We weren't getting pulled over and shit. They they knew we weren't fucking around
so like
other somebody else driving around getting
Just pulled over and sweated all the time
You could leave one of these clubs and they'd pull you over knowing you had cannabis in your car
But when we left eventually they were just like bug it man. Those guys aren't doing nothing wrong
They're they're helping the community out right there
Once you start getting that kind of relationship with your uh neighbors
The next thing you know, they start accepting not only you but that that cannabis again
They've been taught so long it's bad, right cannabis is bad as you get into that older generation
But that's the generation that's starting to come into cannabis
The fastest like my body hurts my arthritis sucks and they can afford the taxes and the price of the cannabis to regulated market
So these retired folks are literally the largest market that are coming in there
That you should be actually trying to help out the most besides just passing them off
The next hype strain and shit find out why they're actually in there in your club
Offer them a product that's going to work for what they're actually trying to
to
Accomplish right don't just give them some random shit because you bought it for cheap and you can get the highest profit off it
Because they're not going to come back give them what works the next thing
You know, you got a patient that's bringing other people into your club because what you helped them with actually work, right?
So the a lot of these old folks don't want to smoke the herb and get all fucking high
They want to use something like that hemp product or another cbd product that they can ingest
Or keeping their purse and the grandkids not going to find it want to know what it is
They can just take it and the next thing they know it's working and they're able to
Enjoy the environment and the people around them are much better
We used to
offer so many different products for the
the seniors that were coming in because
the exact
Reason, right? They don't want to come in and they don't give a damn about the hype name or
How much thc is on that product? They just want to know if it works
So when I came down to look at my house, I live in like a four thousand square foot old. Well, it's not old
It was a funeral home, right?
So there's plenty of space I got, you know
And uh the guy that owned it my neighbor my landlord
Well, I bought it but like my landlord when I came to look at it, he didn't want to rent it
He wanted to sell it and he was like came over man. He couldn't open his hands. He was like crouch over he moved real slow
and uh
I I wasn't like hip on it at first but like now it's my house
But uh, so I left him with a bunch of cbd gear and then like a week later
He called it was like yeah, i'll rent it to you
You know and since then like the dude
Like he went from like crouch over like the crepit old man to like this dude works
He works circles around me. Like the dude is just a beast of a human
and uh
Like his wife's on it. Like I go
Like every month and give like I have a little neighborhood here
So I give everybody in my neighborhood out hemp in and everything and eggs because I got an egg hook up
but like uh
they're all old people like i'm trying to get to where I can like get a
Some kind of
What do you call it? Like a not-for-profit to where I can just donate like hundreds of bottles because I live in a place that is
basically old spaniards who um,
You know because nobody wants to live where I live because there's no work or money unless you work
Live live where you know you work at where you live
So I just try and help all these old people around here. It's kind of cool and it works
Like I get like I basically need to get a drive-through at my house because he's like all
Like people just drive up all the time like hey, I heard you had
You know, I got and it's fun to like be like, what do you got?
You know and the dude's like had a guy come through he's like I got asthma and i'm like
I don't know if it works
So if you come across something that I don't know if it works
I'll like give you a free bottle and the dude came back and said it worked for his asthma
And like another guy, you know, like dude, it's just it's it's amazing
It makes you feel good. Like when people are like, hey, thanks, man. I feel like a champion
Because i'm not in pain
Yeah, 100 man
it's awesome to have someone come in and 100% be
feeling relief from
A product that basically didn't get them high, right?
They didn't care about none of that shit other than I ain't in pain anymore
I had a lady named her her name was mary jane. She was 92 years old. She came in
She was wearing this uh brace on the front of her chest that was basically holding her up
She had a clear brace on the front and back that was supporting her spine
She couldn't hold more than 10 weight 10 pounds of weight at a time
Like her purse was hard for her to carry and she comes in there trying to find weed
She's like I need weed the doctor said and i'm like what what do you need weed for like you're 92
There's no way you're gonna be puffing tough, right?
and you got to be in here for some kind of medicinal reason and she starts to
Explain to me, but it's just like she doesn't know how to tell me that she can't support herself
So she just like opens her jacket and shows me the brace and i'm like, hold on one second
I go in the back and I get I have a bottle of lotion in the back from my mother
That's like 10 times the strength of what we used to offer in the club
and i'm like here take this and
And i'm all you could go in the restroom here if you'd like and just give it a try
I said i'm not selling you nothing with the amount of pain that you're explaining you're in
Just go see if that does anything she comes out crying
Because of the amount of relief she had from just rubbing lotion on her body man
From that day on that's when we started offering i'm like any senior that comes in here with anything
Or any veteran you just give them the bottles mark down the bottles that you gave out and I replaced the bottles for free
but they don't pay for it no matter what because
You see right here. This lady right here can lift her damn purse up just from rubbing lotion on her body
So there's no fucking way you guys are charging her five dollars
Don't make her pick up the fucking purse and pain to dig out five dollars for some lotion when you can give her that shit
for free
Yeah, change your life and make her feel like a billion times make her life like super better like it's so
Oh, that is a great feeling. Oh, man
Yeah
I was making it so that's why I was able to do that
Like if they would have had to buy that from another vendor
The other vendor is not going to eat 10 or 15 bottles a day because it just keeps into their pocket and i'm like, dude
I'm, i'm vending to 27 fucking clubs here. Just give the shit out, right?
I'll make the money back from someone else eventually. It ain't about the money
Anyway, this is like i've been making this shit for my mom for years
That's why I make it I used to give it to my pops and that's why he had it and he gave it to veterans
So I know it's working I said, but when you actually see someone cry like that, how can you charge a man?
Like why why wouldn't you give it to him?
Like we're gonna have plenty of cats coming here that just want to
Smoke the purple nightmare because it's purple and they could give a fuck if it gets mine or not
It's just purple like we're getting 25 dollars a gram off them motherfuckers and we're only paying five dollars a gram
So we're making our money right and I fucking I pay for the bottles. I pay for the base
It's my cannabis going in there. So you give it to them
Even if i'm not here
Like I said, just mark it down on the system at the end of the day or by the next day i'm on shift which
Week you'd have it
The morning to open so when I opened up I'd have 10 bottles to replace on the shelf
That way no matter what we always had the stock there you're fading out on a stony man
Oh, sorry about that, it's my fucking wi-fi
I just got the fiber install man. My shit's running at 870 megabytes per second
Send some of those to me, dude
I don't even know what to do with it. I was running 25 megabytes
Before now
So just quickly, uh
Marita has been patiently waiting and jumped up just as we were talking about the joy and fun of uh being in prison
I assume marita you got a different topic you want to throw at us
And you guys
It's down in the lower right hand bottom right corner of the screen
well, if you'd like to say marina whenever you want, I don't know she may be uh,
so it was like 15 minutes ago that uh, she came out she may have been doing something else, but uh,
I I am uh
I've been multitasking. So trevor you'll be happy to know that I packed up
15 16 packs of uh
Uh
Wedding mints g13 crosses and uh
15 packs of the humble pie g13 crosses
All with 25 seats per pack while you guys have been talking. What what g the airboard?
Trevor
Uh, no, it's the 88 g13 hash plant. So it's what would describe that to me real quick
so it's from indian guys stock and um
I know duke was used a lot of
88 g13 hash plant in some of his crosses
Yes, i'm very familiar with his back cross. He did
Yes on a g here. Let me explain i'm sitting on a g13 that we got in like
uh
1997 or 8
from this kid and it's a
kind of a bluish green plant that
Has like heavy food and pine turf, yeah
Smells completely different than anything else
that's what she's in and she's got like a
like a meaty profile on her and um
She's she's a short squat a little leafier on the um
She's got a higher leaf to calyx ratio than most plants that people would fuck with shorter squattier plant
What's the but is it like a gnarly looking?
Buds like uh, they're not real big. Yeah, I showed pictures last week on here of the 88 g13, uh line that uh
I believe trevor's using something that
Mine came from indian guy too that I used I just don't know if the generation i'm using or the source is the same as trevor's
um, I they all originated from
Indian native farmer. It tastes like the base like when I smoke lemon g I taste my g and then some lemon on top
She's not strong on the lemon as much as your lemon g she's gonna be no no
Yeah, exactly
Yeah, yeah, no there's definitely that and I honestly, you know when you say that we did a back cross of
bodies, I mean it's not a direct back cross, but it was
taking
bodies lemon hash plant, which is the lemon g cross to the 88 g13 and hit it back to the um,
to uh to the 88 to our the our selection
and
Our selection came from farmer joe's 420s
Reproduction
That he had gotten from indian guy
I'm, not entirely sure what generation it was at when he got it. I just know that he did a
selection of both male and a female
Did the increase off of those?
Made those available. I got those we grew those out
and
we've done
Kind of multiple different populations. We did an outdoor reproduction
and an indoor reproduction
and on the indoor stuff
the bud structure
and the
Terp profile was way different than on the outdoor on the indoor. It was much more
It sweeter terps there was more of a like a grapey tropical fruity sort of like musky
funkiness going on
on the outdoor
Much more of those meaty leathery sort of terps. We were getting a lot of that out of it
and uh
Almost even a tobacco on the back side on that thing, too
So like like I said before man, my my last car guy
was real tobacco-y leather and uh
Chocolate-y the G. I don't know that doesn't sound like what i'm rocking. Uh
Yeah, this
this
This one also has that hash plant that's mixed into it and the hash plant wasn't a pure hash plant
it was a hash plant crossed of a 91 so it's like
the G13
is in there and this all originates from seed bank stock, so
It came from late 80s, you know, it's the 88 G13 hash plant. So
It came from neville stock that he made in the late 80s
And was maintained and just inbred for multiple generations and given out
I know, uh
You had mentioned the congo earlier, uh, tony and how it was given out
similar sort of dynamic here where
I know haze man got some bodey got some
other people over the years have gotten it and lots of people have worked with either
the g hash cut or the um
the seed lines that have been passed around and um
so yeah, like
it definitely has some of those characteristics, but there's
there's more
Traits to it just because it is it's a polyhybrid that's just been maintained and inbred for
You know the last however many generations by the time I got it
and I got
You know like or as I was mentioning with the lemon like
it's interesting that the back cross that we did with the hollyweed the uh,
uh, hollyweed hash plant cross that
um bodie did
That skewed way more heavily like almost all of the offspring
Look very very similar to the 88 g13 hash plant and very few come out with the sort of
pure cush gassy
sort of profiles
and
The lemon g's though when we did the back cross with the lemon hash plant
a lot of them actually stayed kind of similar to the previous generation there wasn't as much of a
Trait shift in terms of them just skewing over just to the 88 g13 hash plant. They kind of skewed more to uh
a lemony sort of mangoey
Uh version and had the similar bud structure
So I think there's probably some
some underlying
relative, you know
Relation there in the so what I do when I do work with the lemon I get uh
G13 back out of it
with a little more
uh
Like I got I wish I still had that I lost it. It was uh northern lights. Uh
The first northern lemon lemon my buddy had done some inbreeding on this northern lights
Which I don't know if that was but he gave us two different ponds like old and new
and uh, uh the new stuff that uh
It just it like I I could see my g13 in the lemon
Do you know what? I mean? Like I could see the like I get I get the one that i've been carrying around
expressing
Like that's that basis that funky weird shit underneath the lemon g that
You know apart from the lemon top end
There's that raunchiness to it and i'm just trying to i'm not really sure where my g came from
I can't see those turps in the one that I use I got mine through haze man
Back in that 2012 was when I picked those up and started using them
Actually the first set 2008 and then 2012
except multiple times
It just pops actually so 1996 kind of fits in with a more basic 88 g13 kind of thing, huh?
Yeah, so it's the 88 g13 across to a hash plant. That's where the tag comes from on the name
So that's the the the g13 that's a circuit would be 88 that's when they're tracking that cut back to you
Right, right. Yeah, i'm just saying like when I you know, when did indian guy get a hold of it?
I mean, I don't know the specific dates. I just know that indian guy had to work through it before
It was passed to the community and asked not to be
Sold when it was recreated. He wanted it to be given out
You could yeah, it was meant to be a gift
Yeah
So that's why a few people got it. Hayes man started offering, uh his continuation of it
A few other people have worked with it
There's a
a version I believe that uh
Mr. Nice has
That I want to i'm trying to think what they added to it. Also. Is it the northern lights that's added to it?
in their version
It doesn't sound like anybody here has experience with the cutting that uh duke was using to make the seed line that i've got as
That's unfortunate. I was hoping to ask some questions about that plant
The bodies cut the
I don't know where he sourced the cut. Uh, I I asked him about it when I saw him up in massachusetts
And he uh told me that he bounced it off the kandahar, but he didn't tell me where the cut came came from
I and he was shocked that I was getting mostly green out of it because he said that he got mostly
Purple when he was looking at the progeny before he put it out there
Yeah, yeah. No, he's there. I totally noticed and I have screenshots of duke's old posts from
About that his uh selection or the cut that he had
And I think that it came from homies in santa cruz
um, I can look into that, but i'm pretty sure that okay the cut that he had came from
people in santa cruz and I think one of those people may have been bam and
um, I remember talking to bam about that cut back in
Um like in like 2015 and he was saying that that's definitely more of a grapy purple sort of
Expression and maybe that's possibly came out of the uh, mr. Nice version
That might have no influence in it
Yeah, i'm not i'm not entirely sure. Uh
Where that cut like if it came from?
santa cruz and
If it was the one that bam had
um
I'm guessing it's coming from the indian guy stock and
But I I can't say for certain. Okay
I found some purple, uh hybrids that will come out of that cross to the 88 g13 line that I used. Um
There's a one I call it turk 182
Um, it's crossed to my space kush, uh, feno number two female used the 88 g13 male
and some of the phenols that come out of there just purple as hell and
they they
lean in structure along that g13 side of things but
The the terpene profile does come out with a more berry side from my angel influence
So you can pull those grapier influences out that you said you've seen and that hybrid
She's nice
I might yeah, and it's like I have some like
Free
Like dinosaur I consider the g13 like some weird ass dinosaur. We giant fucking indica like
Swampy shit, like I might have something sitting before all the
Because I could you could I couldn't get a berry out of there. I don't think I don't think it's a possibility
it's just raunchy like
I don't know
It's a weird smell
Well that bear influence I believe is coming from that hash plant that's added to it and then like I said
There's also a version of that 88 g13 hash plant that's got the northern lights influence to that
But also can bring when breeding with other hybrids a berry influence
I could see well the northern that I we'd use was real oniony and like earthy
I never had a
Huh, I don't know. It'll be interesting to see all these uh, these northern lights pan out from uh,
from homing
Yeah, yeah, I um
got to smoke a number of different northern lights of the northern lights one that
Mr. Bob hemp hill
and when coastal seeds did their northern lights run and um
It was they were all over the place the the expressions. There was some that were like
new sneaker sort of like
You have a strain called the new sneaker
Smell just like fucking when you open a box of new shoes that weird smell that comes off the inside of the shoe
Totally. Yeah. Yeah. All right
Fuck. Yeah. Awesome. I was wondering where that's about. Yeah, that was crazy. I was like this smells like a pair of bread
We called the new sneaker. It was awesome
Yeah, there was one of those and I got a nug from uh,
From mr. Bob hemp hill at emerald cup back when they dropped the line
And uh
I remember smoking it that night and being like fuck this is
Just rank new speak sneaker and it's like super loud
And that one was a really nice vino. There were some others that were super piney
um, and that kind of like threw me through a loop, but the more i've looked into it like there were definitely piney turps and
the old northern lights lines
and it seemed like uh
The population that he went through which was like a large population of northern lights one seeds that have been saved for years
um from cayu and different older cats up in uh, santa cruz mountains
and um
But that population showed a range of diversity and that was just from the the nl1 supposedly
I've been smoking on black lights and it's derivatives for a few years now from that from that project, man
It really is fine fine herb and uh, i'm able to find phenols that I don't burn out on which is good for those
those afghan
Types because I have a real problem with burning out on those afghans
Get a couple weeks out of them and you're ready for something new
But this black lights has really served me well for a while now
So yeah props to kagu and bamboo for going through those and doing it, right?
Yeah, no that really that was one of the the like
the black lights
Out of all the crosses was one of them that really really hit and I mean there were others and they've done
I think the puck also had some pretty good. Uh expressions in it. Um,
But man that that black lights was one that i'm
But man that that black lights was one that i'm kicking myself for not having stocked up on
What is the black lights
It's a black domino and nl1
It was through that large nl1 selection that he was just talking about and it really is it's it's good old school smoke
It takes you back in time. Is it a lot like that? 88 does
Or an older black domino selection
Do you he has two I don't know which one he used in that maybe trevor knows
My body can't remember but you're right. He does have two. He's got a
um
a copy that he picked up from at the farmer's market up in
at a area 101 back in the day and he said it was like the first public cut that he had ever like
sourced and picked up from
you know kind of from randoms, but uh
He he grew it out and confirmed that it's fucking real deal old school funk
and is you know kept it in his library, which is a library that it's like
You know if you anybody who doesn't know mr. Bob hemp, he'll follow him on instagram follow crickets and cicadas
Go back check out uh coastal seeds and all their old work. Um, because that's kind of what we're talking about here, but um
He fucking he's got a library he he's the librarian like dude has maintained
a lot a lot of cuts for a long time and they gotta they gotta meet certain standards to stay in the library and uh,
He's got two dom black dominoes
the harvest or the uh, the farmer's market one and then I think he also has like
a direct from sensi like
Supposedly the the cut that was used by sensi back in the day. So
Those two are rocking a bunch of black domino for years. So he's that's his favorite shit ever and I never really
Maybe I should see what he's got going on. Yeah, bob. Hempil's got some killer selections, man
I do is uh pine tar kush that you sent me actually tony. Yeah, I sent those to you my kim d
I got sourced came through mr. Bob hempil like uh, that dude's got some killer selection abilities
His breeding has been legendary through the stuff that he has like the puck and such
um
That like yeah, if you don't know about him exactly like trevor said look into that shit for sure. Um,
Good good breeding stock. I'll tell you that um, if you guys want to introduce some f1 quality, uh,
Seeds to your breeding. Um, there's some there's some good stock to use through there
Um that are going to give you some breedable traits
Dude's
Dude's kind of like a time machine like if you grew up smoking weed in the 90s and are like what happened to weed from
the 90s
Like go check it out
Where'd the grease go? It's in mr. Bob hempil's library
Like that stuff, you know like
it's one of those things where um
That's a lot of us kind of grew up on those
late 80s
Afghan sort of selections that were being made by the seed bank. Like I know there's a whole
a whole group of people who grew up with the haze and the pits and sort of the northern lights five
haze crosses but like
For me and for a lot of people that I knew it was a lot of those
Ghani crosses that were sort of a thing that is
You know that that first what you smoked in high school or what you smoked when you first started smoking sort of thing
crosses
Yep, and so
He's definitely someone to check out and he's got really good two really good episodes on the podcast. Um,
that are like long and he can
You can check out how he works and he also works with hannah humboldt who uh or hannibal
um, and the two of them are like
Yeah, one of the coolest fucking pairs in breeding. It's really awesome to see just you know
A couple doing the work that they've been doing for as long as they've been doing it
Absolutely
Todd mccormick brought back. I mean
Like uh, greg green and those guys right? That's who who's old marine
that's uh
Steve mccallister. He's
Yeah, like uh, yeah, I mean that's like uh
That's pretty cool like a good job on that one like bringing back
I mean homie just reaching deep into the fridge, you know, it seems like that's I like what those guys are doing
It's pretty cool. They're like bringing
Like I have grown so
Okay back in the day. We had the afghan that I was that we were growing in ohio and it was so nasty good
like it was dank like it was
That shit would fuck you up if you cured it out long enough
and uh
That I so since then I've grown
multitudes upon multitudes of afghanis, you know, like
and the majority of them were hand-picked over there. I had a buddy from israel who like
I don't know what he was doing, but he managed to get all over the
Africa and afghanistan and collect seeds by hand and I still can't find like whatever the hell
I'm sure it was a
seed bank
purchase
but uh
Like uh the afghani that was probably one of the best weeds. I still think i've ever smoked but from back in like
What like 1997 98?
No, not even like 1996
It's hard to find a good afghani. I've grown so many afghanis like from khanahar to kunduz to lashkar gada
like uh
Into pakistan and everything and none of them have that
Like that same funk like we used to get I don't know what that was
Yeah, it changed man so many occupations in that territory and the cannabis changes that's where
People start looking for landrace lines in this in our time period aren't getting the same stuff that was there in the 70s, man
It's just a complete different beast
Even though it's the same name and same locale once the occupation started happening
The cannabis went away like what's happening there right now. They're going to start having fucking it up
Yeah, the cannabis that's going to come out of afghanistan if it even does is going to be a whole different beast because of uh,
How the this the civilization is going to be?
You just went from like farmer to like if you get caught growing these they're gonna cut your head off or something. Yeah
Yeah, so it's either your life or continue these lines that you've been holding for fucking
100 years or some shit or 50 years, right?
So I think a lot of the cats over there value their life a lot more than the instagram photos of the weed so
I mean those afghan guys. So what are they like?
Izzy and all those dudes man. They just they probably did a huge service to like cannabis by
Getting in on all the because you know what i'm talking about is israel. What's his name is?
uh
I raising or however you say it. Yeah, that too
Uh
He just did like a huge service to cannabis in my opinion by hitting all that up before the
Taliban swooped back in you know
Totally 100 and I mean everything they've done
The book they produced the work they're doing with local farmers awesome stuff
Yeah, big props to those guys for sure
Like uh, they make me want to make like adam dunn and i've been talking about this like making just good hash like they make
like uh
do you know what I mean like that shit that like, you know, it's like dry sift and then they work it down into like
A putty kind of looking shit and then they put it away for like a year wrapped in some goofy looking plastic
And when they pull it out, it just looks like sexy as shit
That poem where they used to make it did pounding it over silkscreen
Yeah, I want to I want to make that it's like a life goal I want to make these
like that kind of that weird shit that like you can pull and you can see like the
Chunks of trichomes in there like that's sexy
That's a hashboard that shit not like I mean, I don't do dabs I like
I I don't know dabs fuck up my throat. So I like to smoke like
Like I just smoked a hash full like rosin and then I did put in some
Uh, what is that like some finger hash because we're trimming
uh
Yeah, I like smoking like that shit that tastes like dirt
I don't know. That's that's good to me
So to make that kind of thing, it would be kind of cool
Like, you know to have a high-end hash product that was like authentically made sort of without like the skin
stuck in there
Last time, you know how a few minutes
Go ahead tony
Oh, he was at uh jackson's booth. Uh, when they were aficionado, they had some five-year-old age hash they were offering
That shit was bomb the complex flavors that was coming out of that
It was so smooth coat your mouth oily greasy
Darker than hell after it's been worked so many times
They I mean they had some fire ass hash over there, man. I love hash. Yeah, it's
I yeah, so like that would be cool. I want to figure out how to do that
and adam says you shouldn't make water hash because I was like I got these machines and he's like nah, man,
Fuck that you want your your dry screening and then that's where we got into like the
Static tech and all that stuff we were talking about
Yeah, the water. I think dunn's right man from my experience
Just like uh, yeah and then separation of the heads from the garbage
Work that'll work
Oh man, well
I'm i'm cool. How long do you guys usually let this go for i'm cool hanging out
I had to like recharge my ear pod for a minute there. My dog ate the other one
but what's
I think we've done seven hours or something like that
I don't mind hanging out. I might just have to dip out for a minute to like read. So yeah, um,
Fortunately, my mom had one for her right ear that she's not using anymore
Um, no actually pun intended my mom was a jokester. So, uh, i'm gonna get that here
I think it's out of the post office. I'll have both of them
I don't know if you guys are hip but like my life changed when I got a pair of because i'm an apple guy
I got the apple air pods, you know
and like it went from like holding the phone to the side of my head to like
Putting one thing in and being able to like run around my house and i've been working the whole time
We've been talking and it's awesome
you know, uh
I don't know because yeah, so
It changed my fucking life
so now that I don't even like I can't talk to you on my phone like it makes I can't hear shit like
If I don't have one of these things in i'm just i'm like basically deaf
so, uh
They're awesome though. Like I my whole life changed my whole life
Changed when I realized like I could set my phone down and just do stuff. You know what I mean? Like I got
uh
yeah, it's a great if you if you work from home or
You know because I end up on the phone a lot like with orders and all that shit and you guys
You know, so it's nice to not feel like i'm wasting my
Like I could be doing stuff. So i'm just you know
Clean my kitchen up the whole deal
Awesome, yeah, so you guys do this what so like you've done seven hours of this
Because I do the done show a lot, you know when I can like, uh, those are fun
He's a kid, you know, he's got like tons of good stories so that's always uh
Who have you guys had on you've had a ton of people on right like
We basically had uh
Man, we've had so many people on here. It's crazy brother
I'm, not just on the clubhouse, but peter's been running this for a few years now and he said
Basically anyone that we can ask for on here that people was back in the community that can offer any kind of information like yourself
Like we talked about the uh
The r4 and the woo a lot of people have never heard that story or the facts or information behind it
It's kind of that's kind of stuff. Peter's been trying to document across here
And allow people to put that on a public forum that way that we don't lose these histories
Kind of like the old uh overgrowth forum man once it was gone
Oh, they well, isn't the internet?
Because i've been on some
Some
I mean don't they backlog all that is it so you can't like the original one is in possession of the government
So you're not going to access them old ones, but if we could access the original overgrow
There's some information on there that would just blow a lot of people's asses right out of the fucking water right now
And it would rewrite a lot of cannabis history, but it's just not there. You can find some of that information
But like a lot of the pictures and grow logs, they're not available
You're not going to get your hands on that stuff. And that's where the golden information's at
When you think they would have did like I was on the hive back in the day, which was like the chemical synthesis
Website that is I don't know if you ever know that story
But like the guy that like basically proliferated mdma across america started like the website
The the store to buy the glass and the uh chemical company
He was balling but like that site that I used to be on was is still totally accessible through like
I thought everything on the internet is never gets erased. Wasn't that like the big allure of the internet like
It's got to be there somewhere
That'd be great. I've only found parts of it. I found a few megabytes of information, but
All the grow logs haven't been able to track down nothing on any of those
I've been digging for years for a lot of that shit
I say you can find information on there that would just make a lot of what people believe right now just not be true
No more bro signs
Well, not that it was uh, it's still some bro science
But like when you can document a plant back in the 90s that was grown into multiple gardens
And then you show up here and it's a complete different structure
uh, they're writing a different name for it or
like
Just specific information like where it came from and who put it out there first
A lot of that shit could either back up or erase the history that's being
uh
Given to a lot of people just like like you offering the information again
I say with the r4 and the woo people don't know none of that history if we don't put it out there
People still believe some jackasses that pulled the fucking slick move are the guys that are the ones that produced it
All because they were able to pay for a lot of airtime nationally and shit, right?
that that that shit
becomes uh set in stone eventually if the writer of history is uh, the
Victor what how does that go? What's that?
Written uh history is written by the victors. There you go
and we want to be the victor not because we uh, we want to be known as the guys at one because
We just don't want fucking
Hustlers being the ones that get the credit for reality, right?
Uh, when when your homie Wu hangs the cat that's ends up getting a plan out there that actually is used to save so many people's lives
It's better for him to have the recognition than a family of jackasses trying to profit off uh,
Waiting on people dying while we charge them over prices for some shit. That probably ain't even what was originally here
All right. It's crazy. I I literally got ripped off by a guy named chad
I said do not like
You can't make it up
Oh
I can't I can't make that that's the truth
That's awesome, so that that puts facts and provenance on chads in the industries
We know not to fuck with chads not because of a meme
But because of reality a chad, I know a guy who fucked with the chad one time
We love our chad, we love our chad westport, but uh, those corporate chads are the ones you got to watch out for
So we have uh two people and they're listening lisa and david, uh who
Raised their hands and I keep trying to bring them up on stage. I'll try to add both of them right now
I'd like to add something or at least ask the question. Yes. I we we yes go for it marita
We were waiting for you to talk a while ago
I'm, sorry. I did hear somebody say something as I came back in on that and I was like, oh was that for me?
Okay, um, so question you were gonna tell us some funny prison stories
I don't have any funny prison stories or stories about growing breasts from eating peanut butter, which I thought was really interesting
But I do have some questions so
I am a nurse
um, and I am interested in cannabis I
um
I'm currently in washington state. I'm a psych nurse. So
um, I was doing my doctorate for a while
Uh, the psych nurse practitioner doctorate from what i'm understanding psych nurse practitioners and medical doctors can prescribe cannabis
Is that correct?
You know what if you if you know, I don't know how to answer that but if you read that that's you're probably a better, uh,
Well, they they taught they taught us about um, the cannabinoids in the brain and all that they educated us on it in school
And from from what I know depend I guess it depends on where you live. I'm in washington state. I know some states
Medical marijuana is legal
But I guess my question is i'm trying to find out how exactly does someone like me get into this area?
I have a cousin that has multiple sclerosis and cannabis has been extremely helpful for her
But I also had a friend in college who was a paraplegic and that is where I first learned about the benefits of cannabis
he was not able to
um, take any of the medication they were giving I think they were giving him morphine and like
Dilaudid and some other morphine derivatives, but none of those things would help with his pain
He had constant chronic pain from being paralyzed by a drunk driver
And um, I really didn't believe that that was why he was using cannabis
Um, I really didn't believe that that was why he was using it
But after going to school and learning about it, then I learned that it is very beneficial
And then like I said, my cousin that has ms is benefited
Um, so one place you can plug in there's a group called the society of cannabis clinicians
um
they are a group of doctors and
And you know, I would assume a whole host of medical experts
They would be like as a professional organization
of
Doctors in practicing in the field who are involved and engaged in the field of cannabis medicine
um, that's like
one source, um
Another place to look would be and this is just for
you know online information, but um
oceanus or beyond thc is
Dot-com is their website. But um, that's a journal that's specifically oriented towards
Documenting and going through the science of medicinal cannabis and its applications
and the different like
Clinical studies that are actually proving efficacy in different areas
Um, so those are just two resources that I know are out there
um beyond thc.com, which is oceanus ease
and um
the society for cannabis clinicians
Okay, um
And any alternative ways just sure you could go nutty you could like
Uh, you could start growing your own, uh cannabis and helping people out you could uh, you could uh,
I don't know like you could
Buy cbd and sell it to people who you think need help like you could hunt down people
I mean anything you could start a company you could uh, you know
What I mean, you could become a weed doctor and start making prescriptions for people which is a really lucrative
Ridic my weed doctor probably makes so much money. Yeah, I mean you could uh,
you can start fighting for people's rights and uh,
I mean, there's the if you want to get into cannabis, there's a billion
billion different ways to approach it
but as a professional, you know, like
You could uh start a company that caters to helping people medicinally
with uh cannabis as opposed to
Chemicals, you know, I mean
Yeah
There's a billion
Also just trying to connect with people locally like you said you're in what where in washington state are you
Uh seattle area
Yeah, so I mean they're they're like a lot of people who are actually related to this show
thinking specifically chad westport like
people in your local area
Who I think have experience seeing?
the effect of certain kind of uh
cannabinoid terpene
Profiles working with specific people with
certain diseases and conditions you'll kind of
start to build out a local network of people who can kind of validate like if you have a patient who comes in with with
problem a
They could be like, oh, you know
Try try starting with this cultivar
or this, uh
You know tincture or whatever
And then we got a couple other I know uh, david's up so david you got a question
Hey, I I actually wasn't even intending on coming on I don't know how I how I hit the hand raise thing
But it must have it was in my pocket. Hi guys. How's it going? What up, dave?
Um, what's going on? Um, I got a question just like a random question. Um,
I I heard we were talking that you were talking about hash earlier and i'm i'm always
fascinated by that one of the oldest
uh portable forms of cannabis
And I had a question for the breeders well for anybody really wants to tackle it
When you're if you were selecting if you were breeding specifically
for resin
For trichomes and terpenes specifically for hash making if you were starting from from scratch
What are the
What are the uh
I mean, I don't even know how to phrase this because I don't do much breeding myself
I've messed around with it just tinkering but you know never in a serious way
but what is the what would be the
What would be the primary things you would be wanting to?
Look for in choice in choosing
parentage
I can handle this if you'd like
I have quite a bit of experience sifting
One thing i've noticed before you is that people use a fluffier bud that's the only
You know because you can get more into so more open structure more more surface area. Go ahead do whatever else you got
Yeah, the open structure is going to help with uh, releasing trichomes
And it also allows more light to penetrate the trichrome so that it increases the essentials that we're after inside the trichome the more light
penetration on that
More the better the product is going to be but all that alcohol because yeah, he's he does have a lot of uh experience with shifting
Yes, the open structure is a rule number one as a sift I think gets uh
Kind of cast aside and it's like people only want to make it out of trim leaf
That's been all busted up and all this shit
So their idea of what dry sift can be is kind of muddled by that. But uh, yes open structure for the bud
That's what I did this year and also you want a uh resin when you rub it between your fingers
You don't want it to be like real greasy and all of that for sifting
You want it to kind of feel like graphite?
Like kind of a smooth like almost kind of like pollen like kind of that pollen feel
Because it falls through the screen real easy
And as you want uh plants that have been bred for that previously like afghan types
That's that they already have it in there because that's what they've been doing
Except for that one place that two mentioned earlier where they actually grew for flower. I'd love to try some of that stuff
Yeah, I know cultivar that i'm carrying that that I use in breeding. That's great for that
It's the norcal afku that plant produces a very large
What I call sandy
Textured tricone head it feels large more like a bearing
In shape, it feels like it'll roll in your fingers instead of squish and smear where that greasy comes from
it it it makes a
large head
the that plant is great to add to those open structured lines to produce a
Uh a line that will give you something that's great for dropping
uh when you're washing your plant or even if you're doing like uh
We were talking earlier of the hand produced to hash where the like in the old days used to call palm palm right hand hand
Yeah, yeah the sound of that hitting the uh silk uh screens
The noise it made was like close to what they said palm that ended up being transferred over to um
Hashes they stored that in bags
those bags would be
Allowed to age for a year longer even right and then that stuff would become out they process that down into a larger brick
That's eventually pressed the last time I had something like that was back in uh, 78
We had some uh blonde lebanese hash that was like that processed that was the best hash i've ever had in my life
But when you love it, yeah, yeah the blonde lebanese you take that look at it under a microscope the trichome heads under there are large
You can still see their structure in the plant and it's still carrying
So much of the essence of that plant and it's all came from the heads that fell through a certain micron size
And then are collected that you don't get none of the bad shit when they do it that way
We turned into doing that through screens
And then the screens go to uh
The static tech that people like to use which pulls out contaminants and leaves you with just the the trichome head which uh,
If you guys want to see just the head
yeah, if you guys want to see killer pictures of that go check out jen doe hendrix the uh,
She has some killer pictures of the hash as she processes. She's uh, she's won quite a few times
What's the name? What's the name again?
jen doe hendrix on um, instagram or facebook
Yeah, she's the american hash queen she
Produces some killer hash for real. That's the tag. She goes by she's the naked farmer also
um
She grows a single source. She'll grow it
She'll process it she'll enter it and she'll whip everybody's ass around there. She makes a top grade cannabis that comes from
basic old school techniques that uh
I couldn't tell you all the places that she learned. I know she does. Uh, she knows mila the hash queen
I know she spoke a lot to her about it. But uh,
some of the techniques she's uses produces
Six star quality hash on every level. So anybody out there go check out jen. She knows what she's doing. Um,
She's pretty open with her technique and she'll talk to you about it. Uh,
She's she's a cool person man for sure. That's awesome. Thank you for that. I'm gonna i'm gonna check her out for sure
You gotta be you gotta be strong if you're gonna be calling yourself a hash queen, you know, like
The american hash queen is fine. Mila's the world's hash. She's such a nice. Yeah. She's a hash queen of all the earth
Jim produces some
Yeah
Head in there. It's uh, jendo 420 on instagram is actually her uh, her instagram. So j-e-n-n-d-o-e
420 great
Okay, cool. Yeah, I sent that to you. Uh, thank you. No, I completely agree with uh, these gentlemen
She's the only one to win a u.s high times, uh
cup with single source hash making
As a female so she is the queen that's why she is the u.s. Hash making queen. Uh, she does multiple styles
Her six star is unbelievable, but everything all her solventless rosin is amazing
She's up and she's actually up in maine now
She started out on the west coast did a lot of work out there
But she's in maine, uh now and does work in new england and she is also available for uh,
For hire for doing extraction work for people as well. So, uh, if you need some extraction work done
Uh, she does a small batch
Uh custom work for folks, uh out of out of maine, so I would definitely find her
Uh hit her up. She is
tremendous
She knows what she's doing
um, she's one of the people that if you're into that type of
For sure for single source like a lot of people aren't doing single source. They're they're picking up trim or buds. Yeah, buddy
They're taking it to another guy to wash it and then they bring that to their source and put their name on it
And then we're talking a lady that mixed the soil. She hung the lights
She planted the seed
She grew that shit and then processed it turned it into something that you want to try to do too
She she knows what she's talking about she knows what she's doing and she
She has the ability to back it up. So anyone out there that's butthurt. I said hash queen
Maybe uh, you guys want to put on your panties and and beat her ass man. I challenge you 100
And she's good people man for sure. She's real good people when I was in a low spot
She's one of the people that hit me up and introduced me into some people that uh, helped push me
To not feed the the that depression dragon, right? Um, there's a cat out there
um
That he's a badass. There's this uh, handicapped guy that she introduced me to um,
And he goes by one guru one on instagram. He's a uh,
Handicapped surfer. He's a veteran
He's unbelievable
That fucking dude if you're feeling down today
If you think that the world's got you kind of beat
You go check out one guru one and I dare you not to get your ass up go do something that
Lost legs. He's lost arms
Um, the only thing he has a lot was his heart and fucking uh, like you talk about grit. That's a dude that's got grit
He's gonna make you get off your fucking ass and quit feeding the depression dragon the pity dragon
He's gonna make you realize that life is worth living and quit feeding into that bullshit
He's like I said, he's a veteran. I believe he got the third place and the paralympics was surfing this year
Or maybe it was last year
He's a fucking badass go check him out
go look at his video when he's climbing upstairs by himself and then tell me you got issues with sciatica pain or
uh, maybe you're fucking your arthritis is acting up it will make you look at uh pain and
Issues that come with that stuff in a little bit of different light. Don't let it win. Don't let that shit beat you
Um, he's a cat that helped me turn around some of my own negative issues
Just from watching what uh, he puts out on instagram, but the dude's awesome and I learned about him from jim
So like I said, she's good as people
Yeah, that smile on his face alone will make you feel better. It'll brighten up your day. Just telling you brother
unbelievable
Unbelievable that guy he's uh, he is definitely amazing and I I agree completely if you need to pick me up or you need
Inspiration or you think uh, you think you got problems? You should go check him out because man
Uh, he is, uh, he is unbelievable and unstoppable
Uh, absolutely. I I completely agree that sentiment
Yes, sir. Yes, sir
So I know this is gonna sound weird right but uh
Uh a few years ago I had an altercation with my roommate and they ended up him and this girl I was banging
Ended up robbing me and the cops were like all
whatever, so, uh, I ended up having to do an anger management course long story short because I I
I don't know because he was I don't know long story short
I went to anger management and uh, I met all these people
And a lot of them were like, I mean this one chick's her dad was like a bank robber and this one dude like he
Was adopted by a christian family and like beat halfway to death in the name of god, man
I I would do ketamine and go to these. Uh,
these uh
Classes just you know for fun and you know what? I mean?
Like i'm trying to learn some shit and like I cried for this dude. I was like, oh
You know what? I mean? Like, uh
It was weird. I actually tried to get a job at the clinic and they offered me one
But it was full-time and I can't really do that
But like I was gonna try and get a job
To go like try because I realized like at that point I realized like no matter
What I could bitch about in life. Um
There are people out there who've just been through the motherfucking ringer
and uh
I don't really have any uh leg to stand on
in that kind of thing and it really like I would have taken the job if I could have worked that many but like
um
It was truly an eye-opening experience to have to go through all that
and see like the
Never
Think that your life is like the the shittiest thing on the planet. I know we've all gone through a bunch of shit
uh
but like there are just
It could get worse. It could always be worse
and uh life is like a
gift sort of
I don't know. I that was like the most eye-opening experience i've ever had in my life was like a
a stupid anger management course on ketamine, but um
You know, I don't ever
That's what that's where empathy comes from. I'm a big fan of empathy
empathy is the ability to like
You know, you don't know what you may somebody motherfuck you where you're like, uh, I don't know in driving or you know
Doing whatever and you don't know what that dude's going through. So you have no like
You have no uh bearing like just fuck it man, you know what I mean like, uh,
Give it up like it
Does that make sense?
Sorry to go off on that tangent
Yeah, dig it man this perspective is
A place that you you didn't expect to be but you you needed to see it, I guess
Yeah, I don't know if needed is the right word, but
Do people like uh
You often lose yourself in your own like sorrow and demise, you know what I mean? But like literally
There are people who have just
I don't know people have been through like
So much trauma in their life that it just becomes like a normal thing to where it's just you know, and uh
I don't know it enlightened me. I was like totally
Ready to go get a job if they would have let me um volunteer
As opposed to like a full-time job. I would have been up there like all the time I had just
because then you get to
hear all these people's experiences in life and uh, they're they're
they're
Suffering and uh in some weird way. That's
a little rewarding and I mean, I know that sounds real creepy but like uh
I don't know, you know the more the more
More things you hear the more people you get to get in contact with and the more
You know, you get a better perspective of life in the whole situation
I don't know. I get what you were saying. I apologize for interrupting
No, I completely agree we we actually talked about this a bit the other night on my show where we were talking
you know about human to human connections and
Actually listening to people and you know, it's um having a conversation with people and
Recognizing them and listening to them and letting them tell their stories important
Just saying hi man. What's up?
Is okay and good and positive but just talking and asking people questions and digging in just a little bit more
and recognizing people is
Important, uh, that's how we learn
Important, uh, that's how we learn
That's how we find amazing things about about the world
So I completely agree
right, um
it's just it's weird like uh
Like I get down a lot, you know, I like I said, I suffer from depression
so like i'll get all down on myself and shit and
and then like to like then I have to remind myself like you know, what like
it's not that bad like, you know, I got a house and
I eat and I got dogs that love me and I got a girlfriend. That's kind of cool 80% of the time, you know, uh
And so, you know, it's like a you kind of gotta like you need a good
Like
Realization or like a shock, you know, like yeah shit is bad
But like it's bad for everybody and it's not that bad as you know in retrospect to other people's experiences
That's why I mentioned that uh one guru one on instagram
He's someone y'all should check out. He goes by rolling with guru on instagram. You can try to check him out
You'll get you'll get a shock to your system. They're seeing what that cat has overcome and championed
And and how he stays so positive
Through all of it. It's it's awesome shit
If I could just maintain that like if if there is some like
Here's how you stay positive during trauma, I would be a champion, you know, I mean like that's got to be
that's a
uh a skill on its own I bet
Man, it's hard. It's almost like you got to go through
Uh, like the the trauma of your life to be able to kind of deal with normal trauma. I only say that through experience because like
Like the shit I used to let enter my tony talk more into your mic
Man this thing's in my mouth. Okay, no problem. I'll talk a little louder. Um
Like I used to be kind of like you're saying with yourself
I was it was easy for me to catch uh depression and not want to do shit
Like I spent a whole year staying in my house and didn't leave because I couldn't have to be in public, right?
And then uh, I went through
Basically dying in 2017 and then fighting for my life for a year and a half
Losing body parts of shit. I go through the shock of the of the system to where
Like normal shit just can't fuck with me no more. It's the shit that used to really fuck with me
Um, I have the ability now to fucking shake off like it just can't fuck with me
And I don't know what did it there? There's not a uh, there's not an equation for it. There's no recipe
other than um
I think it's just trauma the more trauma you go through the less the less shit like honestly, man
You guys don't mind
I lost a dog when I went home to visit my mom because I thought she was dying and she was
And then I lost another dog and that shit hurt real bad and then I lost my mom and that's because her and I discussed
It like that shit was like way easier
like then uh
I I hate to say that that losing my mom was easier than losing a dog because that's the horrible thing to say
But like she prepped me for it
in the whole situation, you know, I mean like uh
It kind of like I don't know my dog didn't prep me that he was gonna die
My mom was like yo dog i'm gonna die. She prepped me for years ahead of time. It was weird
real weird
Yeah, I get that. I get that bro. Sorry. This is a fresh one. So I haven't really talked to anyone
It was a weird situation though, you know
Like everybody's gonna die like uh, like dude all your like if your parents aren't dead yet, they're gonna die
like and you're just supposed to like be like, uh
And everybody like if you so if you make it to be the last motherfucker, you know, like is that a is that cool?
Or is that like a curse?
You're like the last one alive like you have to watch all your fucking friends. I all your parents, you know
I mean like there's a
I don't know. It's it's death is a weird thing like uh survivors guilt
Yeah, it's eerie. I'm in that situation myself. They're either dead or in prison. So that's I got those two. So yeah, it's a weird feeling
I'd like to say that mr. Toad. You're definitely one of my inspirations. I mean the fact that you stayed positive
While you were fighting just to get your leg
like
All the posts about that and all the back and forth on that
I just like I couldn't like I couldn't believe it and like i'm like going along with you with this story and listening
And watching those posts every day and i'm like
Crazy and insane and then like that immediate like
Miracle last minute reversal of stuff. Oh, yeah, I thought it was going down the hole. It was just
That that roller coaster ride and everything. I was right along with you. So, uh, yeah
No, I mean you're one of those folks that you uh, you figured out a way to to keep going
I mean, I mean obviously people have to keep going but uh to to do it and to continue to get out there and to push
That more positive and productive message I think is awesome. So I appreciate that
Yeah, part of my recipe is exactly that is making a post once about it and releasing that pressure on my system
I'm not bitching i'm not trying to get anyone in trouble. I'm just trying to make it a fact
It's how we change the system, right?
I'm a handicapped person that has to deal with people that aren't handicapped
Handicapped person that has to deal with people that aren't handicapped
Get me a boat and it takes 10 weeks because no one will get up and go in the back room
Or like my he said my leg they they mix me up with another person that this has happened my whole life
I was in fucking
Uh preschool i've been getting confused with somebody else and some bullshit's happening to me
So i've learned to kind of deal with that and it comes down to my leg where they
They mix me up with another guy and tell me i'm not getting my shit
And my whole life is like this is this what the fuck this is bullshit like i'm not growing a leg back
I'm, not making up some shit, right?
So you could literally just look at me and see I need a fucking a leg right this shit's missing
Built for you
Literally
They had already molded it everything and then at the last moment
They're like, oh we we got you mixed up with a different person your legs there
Go ahead and go pick it up and i'm like you assholes man
Like you you put in the crippled people and the handicapped people through some bullshit that don't need to happen
all you had to do was double check shit like
Literally, yeah, they sent you the wrong fucking part. Like how fucking hard is it?
Uh, oh, well, here's what happened with the party. Check this out
like my my chair must have been made during it's like an 86 and a half and an
86 truck or some shit because they they changed the part from a all steel half inch
Uh fucking axle sleeve to a three quarters inch aluminum axle sleeve and never told the reps they did that shit
So the guy that I ordered the parts from he had about 150 of the uh old ones there for the chairs
And he's like no you're crazy and he goes hold on he puts me on hold goes out
Actually checks one of the chairs that he sells that's in the shop and all the chairs in the shop
None of it fits it. He's all what the fuck?
He's i'm just gonna take them off the chair and have them return
I'll send you the ones off the one series. So they changed them to all aluminum. I don't know why they do it
It's bullshit. He's like they're not gonna last and i'm like, well, that's your answer. They want to sell. Yeah. Uh, yeah
That's how they work here and it's literally there's only two
Axle sleeves that are holding me to my chair and they're made out of aluminum and the nuts holding them on are made out of
Right, and they're they're carrying all the torque of the chair and everything and nobody keeps them in stock, right?
Nobody knows they've changed them. So everyone you order them from the same thing happens
Lucky I got a cool guy that knows he deals with handicapped folk. He's like and i'll help you
He's I ain't got nothing to do so he goes in the back
He's like I got drawers of this shit. It's like none of them fit it. What the fuck's going on?
So I was on the phone with him for like 20 minutes and he spent enough time to actually literally realize that
We we can't use none of these parts no more and the folks are gonna have issues
He's like man that we actually kind of saved me and some other people glad we went through this shit
but i've been trying to find this out for
Like 10 or 12 days i've been calling the company like I go through all this shit. No one wants to talk to me
It's not my department's answer. I keep getting
Literally like these people are take jobs to help handicapped folks and their answer to them is that's not my department
Like i'm not gonna stand up and go look in the back like I go to the store
It's literally like 25 feet from their desk. They could go in the back and
Type in the computer that's there to see if the parts available and if it's not come back and say it's not here
But they won't go do it because that's not their station. I'm like man lady. You're crazy
So i've been searching and searching they finally give it to me
but if I don't do the work, no one's doing it and that's that's
that's the story of a lot of people out there like the
Necessities the mother of invention. That's why I make a clone shipper
and that's why I got a seed sorter and that's why I started to breed my own lines because
Like I just had to do it. I'm either broke or I need it or someone else wanted it
And that's how I ended up doing my shit. That's where we get to here
That's where we get all the folks like myself
All the peers that are out here all the other breeders all the concentrate makers
The people are taking their craft to another level because they take pride in it for some reason beyond
It's just pretty right all that shit that we do in the background
That we can't post about like my leg that you guys seen some of the stuff about what's happening with that
If you guys knew everything you guys would be like i'm gonna go cut someone's leg off
If they don't help these people out like it's really crazy that some of the shit they force people
To go through that physically can't do those things when you gotta hire someone to help you
Go down to the doctor because they keep changing their appointments fucking four or five times a month
Like you're fucking crazy. I'm lucky. I don't have to do that
But there's a cat down there in a wheelchair that literally every time it goes he has to pay someone and they keep changing the shit
Costing money to do this
And it's all because the doctor had something to come up when there's no one to fill in or some reason right and it's not
Just regional it's our whole system
Our system's not designed to help the person at the very end right of the whole system the actual
Patient and it goes to our cannabis system exact same way. It's not steered towards what's really needed
We're being steered the wrong direction by the pretty shit the especially the hyped up shit
Instead of
The medicine what's coming out of there when you know, you have novel stuff
Either make it available to people or use it in breeding so that that can get out to people something
that that uh will
Increase the medicinal side of the plant and the education along with it
That that's just how I feel. It's not it's not a fucking set rule
That's just how I do stuff and hopefully other people
Will start to do it and now we can breed in a different direction instead of just guessing
If we use each other's information, we end up with better
Cultivars we have better medicine. That's
Easier steered for whatever it is from making concentrates to help people with ms
Right, and if we could access
The uh genetic side of breeding then we could really start doing shit the fact that it costs so much to sequence plants
On a large scale is what was really holding back our breeding. That's why
um
Big canna is actually going to be pulling ahead of everybody and why?
Craft cannabis is going to have issues when we're just pushing the same old cultivars out there
That's going to be the hype shit when you're going to be breeding true medicine
If you don't start sequencing your plants and breeding specifically for what is available in the genes instead of what's available in the name
Of the pack you're not going to make it very far once this shit changes and becomes rescheduled
As regulated as true medicine
Through the pharmaceutical system because that's what coming it's going to stop just being in
You're not going to just keep going to these collectors to buy your weed
It's going to be doled out from doctors once they start regulating the bottle and the cotton and the
Little pill that the weeds put in and the concentrate whatever form it comes in
That's where this is headed
People have to realize that there's patent laws that are going to become a fact
This is going to become a giant business which takes money to get you there
And the technical ability to stay along with it. So if you truly want to breed for that, that's where we got to go
well
Excuse me. So in colorado, you're seeing a lot of this in oregon. You see a lot of like, uh
in the hemp thing more like I know
the what are they the cranfords or the croppers or whoever up in um
Up in oregon, they put genetic markers like squid or some shit up in their uh, their strains
So that when you breed with them, like, you know, you can't
then they and because they did that they now have like
something like over a hundred plus lawsuits against people who
That's like not the way to do that
But my home my home girl down that owns a lab like, you know, you see, you know, not only are there
Uh things to increase potency and you know, uh terpene development on it, but like you also get
um
things that can fight off bugs better and and definitely
uh disease resistance, that's a gene, you know, like to the powdery mildew not only
Attacks plants, but it only attacks plants
You've seen how some don't react to that and some do it's because it has a gene that is uh
That is uh, yeah totally so you can like gates has talked about this on here he's uh, he's really good
He's had a lot of posts on instagram about that specifically to let people know about it. Yeah
yeah, so I mean not only is breeding gonna be like, uh
You know, like I live high I live real high
8080 that's higher than anywhere else in afghanistan. But like that was a good place to start with breeding
But like, you know, tony lives down like almost a sea level. So like yeah, the plants are gonna like, um
perform differently under
uh, especially I mean you got to think like you got like, uh,
Cellular pressure like, you know as we get higher the amount of pressure is increased. So like that also happens in plants
um
And some things that are like geared at a lower level don't work up here
Excuse me, and I've been bringing them up here
you know, I've been like I got panamas and like all kinds of weird stevis that like
Aren't performing like they would down at sea level and I like my lemon doesn't do what it does down
even in
Denver like it was a it got weird and skunky more
Than lemony at 8080 feet than it did at 5280 feet
So, um
Yeah, you got to breathe for where you're at and also like
Oh, you want to start breeding for like plant health and stuff, too
Yes, sir introduce the uh conditions that you want the plant to respond to to get the reaction from the
The genetic information that's inside that plant so the cannabis genotype is going to give you an ability to
Uh have different directions to steer it based on what it sees like a different like in the winter time
There's a higher humidity level. There's colder issues. You continue to breed your line on that issue
Certain genes in that plant trace will turn on and off and start to react to that and will come through
in the progeny through epigenetic
Uh
It's just part of what happens. You can breed in the winter. You can breed in the summer. I do that here
I've been doing that for years like
In the early part of the year when it's still cold i'll put plants outside and breed while it stays cold
And it's trying to rain on them. And then I also will breed plants
Outside in the summertime here when we get extreme heats and we're talking like 121
Uh, we don't get like we didn't get rain for nine months here
We had a 0.6 inches for the last nine months until recently. So those plants are reacting completely different on a genetic level
through traits being turned on and off based on the environment that they're in so that you see in phenotypical expressions that
are varied even from plants grown in the exact same area because
of the
The light the humidity the temperature all that has changed
And the same pot everything
Yeah, the progeny from those two plants like i'll use the same male and same females and the progeny will show different
uh
Different traits when they start to grow just slightly like so one plant's going to be able to take that humidity level
So if somebody needs some seeds and they want to line they live over
Uh in a spot that's got a higher humidity
I'll send them the seeds from that stock instead of the seed from the ones that I did in the hot area
I've also got people that live in the same valley. I live in right very close to me and they want to grow shit
That's regional
To this area bred here. The plant's going to react extremely
Better in those conditions when they were bred in those conditions so I can send cats the seed stock from here for that time
I'll either ask them are you growing indoor outdoor because they also make versions of them
Inside under indoor lights because a lot of cats think
That if you breed a seed outside it's going to react different when you bring it inside start to morphodite
So you give them an option which one do you want?
You want the early outside the late outside or do you want the indoor strip?
and they got an option
So
I mean, I would think uh in my opinion breeding outdoors is like the best way to like make solid fucking seeds
You know like uh, especially if most people are stuck on that hps thing
To where they're like trying to make seeds under hps. They're not gonna
I wouldn't want to do that. I would want to make seeds under an entire spectrum of light
um
But yeah, like uh, okay, so check this out, uh back in the cold war like the great the russians
uh
Man, there was this dude
who uh
He went all over the world to get the seeds because what was going on was they were having famine
and uh
He went all over the world and collected all these seeds and then when he got back
to russia
he was like ready to grow all these crops and um
This dickhead other russian guy was like I think we should just take
uh
The grain, you know what they were growing and start them in colder water
And the ones that start in the coldest water are going to be uh
The most resilient to the frost and stuff, you know, so stalin, uh being a dickhead, uh
Chose that dude and threw the other dude in the jail
Right like uh, and so the dude was like in jail and they weren't like killing him or anything
They were just torturing him and shit in there and then so they ran through this other dude's experiment of the cold grain
And uh, it sure enough didn't work
um
and they
What the fuck was this is a famous scientist. I actually learned this on cosmos with uh,
with uh, neil degrasse tyson this whole story like and basically what happened was then like the the
So like the famine was still going on and that dude had built like a um,
a seed repository like a basically a seed bank and kept like
Tons of grain on site and he was still in jail and uh, they they eventually like, uh
Like like the germans bombed everywhere except for right there
Like hitler bombed
Like I think it was yeah, and then like that they kept that seed bank alive and the people that were defending the seed bank the
the guy, you know who was in prison his uh,
His co-workers they they actually died of starvation
as opposed to like have eaten any of the viable seeds that were uh,
Available for the motherland, you know
I think is yeah
Yeah, was it yeah nicolai vavoloff yes
Yeah, and the other the other the dickhead was thomas lachanke
Yeah, he was like bro. Listen, we can just start seeds in cold water, man. It'll work fine
They devote his life on work with uh wheat maize and the other cereal cobs
Yeah, and part of that is so lachanke was a
Lamarckian so to speak and he believed that
environmental
Factors could be inherited and
We found that yes to some extent
Genetics
but
the vast majority so
The vast majority so heritability of traits is largely governed through
traditional genetics be it
Mendelian sort of qualitative genetics or the more complicated form of quantitative genetics
That explains the vast majority of heritability
And what isn't explained by that?
Is either environmental variation that isn't heritable at all?
Or a small slim fraction that is heritable that is related to this epigenetic
phenomenon and like
Epigenetics is uh
It's oh there's a lot of pop science around it. Um, matthew gates is great at
Explaining it a bit more in depth. But like
One of the things that is like an epigenetic
Dynamic is all those changes that you guys are talking about
Even though they may not be heritable. Those are gene
Environment interactions that are happening
With the plant and what is kind of considered the epigenome?
According to some definitions because there's actually multiple definitions for the term
but the idea is essentially that
the
RNA and the transcriptome
is
taking the dna and the genome
and
transcribing it
In different ways that produce different outcomes based on environmental factors
and
that different
That process of metallization of dna and things like this
are things that are
Reactions that the dna has with the environment
And some of them are transmitted
some of them won't be transmitted and that's like the vast majority and
We know that because of failed experiments like lishenko's
devastating attempts to
Increase yields by starting grain in cold water
And two if you're trying to talk I muted you while uh, trevor was talking
Yeah, that guy's name was tomofin, uh loshenko
t-r-o-f-i-m
l-y-s-e-n-k-o
And uh, lisa, uh, welcome to the stage you had a question or comment
Yes, thanks for letting me
come in i'm so um
I'm, so wowed by the group and how much you guys know and how refreshing thank you
For doing this, you know, I I just started
growing
Uh when arizona legalized november, I got some clones and put them in front of like a hydroponic
Uh tower I have in my house for vegetables
And then stuck them in the ground and i'm in arizona. So it's been so interesting to
Learn this and I found um, like just going on facebook or whatever even youtube. It's a lot to weigh through a lot of
bro science, uh
That has been hard to you know, you just don't know take an experience so
I did. All right. I grew 11 plants and I cloned and grew some more
But i'm wondering on this thing about the terpenes and you know, we know that some of those
Make the plant more pest resistant like I had blue dream. It didn't it never got anything
I think it might have gotten spider mites
In veg state, but once it went into flower, it stayed pretty pest free and we have
Winds heat i'm in phoenix, arizona. It's like
Dress rehearsal for hell. It's hot. It's dusty. There's winds. I have a
Backyard in the heat island of phoenix, you know, which is like convection heat in the middle, you know the night it's it's still hot
and it was just incredible they stayed alive, you know, some of them got real scraggly looking and
Um, nothing went to seed everything did good, but i'm just wondering it's like yeah, what is that terapine that you know?
It no no caterpillars. No leaf hoppers. No
No anything and at la
chocolate that had a lot of thripe and had uh,
oh I had grease monkey and granddaddy purple and
Um some skywalkers they did really well. We're low on pests
Like is it like piney or spicy or something that keeps it on the blue dream specificity? It would be lanolule that was keeping
Pressure down on you. It's a terpene. That's also
Right
It's a terpene called lanolule on the blue dream that's helping pest pressure down
That's one specific, uh trait of that terpene of that
Along with uh alpha pinene
Yeah, the pinene is what I smell on it. Yeah, but well it's higher in lanolule then it comes in with a some alpha pinene behind it
And then uh
I'm, sorry, go ahead
Is that one that's on like some mints like, you know, like lavender is like kind of mint family. Isn't that the one in lavender too?
Uh, the lanolule. Yes
Yes, okay
So it's gonna come in as the major terpene profile for a blue dream
Then behind that you get the alpha pinene and carapaline
And okay
Carapaline. Yeah, those are the major terpene profiles. Uh, and those are going to be what helps
With pest pressure the alpha pinene and lanolule together are going to keep a lot of stuff that plant
Those are all like good things for my I have arthritis. So i'm always looking for those that those scents are real
uh, they're real good they're my in my my uh,
pharmacopeia what I need so
Right on thank you very much and then the other thing
i'm always kind of interested in
Permaculture and just how things grow in this area
Do we know if the southwest if any of the native indigenous people?
grew cannabis
You know, I know there's hemp, uh all over the southwest and the midwest
Does anyone know
That fade out
Now we heard um, no we heard you or I heard you at least um, so
Cannabis isn't necessarily indigenous. Like there isn't any evidence that cannabis was in the new world
um with
First peoples who made it over here. Um
That doesn't mean that
It wasn't here. It just means that we haven't found any evidence that it was here
um, I know that
Having spent time down in big mountain, uh on the dine preservation with people
They are adamant that they had cannabis and they've been growing cannabis long since long before
europeans showed up
And but if you read scientific academic literature
Um
Typically speaking it will date introduction of cannabis into the new world in the 1500s
So there's nothing in like the the fossil
fossils to show there were pollen and
cannabis
prior to that
Nothing in like any record
None that's been found or that's been documented that I know of
And there is like there are large pollen study databases fossil pollen
study databases, so
it is um
You know according to oral traditions from people that I know who live down in arizona
They would say yes
According to science it would say no
Okay, thank you. I like how you know so much about that. Thank you very much
my relatives
California would uh say the same thing. They've been using cannabis for as long as uh, my family can tell you from uh,
kawea family of uh natives in uh, southern california
They've been using cannabis for as long as uh, anyone can remember
um
That and then i've got family from guatemala my great-grandmother
And she brought
Recipes with cannabis use with her
That goes back
now
almost 100 years
Um, so I don't know how far they're back than that
But I do know natives that i'm related to have been using cannabis for as long as they can imagine
well, it makes sense if especially if the spanish that I was soon brought it from the you know, the
The silk trails or whatever I came to europe and they got cannabis and they brought over and they traded tobacco
You know, so if they had to smoke them if you got them, you know, I
I uh, I would like to see a movie about that story
Yeah, there's a lot of good information about the diffusion of cannabis around the world. Um in
Evolution and ethnobotany of cannabis by robert clark. Um, there's
it really goes into
the historical evidence well the
The
different primary source material that and different studies that look into this information and
really synthesizes down the
the full history of cannabis from
Roughly, you know 30 million years ago when it evolved as a species and diverged from hops all the way up to the present
and
It was written in 2013 and there's been a lot of subsequent research and information that's been released on the topic
but
the overall
Broad strokes are all there in that book
And there's a cat named, uh, sir, joseph banks that uh was responsible for bringing a lot of cannabis in the 1700s
around the globe, uh
With a captain cook when they were trying to um, leave him
Uh anywhere they could so they could produce
a lot of
Rope and such um, and that's a possibility of how a lot of cannabis
reached to this area because it like uh, trevor said there's no known fossil record of it being native to this area
But that could account for why so many natives do uh account for using it for such a long time
Um, that's that's one way. Uh, that's how it got to australia
One way and also to hawaii
There's other ways he uh traveled on. Um
Ship with uh, captain cook around the globe. He was the cat that was a responsible for
basically setting the prices for
plants in um in europe at a specific time during the 1700s so, um, like
Tea and cannabis and anything that was grown in that area. He was the one that was helping set the actual
Price for commerce in those areas and at that time they needed to have cannabis
For producing their sails and their ropes and to have to carry that on a ship all the time was almost impossible
So if say you lost a sail in a specific area
You could stop at one of the islands that you'd left him at this was their plan
So they had left it in specific spots to be able to go there to be able to produce the ropes that they needed
If it was needed
And that was their master plan there's one way that cannabis got to specific areas around the globe on a specific time period
Well, thank you, that's so interesting i'm gonna dig deeper
Uh find out some more about it. I'm, really fascinated by it. Thank you
Lisa your homework assignments to report back to us in two weeks
Okay
Try not to let you down
Okay
We got any
Other peanut gallery questions. There was some question actually tony. There was a question for you in the youtube chat like five minutes ago
Uh, let me go back and try to find it
Hold on and then actually earlier
Uh a long time ago gorski asks has anyone grown up bodies cashmere 22
88 g protein hash plant cross
I haven't grown out the 88 cashmere, but i've seen a number of the cashmere crosses down at the radio ridge facility
and they are
Really really unique that's
Kind of they run the gamut. Um
They run the gamut, um
In terms of profiles, so i'm not entirely sure what the 88 will throw
There's definitely some like terpinaline dominant
uh profiles in the different crosses that I saw but the
amount of frost and just the like
Photogenicness of the plants and the leaves in particular were quite impressive it
You know, it checks the box in terms of an exotic it has the look and feel of something
That isn't in the you know
That's not in the commercial market
today
Um, or you know, it's not represented in the commercial market. Uh
by and large so it's something that
I would
you know people if they're
against
Getting something that may be high terpinaline
Uh may not necessarily
Like all the outcomes that they see in those crosses
but if you're looking for something different that has
Not just terpinaline but like a range of different profiles, but definitely some terpinaline leaners. Um
It's something that checks that exotic box
Got it and uh tony the question was uh from anthracensimia
Uh, if you're
Asked to where the electric came from the electric lemon g
Uh, well I I
Use electricity to simulate the plant
To produce like a healthier
uh
plant with more
Actually
Like with the tens unit you were talking about earlier. I just think that's kind of what he means
What was the source
That even the idea that eventually I
Well, then I went to a larger power supply with more amperage and I found that that was uh too much so
You know, um
If if I could have like well
You know like to do something under the like to simulate the plant with probes would be the best way in all honesty. Um
I I mean the the heating that was cool, but that was
Uh dictated by the amount of water that was you know in the bottom of the tub
So I had to keep them a little over water
which if you're gonna do this make sure your plants are watered because if you let them dry out that's when you can like
really have some issues with um
You know, then that's when you can like start a fire if that makes sense don't let them dry out too much but uh
Yeah, so the next step is to get an adjustable
high voltage
really low amperage, uh
Basically a tesla coil but adjustable to be able to see like what the plant is able to take
and uh
You know, like I said, it was weird man
You could like dial the bugs and you could like watch the bugs like you could
Turn them up and make them go faster and make them go slower
uh by how much juice you gave them so
a lot of
research that i've seen use like smaller amperage, but
I mean I I saw what 100 amp or a
Smaller voltage I saw what 100 volts was doing and that was like amazing like that the plants look
Ridiculous, so I it's all I mean, I don't think there's been enough research
Into this whole thing to be able to determine a proper amount of electricity to actually give to plants
That's where i'm at
Yeah, it might even be
You know, um coming down to how much a plant to take you really have to uh,
Probably dial that in like you're saying as close as possible
You can dive into a lot of the papers out there on research on how to wire up the plants and ground them out
So that they can get the current
Uh that they need and again, like I said low amperage higher voltage is way safer
For you and your animals and pets in the area. Don't try to set up cattle guard and share cattle fence and put yourself up
Yeah, I know like uh
Yeah, like the wall is enough to kill you. So you want to like peel that from there, you know
um
Yeah, and your wall's pulling like your plug at the wall. You might be able you might have a 15 amp plug right there
that amount of
blast at a 120 volts, it's
It's gonna fucking do more than you can
Yeah, that's why I think the a 10s unit with a plug on it, you know
Is a good introductory way to do that like, um
Obviously it's meant for your body so it's not gonna kill you
Yeah, but uh, it like I don't think a plant requires
And it'd be fun to see what it does when you do give it a bunch of power
But I don't think it requires a bunch of power, you know
And uh, robin welcome to the stage
What are we doing
Robin, oh, she's uh, robin is muted. Yes
Yes, robin corel come on down
No, sorry, you just had to take me a minute to figure out how to read that
Uh, sorry about that. I was almost kicked out of girls pe in high school. So
You know names can be deceiving. Um
And in is the masculine spelling but it can also be feminine my question goes back to when you're talking about epigenetic memory
and
I was curious if there's been any study or physical knowledge
Of how far you have to have a plant nor uh to gain that
the benefit of that epigenetic memory and in context
I have a plant
That I went ahead and took clones of and it's a dry farmed plant that the seeds were planted in january
went until
October I now have that clone going
So I can do a back cross am I going to get any of that epigenetic memory of it being dry farmed?
Transferred when I go back and use that next season
That's hard to give you a specific time around that would actually turn you back into the mic
Yeah, you're gonna have to basically breathe with that for a while and start to see what's happening
It's hard to give you a specific time
a period or time frame that the epigenetics
Or the environment is going to be able to affect that plant or how easily that plant's affected by your environment
That's not going to be something that's going to be genome specific like a time frame
Yeah, I would think you'd have to like train the plant over the course of a few generations to be able to pick up those
kind of
uh reactions
Right makes sense, right
I'm, sorry this this year we
We had 10 inches of rain this past year
And which is really on the low end of where you should be for dry farming
And so as I go forward for dry farming am I going to be better off to use
the seeds from the plant that went through harvest or
the ones that are
due from a clone from that or
I might have to keep going
year after year on a low heart or a low rainfall to get any benefit for
That do you have seeds that were produced under a more dramatic condition?
These are the most dramatic conditions, uh, the genetic is
It's pineapple tsunami
and
I crossed my mail into it and i've got three different versions of it one where it was a late season
adapted plant where it was grown in a container until
um, I think july
And I was able to get it to transition to dry for the last two and a half months
I also have one that was planted in
uh
January went the full term and it was pollinated by the same male
and then
And there's one other variation I can
I can't remember the other oh the clone where I was it was made from a dry farm plant, but it's gonna
uh, I then reversed that to get an
email
I don't think the clone would be as uh
Receptive to the
Gener, you know, like what's trying to do with epigenetics is breed in generational like, uh, responses to
uh
Whatever, you know, like whatever it's experiencing. So I would think the clone would be the least of the
responsive of those and probably like the offspring that you had gotten from the
most
uh
The the ones that suffered the word the most are probably going to be your best to make suffer again until you get that
Going, you know
I think that with what you have you have
several different plants that
Are from another plant that seems to have survived under low water conditions. Um,
that's a
Compilation of like n1
cross to
a number of different things that sounded like I didn't catch all of it because i'm driving here, but um,
Really what you want to do is take out all those different sub-populations that you've created
Grow those out under
dry
Whatever it's called i'm dry farming. Sorry i'm driving through
Trying to do two things at once but um
So you would want to grow out the populations you've created under a dry farming condition. You would also want to grow out other
gen, uh germ plasm from areas that are sourced that also have low water
stresses so afghan varieties are a good option because there's
It's a very arid climate and there's not a lot of irrigation and a lot of what is done is done off of seasonal based irrigation
and so
what you can do there is
Get a bunch of different forms of germ plasm that you believe should produce well
under dry farming conditions
You then want to grow all those out you then want to score the plants that do the best under those conditions
And use those plants as the plants that you want to breed and track over every generation
How much of your population is responding well to the environmental conditions?
the vast amount of heritability that you're going to get is going to be
found through those sorts of you know, essentially
it's breeding for quantitative traits because
This is a quantitative response most likely or trait on a genetic level
because you're trying to maximize the ability of the plant to
Utilize water and other resources in its environment. And so you're not just looking to target one single gene
You're trying to target a whole bunch of different metabolic pathways
As well as the way that the plant interacts with water itself
And potentially, you know adaptiveness genes to low water environments is over time what you're selecting for
And it's a whole host of them. So using that method
Of starting with germ plasm that you believe to have the target trait
Tracking that target trait over multiple generations and not just being wedded to a single clone that produced in one
Instance like it's a good starting point. It proved proof of concept that this plant can survive under dry farming conditions
You can now grow out its offspring see how many of them can survive in that condition
But the more germ plasm you bring in and test in the condition
The greater likelihood you're going to find those traits and be able to select for those and move the entire population
Even if it's mixed because all you're trying to do is create
Good plants that produce well in a dry farming
environment
So you're going to select across all of these different
You know
subpopulations
to get those different plants and you can either inbreed those that you select and
Self them and go down the line that way or you can hybridize the ones that you identify as good producers, but that's
That's how you would do that on like a long-term breeding scale
Okay, I appreciate the
very detailed answer it's uh, kind of the direction I was going and I
Had I don't remember how many cultivars growing this year that they all made it through and I was just curious about
um
Where that genetic memory comes in where i'm going to get the benefits if it's going to be something that's going to be many
Generations or if I can see it, you know, even half a season it's going to make a difference
But you've given me a lot of stuff going forward
You should capture any epigenetic
Trait gain through that method that just got described
and
in addition
with epigenetics, we don't know how long the
effects last we do know that
It's pretty much a it's a direct
offspring relationship and it can even be it's
Epigenetics is a weird beast like it's cellular memory
It's got to do like
It happens on an offspring level in terms of being transmitted over generations, but it also happens within a plant itself
so
like
It's it's a very complicated concept and it's one of those things where
If you are able to capture it
and able to capture some sort of epigenetic factor that's increasing the heritability of
resistance to drought environments essentially or tolerance to drought environments
Then you should be able to capture any of that through
This type of breeding program of just continually scoring for the plants that do the best in the environment
and trying to expand
the number of plants in the
Population that are you know showing the tolerance trait
I think there's in case anyone's interested on just a few things that i've observed about it
That there's multiple factors because
All the strains that I was able to grow this year. They all adapted in a lot of ways
I had one that was a cookie red cross
which is a wide leaf and it
Tried to make a transition to a narrow leaf and took two tries before it finally ended up with a more
Narrow leaf that was able to handle the really intense heat where i'm at
Um, my weather pattern is I don't get any water
Like april through the rest of the season
So I think the depogenetic traits that are going to be advantageous. It might be heritable
uh would be the ones that would would uh
take the
huge advantage of that early rain and explosive growth to get those roots down to where
They're very very deep by the time the water starts to recede because when I finish around august the top 12 inches are dry
Yeah
Also
Look tony microphone
Um, sorry, no go tony
I didn't hear peter. I'm, sorry. I was just saying talking into the mic. It was muffled
I'm, sorry about that, man
damn phone
Go for it
I was just saying uh hardy gear he he breeds for uh
Dry farming if anyone's looking for gear to introduce to their own gear to help try to pick up those kind of genetic
Traits in the line already. He's been trying to do that for quite a while
Yeah, I grew a few of his strains and they did do extremely well
Yeah, um cannabis is pretty incredible also you just described a number of ways that it adapts to different environments and is able to deal with
Extremes that it may not necessarily I mean
If you're starting with hardy's gear and some of these others there they are adapted to that sort of environment. Um,
higher heats and also, uh
Lower lower water levels and so that's something though that the plant
cannabis is crazy like, you know, we talked about some of the deep history of cannabis earlier, but
by
It evolved 30 million years ago and
Probably, you know somewhere in central asia
And was spread throughout east asia and then across to your like into europe
By six million years ago and that's before humans and hominins were
You know in that area spreading things around so the plant
on its own
Through interactions with probably different animals that ate the plant moved the seeds around
spread across a huge territorial expanse massive climate changes
enormous elevation swings
and so we're dealing with something that's
A very very unique plant in terms of its overall plasticity
And a lot of that's just you know, some of its epigenetic, but a lot of it's just the internal
the way that the
Genetics of the plant interact with the environment give it a whole range of different expressions
That make it so that it can survive and adapt and become a plant that can tolerate
the most far extremes of
Siberia
to you know the most temperate or you know equatorial
Regions of the world so it's really a cool plant and it's cool that people are doing this specific kind of work with it
But but I think like uh
as far as like
Trying to influence epigenetics within a few generations
Well, that is you know, you're working towards it. It's probably not
I mean
I would think that you know the
the arid climate of afghanistan
A lot more
You know, I mean you gotta think like it probably took years and years and years and years generation upon generation to actually
start to express the epigenetics
And that you know people selectively bred that out
to be like, uh
You know, obviously like if you got one plant that's working at your keto seeds and continue it on along
so I would think it would take a
A few at least I would think it would take a
At least a little while to uh
begin to breed
Epigenetically, you know what I mean? Like you'd have to express the plant multi-generational for it to uh,
have epigenetic, uh
influences within the
Recent offspring. I mean that
You know afghanistan could have taken you know
Hundreds upon hundreds of years until it became acclimated at that environment, you know
Yeah
Yeah, uh, yes and no I just think that it's one of those things where we saw the adaptation of
to indoors because like you talk you listen to the different people talking about
early attempts at indoor cultivation
And there was like the the technological innovations that made it possible. But also the genetic innovations
and it's one of those things where
People were able to breed over a relatively short period of time
acclimatized and adapted varieties to a completely artificial environment and
you know, I think
That is one of the most amazing things that have happened. Like nobody really gives credit
I mean, it's cool to have like all the testing and uh, you know DNA ability now
But like literally humans in the last since the 70s have increased the potency of cannabis from like
10 to like 30 only by like our own, uh, you know quantitative or qualitative
Behavior, you know what I mean?
Like this one's better than this one and this one's better than this one and and through that so I might be wrong like uh
Epigenetics could take it's probably generational
you know, but um
It definitely happened within the time that we've seen. Okay, so where are you guys?
You know, it's definitely happened in the last 30 years that we could see expressed
From like wild varieties that you bring indoor, you know
Yeah, I think that's a very good point. I think that both of them are true because you've got the development of
like
long-term
ecological driven and sort of like the the traditional land races as we know them
Are
all
you know, they all moved out from a
original point of origin and
were small subsets
of an initial population
that then were subjected to selection pressures both environmental
And you know once people start engaging with it and really start selecting it for our own purposes
That impact that happens with domestication, you know, sometime 12 000 10 000 years ago
and then all those selective pressures and environmental pressures and
Diffusions around the world from different subpopulations
Producing these different ecotype land races that are totally divergent over like
long
Time scales. We're not just talking about you know
You know
30 years we're talking like you said like
afghanistan central asian
ecotypes diverging from other ecotypes
over a time frame of millennia
And and not I mean fuck not millennia like millions of years is the long history of cannabis
And so like all of that like deep long
History is true and I bet some of the you know
Everything we're capturing and taking advantage of is
part of that deep long evolutionary history of a highly adaptive plant that was able to spread around the world and
acclimatized to these different niches
and then
What we've done like you said like i've been posting a bunch of dumb memes and you know
Some people have gotten upset about them because they think i'm
Saying that like science is the only way and like the way that we've been doing things is wrong
but honestly like
The things that we've done without the tools of academic science
without laboratory
instrumentation are fucking incredible
and showed that like
just
really dedicated passionate people
who
Who
Have a particular set of interests
Can shape this plant and I mean fuck it's it's not just what we've done in the last 30 years
You can also look at every different culture and the way that they've sure they can plant and adapted it to their own needs
It's really cool
You can get an example of epigenetic
Traits showing up fast in a plant would be like hydrangeas
The reaction to the ph in the soil is an epigenetic driven response
through the dna so it easily can be like, uh
It can change the expression of a plant just in one generation
It's also carrying through the progeny when you end up with seed lines that continue or the bulb
Also continue to breathe this through as they as they replicate
Huh
Mr. Toad always with the knowledge there bud
Oh, sometimes you got to give examples from other places for uh
for
our community man
I'm always one of them like I didn't want to believe a lot of shit because uh for me cannabis had to be special because
It was special to me, but in fact
It's a plant right and it's gonna it has laws and rules that it abides by so when you start to dive into those things
It makes stuff a little less cloudy
Makes it easier to understand like say someone's been growing tomatoes for centuries or for like if it's been in the family for
Forever right they've been growing cherokee tomatoes and then they suddenly get into cannabis
And when you can show them trichomes on a tomato and on a cannabis plant
Their whole world is rocked and they're diving deep into everything right next thing, you know, i'm gonna make a fucking uh, concentrated
uh tomato
That's just one of my favorite smells ever that is one of the best smells of all mankind right there tomatoes roses
I mean everything that has a defense mechanism and produces a trichome to that you can
You can do everything with those that you can do with the cannabis plant if you just let your mind
uh
You know experience that someone else will tell you their experience and all of a sudden you're like, holy shit
I can do this with cannabis, right? That's how you brought
being able to infuse
Concentrates into edibles when I started my first company before I was boneyard seeds
I had a company called 215 farms and we did edibles. We did hash we did uh clones we did
Tinctures I did all fucking kinds of different cookies. Uh
I did any kind of barbecue sauce olive oils. I did all kinds of shit back in those days and
Because I was a chef a wall cook. I didn't
Get trained to be a chef I just became one when we owned a fishing lodge and our chef didn't show up
I had to start cooking one year when I was 14 and from that day on I was the chef
So I end up learning
Basically how to infuse fats to cannabis and once you know that
Turn that into cannabis was easy. And that's where I learned if I could show someone
Something else they recognized they could steer their uh cannabis, uh interest in that direction just by merging the two
So that's why I always try to drop something that will like bring cannabis to a realm where people understand it a little better
I think it's really fun to point out, you know what we do as hobby breeders as well
I'd like to point to george washington carver
What amazing breeder and person he was in the horticultural world?
You know, he was a hobby breeder and what he did with peanuts and all that stuff is pretty impressive
Yeah, thanks for the man titties george washington carver
Hey, man, he made the peanut great, baby, you know what I mean?
Anyway continue sorry about that. No, no, you're right. This is funny. I I eat jalapeno butter too, but you know, it's like
You know, it's uh, it's a hot I was just bringing back to hobby breeders
You know what we can do in you know on a focused path as a hobby breeder
Especially this day and age with you know
Peter presenting, you know the the channels that we have and then trevor dropping the knowledge, you know, it's like
I love it. I soak up so much knowledge and just try to apply what I can to my
My little situation, you know what we can do as hobby breeders or or is a lot
Trevor definitely dropped the knowledge
Absolutely when trevor was talking about what we've done and how far the plants come. I was also thinking about how we've also
Accelerated the evolutionary cycle of the plant because we brought it indoors
And we now grow it in lots and lots of conditions and situations where it wouldn't naturally grow
So we've increased the amount of seasons. We've increased the amount of
breeding capacity and crossing capacity and all these different things in the plant as well, so
that is something that you know also increases the
Uh maturation or the the genetic change of of the plant is how many generations
It's been able to go through and we've definitely accelerated that process
Especially in the last couple of decades as we've done this indoors and we will continue to accelerate it with shorter and shorter growing cycles
other ways to do these things in faster processes, so
It's a continual
Cycle that is just getting faster and faster
I
Imagine like, you know, if you gave a
100 people the same plant to grow in their conditions
Then uh, they're each going to represent it in a different way
And if you incorporate breeding into that then you're you're actually, you know, bringing in those epigenetic qualities
where you know, uh
Homey may have bugs and homie may be too hot, you know, and like the
breeding under those, um
You know conditions encourage, uh
Stronger traits in the manner, you know
Did you all leave
Everybody's phone dead
I always forget to come off mute or say something out here. So i'm sorry about that. We can't really hear you
Man, i'm i've tried changing mics
Mouth
There is someone to out amos, sorry, no, no not amos, uh someone down below had their hand raised
Uh real quick, I just want to throw in the uh
idea of evolutionary plant breeding
Um, it was a method that was
Developed by a guy named coit sui son or something. I believe his name was uh, c o i t
S o s e n some I believe it's something like that. Anyway, uh the premise of the idea of
Evolutionary plant breeding was that you maintain a lot more diversity and you expose whatever population you're breeding to a lot more
environmental influences so that you adapt your
population to your environment and allow natural selection to play more of an influence as opposed to just artificial selection
and they I think
The breeding project that they did ended up going into like
F-120 or some shit. Um
So it's a the amount of data that they collected and tracked over
120 breeding generations is really incredible
And I think it dovetails with a lot of the ideas and i'm probably cutting in and out or will be soon
I've heard that like after like f
10
Like there's really no point
You're like basically like
in it
Yeah, yeah, that's that's definitely true. Um
This was using a large composite breeding population
So they started out with an incredibly diverse population
Inbred and this is with a selfing species
uh barley, um and bred it over a hundred generations
And they actually got a lot of trait gain
over that time and
part of the reason why is that
they were
essentially instead of
Experiencing
What we would in an outcrossing species like cannabis where we have lots of inbreeding depression
Which eventually levels off by about yeah f10
At which point you don't see much more decline, but you also don't see
Any real fluctuation in the population? So you're essentially at an inbred line
um
And that's the point where you want to be out crossing and introduce like checking that plant for like
It's out crossing combining ability
but um
The point of their experiment though was really just to show
Long-term
Evolutionary like that you could essentially breed in a way that tried to
model much more of an environmental and evolutionary
Adaptation to a particular
environment as opposed to the just intensive like we're going to select for yield and
Bottleneck and inbreed this line all the way down
and
You know go down that
Route and instead maintained a lot of diversity
Interesting
And yeah, i'm gonna be fully like in shit service from now on guys, so i'm gonna just be listening but you know
Great great discussion
You sound so hey if I have to hang up now, can I like can I get back on later?
Yes, you can
So what's funny is uh
in my head I was like
Should I try to do the four o'clock show too like
I didn't realize this one was gonna go this long
and uh now i'm just like fuck we could just keep talking till four and then the four o'clock like uh,
Tyler is ready to come on in half an hour and I was like we need your monologuing skills
But yes, you you could drop off and come back on and I think oh there's raymond, uh, raymond you have a uh question or comment
Uh, I just wanted to say hi to trevor
Hey, whatever how you doing man, dude, man, I opened this thing out of nostalgia and I saw you on
On a topic that as many of you know i'm interested in and uh, yeah
glad to see you are active on here and quite frankly, this thing is still active the
Last couple of months been a little less robust than the prior months
And it's just like me to hop on at that uh once it's on the you know
Why I I mostly love it just for uh
Pulling people together to then put it out on youtube
So I could care less of like nobody uses this anymore. I'm like it works for what I want to do
right, so yeah, you have
quantitative sort of
You got you got uh, you got vocal patterns you got data i'm gonna share it later
So raymond, what what's uh, what are you growing up this season or what did you grow up?
Man, well we are
Up here in in weed. Uh, we are still pre-operational. We did a bunch of site work this year
But short of getting buildings up, uh, sequa is a bitch as i'm sure many of you know
Um that being said down at our pilot farm in hay fork trinity county california
uh grew
um some pretty sweet like um
There's a whole catalog of uh african land race strains crossed with
Fruity wrapper strains and I mean that to say literally like you know
uh
We took a bunch
of
pollen that we had and um just kind of went ham on some, you know trying to
Escape what trevor describes as the closed loop?
Which by the way, i've really been appreciating your post lately, um on the instagram so we've been trying to introduce some um
less
Utilized uh pollens with some known entities
Uh, because we don't want to go too far off
market because
Then people won't buy the shit, unfortunately
but um
Yeah, it's just come down. So we'll see what see what it goes. But um
they're about uh
They will have at least at least a half a dozen strains with a full hundo
And then maybe about 10 strains with like 50
So we'll see what comes out of it we're going to do some blends we have a
guy that wants to do some um
some extraction blends, um kind of trying to pair
Flavor profiles, so we'll see we'll see what happens
And you're so you're opening a a brand or or more like back end kind of either farming or manufacturing
in the california market or both
Yeah, it's more back end to be honest with you, um, it's more about infrastructure
We have a lot of brands that are interested. It's approximately 600 000 square foot of flowering up in northern california in controlled environment greenhouses
so it is
Under a quote unquote brand umbrella shasta grown
But really what it's under is product of weed california as a geographic
Which is actually
How trevor and I know each other from our participation in the california department of food and agriculture's cannabis appellations program
So I don't really give a shit what brand it's under you just if you're using genetics within the geographic indicator, yep, no
I don't know if i'm coming in. But yeah, I met ray like you said at the appellation working group and really really
And
Trevor you're cutting out a little bit but raymond you want to talk kind of uh where your head's at related to appellation and
Absolutely, sure. So my the
the most
potent no pun intended the most potent component of appellations for
California cultivators is the fact that there is a level of du jour protection under law
for varietals that you can
Illustrate
stem from your legally protected geographic indicator whether that's an appellation
whether that's
Some other subcontexts, it's all governed by this 1994 un trade treaty
What's important is that if you can identify a regionally specific
genome
That has certain phenotypic characteristics
You can claim a level of ownership
Analogous to a plant patent but without having to go through the rigmarole of a plant patent
so for us
It's about the fact that we have spent years and i've i've been here in siskiyou for for for over a decade
Which I know is a drop in the bucket relative to like the guys that taught me who have been here since the 70s
um, there are very specific, um
Varietal stock that are
from this region and for us to harness that
Traditional knowledge base and that subject matter expertise and bring that into
a nursery program
allows us to develop
regionally specific varietals that we then have a claim of ownership to that is very difficult to replicate through traditional plant patent
application
Modalities so for me, that's the most important thing for our business. That's the most important thing for our investors. That's the most important thing
From a scientific perspective from a consumer perspective. What's really interesting to me is the fact that we are now going to have dedicated
Facilities
Gmp certified facilities that allow us
Whereas back in the day you were chuck and paul and maybe a little guy here. Maybe a little guy there
But in hermetically sealed rooms you're going to have
a degree of
isolation that allows you to do more accurate phenol hunting so like from a
Operator consumer standpoint. That's the most important from a business standpoint the fact that varietals
developed under or for an appellation have de jure protection under the law is very interesting in terms of ip and
and value generation on a business scale
With with the people, you know, I remember years ago talking to kristin from uh,
uh, kristin, uh nevedol nevedol. Yeah
And kind of you know, it's interesting because you like if you think of all the
The kind of line items that would go into the appellation concept there kind of also has to be agreement
amongst the people kind of
Driving that forward. So what and one of my questions or examples was like, you know when someone's rocking the bag soil
uh, like does that get to be included in appellation versus native soil and kind of what are some of the issues around
uh
that like the internal
I don't know why I want to say bickering but like people are of different perspectives on certain
Topics that would qualify for appellation and how stringent you should be
Sure. Um, so again, I participated in that cdfa committee. I did a lot of work. Um on
Researching what has historically gone into the development description
uh production and marketing of
Appellations in wine in meats and cheeses, etc
um
I'm, not very happy with how sb67
turned out. Um, kristin is
A colleague and a friend and I have a lot of respect for what she's done
Um, I think that there were folks that came to that committee
With certain expectations, uh whose expectations may not have been met
I think that at the end of the day if you look at the law governing the issue at hand
There's a there's a there's a money there's a money shot and it's the quote causal link between product and place
unquote
and I think that if you can
illustrate that
In not only in a in a scientific way in terms of like, you know terpene expression vis-a-vis altitude or soil composition or water
but also
In terms of the standards of practice and the varietals, right?
So there's it's kind of a two-tier modality where you have
Hard science and you have some soft sciences and I think
And I push for this in in the uh in the committee
However, I only walked away with a partial success in this. I think that anyone should be allowed
To draft a petition-based document to be submitted to a panel of experts
To attempt to illustrate their causal link between product and place
And if that's some dude who's held a varietal or some woman that's held a varietal for 25 years and never let it leave
I think there's some value there whether or not it's native soil and and and listen on the subject native soil
Even people that are growing in holes in the ground
Dig out the hole at some point and fucking throw fish guts down there, you know, like where do we draw the line?
We're and i'm I don't have an answer for this and i'm whacking philosophical i'm a little stone. Sorry
but like
That's where my head's at too is is you you could stop anywhere on that spectrum and be like this is
And that's kind of like it must be hard for a bunch of people to agree on stuff
I i'm very lucky in that. We are one of one I I uh,
I don't have to deal with like other folks in that conversation, but that's very unique to our
Situation up here in the city of weed
um
Because it's here. It's actually governed by like a standing committee within the department of ag of which i'm the chairperson
However, you know how people's names kind of like lead to their destiny
Like does that town have like a a future destiny that it's
I feel like if your name was dented if my name was dentist. It's like I became a dentist
yeah, no, I
I think that's absolutely true. And I think that it is. Um
I am very like I said, I
I've lived here for over 10 years. I did not move here to live in weed california and be kitschy
uh
I moved here to be near the mountain because this particular if anyone's been here
From north of dunsmuir to just or north of dunsmuir
to
weed is this
3700 foot like kind of microclimate alpine plateau
Where there's three headwater systems, uh all emanating from the same
giant volcanic aquifer
I
To go back to the original point. I I don't the reason I don't agree with
SB67 is because I think that anyone should be allowed
to make their case
For that causal link between product and place. I don't think anyone should be
excluded
uh
I don't think that there's a whole lot that you would do to prove a causal link for
indoor
But to exclude mixed light which excludes just simply pulling tarps
Is a detriment to our community and our industry at large
And I think that if you can make the case in a in a in a user-driven
Petition document which by the way is how they do it in france
Um
You know, I don't I don't think there's anything wrong with that
I think everyone should get their shot whether or not you can prove it is like that's the process
But I think everyone should get a chance to prove it and I think what sb67 did is
does your
Disallow folks trying to prove it
So anyway, thanks for coming to my ted talk
Hey guys, hey raymond nice to see you I was enjoying listening to your thought process around the appellations
and
Hi, yeah long time. How are you?
Oh, you know southern oregon still i'm just on the other side of the border
But I spent actually a decade on the back side of mount shasta. So that is kind of like my
hometown
Yeah, and I just i've been really following the appellations thing super closely because um,
We tried here in oregon as well
And I do really think that there is an important piece as far as also like the branding and
it's really interesting to hear your perspectives because
i've definitely had a lot of really long conversations with people who are actually the people who put forth the
Appellations piece and who've worked really hard for it
and um, I I have mixed feelings myself because you know, it's um,
As far as indoor goes and you know
I just and I think my understanding is that even if you're
Indoor and you're in one of these appellations that you are still able to claim the area
But you're not able to like maybe claim the appellation
So that you're able. Yeah, you're able to say like this indoor was grown in humble
But you're not able to say it was you know, it's grown with the terroir and it's grown with all these other pieces
so
so in california
cities and counties
So what you're describing is this? Uh, it's like a you know, everybody's familiar with like the russian nesting doll, right?
like from bigger to smaller
um state of california says
Whether or not it's a legally identified appellation
if you're in a
county
Or theoretically a district of that county or city you can claim that it comes from there
And you have the right to create a committee to dictate standards from within that
russian nesting doll
Appellations are governed by the un food and agricultural organization
And they mandate a bit more stringency
Um in terms of how you would be able to claim that
Where where my beef stems from for lack of a better term is the fact that sb67 in california
Disallowed anyone other than full sun cultivators
from the opportunity
to illustrate the causal link
Yeah, and I kind of get that I mean if I I do and I hear what you're saying though too because I feel like
Um, I feel like there's a lot more pieces to it though, too, right?
it's like if you're importing soil, then you're not necessarily able to and I think that the theory behind that is that
You know, it really has the essence of the origin, you know where it's like has the sun it has the stars
I mean because i've done greenhouse like depth culture cultivation for a really long time now and
And outdoor and I mean i've done it all at this point. I feel like and I I kind of get the um
I get it. And I also think that just the fact that there is so much imported. Um,
You know, we're like importing mediums for indoor cultivation and you know, like you're saying too
It's it's kind of like it's a complicated equation. I guess is my point and we tried in oregon
Gosh, I think it was like four years ago now to kind of create a similar
Bill and it was such crap that it got just scrapped and we've never been able to
Kind of come up with it's just never made it back on for any sort of legislative
Movement there, but I do I think it's really important. I'm sad to hear that it doesn't you know
Fit all of the needs of all of these different pieces
But you know, it's like the majority of people are importing
Things, you know, you're importing soil you're importing medium
You're importing all of this other stuff and it doesn't necessarily and also if you're growing things
Inside of it, I know, you know, it's a hard one because I know it's like we roll up the sides on our greenhouses in
summer and they're still light up and you know, we definitely try to use as much native soil as possible
And you know, we remineralize things we do all this work and outdoors
We definitely try to like work with what we have and not import a lot of things
But it the reality is that you know, you do especially if you want like really high quality
Products, so I don't know where really where we draw the line
especially my interest is also in like how it pertains to genetics and how it pertains back to like the
the origin
Of some of these genetics, which obviously is like a deeper conversation, but I think that how we apply it. Um
you know because there are things that are very very, um
You know, they're they were born out of these places
So I find this conversation to be super fascinating and I would love to see something happen
um, you know, these are like superior areas for cultivating cannabis and I think that
And there's a lot of heritage there and I think that that's a big part of the it's the storytelling aspect too
It's like northern california, but then there's also the you know, there's also this theory. It's like
Even you being in shasta county you're outside of the emerald triangle
Like you're not actually yeah, no, which is also kind of like a weird like they're insane in southern. Oregon
It's like i'm 20. My you know, it's like i'm super close to oh, yeah, by the way
We like it that way. Yeah. Yeah. No, totally and I like it that way too
I guess it's more just kind of like it's like how you brand a region and these regions, you know same up here
There are regions that are um, really well known for growing grapes and other things
But also it's like the it's a it's a bio region thing that's happening that makes this a fantastic place to grow. Um,
Uh grow outside so i'm not really sure
where you're at is more akin to us as a bio region than
then
You know the western part of humboldt for instance like totally it's where the state of jefferson. I mean ultimately
Yeah. Yeah, I think it's definitely like a thing and we've been trying to figure out how
To brand the region especially as more and more things come online and I think I I don't know
I think it's a deep conversation and I think it does apply back to genetics and breeding and all of these pieces as well
so it's um
Also, it's really fascinating
It'd probably be a good to have like more conversation around it and bring on some of the people that actually pushed that bill
I'm, yeah, so her name is jim coleman. I want to go deep on it right now
Yeah her name
She's on familiar
Chine in her name is janine coleman and um, uh, you know for better or worse. She was unhappy
um with the
consensus that came out of the committee that trevor who
Looks like he dropped but uh trevor and I were on that committee and we had come up with what I thought was a very
very even keeled
petition driven process
um
In answer to your one of your earlier comments regarding native soil composition
It required a minimum of 30 percent regionally sourced soil in your blend
So there was like a threshold but it was not an overbearing threshold
And it incorporated the six macro categories of input that govern the aoc. So the french and italian model
uh being your uh
Climate uh declination of sun topography
uh water soil
Standards of practice and historical varietals
Those were the six macro categories of input and the idea was if you could show four of the six
Right. So each of those six was a chapter in your petition
and if you could illustrate that you hit four of those six as being
Based in place. So yeah, maybe you don't grow in native soil, but your water has a certain
You know, whatever calcium percentage that you find beneficial
And you know again historical varietals and standards of practice being two of the six categories
Almost anybody could make that claim and then it was really on you to either provide an indication
That your climate so your declination of sun aridity, etc
and or your water soil
Nutrient regimen was split nutrient regimen had two different components. One was in your standards of practice
And one was in your water. So again trying to
effectively dissuade
salt-based nutrients, but if you could show that you were doing solid state ferments or
Regionally sourced mushroom compost for instance was a great example, right?
We had created a process by which
illustrating four of the six of those primary components based upon the French and Italian model would qualify
and
What ms. Coleman did?
was go to her state senator mark mcguire and
Cry him a river and
He introduced a bill that allowed
Only sun grown in native soil, by the way, no definition was given a native soil in that bill
Which is why when I first started talking I brought up the fact that even if you grow in native soil
You're still amending the motherfucker. She's my language
And I just think it was sort of intellectually dishonest to do so and I've told her that to her face
So I don't fucking feel bad about saying that
Yeah, I know. There's been a lot of controversy with that
I really appreciate you breaking it down like that because there's been I know a lot of
Controversy and I know other no, I mean also worked like Heather Burke and Luke Zimmerman and like other
I
Spoke to Heather yesterday more
Because she's about to speak on this the ICBA
Yeah, no, we had a really good model it was petition driven there were six macro categories
you had to prove four of the six to a
panel of experts including some wine people some industry people state environmental scientists and if you could prove in
four of those six macro categories that you had a causal link you qualified and
Then it was on you to go to your fellow
Appalachian
members and
Define those so again, the whole thing was is this an exclusionary or an inclusionary?
Modality like are you trying to help people create Appalachians or are you trying to keep people out?
Yeah, I really feel that that's that's kind of been a mood all along
Especially with the water piece is so remarkably important because I mean for those people that aren't aware
Like the extreme droughts and other things that have been happening across
Northern California and Southern Oregon have definitely caused major issues with watersheds and
water supplies to lots of
Farms and not I mean not even to bring up like the fire piece is a whole other piece
But people have really been dealing with so it's it's I don't know. I don't think it's perfect and
You know, I don't know I have I still personally am on the fence because I don't necessarily
I think that of course indoors should be able to say like yes, we are, you know, we are running these genetics that are
You know true to this area or certain thing, but I don't know it's just a complicated
It's a complicated equation. I don't necessarily I feel like there does need to be some sort of delineation
But I don't want people to feel excluded per se
Also, I I think claiming that you're growing in a certain area
Sure, you're growing it in Humboldt and it's a thing but I think that if you it's just a different
Different mode of action actually think it's interesting. I think that that like there's some out
I don't know
There's something coming out tomorrow kind of highlighting more of the outdoor which I feel like outdoor always gets like the short end of this
Stick and I I mean personally, it's what I prefer to grow
You know
Also, you know, it's like if I'm gonna ingest something it's for sure gonna be like organics and grown, you know
and all those different pieces I'd like to
Kind of tie it back around to the genetics piece and the breeding piece too because it's you know
I think that there is a lot
You know, I know Heather Burke from originally when we were trying to form the ethical data alliance
She was helping us with the formation of the process and then got pulled towards the Appalachians and always really appreciated her energy and input and
You know, I I think that you know
We've been working really hard on this genetics piece for the past couple years
And so I would be curious to hear because it is the greater roundtable just like what I know Trevor had to bounce
but um
Just like how people are feeling about the you know
These
After what happened with phyllis gate and kind of where we're at now and we're kind of at this really interesting
Pivotal time going into 2022 and like how we can
You know bond together to as a community to make sure that all of the work that's been done for a really long time
is you know that it's going to be protected and
and
that breeders are able to
You know feel confident cataloging what they have and you know laying claim to these different things or you know
Open source and just so things don't essentially fall into broad sweeping
patents
Etc as more of this becomes commercialized and like more of these large companies
We're kind of filling in in the space and having more patents. So just curious if there's perspectives from the breeders on the panel
And she just got a phone call
She's back
Jet just a couple quick questions
What's the status because I a while ago? I talked to Angela about organizing a couple like
YouTube shows to
Introduce kind of the things the ethical data Alliance
Kind of is about and cares about
The status is great we were trying to yeah, we were
Angela's doing awesome, by the way, and so we've been
Maybe I'll just give you guys a quick
Overview for people who don't know but the ethical data Alliance kind of came out of the ashes of the open canvas project when it
dissolved
After phyllo skate happened, which I won't go into there's plenty of articles and information
Around what happened in that scenario?
And Trevor created many
Without Trevor, we can't really have the conversation anyway, so it's like it doesn't totally make sense, but we do we had it all the time
Yeah, I I just I count myself so blessed to have met Trevor
I had heard about him because I had friends in the in the Calaveras scene
but man when he and I got to like rap and hang out and
Crack jokes about the environmental scientists CDFA. Ah gosh
You wish they were you wish you knew were that they were the good old days when they happened
Ditto. Yeah, I really appreciate Trevor and I had the pleasure to hang out with him at
At can met a couple years ago and it was just really awesome
Conversations and really appreciate everything he's doing for the breeders right now and what's happening and I'd love to get more of his perception
On what the ethical data Alliance's work is
You guys are being kind of cryptic right now. Can you tell us a little bit about what's going on?
I
Love Trevor, too. But what what are you guys talking about?
Okay, so just for a record I mean I personally
You know, my commitment is to the plant and always has been and I've been touching plants for 18 years and I definitely
I work in the adult use regulated market and I really care about genetics. I really care about breeders and
I care about protecting these things. That's part of how I originally even knew what the open canvas project was a
Couple years ago. There was a whole drama that went down
with
phylos, which is a
genomics company and
People had been sending in
samples for genetic they basically
Gosh, this is such a
Don't miss words. They they took in genetics under the auspices and they would hold that. Well, yeah. Yeah
Yeah, I'm aware of the phylos controversy
But I didn't know that Trevor had something not that he was part of the controversy obviously
But like why are you all like praising him?
Gotcha and that makes a hell of a lot of sense he would be the okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Actually, I was under the impression that riot was the risk because that's how I learned about it was when
on the done show
A huge ordeal, but so the original yeah, Trevor's here. Okay, cool. So the original
So someone was people were asking for clarification they were like what's the connection between Trevor and the phylos
Controversy or whatever you want to call it and
Everyone was giving their my response is you are like a tenacious pitbull
With the means and be like I'm not gonna let this go
yeah, I mean that's my style if I get like irritated I will do that and
Like my really there were definitely people
Matt riot was out there before I was publicly talking about it
They like
First time I remember talking about phylos with anybody was with BAM at UC Davis
when we were at this breeding seminar together and
Bollywood BAM coastal seeds if anybody doesn't know the reference. He's a homie and
So we were talking about phylos
Wondering whether or not it was a good idea to send in samples for the the galaxy and the genomic testing
He was skeptical. I was skeptical. We were sitting there at a genomics course talking about the ideas and he said that there were
just shadiness involved with it and that was the vibe he had gotten and
we both saw it as
Essentially an ability to get a whole lot of information and to get a lot of people to pay for it
without having to
Do all the legwork for themselves and we had actually gone around
after the course we went to the the spring kickoff and talked to a whole bunch of breeders and
Tried to say hey, let's all pull our own resources together. Take our samples get them sequenced
use that sequencing information to then inform sort of like a
Cooperative collective breeding program where we all just kind of agree not to step on each other's toes and fuck with each other but pool
resources so that we can like
improve our own work in our own lanes that we're all kind of like doing anyways and
people like
Like the idea in theory but disagreed that anybody could necessarily get along or not, you know
Use it to fuck each other over so that didn't really go anywhere and
a number of those people ended up giving samples to phyllis which was kind of ironic in the end and
Then phyllis announced their breeding program and did what everybody thought they were doing which was crowdsourcing
information and samples and
then using that information to build out and monetize their own breeding program and
All I did in any of this was troll their asses
Like heroic style it was very impressive
Yeah, and I mean they the memes wrote themselves though like literally if your CEO's name Mowgli and
there's like an
endless stream of
Gifts and memes
That just literally write themselves in terms of Mowgli's jungle book references, you know good times and
Yeah, and otherwise like
the main thing I also want to make clear on the whole phyllis thing is that a
Lot of people made some outlandish claims that they were like
Stealing things or that they were going to be able to create plants out of dead stems and that wasn't what they were doing
They were just crowdsourcing information and source
Samples from all of us and getting us to build out their data set while paying for it
Which was the shitty thing and saying that they were somehow protecting us from Monsanto while hiring nothing, but Monsanto
employees and
Then going to investors and saying look we can leverage all of this information and be the next Monsanto
As well sneaking their way into lots of content being like if you win
We'll we'll test your stuff and I know a lot of people who want and we're like this our genetics
Dude, we had a bunch of we had a bunch of old-timers. Hey
Oh
Well, first off I don't think that you know, like there's ever been a real a real conversation about this
mainly because you know, we we
Usually ignored all the noise, but um, you know, just a little bit. That's a very interesting nomenclature
No, just generally, you know, we ignored like, you know, whether that was a whole bunch of talk and and
Both good and bad. So I'm not not not saying anything about this particular thing or your comments before Trevor
But um, I just want to give you a little history here first
And that is that I've been in the cannabis space for four years
You know, I was you know running on hillsides in 1985 planning plants
My family was in this space as well. So I do know a bit of the history here
And a lot of people that I know are in the space and have been in it for years and years and years and
You know, I mean
Mowgli is an old friend of mine
And
You know, like I don't think he did everything great, you know, and I don't think he would would say that he did either
and part of that was just because of inexperience and part of it was because
Maybe a little narcissism, right?
But you know just to be clear a few things here, you know
Like I'm glad that you're saying that we didn't steal steal plants or revive dead tissue because there was a lot of that bullshit out there
But you know to say that you know, and it's you know, it'd be completely possible I suppose to
Take DNA and and do something with that data
I know that you and McKernan collaborated on that idea and but um, we actually didn't do that
We could have but we didn't and we we have you know, put all of that data aside
And you know really honestly the real reason that we started a breeding program in the first place was because we tried to
collaborate in a few
groups
it it was a miss miss alignment of
Directives right as a science company. We're trying to find
Just as much information from the shitty plants as from the great plants and not that requires a mapping project
And you know anybody who's done a pheno hunt of a of an s1 set
Knows that there's a lot of shitty plants in there often
And that's just as valuable. But as a production group, you're you're focused on growing
High quality plants instead of shitty ones, right?
so
taking the data
having the data right having data without
Phenotypic expression and knowing what that phenotypic expression is across whatever parameters you're measuring
height
THC content, whatever that is is
Useless from our standpoint, right? So there's no value
We actually had very pure intentions in helping people helping clear the mess
You know that's out there around strain names, but you know, ultimately
There's a thing right science is is the truth and then there's business which is making money
And it turns out that people really don't want
You know a plant to know that that plant is the same as this other plant because and this is no judgment by the way
But it that's how the industry works right the og kush the reason that it's renamed so many times is because
it
novelty sells and
No, well, but what you're saying
We weren't taking the data
And using that data you guys are doing a great job. No one's discounting that
Discounting that
All I'm saying is that we didn't we didn't take that data and use it for other purposes
That's why we stopped selling it. There's no make sense to sell and use the galaxy
If we're not trying to help
Fully
Well these
specific issues
well
the controversy came to a head in
2019 when you guys announced in April that you were going to do a breeding program
I happen to be sitting in a Calaveras County Board of Supervisors
meeting when they announced that they weren't gonna let us have a grow season that year and I
realized that I literally had nothing to do but fucking troll your asses so I did and
What happened was?
that you guys like
Never actually like because you started out by saying that a discussion never
happened I
made myself
Totally available. I talked to Paige multiple times Paige called me up. She had my phone number
I didn't give it to her but she got a hold of it Paige called me. We talked I was open to communications
directly
Conversations could be had now Glee was up in my DMS
He said that he wanted to talk to me and then cut off communications. So
It's really I mean discussion didn't have but there's reasons for that and I'm not gonna say that like my shitty memes weren't like
Contributing factor like totally get I own that I was a troll in this I do think however
the thing that has never really been clear is
you claim to have a 50,000 snip chip and
My question that I had posed to both Paige and Mowgli that I had never gotten a response
From anybody on is where did those specific samples that the snips were identified from come from?
Was it from the samples that got sent in by your customers or was it from some other?
sample set that you had come up with and used as the reference sample set to
Get the actual snips, you know, you grew out this plant this plant this plant this plant
You fucking take the samples from them. You sequence them you fight find the different single nucleotide
Polymorphisms that differentiate the different plants in the population to develop this
50,000 snip chip
What population what sample set did you use? That was my only question. It never got answered and you know
It's it's two years later. And so
to my mind and the one question that needed to get answered to the extent that
It relates to this particular question about what data got used and was it for proprietary means
failure to answer that
Kind of made it seem as though
the data came from your customers
Can you answer that now?
Did that data come from our customers?
Yeah
Yeah, those those people that paid us to sequence their plants. No, so
When when so one thing that the galaxy if
What about what about excuse me
What about people that didn't pay you to sequence their plants that sent it in under the auspices of you being effectively a non-profit?
I
Don't I actually don't so what here's the thing is that madly was a CEO wait. So is that a yes or no?
Hold on let me explain the situation
So madlyuation
What's up, I said, I understand the situation
Okay
Yeah, thank you whoever that was
So so mogli was a CEO mogli well, I don't
Even as a founder
It was not as involved once I stepped down as CEO and you know, anybody who's been in a corporation can
Probably understand that and and as it is these days, I'm I'm not very involved anyways
What was that
Sorry, that was probably my I got a text I should be on mute
Anyways
So anyways, I was not I'm not very involved in the company as it is
but one of the things that the galaxy does do is it provides a
sourcing tool so
I I've collected genetics for for a long time and
And
And so so using the galaxy to source new varieties that were widely diverse
was one of the things that I had focused on while sitting in the background and
And you know as you guys know, it's it's not it's not hard to do
Nishan real quick. I
This indicates that you had ways of using the information data set for your own goals and objectives
We know it's totally cool to use data sets to create more data like no no, no
What I want to make sure and be clear here
I
Was using the data that everybody else had diverse samples
Everybody else has access to the same data set that we did, right?
No
No way Trev. Hold on. Let me say something real quick Nisha
Okay, there's no not everyone has access to that same data set because you guys had sorry
Marketed platform by which to intake data and that's why my question was about the folks that sent you data on
Goodwill on
Okay, on hey, listen, these guys are doing something right?
let's share with them what we know in order to
aggregate and
improve the knowledge base at large and
Very wishy-washy on whether or not that data was utilized for any monetary gain down the line
No
So no, I don't give a shit
Okay using data to create more data is in my mind a net positive
almost every time like obviously if there's
there's
worth not and
Listen, you seem like a good guy. I don't know. Yeah. Hi, I'm Ray
Hi
But I can tell you that like old-timers in my neck of the woods
Were sold a fucking bill of goods and sent
regionally specific
Varietals, right? So we're talking about before you join we were talking about Appalachians and how that yeah, I missed that
Sorry, that's I would have a big supporter of you know, I'm
Right before
Got us down this path me Sean and spray and Trevor
Everybody else is because we started talking about the work of what the ethical data Alliance has been doing and I know
That just so and I know you know
So
people are clear the ethical data Alliance kind of was formed out of the implosion of the open cannabis project because a lot of us
really did believe in the work of the open cannabis project and
the mission like the overall mission a to protect breeders and
To create a system where we have like an open source ability to help breeders
Help protect this help protect the plant against broad sweeping
Plant variety patents and all these things so there is still a mission and some of the people
Who?
Saw this and I know that we've actually gone back and approached
I think Angela came back to approach you need Sean
Because we have wanted to say like we're actually two years down the path of doing that work in
That's why ethical is like the first name and the arts a nonprofit
It's like we have been working super hard still on that same mission and now utilizing blockchain technology
And we've been working with all we've got a grant from one of the largest
coin providers and we're still trying to do this because there's people who still really really care and so if you are interested in
Plugging and playing in an ethical way with the data sets
You know, there is an ability to still give back and make your you know, essentially kind of help
Move the whole vision forward because we have canopedia online
We have other people who are like, you know willing to do the work for the greater good of the breeder community
And the cannabis community in general and so I mean it's a whole conversation
but it's definitely it's open to anybody that wants to be involved and
It's the whole backbone of it is ethics because we saw what went wrong with OCP
with phyla state with all these other things so
This is now
I just say that nobody is still working
Mowgli is no longer, you know at phylos. It was probably not soon enough, but that was
You know, that's that that is what it is
I don't think Mowgli can be just thrown into the bus
Yeah, yeah, like I mean Mowgli like whatever mistakes he made like a
corporate decision was made like
all of you as
the executives
involved in the decision-making built that investor to deck and presented that investor deck to investors and that
Very clearly laid out the strategy that was then
And the bazinga conference what was said
You know you can like yeah Mowgli was the spokesperson and the person who said it but he was saying
articulating a corporate strategy that I'm pretty sure he wasn't going rogue in that moment and if he was
then it seems kind of like, you know, it just
It's shitty yeah
What like use and here's my issue you still haven't answered the question as it regards to where the
50,000 likes I was told and you guys released publicly and announced that you had a
50,000 snip chip. I know that you used
2,500 to 3,000 snips for the old underlying like reference set when you did the galaxy and
so you have an additional in
2019
When you announce the braiding program, you also announced that you have an additional data set that includes
50,000 snips
Which is significantly more than the data set that was used to build out and make the galaxy
I've asked ever since
2019 where that data set and where the samples came from to make that data set
I've never gotten an answer. I never like got an answer from Mowgli. I never got an answer from Paige
I never got an answer from you and I just asked you and
When you went to answer you said Mowgli and I don't think Mowgli has anything like I don't think the data set
Came from Mowgli and even if it did that's not answering my question
Well, let's just step back because this you're just saying a bunch of stuff here and and
One thing is that is that Mowgli didn't you know, it wasn't a complete corporate strategy on everything that was in the deck
Or what everything that he said, you know, let's just say that from the start, right?
But
Things are complicated
So
I mean the fact that you guys went around and did the fuck Monsanto to her for the better part of four years and then
Hired John McPherson on the down-low and only publicly acknowledged it once he got fucking outed
It seemed like perhaps that was just a coincidence
But but wait a second, like why would we why would we say why would we why would we go and brag about I mean
Every person we hired D. I mean
You know like we it wasn't that we were trying to hide it
That's not
Like Mowgli was literally going around saying fuck Monsanto like that's that was a
Punchline a direct quote like this is not sure putting words in the mouth. No, no, that's true
Show he said he went on all you guys said it in the fucking New York Times when you
Like first announced your shit the whole premise of the open cannabis project was
essentially a
patent or a protection against patent trolls and future infringement from the Monsanto types and was presented to the
That's the that's the punchline my man cuz like okay when I say that I know old-timers who were sold the bill of goods
Is exactly what Trevor just described
People came to them and they were like, hey, listen, everyone knows that these plants are interconnected
We've all been growing them for a long time. There's this group that's like
aggregating this data to create a
Genomic chart and shoot those first versions of the galaxy that came out
Blew my mind as someone who's grown for a long time
But I'm glad you enjoyed it that
the dude it was amazing the
It was definitely like a monumental moment for a lot of us back then because we had never seen anything like it before
So you had we also believed in it
And and the technology was fairly new, you know, I was like, how do we do this in three dimensions, right?
And and there were some libraries that I was playing with
That allowed us to do it
And yes, sorry, you know you're on your back heels here
This is actually a shitty way to have a conversation
This should be like an
I will say this should be like a you know more official conversation, but we really appreciate you having the conversation
It's not I mean, I'm not official. I'm just I was just listening and I was like, hey, we didn't take this snipset
We didn't take the data
We we source that data. I want to say something though. Can I just reply to Trevor here?
The reason that we
Me
Or sorry
I just wanted to say that the reason we hired
The fundamental aspect of it is that we hired John because he's an expert in breeding
And and you know, like it's it's not that he's an expert in in genomic breeding
I mean, he's a traditional breeder right and and and we wanted to have real fun
You know real science a real science company that we could that we could bring real science to this space that was
You know, it's an amazing space. So we run this plant that we all love right and and there's
you know, there's there's
You know, there's there's the the industry
You know that the cannabis space all of that legalization
is is is completely changing and and you know
It it was an opportunity to bring real science to it
Not that people weren't real scientists before but we were like, hey, here's someone who's an expert and you know
Monsanto being it it could have been someone else who was a plant breeder
But they have a shitty reputation and and we don't think that what they do is great, right?
And I know what there's been in conversations with John about that, right?
But but he had he was he's a cannabis fan and and and
He's he knows plants he's a plant lover, right I mean
ultimately
I've read his PhD. I like I know who he is
I've gone through and looked at all of his, you know published works and he's also the guy who invented BT corn for
Monsanto so, you know, well that might be a stretch
I
Mean
Sure, sure it is but I mean him inventing it he might have you know
Like the thing is is that here's one thing that but I think Trevor and this is no there's no
Criticism because this is my own self in as part of it right as you as
You get involved in a bigger company, you know versus just
being a
sole
proprietor
You know, there's it's a team right and and then there's the corporation and the corporation is pushing for certain things
And then the team allows you capacity to do things, but if you're in charge you get to write your name on it or you know
Like I'm not I'm not saying that he's a bad individual I'm saying that it was probably the single worst
Hiring option for you guys
Like I know yeah, like I know go over as well. I know it it's a good resume
Yeah, it was it was a it was a it was a it was a risk that madly wanted to take and and he did
right and
You know
It's
You have a molecular biologist
We did we do
So point is is that you hired a number of people from that field and
It created a perception that went against the rhetoric that you were presenting to the rest of the community
With what you were saying to the corporate investors that you were presenting these investor decks to which creates the
Perception that is pretty. Yeah
Yeah, no. No, I agree. We didn't we didn't do a good job answer. I
still haven't gotten an answer on where the samples came from if the samples are part of an open data set because as
has been pointed out like the implosion of
phylos
Didn't end the community effort around a sort of ethical data
Alliance like has been mentioned and you know
Copy left is coming up and trying to kind of fill in some of that space as well
And so there's groups out here who are doing work who are
Who could use the data that if you guys?
Identified
And to know more about the mysterious 50,000 snips and the sample set that it came from
I'm sorry. Did everybody else hear that because it sounded like it was cutting out for me
I heard the snips part. Yeah. No, no. No, I heard that
He said that same thing several times and the dudes not answering the question man. Oh
well, so here's the thing is I don't I I do not believe that they were from
customers submitted data or from pink paying data
So they came from the freely given data
Look so there there's hold on a second. So where we were going with the previous one was it?
How long how long you been with phylos and how long you been a year?
current position
my current position
I don't know two years
And how long you been with phylos?
I've been there since it founded
my man, so
I'm gonna
One
Thing I want to clarify here is that I I
Sequenced and and did a whole bunch of my own work
Right. We did our own stuff
We went out we used the galaxy like everybody else to source varieties
And to bring those in seeds and all of that in licensing some of them
And
And then sequence those
Validated that they were actually a clone of whatever OG kush or whoever knows, whatever
It's a you know, the the seed market right as you know is widely available. Everybody's selling everything
so it's
It's not hard to get
But the value of an
sample of an f1 seed stock compared to the
Parental baselines is where the value is that we're not looking for these hybrids as possible and see we're looking for the actual
Elite cuts. We'll just put it like that, right? There's a wait a second, but an elite cut
Define that for me because is that a popular cut or is that?
Or something that's novel like treat my partner trees that's on here. Mr. Trees
He's got a line that's called the Pam and it's when tested through your guys's system came back not related to anything else tested in
the system or
There's a lot like that
Introduced stuff to you guys that was based on the
Information that you guys gave it being a non-profit that who wasn't going to start a seed company and they introduced it to that
And got information back that information is what we're asking
How do you prove it's not part of that 50 sample snip? How do you prove that?
Sample snip isn't part of the sample set that people we know we we personally know
Introduced to the phylo system based on some of the information
Yeah
I'm thinking about it. I can talk to you. You know, you're allowed to say you don't
You're also allowed to say you don't know
Yes, I well I can talk to Alicia who's our bioinformaticist, right? Like I
Again, I'm not it. I'm not a bioinformaticist. I'm not a geneticist
Right, so I'm not that guy
So I don't
I
Wasn't
He came up to join the conversation, let's let's I'm not representing phylos here. I'm just saying hey, this is wrong
That's what I wanted to do is correct the the conversation which was Trevor saying we use that data
To clarify
Where the data came from right because that's my question and it's a no and he for it were used
Well, here's a fundamental dichotomy
One is where did the data? Yeah
Well, yeah, like I've been so here's the thing
Nishan I
When all of this was going down back in 2019
You know, I've been very clear all along that I'm not making outlandish claims
I'm trying to be as accurate as possible and
So I'm not saying you guys
Vivified zombie plants, that's fucking crazy
But
That you guys
Took a bunch you told everybody. Hey fuck Monsanto
Give us your samples will give you IP protection
We are an IP protection strategy and this was Mowgli's open cannabis pitch to the community
Fuck Monsanto's the tagline
Then we see the investor deck. We see the
pitch to the investors where he's literally saying
Either we're gonna sell out to big AG or we're gonna be you know, the next big AG
And so and then we saw
And you announced this breeding program and all of this is happening at the same time and you announce that you've got a
50,000 snip chip that you've developed now
I've always wondered and wanted just for my own personal sake and my assumption
was that you took it from your customers data in the sequencing because you got all these samples and like
Look, if you got a population set that large and you got a bunch of people giving you money to do some sequencing
Why not use that data set I made that assumption. I made it clear to
Mowgli that that was my assumption and that I was going to operate under sorry for the text
I was gonna operate under that assumption until
Otherwise
Demonstrated by you guys. Nobody demonstrated otherwise to me
So I've been operating under that premise for the last several years
You still haven't disabused me of that notion here in this conversation, you know
What I don't know
What I don't know is that so so
What you had said initially was that you know did did we use
You know our customers data set and and I know
That we didn't use our customers data set which is a paying customers
I know a lot of the data came from the samples that I collected
Did we use other samples that were given to us from in you know friends?
You know, I you you went to communities and asked for information
friends
Okay, I don't mean that I mean I mean sort of
Not me right. So I'm talking about me because I was sourcing data. I was sourcing samples
Just myself right I was like, okay, I'm gonna collect and and this is you know, like getting it, you know the old way, right?
Trading you know, like I've been in the industry for a long time
So it's not like I mean and there's some new people involved. They don't know me and all of that
But you know, I
I would like to before I answer that I would like to go to Alicia not that every single sample. That's what I'm saying
right, I
Mean honestly Trevor the way that you came about it was so
Shitty that
There's no reason to respond because you had made so many people hate us and and making some false claims, right?
Being that we stole data
You were part of riots you were part of
But guys I actually need to go at 430
I just want to tell my story real quick, you know lighten that lighten air
I do have to bounce in three minutes. I just
You gotta at least give me three minutes because I was yeah, I can do that. I'm happy
I'm in fact, I'd love to hear it. So here we go. I'm a regular guy. I've been in the game for 20 years plus
Hidden to myself. I
Came upon a plant, you know and all you know
throughout my life that I needed to know more about that I grew for a lot of years and
Just like just like they were saying I heard about the IP protection
And and what was gonna happen and all these things and I and I you know
I listened a lot to Kevin Jodri and a lot of other people
On the subject of mapping and the importance and all these other things
So one day I got on the phone and I called phylo
So I called whatever number I could get a hold of I called a couple numbers and I ended up talking to some girl
I wish I remembered her name
But she was a girl and I asked her a few questions, you know, I asked her. Hey, you know
How many samples have you guys had?
I mean
How reliable would the data be if I submitted if I paid the paid the paid the ticket and sent you my piece?
You know, would you be able to tell me what it was related to?
And without even taking a second like without a doubt she said yeah we can tell you exactly what it is
We have thousands and thousands of samples. Yeah, the other and I was like, oh wow
Okay, and she's you know sounded really confident and everybody else had been you know that I heard was sounded really confident
and you know, so I went ahead and I paid the ticket and I
Sent it in and I waited a little while and I was you know, it was it was a lot of money at the time
and I
Got back the results and
It was all inconclusive data. There was nothing there. It was basically the Pam just sat in the middle of this empty bubble and
It couldn't tell me like anything
Based basically it was it was kind of this this realm this realm this realm this realm CBD
Whatever and then I looked at all the other tests and they were all had the same exact graph, you know
It wasn't anything spectacular on like telling me anything that I didn't already know
so, you know
knowing that and
seeing other plants that were actual clone only's and
stuff get get tagged in the system and then pop pop hot with all their family members that are close relatives or
Exact duplicates and stuff in the galaxy and you know, it really it really like it was confusing
and and hard to
figure out what my next move was to
To preserve lines and whatnot and this was all to try to figure out more to protect protect something that I possibly had in the
long term and I
If from from moment one, it was like I was lied to by the by the person who answered the phone
You know when I talked to her and in the end it all kind of took that took that backwards
left left turn and
Didn't just like you know
Trevor said all the all the other cats started hiring the exact people who in the beginning we were we were all trying to fight
Against or at least was trying to unify against in some way or another and you know
Just just our global stoner nature
It really felt like my sample was my information was snatched and whatever information that they had in there
They they could they could have it and they used it and they just kind of gave me a generic, you know, what have you?
so
It just it just was a it was it wasn't good business on like a good taste in my mouth
From that standpoint and then you know
You know from you know being a good person and doing what I do
I mean, you know, I made it happen and you know, I do what I do
But it just it wasn't at any point helpful or felt honest or anything
You know what? I mean from from moment one. So I was just a paying customer
so like it wasn't I didn't listen to any of the
Arguments or all the
The fighting I just I was a paying customer
I knew what happened on my end and I just kind of keep my mouth shut and I move forward
But I just wanted to pass it along
Well, can I can I say something about that because this has been a learning experience for me, too
And mainly the learning experience has been that genomic data is you know, I mean luckily
I've had a bunch of PhDs to teach me. I don't I don't have a PhD or or even a science degree, right?
I'm gonna kind of a mad scientist more like kind of like you guys
I mean, I and I think that is a positive thing, right?
But so
Comparative genomic data is is all about the comparing it to the other samples that are in there
The data set grows and becomes its dynamic so it changes over time
And so like unfortunately, I'm sorry
you didn't get anything of value out of that because there are there are many people that did get comparative data and and
Heterozygosity homozygosity
Data, which which basically talks about how inbred how many?
How many alleles are how many how many?
Letters are essentially the same side on both sides of the genes, right?
So that you can do more in breeding theoretically and stabilize a variety
But I mean it it also tells you that your samples probably pretty unique then was it was it on the unique side?
mean
Yeah, I mean it it does fall on the unique side of things for sure
And that's why I'm able to spin it and and you know make that to my benefit in my own way
You know because that's the only reason I kept it around is because it was unique compared to the galaxy
But it just seemed like to me that the tools that were used were incomplete in some aspect and you guys couldn't see certain
generations or certain certain certain genes that were floating around there properly
I'm not I'm not a geneticist or anything, but yeah, just just being intuitive
It just seemed like that the tools were incomplete that you had a sample background. Yeah, my stuff. Yeah
I I got a job
Yeah, I'm sorry
No, I hear you and you know, it's a really complicated thing doing comparative data because you know in in cannabis
You're not sort of generationally stable so and I mean that like my grandparents I know when they were born
So I know that because I was born after them
You know, I have a certain amount of the genes, but it's it's one way you can take a seed that was created in
1990 and pop it now and the the grandchildren will be
You know sort of older than that seed
On in the space in them in the in the marketplace, right?
and so those
Those varieties don't have a sort of a good time continuum because they can be seeds can be kept in stasis
So all you're doing when you're looking at heredity is sort of comparing how many genes
in similar they are and
And and honestly cannabis is a pretty complicated space because there's so much poly hybrid breeding
So if it was a little bit more
You know inbred lines to hybrids then you get
I do want to give you guys one spot to look at as an example before I hop in that is there's a
Colombian sample from the 70s that we sequenced from dead tissue and then
a seeds
Has
You know Colombian varieties that are directly related to it and that's just because the the those seed lines are so inbred
that
they show
More higher relatedness even though they aren't so it's not a it's not a perfect science
by any means
and and again
Maybe there'll be another connection here that we can have that's
Better but
Thanks for letting me hop on
Actually
Talk about the early
Snips that that you use for the reference galaxy and the other data. It would be great. We
We accept your offer let's talk more
Yeah
Please come back to
I'll talk to Angela. Yeah, I really like Angela
Opportunity here to like actually make good on those original promises with the galaxy and all the things
So, you know, it's like it would be an opportunity to you know
Medicinal genomics leaf works other genomics companies are already online
Help it. This is like for a solution for the community. So if they're actually about the community, there's nonprofits that are still doing
Was wrong you can actually say that if you bring the data until you bring
I don't know
But if you bring it and I will concede I was wrong fair enough I
I'll see what I can do
Talk to you guys soon. Thanks for showing up nation. Oh, yeah. Thanks nation. It was a real pleasure
Always done my my mind is I was not expecting see had we not had we not charged through to like five
This never would have happened
That was pretty fire, yeah that that was a some very good live content
Yeah, that was interesting and I love
Relax my
Sit on the couch and talk weed. No. Yeah, I came into something man. I was like, whoa
I gotta get my pipe here. This is getting hot
So dude, that was great. You guys that was like a moment and Trevor you came back like right at the perfect moment
I think that like that literally was like that's been a long time coming
At least just I don't know that was that was a moment
Mentally, I didn't know how to process what was just happening for the entire time
I
Missed it
I'm gonna have to go back and listen to it cuz I had to cut out for a little while and I just jumped back
In at the very end, so I'm sorry. I missed it. But yeah, he he popped up was listening in on my room the other night
So he's been poking around. I I was really really surprised to see him up here
With you Trevor. So that's that's that's impressive. Definitely coming into the lion's den. So to speak
I figured since the topic came up and I seen his request I'd let him come in and say whatever he had to say
That's what we're about here information
Was that was it
Man
Was he recorded? I don't know. That was a ton of great information
Yeah, was it I was it was anybody recording that because that was
possibly
Fantastic
Set let's do a severe downshift
Possibly in the neutral as we're and just coast down a hill. Let's have a nice easy conversation
Tyler
What's going on in the breeding world in the San Diego area? So Orange County to San Diego area
Man, it's been hot. We're
We've been a hundred degrees around here last couple days. It's been crazy
Good and bad we you know still have plants going and you still make the shift cold in the morning
It's actually been really nice. I'm
I'm trimming up a little Pam Pam one right now a killer batch the
the
succession planting of the summer usually
Like the outdoor stuff. I like planting, you know the traditional outdoor
Time period and then about you know a month month and a half later. I'll do a second little
You know planting and that's usually the one that with the weather and the way it gets a little cooler and a little
you know little change in the in the environment that that that batch is usually the the prime stuff and
This year is no different. So I got gloves on there. They're turning friggin sticky. I'm gonna have to change a couple pairs and
Yeah, man life is good. I was shucking some
Some pumpkin seeds out there. We got some
Some pumpkin seeds out there we had a
cool heirloom
Wardy pumpkin crop that I did this year. So they're kind of kind of green and
orange stripes with nasty warts all over them
So I did a bunch of uh, you know in breeding with that this year. Hopefully we'll get a bunch of seeds
We'll plant a bunch of those this coming here and my kids loved them. So
Then pumpkin seeds and Pam one in the heat
so
Snow or in the rain or whatnot, but it's hot here in SoCal
Like talk about the weather
I'm like, yeah, I'm bringing some pumpkin seeds. I mean that's
A nice segue
Can I just say for people in the audience that maybe aren't familiar with what what just went down or what you know
This is like a long conversation that goes over the course of years and there's like nonprofits based off of this stuff
It's like a huge deal. So there's an article. I know there was a few articles, but there's definitely an article in wired that kind of
Explains a little bit more and I'm sure if you scrolled back on Trevor's troll moment. I'm sure it's all still there. So
Just so people can like
And then also it just because it's light, you know, it's a light also
I think that there are people who still really care about this topic and I think that you know
I know that you know, I've been working for two years
voluntarily on a nonprofit based off of what happened here and that's my personal time not paid time and
We have made incredible headway
For the community for the genetics for the thing and it's like, you know, we're trying to do it in an ethical way
So I would love to also tie in with I back channeled Trevor on that
You know, I there I know there's other groups who are working on the same thing
So if people are interested in ways to plug and play we are you know, we work it's for everybody
This that's the general idea in a very transparent clear way because we see what went wrong
So, you know, I think it's a it's a deep conversation but maybe good will come out of it eventually
I have a question for Trevor
just because I saw you guys released that uh
That two buck Chuck kind of line. I love it. But um, I noticed that that 88 g13 hash plant is used very often
Recently I noticed you're you're playing with it Bodhi played with it
Duke diamond played with it. It just seems
Like keeper mail on a lot of different scales or maybe many people find keeper mails in that line
Like what's so special about that line? I know it's old g13 hash plant, but you know, it seems like there's other
Original lines and I know that is that a hybrid, you know, just I'm just curious
Why did you work with it? And why do you think other people are working with it right now?
Um, the reason I worked with it is just because it is a
While it is a hybrid. It's actually it's g13 hash plant Northern Lights one
So it's a three-way cross from old Neville stock from the late 80s and it's been inbred over many generations
I think Indian guy from what I've read took it to f3
Bodhi got it and took it to f6. I believe for the mail that he used the deadly G
I'm not entirely sure what f-gen the seed stock I got came from. I got it from farmer
Joe 420 and
He got it from Indian guy did a single increase doing a one-to-one male to female selection and
I took those seeds. I've done an increase indoors with a friend and outdoors and
Notice some differences and the its expression it does a lot it produces more like
hype weed
Indoors, it's incredibly frosty. It's got much more of a fruity much more of a tropical
Musky funky sort of thing going on outdoors. It's got much more of a lake
a spicy funky gnarly sort of leathery thing and
The bud structure outdoors is not as good as it is indoors from my experience
the reason I bred with it though is just because it has been inbred as much as it has been and
I've loved so many of Bodhi's crosses that I ran with it that I wanted to
make either
Reproductions of his stuff just for my own shits and giggles and like to have large
populations of things that are similar using
You know, obviously not the same plants in terms of the male selection
but a similar gene pool with similar cuts and then I've also
Like to use it with things that I know he hasn't touched, you know
Because it's something that's been used by so many people because like you pointed out
Bodhi worked with it. Hayes man worked with it
Bam
Yeah, yeah
Exactly so many people have worked with that line and I just felt like it's something
It's nice to see the combinations of every gene pool with everything in the mix and it's been hit to so many different
things that we can continue to build out the sort of like the inventory of
Expressions of that gene pool across to whatever else is out there
And so a lot of the stuff that we just dropped are things that you won't actually find
You know as far as I know, I don't think any of the things we dropped are in Bodhi's crosses or other people's
so that's the only like
Uniqueness to what we're doing, you know, and they're chucks, you know, there's there's no pretense here
You get 25 seeds for 50 bucks some freebies
You know, we've grown them out. We like them, but I'm not I'm not pretending like we've done, you know
mean variance testing over the last six generations and can tell you that with you know X amount of certainty what the
phenotypes are gonna be like
their checks
Yeah, I saw a lot of the crosses start coming out towards the end of 2018 beginning in 2019
It seemed like almost everybody was suddenly coming out with
the beginnings their f1 generations of some of the crosses with that g13 hash plant and
So it was it's it's been everywhere. Yeah, it's absolutely been all over the place
I know when I I grew hash plant in the early 90s
It was just it was a nice low short dense plant good for indoors
didn't have a tremendous amount of
stink
so the smell control was easier to manage and it just had a really really good kick to it and
Again, very frosty like Trevor was saying
But it was much, you know, but that was just more of a pure hash plant. It wasn't the g13 cross in there
Which definitely changed the structure in the shape of that plan and I think BAM
you've got some experience with the
the clone only and
I believe that's the clone only that Duke had but you'd know more I could be wrong about that
If you want to speak on the 88 g13 hash plant cut you had
And you got to unmute yourself
I
Can't speak right now. I'm just tuning in. I'd be happy to chime in shortly
Bams and meetings right now. So he has remember to is talking about how much he loved his Apple
AirPods
So BAM can pretend like he's listening to the meeting but tuning into this
Well played
But yeah, so so many people have worked with that line
It's really a legendary line and Indian guy is to credit for spreading it out and keeping it around
and obviously Neville's to credit for
You know making that original cross back in the late 80s
And just to be clear for those listening. It's in
It's in D in the letters not Indian the word when if you're gonna be researching this
I'm glad that you asked BAM about that because I asked about that that specific cutting earlier
I'm gonna stick around and listen to that. Thanks. Thanks Trevor
Yeah, and you can find different posts on THC farmer or THC farm or
I see mag and different places and different references to his work and
him and swampy working together on
Maintaining this line and also making a hybrid the I can't remember the name right now
But it's there's there's a lot of information out there on the forums and you can you know, if you're able to
Seek out Bodhi and different people like that who have experience with it motor rebel Hayes man those folks they all
Were some of the first to introduce it more broadly to the commercial market
So we got to keep this conversation going until BAM can jump in
Okay. Well, I have something that I want to I want to take it back to since he brought up the forums
I know that Trevor's kind of a forum nerd like me. He's read a lot of that stuff on mr. Nice
Especially what Neville was saying on there back in the 2010 2011
To brought up earlier how those old Afghans that we remember from the 90s that we grew up on
Just aren't to say like when he gets land race Afghans and all of that. He's just not finding that in there and
There's something interesting that Neville said in that
Mr. Nice forum and he was talking about his selection process and that breeding techniques
Thread he he said that there was this guy that would always show up every day on this bike
That he just had to like getting ripped to get rid of him
He didn't like him, but you know, he's just get him ripped and he goes away eventually
so he started so that like playing a game and like using this dude as part of his selection process and
Just like seeing which plants would get rid of this guy the fastest
And I just I thought that that was I wonder if we owe a lot of that to that dude Neville was trying to get rid of
The original linger
The wicked witch on the bike
Yeah, no and Neville talked and you know other people have kind of attributed some of Neville selections to
His substance use and harder drugs
His substance use and harder drugs and that like the fact that he had some of that background
Made it so that when he made his selections, he wasn't fucking around
He wasn't selecting for something that wasn't gonna fuck you up. It it had its impact and
you know, he even talked about it in one of those threads where he was trying to get like
the sativas with the highest highs the most racy sort of effects and then the
The Afghans or the Indica's with the most sedative effects and
You know, there's really it's really impressive when you go back and look at
All the different breeders and all their different methods
You can look at the more mass selection and the big population work that was done by people like David Watson
You can and then what then became Horta farm and GW farms and how like there are commercial applications there
you can then look at somebody like Neville who is using a set of methods that are just
completely frowned on and askew and like
That's not real breeding quote-unquote because he's using small populations
but the way that he did his selections and the way that he did his
Breeding particularly looking at pedigree analysis and the way that different
Varieties that he was selecting combined together and really like
selecting for quote-unquote nicking as opposed to just
Selecting, you know X percentage of the population like I was describing in the quantitative genetics thing
skunk man Sam was doing that stuff whereas
Neville was doing stuff that was much more intensive selection much more based on pedigrees and the combining
ability of these really extreme cultivars that he was selecting for and
so much of the weed that we grew up with in the 90s is from that work like
Yeah, it's built off of Dave's work David's works gunk man Sam's
But Neville selections in there fucking rocked so many of us
I agree with 100%
Yeah, those plants are why we love this stuff so much and there's so many people passionate about it
Is that if he didn't take that risk to spread that shit all over the world like he did it was like him and Sam
Didn't get along
But even even Dave says that he respects Neville for taking the for having the balls to do that and help us all out
Because we imagine what we'd be left with if he hadn't have done that. Yeah and
The super steve a seed club they were they had the balls to and they were a little bit more smarter about it to
be honest as I
Could I could tell you the story? My uncle told me about going over there to that that house of Neville's man
This is a crazy crazy trip
Yeah, no, we all
I'm sorry
My phone is the delay when I mute and unmute myself so
Pardon me for that. It's been a problem all day. It literally all fucking day
Well, yeah, it's basically back in the day is a shit was sketchy
So you think you see an ad in high times and it's like you're gonna get some order some seeds through the mail
Or you could travel over there, you know
So what he did is he went to Germany and then went to
Holland from Germany and there's a little bit more of a low-key kind of thing and he said that he arrived at the
At the train station and there was this guy
Sitting on the like just sitting on his trunk on the back of this thing. He said it was a little
little yellow bins or something
Anyway, this is a while ago. Anyway, it doesn't matter what car it was
And my car guy coming out but anyway, he said that he met this dude
He just knew that that's who that's who he was there to meet because he was sitting on the back of this car
Just smoking a joint in the parking lot. So there's like he didn't need any more
He's he knew who he had exchanged letters with him beforehand
And that's how you that's how you communicated with that place over there
But he said that once he he got there is like Neville was telling him on the way that there he's like
There's probably a cop or two at the house and all of this other shit. It was like just really sketching that my
Anyway you can imagine back in this time as so it is
He did he didn't tell his wife like what he was actually there for he thought that he told her that he was there to
Look at dogs
He was gonna talk to this guy about some some dogs because that's how he bonded with him through the letters apparently
as this guy held this from my dad and I for and
everybody until he was on his way out and
he told me this crazy-ass story and
It sounded I have no reason to disbelieve him code plus he handed me some seeds but it anyway
it's just that he
He said that it was the most sketchy situation that he'd been in and this guy was a
Vietnam vet so that really said something to him
He said that he didn't trust and there was like a locked gate. He was locked in this place and
Neville was he was telling him the truth and that there was all of these crazy-ass people in there
And he said that the only people that were like normal
That like seemed like
Not fucked up in some weird way that he like actually could trust being around was Neville and this dude named Mark
I don't know if anybody knows who the hell Mark was but
this is just
something that I was told by
somebody that
It's
Implausible that this actually happened who the hell knows and the the plants check out I've spread that stuff around
but it's
anyway, it was just the
The way that it used to be to get seeds and how it is now like yeah
We got to jump through hoops, but it's a lot easier than having to travel over there being so paranoid that
You can imagine
Like not wanting to order something back then because you didn't even do
Anyway, I'll quit rambling but that's essentially the story. He didn't get into much detail or anything
He just said that he went over there
he was trying to replace the Colombian that he missed and
he had talked to him about the Hayes and that's he ended up getting some NL Hayes cross and
I don't know if it was the the first one or the second one the way the plants come out
it makes it look like the first one, but I really
It was handed to me as NL Hayes NL
Hayes and that's how I've left it labeled when I give it out to people and it's it that what he brought back was acclimated
To the to the valley to the Ohio Valley and it it's the toughest plant I've ever grown
And that's like dream time Hayes and
Skunk Hayes. No. No. No, this is the thing that I almost lost that
Comfrey Bogart saved my ass for I've got give some of this to to to I don't know if he's run it but I
Passed a bunch of this shit out a year or two ago after Neville died
I just gave it away is that I wanted to spread it around because it needed to be
It's really tough shit, man
Like the toughest plant I've ever grown yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's why I'm talking about its toughness
How large does it get like it's pace of?
Its metabolism. Is it a very quick growing plant?
Yes, it veg is really fast and it has a quick trigger. It triggers like early June thin leaf double serrated edges
I haven't seen any double serration and I usually pick up double serrations in school that I see but the
This stuff is very dark it has dark it's dark it has very like woody
stems, but they're hollow
Okay, I really don't I don't know how to describe it
It Lee I'm thinking more like it's the first one with the n01 in it
Because of the way that it's able to finish here and all of that because what kind of time frames on flower
It'll the time frame really if this is an outdoor thing so
November okay like
Early to mid-november
Okay, so but when you run it inside it run it runs a little bit
You can play with it a little bit inside, but I don't like it's it's really an outdoor thing. It's it's a beautiful
Thing and the reason I don't think that it's the nl5 that everybody loves and is just it's
There's a reason why everybody loves that is this thing doesn't have that reverent resin coverage that everybody
Loves about that's that's really that's really the reason why people have bred with the nl5
That's why Shanti said that he liked playing with it is because if he needed to add
Something with with resin coverage and not use his white widow. He would use that
You think it's possible that it's a version that's using the nl on the male side instead of the haze
Because I do know on his breeding that he did find more powerful stuff through the using the haze male
Maybe that's what's showing it not that it's a better herb. It just was different. That's what everybody I believe
Finds that's the nl5 that became so legendary
The nl5 haze the Cuban black the Frankie's those had a haze as a male
That makes sense to me like that's how he did that first one
He was crossing that nl1 mill into everything on those first few catalogs that he was putting out
so the the plant looks like it because after my
Experience he was he was he was he was he was he was he was he was he was he was
As
experience afterwards like I got this stuff back in like, uh,
I guess it was 12 when uncle barney died. So yeah, this is
I've had this around since uh, 2012 and that's when I got on the uh, uh,
Mr. Nice forums is because he gave me an education and that too. He said that he
He had actually like communicated with him
On there like he found out that he was like talking and he dm'd him on there and like they caught up a little bit
I wonder if shanti has a record of that man, because I
anyway
I'm trailing off now, but it's
it's the
really
Like I said, he was looking for the columbian. He wanted to
But he didn't find it. He didn't get it
He found something really nice that that, you know provided a nice living for for him for a while. So the uh
the trip panned out but it's i'm not claiming to have anything special or anything like the
Most special thing about it is that it's acclimated and tough as shit
It's got i've found some dog shit kind of phenos in it. That's really like just killer killer weed and that's uh,
I've made some crosses with that and gave that to to peter to give to people
But yeah, so you find some special stuff in that that older
Older cannabis that he was messing with back then
Have you tried uh running anything that maybe bam's running that's close to it to see
What uh the differences between those two crosses or maybe running a haze?
just straight haze across to it to see if the influences you're getting are
You can prove to yourself just from that experience that you're getting more of that, you know
influence or more of a haze influence
That hardiness I know for sure that the haze will go through almost anything man
but uh the structure and time that you're explaining is more of a
uh nl influence not that it's a like a hundred percent nl, but
Yeah, well, I asked greg on here once about like as what which of your uh nl
numbers had the strongest, uh
Structure on it basically like which one held up the best outdoors is basically what I was asking him and he he was honest
and said that the out crosses those those nl haze crosses and that's exactly what i've
I've seen so i've already had it I was hoping because
You know, it's nice to have an indica that you can run outside and sift out
Without all of that extra material and everything because they get so big
it's it's the the
I I think that a lot of growers that aren't allowed to grow outside are able to
Don't understand like how different it is between indoor and out and like what's possible and what's not and it's like the
advantages and disadvantages to both and various seed lines that are
better for each
Situation and it's like there's there's a lot to to growing plants in general. And then there's this plant that is
It has its extra complications, I guess
I could say
Anyway i'm rambling now i'm off of the plant
I agree with you with that with the haze line and then nl5 is that those plants grow different than what most people
Uh are growing these days that just start growing any of the new hobbyists coming in here
They've never seen anything like what those plants can do the pace. They can grow the just the
The way they represent theirself compared to what's out there. They're different
Um, there's a lot of cats that have been hitting me up saying that as soon as they start growing
I thought like jeez christ. I didn't know what to expect
This just like took over everything. They just grow differently. It teaches you
uh
that the plant the plasticity of the plant right and the uh,
how like
A pliable plant can become uh, those hazes you can bend them the time and knots. That's crazy, man. It's crazy
This also brings up. Sorry
Uh, this is just the
Just to finish on this that haze
the first time that I came on here peter had me talking about the hazes with you, uh, tony and as
I I grew up on the hazes this stuff's particular and I didn't know that it was coming from him
As I was it was it was coming
Through my cousin so I didn't know that he was like getting it from his dad
Like some of the first weed that I smoked was shit that he had stolen from his dad
And that's why it was called old man weed anyway, it's that
so the the haze is is very very special and it
That's what got me peter asked me about those other
Varieties that I shared with him is the reason that I went after those is because I was wanting to do exactly what tony?
Was telling me is look for
Uh, what's the similarities? What's the differences? So I?
Had been educated by people who knew what the hell they were talking about and told me where to go
So I went to sam and I went to shanti looking for these hazes to compare to the old haze that I had just gotten
that I uh
had just
Is I was trying to it's like what what is it that I have here?
because it doesn't seem like I've
All I all and also all I knew at that time was that I I only knew about the nl5 haze
I didn't know that there was another one until way later. Not even that was just a few years ago
When I learned that there was another one
and that was another conversation with my cousin my cousin was like
Dad always tried to said that he thought it was the one not the five
And and you know, that's not something is if you want to like be marketing something you want to tell people
It's the five if you if you're a lying motherfucker, but it's best to just if you don't know
You don't know
so that's why I just left it labeled the way that I got it and gave it away and uh,
The people that have have grown it seem seem to like it, but there's not been any people that will
Dedicate the time to something like that, especially from a nobody like me. They don't know that i'm giving them the real fucking deal
No, no, they
They don't uh know about the line
Like even if they didn't know you if you told me that uh and wanted to trade or something
I'd be like hell yeah
And I would run them fuckers just to see if it was what I knew
Because of the fact that they're that stocks not out there a lot of people don't have it
A lot of people didn't think I had haze until they started growing the seed stock
I sent out I had to give out so many of those before someone was like, holy shit
This is what I remember
I had to give it to older folks older than myself people 50 and 60 years old
So that they could say the same thing that I was saying I had to get it tested
So it would prove that it would show some different profiles besides what's already out here
And you're doing the same thing, right?
That's why i'm like asking you about the nl1 side or the nl5 side of the cross that it could be
From and you actually being able to bring up that information. That's one way
Uh people out there can kind of verify the information they're getting from people
They're talking to if you know about it
Like I know a lot of information about this line because it's been with me since 1994 when I started breeding
I wanted to know about it then so i've done what i've always done and tried to track what I could about it
So getting online and learning about it through the forums
And anyone else that would bring up information was how I started to learn about some of these lines
You find out there was more than one cross. There was different generations
There was different guys that did the breeding that passed it to you
So if you get your hands on something that's pre-commercialized
um
I would want to go for it. You know what i'm saying? That's that's where uh,
Where I want the information that you're bringing with it. That's why i'm asking you the questions
I don't want the seeds from you, but that information is invaluable to the haze that I like to grow, right?
When I ask you about the finish time the bud structure
Some of those things if they showed up in my line would mean something's wrong with my line of what i'm offering the fact that
You have a earlier flowering with a different structure and you tell everyone it's an nl5 haze
It
Kind of verifies both of us on the information. That's why I brought up bam's grow because bam did a large
grow with the nl5 haze stuff the uh, the
All the hay stuff right everybody's seen that did a whole show on here. Um
Yeah, I wanted to kind of pick up on
Uh kind of what you guys were both talking about you in particular bone, um
The nl5 haze
And the nl1 haze really
Neville's haze and l crosses are really representative of something that people like
chimeras talked about I think mojave who I saw down in the audience has talked about but some of these
We've got and it's actually what my today's stupid meme was about. Um
What a lot of these breeders did with these early
Very divergent ecotypes
So you had the afghan lines that from steve murphy and greg mcallister and the work that they were doing up in
the portland seattle area
And really like essentially
revolutionizing
the genetics
For indoor growing by developing these various indoor lines the hash plants one of them that was developed down in portland
By somebody who was associated with that crew
Greg and steve murphy up in seattle area proper
And there are other people that are also associated and you can go back and trace a lot of this history on
Mr. Nice forums and other places. There's been other interviews on
Different podcasts about this, you know, greg's been on the breeder syndicate
And so you can go and like look into some of this but what those breeders were doing
Where they were taking these different ecotype land races
selecting them
adapting them to
The different climates that they were growing in pacific northwest. They're growing indoors down on coastal
Santa cruz region. They're growing outdoors
And they're growing more equatorial sativa land races
And they develop the haze
And then
Those varieties then make it out to amsterdam
And neville crosses them and starts producing some plants that just like if you grow these out
and
interact with a big population of northern lights five haze
It's fucking insane
The rate at which they grow their stretch
the
You know people say, you know
Indica big nugs chunky nugs
I saw flowers in these northern lights five haze crosses that were larger than my torso
I mean these things were enormous
They they also looked like they were going to flower for about 25 to even 40 weeks some of them like I saw a plant
that was
Pretty much things had already been harvested
At like the 10 to 12 week window and there were plants that looked like they had just flipped into flower
And then when I went back and saw them later
They looked like it was just insane the amount of flower that they packed on later on
and so it's a
This is the hybrid vigor that you get when you take very divergent populations
And then recombine them
And get actual real heterosis
and
that band-aid sticker and the meme of essentially the idea of just
You know slapping a band-aid over it by doing polyhybrid breeding
all we're doing is kind of like
Maintaining some diminishing returns while we're pushing populations towards more extreme THC percentages
or some secondary metabolites
What we're doing is we're actually
reducing overall yields
Reducing overall vigor in the plant population as a whole
Because we're not taking them down these divergent paths and then recombining them and creating real
heterosis through
F1 hybrids, we're just creating
inbreds that have some amount of vigor and some amount of
Heterozygosity because it's been polyhybrid eyes for the last 30 years
That's exactly why I tell everyone to use my haze to cross to something that's as
Completely different as possible to it that way you can get yourself some true f1 vigor
And have some breeding stock out of there and start digging for something. That's
Better for blind breeding. I mean, that's exactly what i'm talking about when I say that
I
Think that's how bode built his business too man
Is the reason that everybody loves the plant the seeds or the plants that come from his seeds?
Is because he took that idea and ran with it. It's actually just looking back on it
It seems like that. He was really paying attention to those. Uh
Those nevel threads back there on the mr
Nice forums and actually listened to what the man was saying and did his thing and that's why everybody loves him
Like bode and uh, you got nevel who did the same thing simon from serious seeds?
Um some of the earlier cats that were doing that. Um, you
Scott from uh, mr. Nice. They were doing that same exact thing and that's why those lines are
uh known and still hold their time in
Their spot in our community as they do because that exact reasoning they were true
Uh f1 uh plants that had vigor and if they weren't
Made from exact true breeding lines those lines that have been worked far enough to where that the seed stock coming from there
Grew as if they were it's just how breeding should go down if you really want to stay around instead of just being that hype cat
That's crossing two packs on themselves start doing some work on one of the lines even when you're doing that other f1
hybrid
Populations start doing some back crossing and sibling crossings
S1 something make an s2 of it take those s2s and cross it to the f1s
And to the other progeny coming out of the related population and find something novel out of there that'll pop up out of there
When those uh recessive genes pop up pair up you're gonna find something that's going to express
That you can use now to breed in a brand new, uh direction
Yeah, it's the reason why to use a lot of the stock like if you can get that haze stock
I know todd mccormick has been offering
haze stock that he got from david watson
and i've uh
whole wellness
Sonoma seeds he he grew some out and I smoked it and it was lovely classic
classic spicy
sort of incensey haze and
Not the really terpinalini
Um pissy or like nl5 hazes it wasn't really over in that range. It was much more of a
uh
licorice
like
I would say that it had a lot of nuanced flavors and hints that were
ran the gamut of lots of different spices
and
For me check the box, you know, like
When I smoked it, I was like, okay
This doesn't seem like some fake reboot. So
Todd's gear is a good one for that. Um
He's also released some of that nl gear from um, uh from
old marine, um greg mccallister
So there's some northern lights gear that's out there both in nl2 and the nl5
And then there's just quickly if only todd mccormick were in the room right now
Is he uh, yeah, I just invited him in he just popped up hey todd, how you doing brother welcome to the show
Yeah, i thought I was just talking about
Just talking about the hazes and I was going to segue to the skunks and the well
I had started the northern lights, but could you talk about all those men?
Sure. Sure a little bit. I mean, you know, I
Hayes original haze is so far different from anything neville
Had because you know, you got to remember when you're talking about neville. He only had two male haze plants
A and c he had nothing else. So everything he did was just a combination of something else in those males and
Um, I fell in love with it
I mean I first started smoking haze combinations at the castle in 94 when I first arrived and I loved it, but
It took me until 2012 till I was able to get original hay seeds from skunk man sam
I I literally literally walked up to him and asked him if he would sell
These old neville and when he stopped laughing at me told me to bring over my best hash and we'd talk about it
So I did go over there and I got the original three-way, uh haze combination that he'd preserved since the early 70s
Um, and he also gave me all his favorite selected out crosses with original haze, which I haven't even started to release
Yet, but i've been growing out since 2012
and most of those are going to end up being like s1s because I can't replicate the crosses that he made but I can
Uh select phenotypes that I fell in love with and then I can you know, feminize them
but the original haze really is something more people should look at because like you're saying it's so dissimilar to the
The genetics that we have and I think that a lot of the reasons why we've seen it
And I don't want to say it degrading but but there's so much
Homogeneous effect in the cannabis we get today and it's because unfortunately for the past 20 years
People have been just breeding together things that were so closely related because everybody was growing plants that were
Relatively under 10 or 11 week flowering time. So
you know basically
You know, they were just mixing up a small a small portion of the deck of cards
and by bringing in things like original haze and now
you know northern lights is also pretty amazing and
I'll even say I didn't even like skunk one until I got the seeds directly from skunk man sam
and then
realized wow, this is really good shit and
Unfortunately through years, you know almost 30 plus years now from holland, you know
We've had a lot of people that were mixing together varieties mostly for monetary reasons and not really
You know spending the time to really sort out or select out
Varieties that were you know, let's say really good to smoke but not so great with bag of peel or not
So quick with flowering or not so great at yield, but overall the quality was there
You know, but those those high quality varieties that didn't yield as much or grew too long or what have you kind of get kicked?
To the curb so a lot of what i'm trying to do now is bring back
The primary colors of cannabis so, you know
Everybody sitting on this panel if they want to can start playing with original northern lights or original skunk or original haze
And start making the varieties that you know, we have now but doing it again
uh without the constrictions of well, it has to flower in eight weeks or
you know, it has to have incredible bag appeal because
You know back in the 90s. We didn't have extracts like we have them now
When rob clark's book hashish came out in 1998
there was practically no hashish in america, so
uh, most people didn't even understand, you know, silkscreens or or seething and so he introduced
you know the cannabis community to a whole other world of
Of separation and i'm completely grateful for that
But now that we have that extraction and it's such a big part of the market. I think you're going to see these long flowering
varieties with without the bag appeal of say like an og kush
Really start to to jump into the market again because at the end of the day, it's the effect
You know, it's it's how it makes you feel. It's it's it's do you want to come back to it?
And I I get that a lot of people are doing a lot of testing with
uh machines
And you know, we we've almost turned the whole breeding game into a quarter mile race for the highest thc, which I think is bs
Because realistically the machines aren't what is consuming the cannabis. It's humans. So I think our ganaleptic testing
Is really more important than the numbers because if you don't like it
And you don't feel it the synergistic effect between the cannabinoids and terpenes. You're not going to come back to it and uh
If I were to use an analogy of alcohol, we don't go to a bar and ask for the most, you know, the
The highest alcohol content we want nuance we want wine. We want beer we want there to be a little more complexity
You know on our elevator ride to getting you know ripped and I think that's the same with cannabis
I mean same with food. We don't eat the most nutritionally rich food
Often we eat for our palate rather than our health
And I think this is what we're going to see happen in cannabis with the years to come
Wow, that's so eloquent. It really was
Really appreciate that. I always joke. Uh
Somebody's keeping still reserve in business. I don't know who they are, but someone is keeping still reserve in business
Um, I have a question as far as like I know that
Just as far as commercial production
I have kind of steered away from some of the original hazes that like actually are personal preference for me
um, you know
I might look young but i've been touching plants for 18 years and my my initial affinity was always for some of those really
incredible hazes that I feel like
I've just never really seen. Um
the yield so I would be curious from um
You know people who are super familiar with like the old school hazes and then also like the difference in chirping profile of like these
older
like the actual
cuts
Versus like a lot of this more nuanced stuff that people are saying is haze because i've kind of seen that too
Like nothing quite hits the marks
as the early things but I feel like the yield
Was always something on the early hazes that just for me as far as and maybe it's in the benefit of the preservation
Of those plants that it's not being grown on a commercial scale
I don't really know anybody who does hazes on commercial scale maybe
One farm that like specializes in it, but uh, the yield was never quite there
So just can I can I comment on that though, you know would be as a grower i've been growing since the 80s and
for the longest time
Yeah, my prison record really
Underscores it, you know when we had too many plants they came down really hard on us and um,
So we weren't able to really utilize growing techniques that would produce better results
Um when I moved to holland and I I saw the first sea of green with little plants with less than two weeks of pre-grout
I literally had an aha moment. I was literally like oh, that's how you do it because i'd been growing 10 years
And and I was an american I'd grow big plants i'd make flowers
I'd have a lot of wasted space on the bottom thought I was doing great. But when I saw the efficiency of sea of green
Uh, the only downside was you know, you go home and you do it in america and you're facing five
You know 10 year mandatory minimums back in the day, but now you're not so now you can take
Uh, like original haze you can you can pop it into flowering with literally
Zero days pre-grow you can you know make clones once they root two or three days to harden and then pop them right into flowering
Cram next to each other and you can get really really really good
Results one of the best harvests I have ever witnessed was my friend tom growing
Under two 600 watt lamps in amsterdam
He was growing nl5 by haze with zero days pre-grow literally like a couple days from when they showed roots
He would pop them in and uh with 88 plants. He managed over 1400 grams
he averaged 16 grams a plant and he cut down in 10 weeks and
Three pounds under 1200 watts is pretty awesome. And that it was such good pot. He grew it in soil
He actually won the 1996 cannabis cup or I should say arian won it
Um because arian bought the weed from tom and he entered it and he called it nl5 haze by mist
But it was really just nl5 by haze, but it was a really great example of how more efficient growing can really
Bring in yields that you would you know, even better yields than you would get from more afghani plants that
That in the end require more time because if you have a plant that takes three or four weeks of pre-grow
And then eight weeks of flower you're at 12 weeks
I mean if you take like a 10 or 11 week nl5 by haze and you pop it right in the flower
You're coming down a week earlier than that. So
when you learn how to play with the plants and
The equation truly is veg time equals space equals yield
And once you kind of have worked with a plant long enough that you can understand
At three days I get this much at five days. I get this much at two weeks of pre-growing at this much you can really
Fine-tune the amount of pre-grow it needs for the space you're allocating so that you can maximize your grow per meter
Yeah, I agree 100
I used to take my haze to seven days and veg only from clone and then run those out and see a green they'd end
Up finishing at about 32 inches all of them and you could you could pack on weight and not only do you get it finished
at the same time but
You're saving on electricity because you never run that veg light schedule
You're running on a 12 and 12 or even an 11 and 13 or if you're doing a red light spectrum manipulation
You could go to that 13 lights on and 11 off and still get the same production from the plant
But I will say it was neville that gave me that tip too. It was neville that gave tom that tip too
Yeah, it's it's killer in line
A lot of people start that hay straight from seed and she has that metabolism to grow with that pace that thud's talking about
She's she's terasic in her pace of growth. She will outpace everything you put her next to except for her progeny basically
She and but I would say this I wouldn't waste time like not to sound like a you know
haze has so much variation because uh skunk man sam kept it as an ibl for decades and um
It's great for breeding because when you pop seeds you get everything from 8 9 to 16 week plants
In my experience with original haze so you you can really pick phenotypes out of it that
Really suit your liking and you know, a lot of people think that it's really wispy
but when I started growing out the original hay seeds
I didn't even bother to post some of the photos of some of the plants because they looked so unlike what they had narrow leafs
But they look so unlike what we're trained to think haze is supposed to look like
That if I had posted it people would have said that's not original haze and it was I mean directly from the man himself so
There's a lot of variation in there
If you were to start popping seeds, you could pick females and you know
my recommendation is to pick a good female make your cuttings and then
Once the cuttings have rooted do see a green and you can you'll be really surprised at the yields you can pull down
Yeah, i'd be really interested to see um
Um
Selection like select phenos that I saw out of the nl5 it was
For context it was diesel cartel, uh skunk tech and jay trees they um
made
a number of
Uh s1s with the cuban black haze, which is a select nl5 haze and then they crossed that with
Um
they got
The a5 and the c5 and made crosses with those so there's an a5 cbh
And c5 cbh and then a cbh s1
and
same thing where there were plants that would
Have immense just incredible stretch and vigor and growth through veg that it was almost uncontrollable
Particularly given that like some of the plants were you know, the plants were allowed to veg
I do think that when working with some of these intense haze leaners
It's best to just put them into flower early on
and
if you have a select cultivar that can produce like
man, I
I like I said and like todd just said i've seen
Flowers on these plants that are just so large that most people would never believe that it was a
Intensity of a leaner and just like if you were to give them all the details on the plant, they'd call you a liar
Yeah, i've run into that a lot when I first started releasing the original hay seeds in 2019
Practically every forum was saying he doesn't really have haze
and um, I actually woke up one day to skunkman sam sending me a link of somebody saying that then the
The direct post under it was sam saying that you don't know what you're talking about. I gave him the seeds myself
So a lot of people don't know because they haven't had time to experience it and there really wasn't
original haze on the the
Availability, uh because you know when sam originally brought over seeds to neville in 84
I don't
Original haze wasn't even part of the offering and I don't think neville would have wanted them
Anyway, because he wanted stuff that was commercially viable and haze was not that so it so it took him a while to warm up
to wanting haze and um
Most of the the whole dutch scene when I was living out there didn't want to grow haze
Positronics had original haze from skunkman sam, but it was not something that many people grew
uh, and you know, I know that was at tom hill went in and bought a pack of seeds at the
1996 cannabis cup and basically went on did selections made seeds and made himself famous with it
but
I hate to say this because i'm not trying to bang on wernhard or anything
He was a nice guy. He's a friend of mine
But and after the 10 years that when I was there in 1996, I spent a year at positronics growing cannabis with old ed
um
This just a lot of the genetics that were not it had had been haphazardly
Bred over the last decade and they weren't that great
Which is what ed and I were doing we were trying to do selections and make you know
Basically fresh f1 combinations that had high bread vigor and better
growth characteristics because a lot of the stuff had just been
You know just kind of just it just kind of pollen chucked and not necessarily
Even they didn't take the time to select and isolate and try to better it. They just wanted to make seeds make money
Speaking of that todd. Hi. This is one love. Um, I noticed that you're putting out a lot of one
a lot of skunk one
Releases and I was really curious about those. I just heard an interview about
You talking and talking about that. I have some skunk one f2s
original stock from some old timers
here in the southern california area
And I was really weird like really weary on those and just because of you know
The hearsay you talk about skunk one being sweet and this and that and i'm really curious about really acrid kind of uh,
You know those rks
Phenos, and I know that you say you're like they're in there. I'm just curious
You say
Old timers in that area. Do you have any idea of the names that might be tagged to where it came from in the old days?
Um, I I can get it for you my buddy he's in the desert down here in palm springs, um local documented guys
in southern areas down especially in arizona that grew some large fields of
Seeds of skunk one that came directly from skunk and rob clark
uh
Todd knows what i'm talking about my uh mad jag. He grew a bunch down there
It'd be cool to find out if there was something possibly
Yeah, thank you
I appreciate information. Yeah, it is so they're palm springs crew and they're really you know, they're mountain climbers and bikers
you know, so they're pretty um active and around so I I can get more information on them and like
This is a buddy who gave them to me and he said his dad made them. So, you know
That's just f2 of a re-release of skunk's work is what he told me
Um, but yeah, i'm just really curious like what would I find in the f2 of skunk one would that be possible rks
He knows or would I have to maybe even hunt more like is a hundred?
I would tell you this
So you got to think back to the origin of skunk one
It was at first afghan crossed with columbian gold and then that plant was crossed with um,
Acapulco gold and that became skunk number one
I asked skunk man sam how he made a relatively true breeding variety and he was very humble and he said todd
I didn't he said nature did I just had to find the right plants for the combination that worked
and I thought that was really brilliant and
When he set out, uh to make it he wasn't really going for
Taste or or flavor per se he was looking for a relatively true breeding plant
You know at the time skunk man sam was an acid-eating hippie
And he wanted to make a variety of cannabis that when his friends got the seeds they could breed the seeds together
And instead of it going, you know all wild and you know recessive traits coming out. It would be consistent in quality
That was his real goal with skunk one and he achieved it and I give him mucho credit for it
But when he bred the columbian gold and the acapulco gold
It took the afghan and made that a more subtle because it's only one one part of the one-third
it's only one third part of the of the plant, so
uh
Then also basically depending on the selections that were made when he made the seeds
Uh, you would get variations and the seeds that I have that I got from mel frank
Have lit literally only been reproduced twice since the 80s
Skunk man sam gave mel frank some seeds in 1988
And he put them in the refrigerator until 1996 and then he reproduced them
And put those reproductions in the refrigerator until I got them out in 2019
and when I grew them out, I realized they were more acrid than sweet and
uh to me in a sense that
It's probably more a bit of it leaning towards the afghan side than the more tropical acapulco gold or columbian gold
Um, so depending on how you do selections
Is going to depend on what you get and and now that everybody's looking at thiols as being the responsible
Uh, like sulfur agent that is responsible for the skunky scent smell
Uh, we we all know that it's still there. It's just there in really minuscule amounts
and
Uh, if if people do more time, you know and do more searching and isolate more plants with more thiols in it
They're going to start getting back more of that stinkiness
Um, but even the people that have been buying the skunk one seeds for me have reported that the plants that had heavier yields
Were the sweeter ones and the plants that had the the lighter yields were the more acrid ones
And I use the word acrid more than I use the word
roadkill skunk because
To me the thiols are a little broader than just being skunk spray, you know
Their follow in their own pleasant way
Yeah
Yeah, yeah, I hear what you're saying. Thanks for that information. I appreciate it and tony
I appreciate the information on the arizona crew. I want to look into that. Let's suppose it is old stock
So i'm really curious i've posted uh pictures and uh stuff from the forum post. It's on ic or yeah, I see mag. Uh,
um, I believe it's under um
The history of mag jack canyon I want to say
Um, because that's where they were growing it. They were growing in a canyon in arizona this crew
They bought seeds directly from sam and uh clark that they purchased 3 000 seeds and I want to say 78
And they were running that stuff there. They after they ran the seeds
They tried to get more from them and I guess they couldn't
get a hold of them to get more but there's a lot of people in the southern area that
um know of the skunk line because of the grows that he was doing on the size he was doing it on at that time
And I just wondered if maybe something possibly came back from the information that you had because it's just part of history with
It'd be cool to find out if they did but you i've heard that story
And i've heard that story many times actually about it. Rob was the one who delivered the seeds to arizona that time. Yeah
but uh, you know
You got to go back to the origin of skunk and it really was like we use the word chronic or weed now because it was
A descriptive for basically afghan based cannabis that smelled like elephant piss that smelled like
you know all the crappy things that that you know, we
associate the more acrid side of cannabis with
And a lot of the more tropical equatorial varieties are sweeter or more or fruity by nature
So when people were using the term skunk they knew they were not necessarily talking about skunk number one
They were talking about or describing
That afghan presence that came about in the 70s and was still prevalent in the 80s
but collectively we all kind of moved away from it because
It wasn't just the decision of skunk man sam to like go for the sweeter or the the better yielding phenotypes in skunk one
It was collectively all of us that moved away from that shit smell of afghan and bred with the varieties that were more
Appealing because you know, none of us goes for a walk or goes for a hike and sticks our nose in dog shit
We we smell flowers. We smell fruit we and and this is the same reason why I think collectively this whole community
Slowly moved away or not that slowly moved away from that afghan piss smell
That was uh in a lot of the cannabis in the 70s and 80s
So just thank you todd. I appreciate it
So just kind of to dive into another rabbit hole but just kind of curious about the skunk one as well
Do you think that he may have used the colombian or i'm?
Sorry, the the acapulco because i've had an acapulco that had like a you know, a pia colada kind of
Alcoholly fruit alcohol. So i'm just curious
Are some of them and i'm not too familiar with many south american sativas. So i'm curious, you know, like are there?
uh ester alcohol
funks in like these really
Equatorial sativas that may may pair well with certain afghanis
Yeah, you know one of the things i'm hesitant to do when i'm ever discussing cannabis is to over generalize because the more experience
I have with cannabis and its varieties the more it surprises me constantly
So there are I think I think it's styles are styles found in cannabis. Yes
It's closely related to hops is it in varying degrees are in in varieties found all over the world. Yes
Um, it's just that I think that there was higher concentrations of them in afghan pakistani
You know in hindu kush
varieties because think about it all those in that same area would have been influenced by winds and
uh, and also people locally using one plant in one region to another plant in another region if it was
a decent distance apart
but when you start going to like to thailand or
You know, you start going to different places that are farther away south africa or something like that
Uh, you're going to get I think more separation just because environmental things and different people doing different selections
But there's still going to be that threat of commonality to cannabis and there's still going to be files found
On wherever you look to to to either a lesser degree or a greater degree
Cool man, thanks for that breakdown. I I see where you're coming from. The generalization can be a speed bump for me. Thanks
well, you know when people talk about
Like i'm going to mix together columbian and acapulco gold and you could never recreate what sam did with skunk because he had those particular
phenotypes that work for him and
unfortunately
We can only
Hope to believe that he was correct about the geography of the cannabis that he got because we don't really know
I mean this stuff was being smuggled around
And you know, uh, you know a josh d cut uh from of og moves up to tahoe becomes tahoe og
We've seen this happen in our our movement as of recently
imagine what it was like 30 40 50 years ago when these guys were smuggling it using boats and planes and
You know people would ask them. What is it? Maybe like what do you want it to be?
Will you buy it because that's what it was really all about?
Yeah, man for sure there's that game I think it's still very prevalent, uh, you know the metric still allows
Name changes. So thanks for that. Todd. Appreciate it
I just posted a link to that mad jack. Uh
Link for you if you'd like to check it out on instagram and I send a message to you one love
So you can check it out
Cool. Thanks blessings. Tony
Um, todd real quick did sam happen to mention
um any numerical identification
associated with the skunk line that he gave you because
You know, it's come up earlier elka had mentioned some of neville's old posts and
Sam's, you know posted a whole bunch and there's been discussion of different skunk lines like the number two
17 etc. Do you have any can you inform us about any of that or
No, I completely understand what you're saying and i've often wondered if what he gave to mel frank was skunk too if you will
because
Him and jim had been friends for you know, 15 years at that point
and
It would have been more of in line with what jim had had nostalgia for rather than sweet if you get where i'm going
And you know, he he would have liked what he was used to knowing him the way I do mel frank this is and um
I've often wondered but i've asked jim and i've asked
Uh, I talked to david almost every other night on skype and he can't remember. I mean we're talking about 30 years ago and uh
It was definitely skunk but
You know, it was we're 20 handed jim and i'm like, oh, yeah, we're talking about 30 years ago
It's definitely skunk but
You know, it was which one he handed jim that day is uh is is i'm not positive
Yeah, no, that is such a good point that like, you know
I'm also would take progeny to back cross to a selected phenotype that he had held
So it's kind of hard to tell who got what when they got it
That's something I bring up with folks. There's people out there saying they're they're passing f2s of the original
Which sam made in the 70s and then it got passed to different growers like it's and then
What's the work sam did that turn it into a true breeding line through the cultivar selections that he had?
You could have got many different versions of what was called the skunk one or two at that time, I believe
yeah, and I just want to
point out and emphasize what you just said todd like
I'm
In my late 30s mid 30s, whatever
um
I've been growing cannabis for 20 years
I have a hard time remembering every single
variation and
You know every crop that i've grown I used to have
Early years every crop memorized every plant I could recite it back like, you know, it was fucking
Written verse and I just had it all memorized but like
now
and this is with like
A fraction of a life experience of the two people that we're talking about
um in terms of mel frank and skunk man sam
and the expectation of a community that these individuals
And every individual who's you know
Had this 30 40 50 year
Long experience and interaction with this plant that they're going to somehow be able to
You know recite and give back
in verse
exactly what happened when where and how it all transpired like, you know, we just have to
You know allow for a little mystery to be left in the story
You know, I completely agree. I will say that to a degree
Especially with skunk man sam and mel frank
Um, they remember everything and mel has some of the best photos, uh, you know
That i've ever seen going back to the 70s and it's pretty incredible how he's documented everything
Very true, very true, but to remember which seeds sam handed jim that day in 88
Is a fetch and and the more I thought about it, you know at the time sam was only living in amsterdam since um 85
So realistically it the seeds he gave jim in 88
May well have been seeds from santa cruz that he brought there and not seeds that he made while he was there
So because they're old friends
I mean I have seeds in my collection that are you know over a decade old and even older from jim's collection
And and I could easily easily see that happening
and you know
These guys have been friends since the 70s. So they would have been only passing off their best genetics to each other
Very true, um, can you speak at all about the uh, hymie, um roadkill that you got I I
And correct me if i'm wrong there, but I I recall that you had also sourced and worked with another
skunk line from hymie chiba
Yeah, hymie sent me their arcaea city has uh was supposedly sourced in the early 80s in northern california and
Um, it's a nice afghan. I posted some beautiful photos of it. It's a gorgeous plant. It grew really well
Um, my girlfriend really likes to smoke it. It definitely has that old school accurate
Stink to it, but not super duper strong and i've told hymie that when he started
You know putting seeds up for sale for like 500 bucks a pack
I told him straight up I was like I think people will be very disappointed because you'd have to go through a lot of plants to
find
a real screamer
uh, but you you could but
I found it to be somewhat mild
And and i've been up front with everybody on that and I did release a small batch of f2s
And i've had a lot of great feedback from people
Um, but you know, it's not my work
It was just so that people could actually breed with it and maybe make something of it
The problem I see and it's not really a problem. It's just that unfortunately most people are buying 10 to 20 seed packs and
You know nature favors larger numbers so depending on what you're really looking for I suggest being willing to
Make a bigger investment go through more plants be willing to throw more plants away
To find the one plant you really want and if somebody were to go through, you know
I don't know thousands of seeds of hymies rkf. I'm sure you could find some super stinky plants, but
It would take it would take some time and some effort and
unfortunately, you can't even test for thiols from what I understand that easily because
Uh, so it's really a difficult it would have to be a human being going through all the plants
Plowing them out and you know determining which ones were the keepers more than the machines
No, totally
but I gave up working with the variety because at the
I I was discovering that the old skunk one that I got from mel frank
And skunk man sam was way more skunkier than the rks that I got from hymie. So
I just
I just worked with that more than I worked with the rks
I have no plans on actually working with it more but maybe later down the road. I'll pull it out again
Part of why I f2d it was so that I could get a larger genetic selection to go through myself
Because he only sent me maybe 50 seeds
And I wanted more I wanted more phenotypes to pick through
I mean to me that kind of highlights an issue. I think that you know, it's like I I love the larger the pheno hunt
the better right but like that's kind of an issue because I it's like very few people who aren't super well funded or actually doing that
deeper
Work and the thiol thing actually i've been trying to find. Um
I'm kind of excited that we're at least able to do more research with the hemp piece right now because
There's definitely more testing and files or one of the things so i'm curious if anybody has actually found a lab that's testing
Um the flavonoids too at this point. It's like super hard to find certain things. Um,
Testing wise but hopefully hemp will kind of open some of those doors
But yeah, large-scale phenol hunting is uh, I don't think a lot of people are doing that
So I was thinking that was interesting tie into your posts lately trevor
Yeah, no, definitely that's one of the things that you know, um
It's happening but unfortunately
the regulatory framework in the rec side of things isn't really conducive to
allowing people
to do phenotypes, uh or pheno hunts, I think the
The
To the extent that it is kind of developing. Um, it kind of is in line with what todd said earlier where
The fact that you've got extractions as an option. You can kind of grow out a population
have differentiation in that population, but
Have discernible distinctions that you can group and then put into extracts as a single batch
And really go through populations that way
Score and select phenotypes for extraction in particular if that's your end goal
but I think that
We need to bring more of that
Large-scale testing online and we really need to start developing
the same way that markers have been identified for the synthase for
THC
and all many of the other cannabinoids cannabinoids and terpenes
it's
I believe that there are ways that even though it's going to be very difficult for us to through
analytical labs
Test for the thiols in the actual plants
themselves just because of the you know, the tiny tiny like
We're able to register these things I think uh, todd had posted something about this
I know cascadian grown has posted about some of this stuff
But um
The human nose is able to detect a thiol at some just ridiculously low like parts per trillion or something
so
for
Instrumentation to be able to detect this. It's very difficult. We might have to
Use sort of
I had talked about some of this earlier today about using proxy markers and identifying sulfur
metabolism pathways
as a way of
essentially figuring out the the synthase that produces the thiols and
I'm sure there are people who are way above my pay grade but getting them
Involved in this discussion and trying to figure out how to identify those would be really cool because you know
Being able to have a marker set that lets us breed towards that will accomplish the goals much more quickly
Than
Not having the marker set particularly for a trait that seems
like, you know, it's fleeting it's
it's
It's funny because
We've been through this cycle with a whole bunch of different cultivars over the years, but it used to be ubiquitous
when todd talks about just musky funk and like
It may not have been skunk but they were all in that sort of
Neighborhood growing up. It was all funky musky skunky
acrid
you know and I feel like
to the extent that uh
i'll kind of differ with todd like
there's something about cannabis like I don't know if like
The heads are just weird or something but like skunk
Dog shit pacific northwest dog shit like fucking
Gas like all these things that when you actually smell them in real life are like, oh, that's fucking disgusting
When you smell them on cannabis, you're like, oh damn
That shit's funky and like we've we've been drawn to it for the last, you know, 30 40 years
Can I can I add something to that? Oh, and yeah, I want to add two
Okay, my thought is is that realistically the synergistic effect of the terpenes
especially with subtle amounts of vials is really what that is describing because
I I think we just need to bring more humans into cannabis selection again
I think the machines are failing us so to speak because
At the end of the day we have to like it or be drawn to it
If we're going to come back for it, and I love what you were saying. Trevor. I hope we get more time together
I love it too. I I just I think I love this conversation
This is such a valuable conversation and I just have like i'm trying to be concise
But I feel like we have been able to successfully do like pheno hunting on the rec
Adult use side with that model, uh trevor and it has worked for us with extraction
It's not easy but having in-house testing equipment definitely makes it way way way easier
Um, because it's really expensive is really at the end of the day too
It's like you're putting a lot of time you're doing runs specific
For you know this purpose and it's not easy and I find that no matter what it's like a you know
There is something about like that human touch. So, you know beyond all other things there is something like there's the nuanced
um
energy when you're going through and
You know, it's kind of bittersweet, but we're allowed to pull a certain amount of samples
Um from things and I know that they've actually made some legislative changes in oregon to make it easier
It hasn't gone into place yet, but they're making it so we're actually going to be able to be allowed to bring in
seed packs from breeders that are outside of the
Adult use market which is super exciting and we all wrote letters and like pushed really hard for that
So hopefully that will help within the community. I feel like um
There was a white paper a couple years ago
um, I don't remember if I was thinking maybe getting kevin in on that conversation might be a really
Good idea because I feel like if somebody has isolated and figure out what those markers are
I know that they've been working a lot towards like the specific markers for specific terpene pathways and other things along those lines
So i'd be really curious to see kind of like where we're headed
I'd be curious what ryan has to say too, but I think that
You know, we're making progress but I I do kind of feel like there is something I was thinking about your posts and about how
um
I don't know. I still you know, I I still personally just feel like there's something about you just know
You know beyond the test results or the other things, you know, you you know, you know, you know when you're you know
there's certain plants that are there they stand out in a different way and there's like todd was saying there's nothing like what
the um, you know our
Senses can kind of show us and tell us and
But sad about some of the larger scale
um
Breeding projects or what i'm seeing a lot of these different things. They're definitely like more biotech driven
It's like I have a hard time because there's science and data and then there's like magic
so
I like the fine line down the middle is kind of where I think that maybe we need to
We just need to you know, do the best we have with what the tools we have too
I love that
Can I and I point something out that most people don't realize is that rob?
and uh, man, sam dave watson was um
They they actually were doing in-house testing going back into the 80s. They went and
Paid who was one of the the people who got patents on the testing of cannabinoids
And they were they so part of the selections that they were making with skunks and such in later years
Was solely based on performance
And because they had the machines and they were testing
thousands of plants constantly I mean
It's really hard for us because even now there's not many people that were doing what they were doing back then
in at hortifarm
now
With because most people are driven by money and they were not they were driven by for research, you know, they weren't
technically selling anything at the time so
It was a different criteria they were trying to reach and I only hope that more people kind of
Try to go for the excellence like she was saying like it's the way to go
It's a combination of human and machines, but I think humans are the most important element of magic
I think um breeding on a rec scale for a lot of
legal
People can be intimidating
When I was a genetic specialist and I am not a genetic specialist. That's just the title that I was given
um
We were just pheno hunting like crazy. I was really encouraging
Breeding like in-house breeding and not just selecting but that's what we were doing
at the farm that I was working at in Oregon is selecting on
mass scale, I mean, you know 800 900 seed hunts a year and
Selecting from that and then bringing them in production greenhouse
but there is never any breeding talk because of the pollen and the dangers of pollen ruining the production and
yada, yada, so I think
um on a lot of you know, semi small scale or
Not super, you know, it wasn't a bunch of acres. It was
you know one acre with two production greenhouses and
you know, it's uh
It's what set them aside as having varieties that nobody else has in an extremely saturated market
But I I definitely think that breeding can bring that to another level
Especially with certain, you know climates and whatnot
Um, I mean does anybody else see
Major breeding being done on a legal
Rec scale or is it? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah, definitely
That's awesome
utilizing off-season and pollen screens and there's a whole bunch of best practices but like I have whole
presentations on the topic and like I think that it's um
I think that we're not quite especially because it's like there's no real
Need to you know, it's like within state markets until we open up interstate commerce
It's really challenging because if you are breeding or even with like moving genetics around once they're inside of the adult
Youth system within a state so it's very interesting because it's like we're in such a weird position
with the um, you know moving of genetics at this point and you see people doing it, you know, it's like obviously
Brands go across state lines and all of a sudden they have the exact cut and it's everywhere
But you know, I think at this point we're still in like kind of a weird position
um
You know, there's no there's only so many places seeds can go within an adult use market. So it's an interesting
It's an interesting animal or genetics in general at least at this point
um, yeah, and real quick
You mentioned some major legal breeding that are doing house breeding because i'm just real quick
the examples would be kind of like what evian is like the work that she's doing herself and uh,
but then there's also like
So much of this is happening on the hemp side of things and has to be
Understood as what's going on on the hemp side of things within recreational sort of commercial markets. There's still stuff that's going on. I mean like
You know archives a pretty good example they operate in the rec market they do a lot of in-house breeding
They do a lot of intensive selection
um
There are other examples of commercial operations that are also doing stuff. Um
purple city genetics in california a number of others that I can't think of off the top of my head
but I also want to
kind of talk about
It was
It kind of was getting
This issue about sort of science and
Other methods of knowing things or humans and machines and I really do think that like
There we need to get over some of those dichotomies and not not necessarily get over them
but really have a holistic approach and understand that like these are not mutually exclusive and they're like
they're reinforcing tools and
Just because you've got a machine that tells you something that's not going to get rid of the nose and the human experience
and just because
You know, I post a dumb meme that says math is cool and stuff doesn't mean that
luther burbank's like luther burbank and
sort of like
Modern scientific breeding aren't mutually exclusive. We need luther burbank type passion luther burbank type willingness to be
innovative creative
Think outside of the box go big or go home kind of approach because that's really what he did
He bred on such an enormous scale and grew plants on such an enormous scale and made incredible selections
That even though he didn't know all of the specifics and couldn't explain in a scientific way
What he was doing?
He accomplished more than most plant breeders have in their entire lives
But that doesn't mean that we don't
Also use the science like we can take both of these things and that's where I think we're at a really unique opportunity
and
Hopefully we can merge these
These two different methods, you know like a
machine bio assay or a human like bio assay and then your gc
You combine those two to actually come up with a better set of information because like while it's informative to tell me that something's got
Maricine cariophiline, etc. It's also informative to tell me if it smells like gas or something else and
if we develop these sort of shared understandings around
the
sensory
elements as well as because you know, like anytime
the roadkill skunk discussion comes up like
A subset of the discussion is the
Semantic discussion about what is skunk or what are those smells? Is it a tennis ball?
Is it asphalt? Is it dead meat? Is it you know, etc, etc
So it's skunk but it's skunk but skunk but is skunk but does
but yeah, so that uh, I just think that that's something where
there's a reaction to
and like a an understanding of traditional methods or
methods that may not be necessarily
consciously scientific as being set against science and I don't see it that way like these are
Co-constitutive ways of understanding the world and the more we use them together the better the results will be
well said triver
and that's actually one thing that this farm was doing is like I was
genetic specialist quote-unquote and then we'd have the master grower and I'd talk about what i'd find and
we'd bring in other quote-unquote heads from the area and have them come in what they find and
Talk to the sales manager and see what they think and then do it, you know in Oregon you can take out samples
Sorry, I just took a dab
And you know you give them to your bud tenders and your sales reps
And then you call you get all of that data and it comes back to like, all right, what are we going to grow?
And I think that's walking the fire. Excuse me. I didn't bring in
Bring also looking at coas and what's missing in the market and filling that gap
And so I think that that farm was walking on that nice fine line fine line of using coas and gathered
community data
Analytical but it's I think it was really cool. I think more more companies should be doing it
Yeah, and big respects to archive to what they do
But you know what what could be done on a small scale or even like 10 000 square foot scale on a legal business
Can really further us as a cannabis community and I just think that more people doing it would be great
Respect to trevor and everybody and big ups
Thanks, likewise, that's you know, you're very humble on like the the type of work that you were doing and
It's always good to hear your perspective and to hear
how people are working in the rec market because it's one of those things where it's like
It's difficult but having farms that are able to
you know, like
I really like the idea of participatory plant breeding programs and
being able to incorporate and include as many people as you can in that process and
Get the information and have ways of analyzing that information and making it useful. It's really cool like
um
Chimera he's done the work that napro did like you can look at some of it. I'll post some online of a
PowerPoint that they've made i've given some slides in recent posts, but um
it's very interesting how
They did
Very, you know, they went out they bought tons of samples from the rec market tested those samples saw the terpene and the cannabinoid
profiles
Ranked those put them into different categories and saw just like you said what was missing from the market
Then they were able to start developing a cbd cariophiline dominant
Variety that has really you know, this goes to some of the stuff that was talked about way earlier today at the beginning of the discussion
but like
being able to breed
very specific varieties for very specific
Medical conditions and patients who
need the combination of cbd and cariophiline
and using data to drive that whole process is really what they did and it's a it's an example of how you can do this stuff
and granted they did
all that work prior to um, you know,
64 coming online
So it was kind in the in the wild west of 215
and you know good on them for having foresight to make moves in those days, but um
You can also read
The patents for that came out of a lot of this work
uh, and you know, I I criticized these patents when I found out about them open cannabis project kind of set itself up as
like an alternative to this and a whole bunch of people have been
opposed to these kinds of
uh
patents particularly the utility patent that biotech inc applied for
Um, but you in the patent you can read
The breeding program and how they did it. It's all there
That's part of what patents do is they explicate the process for producing the intellectual property
And so you can read the breeding program and how they developed a number of those cultivars
Yeah, I think that my concern always with a lot of that stuff is that when those uh,
When it's the patents are like super broad sweeping and it's like, you know
This combination of terpenes is under this patent then it gets really concerning for me
I think that's part of why i've been so dedicated to the non-profit work is because i've seen them, you know
I've been following like lawsuits and other things in different states and i'm not 100 opposed to uh, I used to be
100 opposed to
100 opposed to plant patenting, but then I started to realize that you know
Just you know kind of like what trevor points to within within the breeding world that it's actually
very
Common and like the whole upav thing and hemp has kind of changed a lot of these things and hemp has really given us
Incredible insights. I I get really frustrated when people are like, you know, you know
It's kind of this us against them reality and i've i've worked on both sides
You know, I like all the different types of cannabis personally so it's like type one type two
I'm a huge fan of type two plants and that's been
where a lot of our efforts have been focused just because we
personally, I mean that's what we've won like three cups for
our one-to-ones because we
I mean in my mind
It's like what you would introduce your grandmother to or something or if somebody was gonna get introduced to cannabis for the first time
You'd give them like a mixed ratio
Cultivar but the market is just not there
So every year we've actually slowly grown less and less and we've just been holding
The genetics from these different breeding projects because the market's not there yet, you know
So I I feel like hemp has taught us things and allowed us to research the plant in ways that are um, you know
Really incredible and i've seen a lot of that similar kind of breeding and followed a lot of the different breeding
Projects and it's also taught us something that you know
I don't think we were would have ever been able to or allowed to do
on
you know the
Type one with type one plants even within the rec they they made it so we were able to
um, you know do large-scale pollen production large-scale feminized production
and and do things and I mean, I know that i've learned just an
Incredible amount by working with people and reading the white papers and all the things so I think it
you know, it's like we can all benefit from learning about all the different types and
I think that that's where a lot of the science is gonna you know
It's like it's still coming online. And when you listen to people talk about I mean, I think ryan brought this up recently
Is it you know, they're they're like talking about breeding, you know specific
Uh
Hemp cultivars that are going to be perfect for hemp crete or perfect for these different things and and I think that um
I don't know. I think it all kind of ties together in some weird way
And I hope that at some point we were able to look at all of it just as you know advancing
forward
And I personally i'm a little bit tired of the fact that the market
I you know, I love to at some point with the breeders have a conversation more around
um
you know, it's like I think consumer education is a huge part of it because what I see is just
The by I get really frustrated because I feel like buyers all want the same thing. Everybody wants the hype stuff
It doesn't matter how unique or magical and like nobody really cares about the unicorns as much
And I I really hope that we're gonna turn a corner here any moment in the market
But i'm pretty sick of everything being named after kids candy. No offense to anybody
but um
Uh, you know i'm sick of stuff being named after kids candy. I'm sick of like the over hybridization
And these like it's just the same terpene profile is regurgitated over
I mean, it's a meme in and of itself trevor if you make the memes, but it's like I just
Feel like it's regurgitated over and over and over again. It's the same terpene profiles to me. It's like white bread
I'm, like can we get away from white bread and like really start to bring in the magnificent?
Like, you know, it's like i've tried to curate our menu
over, you know, we have tried to curate our menu over the past few years through pheno hunting and breeding and
You know just working with different breeders
like to have taste the rainbow because it's like there's no other plant in nature that does all of these
Magnificent things and the consumer is the one that's actually losing out
By everything being in this weird kind of cookie cutter
It's got to be purple and gassy or it's got to be candy hype exotic
I i'm just so over it. So I would I would love to hear perceptions on how we
Change that perception as a whole and and I guess maybe it's up to us. I don't know
Yeah, no dark rye into dark rye
I
Think you know the education is huge and maybe we can get some good
Marketing experts because I think that's where it's going these days. It's not so much education. It's just kind of marketing to your
Maybe education through marketing, but it's crazy. I love one-to-ones. I could smoke one-to-ones all morning long
Until I want that heavy hitter with no cbd, you know, I just and I I am the market
I wish I could go get some one-to-ones because I can only produce so much so it's like
If there were more one-to-ones out there, I would go get it, but there's not so I don't even look, you know
Yeah, I think a lot of it is that like hey
Hey real quick everybody much. Love this has been phenomenal
Truly, it's my first time back on this platform in quite some time. I've been listening in the background while i'm cooking dinner
I'm about to excuse myself and eat dinner
It has been a fucking pleasure and I look forward to the next time
Hey ray, I miss you man, we gotta meet up together
Yeah. Hey, listen i'm around you holler, uh, i'll head north when everybody stay up for five dude
Oh, man, you know, you know where i'm at
Man, you'll just go indicated brother
Yeah, nice to see you ray. It's nice to hear your voice
Oh
likewise and um, yeah, everybody be in touch and uh, you know, uh, try and be on it
I hadn't been on here in fucking weeks and weeks and
Hit it up out of nostalgia. I had like
Meeting cancel and I was like shit. Let's do this on clubhouse and walked into the goddamn conversation with uh,
What's his name? Rafaela? Jesus christ. That was a good one. I really really hope someone recorded that that was one for the books
Yeah, that was epic
Dude, that's historical for sure. It's gonna be on youtube for uh,
Presents
Love it. All right. Goodbye everyone. Have a wonderful evening right on take care. Right? I guess
Um, yeah, so tons to chew on on both of those comments, um,
there's
kind of
they kind of operate on two different levels, there's kind of the
the bullshit in terms of regulations and
This one feeds into the other one so and the other one being market dynamics
the
first issue with regular is we've been dealing with like
all along
We've just been a whole bunch of people who are like fuck it. We're gonna like
We're gonna take the ball and run with it and do something, you know, there's been a lot of
um remembrance of 215 and the passage of 215
on the anniversary here
and
it's like
People just in all the different states that have gone forward with legalization
and
Everything that's happened over these last however many years has been people taking different positions and running with them
There was the hemp in the in the 90s a lot of really good people and a lot of really good hemp advocates
did everything they could to
Disassociate hemp from the rest of cannabis because at the time it was just politically not feasible
and then hemp or
215 and medical comes around and creates this whole new opportunity and it just continues to snowball and expand and develop
and to the credit of all the different people like it really got mainstreamed once the
The
Issue around children
honestly is what mainstreamed cannabis with a lot of people and like fucking Sanjay Gupta and shit like that and
the changes that happened in like the early
there like
2010s around that time period
and
I feel like
we've made
For tactical reasons we've always pushed the envelope and gone where we could and kind of taken the path of least resistance
And there's been all these fucked up bureaucratic regulatory frameworks that have been imposed upon cannabis
in part because of this sort of ad hoc way that we've gone and
That there's just a completely
asinine
Approach to it in mainstream american society
For the last 80, you know 90 years
and so
We're in this situation where we have a completely fucked up regulatory scheme in almost every state
There's no congruence
across the country
and
On top of it. We've got as a result these
Completely skewed fucked up markets that are not representative of actual market demand or where the market's going to be
Once all of these artificial barriers get eliminated
and the artificial barriers have to get eliminated for us to
Actually experience the full benefits of this plant to produce those things that
chimera was talking about in terms of the hempcrete
specific varieties to do all the different things that we need to do in terms of producing medicinal varieties for people who need
medicinal varieties of
Maximizing the fucking recreational economic potential of cannabis sales like grandma and grandpa
Like many people have pointed out like my grandma and grandpa not grandma so much but grandpa
like
He wasn't hype on fucking crazy. Thc weed. He was interested in trying cannabis though
once he lost his appetite and was wasting away and
There are lots of people who are gonna get turned on to cannabis it's gotten legalized in Florida for medical purposes like
this sort of change is a sea change and we have to
Really get rid of a lot of these just stupid arcane barriers that like we've built this Byzantine
labyrinth
For cannabis for no fucking reason and it's just standing in the way. Oh
My god, I've actually been wanting to like pull out a whiteboard for that because I've been trying to explain it to a couple people
I'm like, I think I look like there's that one mean with the guy and he's like the crazy guy
He's got like all the like, you know
It's like when you're trying to like explain this situation of how weird this whole how like broken the regulatory
Framework is how all the markets are tied together how it's just it's like so chaotic. I would
Really really love to you know, just I don't know. I think that if we could fix it at some point but from a
breeding and like a genetic standpoint, I think that we have a
opportunity to like, you know, there's I think there's a path forward for
at least that piece of what we're doing so I
mean, I think also it seems like the community has a plot there are platforms now and there's people who are willing to share and
there's a lot of
Open there is open source data available for breeders. And I think that
You know, our system is so broken, but it's given us
It's given us tools to learn also, you know, I think that I'm super grateful to you know
Because I thought you know adult use did give us an opportunity to learn scale from you know
the previous years and then
You know where we went from thinking 99 plants was a lot of plants to thinking that you know a few thousands
You know was a lot of plants to then hemp gave us the opportunity to think hundreds of thousands is a lot of plants
So it's helped us to grow the population and then there's also concerns about you know
What that means but I think that we can at this point. We're in a really amazing amazing moment
I mean, there's not very many things under the Sun that are new and I think that we are in the kind of emerging
Place that really is kind of cutting edge and it's like bleeding edge
Just really everything that we've been doing and all this new science coming out. And so it's a very exciting time
I think after all the hard work
But my hope is that you know
It's like a to all the legacy stuff and also I love personally part of my vision with the nonprofit work has been that
Eventually, I'd love to have it tie back to maybe some of the indigenous communities that have also protected these
Things for thousands of years, so I would love to see it kind of all tie back around
You know, maybe to back to the land race piece because I think that's maybe we got lost with this kind of white bread
You know cookie cutter thing that's happening with the genetics currently. I think it would be awesome to see more unique a novel
You know just I think that and also for it like you said with the patient piece
I think that's really important is I think that there's I know that Israel has been
You know just light years ahead with the breeding and they've like isolated down things that
They are super unique and they're targeting
You know certain pathways that can help really heal
People from very serious diseases. So I would love to see what the future of that looks like but
You know just to be protected and also lay claim to you know, all the work that has been done and it doesn't just get lost in
corporatization
Hey, what's up everybody I
I agree completely and I think that one of the biggest
Hurdles to that is in the regulatory framework denying
Farmers to go directly to consumer. I think that there's a super important element of education
That
drives really great consumer outcomes when the consumer can get to
know
The people that are producing it hear the stories right now the way that it's curated and the way that it's
Get to know
The people that are producing it hear the stories right now the way that it's curated and you have the bottlenecks of distribution and retail
a
Lot of the story is driven by
Profit margins and sales and that's not always that's definitely not the greatest outcome
as a
selection pressure in my mind
not for the long term and
And yeah, I think that most of the problems in the market that
Affect every aspect of this industry whether we're talking about breathing
Breeding whether we're talking about sustainability
Or whether we're talking about just respect for culture
stems from
from
artificial bottlenecks created by the regulatory framework that
claims to be
Seeking our health and safety
but somehow forgets
History and the legacy it's not I don't understand why it's a
It's such a
Such a big disconnect for for that message to be understood. It's not like I haven't had some of these conversations with different politicians
It blows my mind
How you can clearly explain a
Value and it lose its all its meaning in the face of profits and lobbyists
Yeah, and for context there in California we were all told that legacy farmers and
You know
People who had been doing this in different locations
Santa Cruz where BAM is Calaveras where I am
we were all told that part of the program was to allow us to come come
into a regulated market and
continue with legacy cannabis production in California and then
While that was a stated goal of prop 2 50 or prop 64 supposedly and
There was supposed to be a cap on
Concentration and consolidation large-scale grows
That cap got eliminated immediately when the law got implemented and local jurisdictions essentially
eliminated cultivation in traditional places where people had been growing it because we weren't on
agriculturally zoned properties most often and or just enacted full out bands and have
gone back on pretty much everything they said rhetorically in the lead-up to
Regulations and also BAM give us some background on on
You and you know introduce yourself. You're you've been spoken of a lot throughout the day. We've been talking about
coastal seeds the work you and mr. Bob Hemphill and
Hannah Humble and
And keg you did with coastal and then you know just different breeding work and preservation work
You've been a part of also that 88 g13 hash plant cut you've got
What's up, yeah appreciate the intro I'm BAM
Done some things
I'd say if I had to define myself real quick
I'm an activist breeder
I don't know whether I'm more of an activist or more of a breeder
But 88 g13 cut that shits fire I inherited that a number of years ago
In Santa Cruz somebody's scene was
Was getting shut down and I
Was given I was given the cut to preserve and I did and she's a beauty she perps out at the end
Probably the most striked out
Plant I've ever seen and it's clear to see why she was the hash plant
Leafs leaves would be covered with crystal rails
If I had to say one thing bad about her is that she was basically like the spider might signal
Sure. Yeah, I could have been doing something better. But like in a room if you're not
He and all your fundamentals perfectly
She's gonna be the one that that gets that gets it first and and no matter what you do in the control
No matter what you want to control it
She's gonna keep coming back and they're gonna keep coming back to her so that that was her downside but she was so beautiful
how to a
Lovely sort of syrupy nose
Is that she stand up to washers these days or quote-unquote washers these days
You know, I'm not much of a washer I did a lot of my extraction with co2
And I never actually ran her for that but I ran her for smoke and
She there's very few strains that I've seen I mean, obviously
Strains that I've personally grown nothing has touched bar. None has touched the amount of trichomes that covered the leaf
like the the nugget
The nugg was covered in trichomes, but like just the percentage of of leaf that was covered by trichomes was I
Haven't seen anything else that produced that much
And was that the same cut that Duke work with
Yeah
Fuck yeah
Duke work with the same cut
How is the pass on to the NL? I know coastal did that 88 g13 hash plant cross
I know that's a big deal. I know that's a big deal. I know that's a big deal
I know that's a big deal. I know that's a big deal. I know that's a big deal
88 g13 hash plant cross to the Northern Lights one. I'm sure you ran some of that out. How would you see?
Or maybe you didn't but I'm guessing you did but what do you see in that line? I
Wish I could tell you I I never got to run that line
Like right around the time that that line dropped
I was in like a terrible car accident and was in a coma and was going through a bunch of a
Bunch of personal shit, so I kind of
Right when those dropped I was taking a hiatus
I've run some of the other and else and
TK's
I'm sorry. I mean it doesn't intense from that era
But I didn't get to run the 88 and that was one of the ones that I was most
excited about I
Like from a washing standpoint
That cross to the GMO might
Might produce some some ridiculous yielders. I
Made a 88
GMO cross I haven't gotten it tested or washed it but um, I
Can say that it definitely lets the GMO pass on and its traits and I gave out
About a hundred packs of them. So a lot of people have GMO 88 g13 hash plant to
You know test that hypothesis if they're so inclined
And so I'm guessing I saw the pressure does that pass on to the progeny that hash hashing trait
From my interaction with the
A
Very small subset
they
There's a about half of them or at least like 30%
That are just GMO like it seems very much like
same structure same turf profile same sandy resin glands
Not as big of indents of a structure in terms of the overall nugs
little bit longer than the 88 leaners, but
Still much shorter than your your GMO cut
But you're getting a lot of those GMO traits and you're getting a lot of the the resin gland traits in the turf profile
so I
Haven't personally run it at any scale
My other homie ran out a pack of them indoors and he saw the same stuff
but he ran it all for head smoke and
He said that the GMO leaners were like
dead ringers where he like he had the GMO cut and was like
yeah, I would have thought that it was like the GMO and
then the the 88 leaners though do not have that garlic funk and
The resin profile seems to be different
So those at least in the population that we've grown out those traits seem to segregate out together
When you ran the
when you ran the 88
g13
Did you see a lot of purple?
And did you see like huge frost trails?
Indoors yes
indoors it definitely like the
Actual like leaves turn almost black the petioles turn purple
it's very dark
rich looking plants and
They were incredibly frosty. We didn't get purple color in the nug, but the plant itself looked like
Two was on here earlier. He was talking diesel the way it fades out black at the end
It's almost that kind of coloring that'll show up in the green of the leaf. Yeah. Yeah, exactly
Totally
That's exactly what they looked like and
the resin coverage I've said a number of times that the indoor samples that I've seen are
on par with anything you've ever seen from the Mac to the white to
White widow, whatever whatever is your archetype of this is incredibly frosty herb
It's right there it's in that same league and
The outdoor though is different. The outdoor has a different nug structure from what I've seen has a different turf profile and
it takes a lot longer to like mature and sort of like harden off and nug out and
so I
feel like
Indoors, it's a banger that just slaps
Incredibly hard
outdoors
It's an acquired taste and it's also pretty fucking leafy like the the outdoor flowers that I've grown have been
the bud to leaf ratio
Would not put it in the hype category
The offspring that we've grown from them
Seem to have a really nice combining ability get bigger nugs, but they won't just be leafed out
They'll have some of that like the traits of the mother plants that you know, they're all
Elite hype yada yada that we're hitting it with but the combining ability that we've seen has been really really nice
Yeah, when I crossed that 80 g13 to the girl scout form cut that thing turned out big-ass
Chunky ass, but something you wouldn't think you were gonna get from either one of those parents when grown separately or apart
But the combination made these massive stacking colas that smelled like both parents
Had the coloration of the 80 g13 as it faded it
It's just and that stuff was killer
I've seen a lot of what Trevor was talking about with that same line is it
The the leafiness kind of turns into a
Benefit towards its hash making ability to a sense when it's when it's done outside
It's almost like living up to its name a little bit. This stuff is really amazing
I'm glad that Duke did what he did and put that out there
So guys like me could have access to it because I can't get those cuts like mr. Bam can
Yeah
Canna h2o just posted it's a canna underscore h2o on Instagram just posted some seated up
outdoor 88 g13 hash plant seeds that I had passed off to her and
So if people want to see a sample of it growing right now outdoors
It's on on the gram on her
on her feed right now and
It's one of those things where it's like
So many people have worked with this line and have bred it to so many different, you know
It's it's been hit to every og to every chem to every cookies to every pretty much every
subset of things and
From what I've grown out of it and I've probably grown I
Don't know over a dozen of the crosses that I've
That I made I've also had other homies growing them out
I've come across I think two that we agreed weren't great and
one of them was a purple urkel s1 cross to the 88 and
for some reason it produced a really terpine lean jack sort of profile and
Which was not what my friend was looking for and it was really mold susceptible
Which I attribute to
both lines of the parentage there and we've just had a
fucking shit year here in terms of the the storms coming in and really hammering people but
Then the other one that didn't rate
Honestly it again I'm biased I don't like terpine lean dominant
profiles if they are terpine lean dominant they have to have something unique about them and
a Durban poison 88 g13
Cross that I made was not the business in my opinion, but that's just because it tasted
insanely
terpine lean dominant
So BAM, what are you growing these days? I know you're always got some high-grade cuts running around. What's in the head stash?
I
Would like to but just regulations
It's crazy. So
like
I've been focusing more on like hemp, but I really want to find this time and space to get back
To just the whole wide world of weed
Yeah, nice I do a lot of activist work to big respect to that, you know, that's hero work to man
Thanks, bro
Holy shit, you guys are still on air. I took a nap and everything
Welcome back to
You made it back at the perfect time because we got BAM on here and he started well
I mean maybe a little late, but he told us about that 88 g13 confirmed that
A Duke's cut came from him. So we were right earlier when we were you know, spec
Yeah
Yeah, and you missed a well, I don't know. Did you get this? No, I just got back
Oh, did you get to hear the phylo stuff or you popped off at that?
I just sent him a message to tell him that we had a guy from phylos come in here when Trevor was talking about him
and
We also had Todd McCormick. Come on. No shit
We've been banging around a bunch of stuff today, man. What did that do for phylos? They're a bunch of shade search
It was funny dude
Basically wanted to come on to correct the record and say that I was spreading
misinformation and that they had never used their customers data to do like build out a
50,000 snip chip and I just pressed him and asked him what data they did use and he said he'd get back to us
Let me go make some up real quick, I'll be right back
Exactly is asked a direct question several times and avoided it in various ways and then it then even tried to use like a
internet glitch to cover over it
Whatever
But I listened to I got I got the sense that
Because they did some research on
Their own without using customer
Information that somehow that laid the groundwork to justify using all the customer
database information
We did our own testing
What does it matter that we're we're doing further testing on your stuff and not sharing it with you
Yeah, no the commingling of data possibility just adds a whole nother layer to the onion and it's like wow, bro
okay, so
You did this thing that was supposed to be this open cannabis project thing that everybody was getting down in and some
sort of community thing, but you had bifurcated data streams and
The whole time you presented it as though there weren't these bifurcated data streams and my question all along has been
Where the fuck did you get the samples?
For the stuff that you claim, okay, they claim to have a
50,000 snip chip for context a snip is a single nucleotide
polymorphism if you sequence a whole bunch of
samples of different cannabis plants and
You then compare these different samples and you identify the individual base pairs
Where there is a difference between one sample from other samples you found a polymorphism
You screen populations for these polymorphisms to find
diversity in a population and to find specific
Polymorphisms that are associated with different traits
They have this 50,000 snip chip that they developed that they marketed that they said that they had
And I've always wanted them to answer the question for the last two years
where they got the samples to build out that data set and
They've never answered the question and they still refuse to but they want to call me a liar. So, you know, that's cool
It was a heart, you know when that first thing started it was cool the what do they call it a galaxy or whatever?
Like that was cool because it showed where relation, you know of here to there but like they weren't it just showed like I
Mean that there should have been more of a in my opinion more of a land race database so you can show like where?
Like they actually source from as opposed to like who cares if your og kush is related to the other og kush
You know, like where do they fall in the whole line, you know
It actually source something besides from their
their actual customer base that they would actually have that in there before they had cookies and
Some other of these hyped up strains if you're gonna start a genomics database
Well relationships, why not start with some form of a basis?
supposedly they did like they collected a whole bunch of samples and
established a
2500 to 3000 snip chip and when I say a snip chip, this is essentially that's what they're referred to in
genomics, so
They had identified
2500 to 3000 specific
Polymorphisms that allowed them to then screen all the samples whenever anybody sent in a sample
It was getting screened against these different polymorphisms
Sample descriptions kind of like what it is. It's things like it is
It's like the Watson shit. Like if you go in and look stuff from David Watson, there's the stuff from a number of people
Rob Clark reached
Brotherhood of eternal love lines and
I think I think Golden Coast
Sent in some samples. I'm not entirely sure
Yeah, go to those has Dave has the bowl
original Afghani cut
But yeah, he rocks a lot of those his dad was in the Brotherhood of Eternal Love, you know
yeah, and that stuff like that's why they wanted that stuff and why they contacted him for it and
Because essentially they wanted to get some of those older things
Do some of that land race stuff
But really what they did was they got a bunch of samples and then found
specific
Apparently and Alicia Holloway and if they ever come up on here
This will be very cool to have them explain the details of what they did because if you ask me
Looking at 3,000 polymorphisms across the population as diverse as cannabis
Basically means fuck all
Well, you know I do too much yeah, it's not very informative now a 50,000 snip chip
Informative and gives
and
Shun and data set they use the snip
population as the screening
Snips that were used whenever and everybody sent in their stuff to be sequenced
It would get sequenced and then they'd compare that sequence to these different
polymorphisms that were present in the
reference set that they had and
then
somewhere either from
Nishan's personal culture
From somebody else's collection and when he said he was collecting stuff. I know he was collecting stuff
I've talked to the people he reached out to and got stuff from I'm like they've talked I
Mean, I'm not gonna name any names, but like if you go and you look at the guy's Instagram you can find out
who
some of the people that gave him stuff were and
The thing is is that
It's like yeah, that was in the ref that got sampled in the galaxy
Like that's not the question. The question is where does this larger reference data set come and
If it didn't come from the customers, that's fine
But you guys talked this big game about open source this open source that and we've got and I I apologize
I suck at names. I don't want to butcher your name Evie
Anna I
Apologize, but I probably just butchered it but we've got people
Evian okay Evian. I'm gonna try and put that in my brain and not fuck it like the water Evian Evian
Hey, thank you. That'll
No, no, okay
Evian
Evian so
Being naive backwards, so it's like there's an E at the end but people call me Evie to like my friends and
Okay
Okay Evie so like she's on like and and she can speak to this but like the fact that we've got people on here who
Are doing work in open data?
Kind of picking up the torch of the implosion of the shit show that was Phylos and him trying to wash his hands and say
Oh, no, we're not the douchebags. You thought we were that was all Mowgli bad bad Mowgli
Fuck Mowgli
But it's like, okay fine
He had an out though, buddy
Like he's gonna use them out because we're trying to pick up the paces
But we all know everyone was sitting in this room knows that he has been
Associated with Phylos from the very get-go in one of his bios he and Mowgli are like best friends growing up
So it's like he knows way more than what he was gonna admit
You know, I didn't want to jump on the bandwagon of
Beating the guy up because obviously we all know he wasn't going to admit to
Composing all of the data regardless if it was a customer pay scenario or if it was
To this company and you know the fact the matter is that you know
They try to pull a fast one to get bought out and to you know
Kind of grow out of this community concept of cannabis
But the whole thing is that we all know that the truth doesn't come out
everything is talked about now and that's why there's so many things are getting brought to light and also at the same time why
there is
you know a certain amount of
You know craziness that we all have when it comes to
Yeah, and I think that there's people who are still doing good work out of that whole
You know that so it's like the whole saga is a thing, you know
And I think that the reality is is that a lot of people actually did give up they did sign contracts
they I know people personally who
Signed who were approached who actually went all the way through with the deals and signed the contracts
and if I mean conception is still very much up and running in Oregon and in California and they're a
part of the industry and they're not going away and
That's the reality of the situation and you know, I've reviewed their genetics lists just out of curiosity to see like what exactly?
Because it's like they're one of in Oregon, they're one of the only like we're very limited on TC
You know, we don't really have anybody doing TC long-term storage if anybody knows of anybody especially within the adult use market
Please let me know but it's like it's sorely lacking and in Cali
There's definitely more options, but you know
Lots of people work with conceptions still and lots of people knowingly
Gave over genetics and signed agreements and I've talked to tons of people who have done that and and then there's other people who
You know have preferred to you know
Work with other people who didn't have a drama or whatever happened there in the background and I think that at this point
You know, we have an opportunity
to
You know and we've also I mean I've approached me Sean in person in Portland and asked him if you know
Because I'm a board member of the ethical data alliance. I'm like, hey, you know, like how about making good on that?
You know promise that you guys were gonna make open source the data and it's I think it's something there's something
Complicated and my brain is like not there right now, but I was trying to remember
It's like you need a certain type of software to even read the data
So like I remember before because you know
We had samples sent in years and years ago and we've also participated in the cultivation classic before smart broke ties
Before smart cannabis broke ties with that whole situation and so like we have stuff in the
Galaxy and in order to even access your data
You have to have like special software and in order to even be able to read it and I it will come to me
What is what it's called?
But it's like a whole thing. It's not just like an easy plug-and-play
We're like, oh you can scope out the data and take a look. Whereas like canopedia is
Been making huge efforts to make all of the data that they have not even at all
I know that you can like sign agreements when you do the genomic testing with them that
You know, they're just more it's like very transparent and they're doing it for the forwarding of the breeding and same with like the whole
You know, they just did this psilocybin, you know
Genome made public, you know, so it's like there's I think that
My feeling is like if you if you really want to you know
If you're really in it for the good of the breeders and the good of the community then, you know
Maybe you make good on those things
but there's a reason why the board of the OCP decided to disband because it wasn't ethical and
So that's why we started the ethical data alliance and have been trying to like, you know
We just got we've been trying to do this so we can actually
Still kind of hold that mission and vision
That we're gonna protect the work of the breeders and just the whole community as a whole and using blockchain
Technology and you know working to get grants in order to do that
And I think it really needs to be transparent all the way through so, you know
I mean, I've had long conversations with Malga in years in the past and you know, these are smart guys
They're not stupid and they you know how the whole thing went down was definitely very
opening I think for a lot of people in the community and you know, I
Definitely have made a decision that I don't feel like I don't feel comfortable
Referring, you know, that's not they're not a company that I feel comfortable with currently
But you know, they're definitely very active in this space and I think it's important that people
Remember that and are aware of it. It's not like they've disappeared. They're very very active. So
You know, I think we're gonna see how from here how we can you know, there's a path forward
but I would love to still see and I'm gonna keep asking and I know other people who are board members and
It's like we've been asking still like hey if you want to share that data for the good kind of like canopedia has done
You know then maybe we can forge this forward for the benefit of everybody
Not just for the benefit of like for profit
For one business, but for the general community and for the you know
Throw the good of the plant also, which is what it all ties back to so as I mean, I'm complete
Hey, I'm just a well, so John yeah, so this is John Caleb and hi everyone
Where I've been on the some of it the ethical data
Alliance and ethical data exchange network calls and and I'm also doing some
I've been a cannabis breeder for like 20 years and
I've been doing some
Isn't the snip chip the phyllo snip chip isn't that one of the data sets that basically
medicinal genomics is also using to
confirm and just
you know, so I guess my question is a group is is and I agree with everybody that basically what they're doing is
It's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's
You know
Whether it was some people who opted in or some people who just their data was used to fill out a data set
Now that that snip chip is out there and other genomic companies are using it in particular
Evian, you know
Companies that are associated with the phyllo snip chip
So I guess my question is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is
You know
Companies that are associated with the ethical data exchange network and that data is going to be leveraged by us at the ethical data
exchange network and at the EA like where do we stand as far as the data set as a whole and like
How it was aggregated and now that we're gonna leverage it like what what's the ethical choice is is basically the question that I would
Like to propose and like where do we go from here? Do we we have no access to that data set?
Never given it up
There would be a question for Kevin if they're using it with my understanding is they're not
utilizing it and Kevin was one of the very first people to
Point to the issue and that's a whole other conversation
But he was calling it out for two years before
I think he may have been the first to actually be like hey something in a
Unethical is going on here. And what I think my my standpoint is
I think that we don't know and he didn't answer Trevor's a very clear concise repeated question of
Where that data for the 50,000 snip tips actually came from that wasn't actually answered and we do know that people did
knowingly give
Genetic information gave genetics gave all sorts of stuff across the whole entire industry
there's tons of people that have actually worked with them in an ethical contracted way and
There are a lot of them are people that you would be surprised by and
So I don't think as far as what we the work we're doing at the EDA is like it's for the good of everybody
And if they're if they it's for everybody and everybody can plug and play
It's completely transparent and if they want to come to the table and give that data back then
That is a conversation that maybe
You know needs to happen and I'm I don't know about I think that I know I've listened to Kevin speak about
you know what how they do the you know, what's going on at Canopedia I think is a unique and
You know, I know they're utilizing awesome blockchain technology, and I think it's a really beautiful offering to the community personally
I think that the work that they've done needs to be commended and I think they have done a very ethical job
Of like you are able to when you you know
When you send your material into them
You're able to select whether you want it to be for you know
What part parts of the data you want shown not shown available not available?
And I think that that is a good model for how to move forward
I would love to see more of the genomics companies kind of like come together and
Start to work, you know as a team, but obviously there's
You know, I think it's a little bit more complicated
But we do not have access and that that has not been offered up in any way shape or form
I think it was originally the mission
But there's no there's no access or no pledge. They've pledged. Maybe they would share I think it's kind of as far as we've gotten
Yeah, he also like there was the open cannabis data set and
That was published on
NCBI so you can I probably just
Trans, you know mix that up. But anyway, there's a
database
Well, they weren't using so let's be clear this the snip chip is
What they were using in their own sequencing in their own
We don't have the snip chip the snip chips not out there anywhere
So we don't have the reference snip chip that was the original
2500 till later. I think it was increased to 3000 I have
Documentation from them talking about this early reference snip chip. This was I believe this is proprietary
This is something that they built out using
The when David Watson asked for samples way back as skunk man Sam on IC mag and
2014 I believe he posted a long post and requested samples of
Any plant material that people could produce from known varieties of particular?
land race varieties in particular or you know, anything old that could be
Ascribed some sort of you know
identifying characteristic or tag and
Asked people to send in these samples that could then help build out the reference genome for the reference sample set for
Phyllis Phyllis didn't build the reference genome. They didn't do full, you know whole genome sequencing
They just did very short reads and Kevin McKernan's talked about all of this
But what they did was they took that an initial set of samples
identified
2500 to 3000 snips used that to then test every sample that came into them
they then took the reads the individual sequencing reads and
Made the comparison to their reference set, but they also took those reads and published those
So the Illumina sequence reads that they created for all the different samples that they can't that came into them
ended up getting published but as
Evian is pointed out and as fucking Kevin McKernan is also pointed out most of the data that they published is
fucking
unintelligible unless you have a particular
Set of software and even then it's shit data
It's not very good in terms of the actual sequencing information because you have to keep in mind
they were being sent into one individual sample and
Somebody was then and they were like, you know taking that one piece of stem or whatever
it was and you know some instances they had more but usually they were getting and
More simply through accumulation of multiple instances of the same
sample essentially through clones, but um
By and large they're dealing with a sample of one
they're then
extracting DNA from that and then
testing that the or sequencing that DNA and
And
Refer and comparing it to the reference snip chip that they have to find whether or not it has or doesn't have
the same polymorphisms in the population set that they've created that's a tiny very
very
bad set of data and
You know McKernan's gone hard on that
Then
There's another 50 snip chip
50,000 snip chip that they've talked about that. It's they have admitted exists
They've never said what where the sample set came from
Years ago or tonight or today or whatever and on top of that they've never
Made it public. So they've got two sets of data that are
Essentially like
You know, they're legitimately
for their commercial products that they sold in terms of the
The genetic testing kits that they sold so like I understand why you wouldn't
Make that information public
But we know that those were samples that they collected from people saying hey, we're doing this big
Open source project and everything's going to be open source
but they've never released that initial set of reference snips that they used and
they've never been transparent about the subsequent 50,000 snips that they
Advertised having as part of their breeding program and saying like look we've got this fucking super cool breeding program
That's gonna make us better than everybody else like that was in Mowgli's
presentation and so
The question remains where did that come from?
Well, and the actual language there was to like it was really like to I mean
I'm actually almost wanted to rewatch the video because the actual language is very aggressive in that
Proposal also it wasn't it was just like far superior or something along those lines
So it's definitely like, you know, it wasn't like it was slightly
Malicious, let's just say
Yeah, and I guess I stand corrected where I might have misheard Kevin McKernan where I
As I understood that he said that they had access to the phylo snip chip and that they were using that in some way
within their system, but
Yeah, I could have misheard that and I'm willing to be wrong on that one, too
So
Yeah, I mean it's if it's public and it's in the NCBI thing
It's like it's I think there's I mean, there's not very much stuff out there like this
This is kind of cutting-edge data and science. I think we all need to remember also, so it's not just you know
It's not isn't like your average bear stuff or it's ever happened before
Yeah, we're really still it's an iterative process and we're all participating in it and the whole cannabis genome
you know due to prohibition and
Landrace, you know and and then the legacy and just kind of where we're at where the cannabis genome has been fractured
and you know
It's it's something that we're all working on together
And and so yeah, I'm grateful for each one of you in the room and to be able to have this conversation
I've got a
Take off so I'm gonna I'm gonna step out of the room, but I I really appreciate each one of you and
for everything that you're sharing and the passion that you have for the cannabis plant and
Good to see you here. I'd be on
Thanks for the future cannabis project I appreciate you guys this is a great room great club
Thank you for coming on man and for
You know bringing that up. I definitely think that
both Kevin McKernan and
Reggie would be I don't want to fuck up Reggie's last name. I suck with names everyone. Yeah
Reggie Guadino and I was gonna segue to you BAM like you and I talked to Reggie and he talked about some of the
same stuff because about the data set being a
jumbled mess that yes, there's the data set is that's public but it's still like
It's a hot mess and that it's not particularly informative. I
Have that interview that we did together if you want to publish it
The recording
That'd be cool because you know
Particularly now that it's come back up. It would be good to to revisit some of that stuff and you know
hopefully Nishan comes on and
you know more importantly than Nishan because Nishan obviously doesn't have the answers that
People or at least you know me
I don't know if anybody else gives a shit but or you know a few of us may I know Evian still gives a shit
but um
You know, it's one of those things where a lot of people have kind of thought like Oh
Phylos they they disappeared but they didn't they're still in the marketplace and
They're still lurking in clubhouse rooms and you know
hopefully comes on here and brings Alicia Holloway on and she can spit the actual science because she's the
Bioinformatics person who really built out their entire galaxy and deserves all of the credit
I think that maybe we should have a room on this specific topic and invite like a bunch of
The genome like do a panel or something with
Some of these major because I mean there's some of these people have never been in the same room again since then
I mean, we've I've had conversations with
specific people that it's like
There's like no lines being drawn and obviously a lot of them are competitors. I'm gonna also recently because
my
Focus with the nonprofit work has been to you know, it's like, you know
It's about the genetics really at the end of the day for me
that's what matters into the future and making sure that you know that we're
There we're being elegant and we're being cautious as far as broad-sweeping patents are concerned because there's already a lot
Out there and I'm not opposed, you know, if anybody even here on the stages
I don't know if you have if you're trying to patent things. I'm not like opposed to that. It's coming
It happens with all other sorts of you know, it's a very complicated
Equation especially in the hemp world versus the other world and how the things get moved around
Between countries and it's like a deep conversation
Around seeds and and really what the future looks like
But I think at the end of the day
What I've been told, you know as far as like what we're actually talking about
I've been told that maybe that the genetic sequencing doesn't even really
Matter on that side of it because it's not actually something you have to do for like if you're doing for
The UPA or some of these other things?
it's actually not like a requirement and actually a geneticist recently told me that it doesn't really matter if we
It's not gonna help us
If it's genetically sequenced at the end of the day
Like if there was you know a case of you know, somebody coming through and being like, oh well
Mersenne dominant one-to-ones are actually owned under this patent
And so you can't grow it or if you do grow it you owe us royalties
That you know things like this have already gone down so just so everybody's aware that
The sequencing maybe isn't part of that equation and maybe not the important piece
So there's other things that we could do
So it's really it's it's I think it's a complicated
Conversation and now since we've been having open calls with the nonprofits for like two years
Before that they were having you know, this has been an ongoing conversation and we're trying I think personally I think that you know
blockchain is the solution and that we are working actively to
Do that in a way that's like available for the community not like specifically because there's already companies that you know
Are doing it for profit just for themselves
But if what we're working to create is something called the ethical data exchange
Network where it's like all of us get to work together and we get to plug and play we get to look at data
From cool other things and that I think that that's where the ethics comes in
So if we're able to actually execute this vision that we've had it could help
Not it can do nothing but help plants help breeders help cultivators help the sequencing the lights are gonna help everybody
It's gonna make everything more transparent
And I think that at the end of the day, that's really what we need because there's just this lack
It's not just supply chain traceability or a lack thereof
It's like there's this is a deeper equation and a deeper
It's a it's an issue that needs solving within the cannabis industry for all types of cannabis hemp
Like all of it. So and same for the medical side
It's like all this is something that is a missing link and if we can do it in an elegant way
I think it's gonna transform the future of our industry. So that's kind of my
Personal perspective. I am uncertain how important any of this stuff is unless you're really like a super serious
You know if you're doing super serious breeding, this is your life
Then the genomics piece really matters to you. But otherwise it's you know, I don't know
It's a it's complicated equation that I'd love to see a deeper
Bigger conversation around around this and the implications. I think this brings up a great point. Sorry
No, go ahead Trevor
Thanks up a great point I
Agree with Trevor. I think it brings up a great point
It really makes me curious as some of these things are patented already
Let's say somebody comes across similar or the same findings of these, you know, let's let's
one to one with carophaline or
Whatever and that's patented if someone comes across in a certain breeding program for a different lineage
Does that matter or is that progeny that is expressing that one that patented one-to-one expression?
Even though it's through a different
Parental line is that progeny still the other people's property? No
Those patents will not hold up and that's not really help those patents
Cool. Thanks for that
patients so they
It's very complicated if you read the actual utility patents that were applied for and like I have them
they're in the folder that I've shared with everybody like I think every one of them and
So their utility patents they involve a particular
cultivar and a particular cannabinoid
chemotype
Like there it's a combination of the terpenes and the cannabinoids and that's essentially what they're
patenting in its
In its like medical application. So for you to be violating that patent
it isn't to breed a cultivar that has
You know high THC or high CBD and you know, high myrcene that wouldn't violate the patent
Violating the patent would be oh, I bred the exact same cultivar and now I have a medical application for the cultivar
That's targeted for this specific thing
That's already outlined in an already existing patent because if you read the patent, that's what it does and that's what it's about
It's not really a patent on the plant itself or on that particular
Chemotype though it did raise the specter of that possibility
However
We need to keep in mind
one of the people or one of the groups that was most vocal about raising this specter was
Phylos and this is like you kind of bring a great point
Phylos told everybody hey
Give us two hundred dollars or I don't even fucking know how much it was
I never did you know BAM and I were like fuck that shit
but
They told people send us your samples
We'll sequence them
Put them on the NCBI
It will be open source and public and this will protect you from these patents that are happy
Oh, no be afraid and this all happened in
2016 really is when those patents dropped and when biotech or molecular farms
ended up winning
the mixed chemotype CBD category and it became very controversial because people were like
Wait a minute. You mean this company that has this
incredibly expansive patent is
The company that just also won our heady fucking
Emerald Cup award like
that's fucked up and people were pissed and I posted about it lots of other people posted about it and
Phylos kind of filled in saying hey, we'll protect you from these types of things
This is exactly why you need to pay for sequencing because sequencing will protect you
And then you actually go and you talk to people and you find out to like real people who operate in this space
Like that's not the norm
That's not what other agricultural crops are doing or other seed makers
Who operate commercially for other crops are doing to protect their intellectual property
they're not getting it sequenced and having it published on some open source database and
So the entire thing
was
some charlatan shit from the beginning
And they had a fancy display and they were at all the trade shows and they had that killer
Design, you know the graphic up there on the screen and they looked all clean and it was a lot of fun
And you get the home gardeners here in Massachusetts
Who have everybody under the Sun's genetics they're growing so go ahead and throw that in the bucket as well
And you know flashy design. Like I said flashy presentation
flashy people at the display booths
So, yeah, they they sucked a lot of people in I also was skeptical from the beginning when I saw it
Because I'm a data person. That's what I do
Professionally for a living is data warehousing and data architecture and I was curious and cautious because
What are they doing with the data? That's the question. I was always asking
If they had just come clean at this point and done the needful and
Make it truly open source. I think that like at least I personally could move on
I think the fact that they're that they're still in like PR control
mode is
It's just the problem there speaks to their integrity. I think a lot of us saw the writing on the wall when they showed up and
had a lot of questions which they
answered honestly and
and and abused their
Their position and the trust of the community and so the way to rectify that is to come clean and
make amends and
Yeah, I honestly hope they do come back on on any forum
I mean, I don't care. It'd be cool to hear him talk and like try and address some of these things but like
On one level like
The
Concept of the galaxy makes a lot of sense if you're into like phylogeny in population genetics
And I was kind of let down by his answer like I know he's
Trevor yeah
Oh, hey, what up speaking of?
Hello population geneticist here who specifically works in cannabis and doesn't work for silos
Hello, dr. Anubis
Hello
so this
Conversation has been apparently going on for quite a while. Not just for the last couple hours, but for the last few years
Like what it what what did phylos do right?
What did they do
As a population geneticist and somebody who
works in the cannabis industry and is does not have a
Financial
Interest
I am on phylos his side
They didn't do
It came across very badly
And I get that like I understand where everybody is very
Upset confused pissed off, etc, etc
But
This conversation is an interesting one and I think it needs more
Like today's conversation was very like
Nishan came on and he was I just caught the tail end of it
And I don't know what you all have been talking about because I just got here, but
You know, he was in a forum where he's defending phylos. Of course, he works for them
and I
Think we need to have a
more directed conversation and ask the questions that you guys are really
interested in
Asking like what data was collected. Where did you get it from? How are you using it?
But we just asked all those questions and I've been asked I've literally been asking these questions
With and I've talked to all these people
directly like on the phone I've talked to
Paige obviously their PR person, but um, I've talked to Mowgli. I've talked to Nishan like these are not
I know that
Mowgli was the bad guy
Yeah, but dr. Schwab II he he was asked several times today very directly and he he ignored
He basically just ignored us or ignored Trevor. Not us. I mean
Here but
I
Mean if if I was the only person on stage
Like representing a company that I worked for which I don't work for phylos. But it's
real quick, I fully understand and he was put in a
Shit position and that's not that's neither here there. Yeah. Yeah. No, I get it
But you are you are so in the context of not like whether or not we empathize or can recognize
How he was put into a difficult position on this particular chat, which was acknowledged by Raymond and
some other people in the comment and is a very relevant and
like yeah, that's
obvious that that's part of the dynamic but
You say you're on their side
What does that mean? Um
so the
the argument that fueled the fire that really
Demonized phylos as doing something
wrong or bad or secret I
made the argument like
Like if I mean I read the whole thing that went down on Instagram when it happened
And I know who fueled that fire and I know where that information came from
phylos
If the way they started out as a company
Really wasn't a good business model
and in order to do what they wanted to do they needed to
make more money and I know that they said they would never be a breeding company and they pivoted and
All that like that's really
Where people got upset?
But in order to do the work that they wanted to do they needed more
Income to pay the people they didn't disclose that as the problem though. They went a completely different way
They did not handle it well
I agree
They did not handle it well and they didn't but the information that came out like the video with Mowgli cake that cake that was
You know
That came out he wasn't a good person
He wasn't talking to the cannabis industry he was talking to investors
I absolutely knew what he was saying
To the investors and I also would say those words to the investors, but it's a different
It's not a different story, but it you would use different words and talking to people in the industry
Real quick real quick
Like I was here I went through all of it
I've literally read every document that has the word phylos in it
like
I'm not kidding you any document on the internet that has the term phylos through
multiple different search functions
I've
I've read all of them. I know what they did. I know everything that they said and
I also know that the argument isn't really
Like I don't I don't really care about those things. I care about the population genetics your population
geneticists tell us tell us about the science and the galaxy and how and
Good science or bad galaxy
so like in any good population gene like population genetic
Geneticist genetics like a PC away is like one of
two really commonly used
Statistical analyses one is structure population structure where you kind of look at
relationships among and between all
individuals in multiple populations
That's an individual and then so is PC away PC away is another one in every single one of my papers
I have a PC away
it's just a an
analysis to show how
samples that are included in the data set are related to each other and
In the whole like population group. It's not a weird analysis. They do have it
I fucking love it like as a population geneticist. I'm like, oh my god
Because normally we just display it on two axes because we all we have is a flat piece of paper to display it they have
And I don't know who wrote the the software for it. But oh my god fucking it's amazing
They are able to display the galaxy in three-dimensional space
Which is very pretty but it gives you all the information that you would need
To
Know which things are
closely related or more further apart like as a breeder, which I am NOT I'm
Can I stop you right there, okay, so it allows you to know that relationship
Yes now
That's based on the data set that they have
So as far as I know and this is from reading both their document like
documents from early they did a
presentation at UC Davis at one point and there was also a
present
Alicia Holloway
And they indicated that they had a snip chip they essentially
had a reference set of snips that was
2,500 to
3,000 snips and that was what they referenced every sample against
As a population geneticist who understands the population structure and diversity in cannabis
How salient is that and like how?
Good of information
Dataset is that is it going to inform you a lot? I don't know. I assume that it's 100%
100%
Informative this is what they use. So I use a different tool called micro satellites, but their snip data
100% like this is how the
World of like when you
When you go to register like a new cultivars great
You you spend 12 years of your life and you've made a new grape and you go to the plant protection variety office and
You bring some genetic data. This is the kind of genetic data that you bring you bring micro satellites
Or you bring sniff data the sniff data that they have is absolutely informative it can
Yeah, I mean the
the downside
Downside
To the kind of data they use and
Medicinal genomics also the the data that they use is that nobody can
You can't pull the data with other labs like the the the snips that phyllis uses and
The whole genome sequencing. It's not the whole genome by the way. It's just bits of the genome that medicinal genomics uses
You can't combine data sets so
with the tool that I use which is
Microsatellites I can give you or it's published. You can take my microsatellites amplify the part of the genome
We can then come you can then use my data and compare your data to my data and find out like more information
about where your
stuff sits
It's there's a lot more to it than people think or know
And I know that
someone has said that the number of snips that they use is not informative and
can't give the kind of
Information that they're saying that it can it absolutely can this stuff is published in population genetic papers like in
tons of organisms
This is just basic population genetics
and so
in that case what
specifically is the range of like for instance the microsatellites that you used in your
your analysis
What do you mean I know
Because for context because we're talking about the
overall reference data set that was used by
phylos and
So they're not really comparable. They're they're different. I different. I know they're different markers, but
The markers that that you used for the populate because I've I
Have your paper. I haven't actually dug into it
But I know that I have it in my in my
files, I mean
How to answer that question in
I
Mean, I do know how to answer that question, but I guess I don't really know what
What do you mean by like the range?
No
Well, can it tell no no the number so you you did microsatellite analysis, right?
Mm-hmm. Those were the markers that you used. Yep
How many?
Cuz like 10, okay, cool, which is 20 alleles, but they're in the non-coding region
They're hyper
They they they mutate very easily so they're hyper
Mutable and but because they're in the non-coding region, they don't actually like change how the plant like grows
Since it's in the non-coding region. This is
microsatellites are a
Like that's the go-to
to
For it for a different cultivars to identify like what's the same what's different?
for tomatoes, let's say like
you want to make sure that the
The seeds that you grew they're a little weird and you want to make sure that like you didn't get ripped off
You would be able to get genetic data and go to the plant protection
Variety office get it tested and they'd be able to say no, whatever the fuck these seeds are. They're not what you bought
And then you would have like a core case or whatever. So
microsatellites are like the go-to
Snips the single nucleotide polymorphisms are
Ubiquitous like throughout the genome and so you really have to be able to like pick out that are actually informative
It's not just like I have we all have snips from one cell just to the next cell within ourselves
Because
Polymerase the DNA polymerase when it makes copies of DNA it makes mistakes. It does it very fast
There are little checks and balances that it goes through so that you don't actually like have your cells die
because they don't function because of mistakes, but there are mistakes that are made and it's it's pretty common so
I
I'm not a fan of doing snip data just because
How do you figure and there is software and all this stuff like to figure out which snips are informative and which ones are just?
mistakes, but
It that's not the case with the genetic tool. I use which is also a lot cheaper
real quick I'd love to stop you right there because I think you brought up a good point and I
Think the difference also here is that
You've published a peer-reviewed paper in a journal. I can go and I can read the methodology in your paper
I can look at the markers I can you know, I'm no geneticist
I'm not pretending to be a PhD or doctor on the same level of explanation and what you've just explained
Disabused me of some of my own preconceptions and I appreciate that and so I'm always willing to listen to experts and defer to
experts in the field, but what you just
highlighted for me is that like you used a marker set and a type of markers that even with a
Incredibly, you know
Very few markers has very high resolution in terms of population genetics and being able to discern
relationships and
You've published a peer-reviewed paper on it and I can go back and I can look at all the details and come to an understanding
Of what you've done and how you've come to the conclusions that you've come to
Phyllis is a black box and I started like straight up
The only reason those people called me and talked to me it certainly wasn't because of the Mowgli means
Memes and me being shitty to them
it was because I made it clear that I understood one what a snip was at which apparently was like
Code for me to be like prove that I knew some shit or something but like I
Understood the lingo. I wanted some basic answers
I wasn't making insane claims about them stealing stuff or revivifying
Zombie plants or anything like this. I was just saying that it appeared that they one
Had a PR campaign that spent several years telling everybody fuck Monsanto come work with us
We're gonna protect you from these fucking
So they weren't like come work with us. Well, no and so that no that brings up a great point
You know, this is something that he but really I just want to say he should have hired you instead of
This is I don't care but like let me ask you Trevor like who
Is there somebody in the industry that's doing genetic testing and putting out this information
That you do trust Kevin McKernan. No easy
No. Oh
My god, are you guys serious?
Yes, I trust him on his openness in time
So there are several published papers I just in September we
Reviewed one
Where they had to throw out the medicinal genomics Jamaican lion genome because
It's so bad. It's trash. It's it. They can't even compare it to other genomes that are out there because
The data the resolution of the data is so bad
Kevin is a businessman a hundred percent. He's not a geneticist
He doesn't have a
Master's degree. He doesn't have a PhD
He's more than happy to tell you that he worked on the human genome project
Sure, I guess he did but so did
2,000
PhDs and all of their bench scientists and whatnot. Well Kevin worked on is
logistics and
flow through
as
With with his, you know education he was able to
Improve how that flow through happened. He was able to speed up the process basically
Okay
So and I would be I have the two different I mean I'd also like to say that I have a very high respect for
For Eleanor from leaf works and I feel like they're a really wonderful company and I really appreciate their work in the space
I feel like then what are your perceptions on Canopedia? Because are you saying that Canopedia?
No, I find it incredibly hard to navigate it it's just a different way of like
Displaying the data that they're collecting
Have you seen have you seen the the redo?
I mean
How recent you're talking about but also you'll notice
Well, I probably have but also I want
Any paper that Kevin McKiernan is on
only goes to bio archive and to
preprints he doesn't have
They never go past into the peer review process
which is really interesting to me because the you'd like we as
Scientists like we want to go through the peer review process
We want to know that our science is credible and valid and that other peers in our group
Can validate our science
Kevin McKiernan doesn't do that and he doesn't do that
because
I'm not entirely sure that's true. I know that that is the case on
Many of the papers. I know that's the case on the 42
synthase
You know, he HC powdery mildew, whatever
Archive and just Kevin McKiernan. He's got something like 42 papers on there. I
Mean
Nobody also has papers that have been co-authored with Reggie. What do you know that?
Papers too. I mean, I just I just I mean, I'm not a scientist. I'm not a PhD
I'd like to have conversations with PhDs because I feel like it's the most it's fun and I
Learn a ton and I actually think that the newest update to canopedia is is really cool and same with the I
Personally just have a lot of respect for people who are putting
The information public and I feel like there's been a lot of great I don't know there's just been a lot of
You pay to get that so how much is it to
Know but
Pay for phyllos. Oh, but no when you submit a sample to to
medicinal genomics and
They put it in canopy that's
Part of of the prop you pay out three thousand dollars
There's a bunch of different price tiers for their work and same with all the I mean if you're gonna work with
They're all business. They are all businesses. They're all for profit for profit businesses
Okay, real quick. Um, I I I get that that's
True of phyllos and I I hear what you're saying
And
Well, yeah and but you're also
You're defending phyllos and saying what phyllos has done is good or that like I'm not I'm just saying
What?
people think phyllos has done
Isn't what we think they did
You cut out on this driver, um
What do you think we
Think that phyllos did
It's like I've been very explicit
Like I said, I missed out on a whole bunch of the conversation, but all I know
from you know
What I've seen on the internet and what people are saying about phyllos is that they weren't forthcoming with
the data that they were collecting and
That people don't know where the data came from that they are using in their breeding project which they said
Mowgli said at the beginning they were never going to do a breeding project, which they
Did it? Yeah, it was Nishan who said they were never going to do a breeding program
He said it in the New York Times when they had their big launch in
2016 I believe
The issue
was that
they were
very very clear and very
Upfront and every time they spoke to the quote-unquote cannabis community
They said that they were doing what they were doing
One as a collective science project to try and do essentially population genetics
Yeah
And two to protect people's intellectual property by taking the sequence
Information that they took from the samples that people sent in for the genetic kits, you know fucking whatever
I don't know what the price point was or whatever
but
And that it would then be published to the NCBI and that this would protect them from over
Reaching patents like the one that was created by bio or gotten by biotech
industries
2016 and
Throughout this entire process. They said fuck Monsanto. We're gonna protect you from Monsanto Monsanto is coming
We're here to protect your intellectual property get yourself
Sequenced get it up on the galaxy and you will have established a form of intellectual protection
Questions, where's the lie?
Like
Where's the lie? Yeah, like they won
Okay, so the
2500 to 3000 snips that they use for the reference were collected from people in the community
They haven't released that data set. We don't have those snips
So there alright so that data
the stuff that they have on the phyllis galaxy is
Available to everybody
NCBI and I don't know like I'm guessing that most people in this room have never had to put a
genetic sequence into NCBI, but it takes about
But took me about three hours to do every single one of my samples. It's fucking
Ridiculous, I fully understand that but real quick. We're like one scientist doing this and so
It's but this is now and so what we're saying is
Hold on no, so the reference sample set is
if we just take all of the different things that they publish to the NCBI and
Look at all of the polymorphism. We have that specific 25 to 3
2500 to 3000 snips
Yeah, yes and so and we're going to be able to distinguish that from every other snip that's in there how
What
What do you mean?
like that's how you
That's that's the data that you use to that's the data that they used to put everything in the phyllis galaxy
That's what we do is population geneticist as we find these informative
snips or
Informative parts of the genome that set apart things from each other so that we can tell are things identical
Are they different are they related? Are they not like if not?
So
We don't know what the core set was though
How are we able to discern what the core set in the ref that is the reference?
but
That's the problem with
Phyllis and
Medicinals and okay. Okay. Hold on. Hold on real quick real quick. I hear you. I hear you cool
but my statement was and the point is
They said hey
Submit information to submit these samples to us
We then do this thing to protect everybody's IP and it's all about protecting
Everybody's IP. It's a community
Project there was not hey, we're doing this thing that we're going to
basically mine
25 to 3,000
2,500 to 3,000
Reference snips. We're going to keep those and use those and monetize those for our own commercial purposes and
Information I don't they can't use
What they got the information that they got from those informative snips
It's the same information that you have
Hold on. What do you mean that?
it's not
super secretive like
but no, so then what's the value of 20 the
reference snips
the reference snips are the snips that they're using that are informative to tell they do have value because
They know to tell you
How things are related that's it it does it's not it's not related to jeans or anything like that
It's telling you this snip
tells you that
These things are exactly the same. This snip is telling you that these two things are different. It's not
there's nothing to do with jeans or
They're not getting any more information from this genetic data that you would have from the phylos galaxy
Okay, so I think where
The disconnect is is I don't think that they were mining this
Information to then have some gene that they were able to be like huzzah
I have that snip and now I have the secret gene
I understand that and I hope that everybody else understands that as well
what I
Do think and this is I mean
so phylos
went and told investors in
2018 that they had a two million dollar testing business and that two million dollar testing business was predicated off of those
2,500 to 3,000 snips that they collected from samples that people gave to them and
people gave them to them on the premise
That's no different than the purple cush genome. That is
published in NCBI it's there's
It's not informative at all as far as like what the plants gonna express
No, no, no, no, I get that that's not the value the value that is
Been extracted from the community because keep in mind in
2004 when they asked for samples from people
They were asking for people to give them samples to then create this reference the set of reference nips
Okay, you don't need a whole bunch of samples to create
this
Reference that I they don't but they did they asked for say
I have I have ten micro satellites that I created from the purple finish genome that's published like you don't
You don't understand that that's not it's not the issue that I think we're making
Word like I don't think we're communicating here because I understand that you don't need a lot of
Information here, but I do know what happened. I
The details of the history of what happened and I know that they talked to people
Lots and lots and lots of people and sourced lots of different samples from those people and build
the 2500 snips
So even that's not where the 2500 snips came from. Yeah, it is. No, it's not. Where did it come from?
So you just have to compare a few samples and find out through genetic
Analysis through software
I fully understand
What they did
They didn't get hold on hold on you miss communication in a period before they had gone public
They went around David Watson made a post in
2014
2014 on
Icy mag asking for samples. I have email communications from some of my friends who are asked for samples
Raymond who was on here earlier was asked for samples in this timeline
These samples that they did collect
Were used to build out that reference said create
something that would have
Meaningful
Differences in those snips, that's how
Can we all stop it Trevor just you're making great points, but you've got to let her finish sentences
Thank you, so yes, you need to have multiple samples in order to figure out which
Differences in the genome are informative you don't need thousands you need like
Between four and ten if they're different
They're informative if they're not different their tracks and then you kind of going through this iterative process
To figure out are these informative or not? They didn't have to take all of these
Samples from the whole community to figure out this
How they're gonna use this data to
Give information, you know, like this is a
misunderstanding of how
genetic data
Can be used to answer questions
The data set that they probably
Use to come up with this informative snip
Set
Was probably something like I don't know 30 40
Samples, it's it wasn't thousands. It wasn't everybody they talked to
and then I'm aware of the fact that it's not thousands and they did I mean if you look at the whole data set of
Even everything that got sent
They went around to thousands of people and took their data and used it to create this like informative data
They didn't do that. That's not what they did
Excuse me if I exaggerated in the number
Well
No, no, hold on hold on a distinction is pretty clearly made here they communicated to literally thousands of people I
Said that I knew of specific individuals
Who and I have the email chains and I have communications we know that Robert Clark
We know that David Watson submitted samples and were part of this initial group
We know that they then stepped down and stepped away from the thing saying that they felt that they had been lied to
That's their words
That's not what Robert Clark said at all. I read his
statement and that he David Watson said he
David Watson, I said Robert Clark and what he said was
Not that silos had done anything wrong, but he didn't want to be
Associated with a company that was going through this sort of like
public
shit show
But he didn't say and he did he pointed he said
There are people in this industry who should be ashamed of themselves for dragging a company like this through the mud and I am
paraphrasing
And I know who that is and you all do too
He did not vilify silos for anything that they did. He said what they were trying to do
Was pretty cool, but he could no longer be associated with this
because of the shit show that was
happening, so
We lost you
Me
Yeah, it stopped or not now you're back no, I'm still here I just said so I
Mean I don't have anything to follow that up with I mean, I mean I have the utmost respect for
For Clark and Watson
but have like them separating themselves from
This company didn't come from the fact that they did anything wrong it came from the shit show
that ensued
that was
Propagated by one
Particular person
Gave it by a whole bunch of people like what?
No, the fuel was the the fire was fueled by a particular person and he said they
Who are we talking about? Are you talking about me or somebody else?
No
Okay
I don't even know. I mean honestly like I don't know
No, no, no back in the day like the whole thing that blew up
Everything that was said about silos that was like they're gonna take your genetics and they're gonna like Frank and weed your shit and
Like all this stuff was fueled by one particular person a direct competitor. You can put the team
Kevin no one's stupid
I'm not gonna say anything. Okay. Well, I mean hold on but like that's not like the
Argument that's been made in the position like the good faith
Characterization of the criticism that has been levied against has been missed like
Like even just your in like
perception that they took
Thousands of people no, no, I didn't say that. Hold on. That's a miscommunication. I said that they
Communicated to thousands of people and that I know several individuals
That's that's the good faith characterization of what I actually said
No, so they
they
It was 2500 to 3000 in the initial reference set that they used from the samples that they collected from
People who I personally know Raymond personally know how many plants that would take to reference 25 to 3000
Samples and how many plants do you need for them?
so in population genetics like the
Magic number is 30
Okay, so you would only need 30 variable plants to
25 to 3000 snips
Yeah
I could go buy a couple packs of mixed seeds and get 25 to 30,000 snips pretty easy
I mean sure or you could go around to you buy samples from
cannabis dispensaries like
The way of like referencing it
but I'm just trying to like link the link the bars here because it's not if it's only 30 to
30 plants like it would be that out of it to have to have a
Facility that plants 30 plans to do it and not necessarily use these other data points
I think there's definitely an avenue of conversation to be had for sure. Yeah, and to be clear
the context here is that this
2500 to 3000 snips that could have been picked out from 30 samples that was gotten
From that was open-sourced like there's no debate or question about this
It's all documented people can read the forums people can read David Watson's different comments
before and after the controversy and
He very clearly states that he feels he was misled by phylos and that they didn't perform
what they said they were going to perform and
The
Point that I was making is that they came to the community
They said hey do this open source community project
we're going to protect you in your IP and then they collected a
reference set of genetics
That they took the snips from
That's what they built the gene kit out of they then monetize the gene kit
They then built out a two million dollar a year revenue stream off of this gene kit
They've never told people what those specific snips were what the specific reference that is we can discern it if
We are population geneticists like yourself
Perhaps and everybody's already said that there's some wonkiness with trying to understand the data
that adds another layer of complication and
On top of that because this is we literally haven't even made it to the next step
Which is the next question of the 50,000 snips and where that data set came from and my question
Since 2019 was where did you get it and they just won't answer that question?
Okay, so I can answer that question. Um
Okay, so the
Original snip data that you're that you were talking about
You can get that like every single
Organism has an entire genome what they did was scour the genome for
For
Informative snips and that was what they used to make the phyllos galaxy
it's not a lot of snips and it's kind of I
I
Mean I use a different gene tool
Then they did but like they didn't use a lot of snips because they're the informative ones
like it really doesn't matter because they're the ones that give the information that is needed in order to
Give the information that is needed as far as like relationships among these samples
now
We move up a step. We want more informative
Genetics
We don't need more samples in order to get this information. We still have the DNA from the original
Samples that were submitted. We don't need more. It doesn't take more
if
we can have you know, like the the more informative stuff is going to be getting things like
Afghani and land races and then cultivated and then hemp and then you know as many different things that we can have
In that data set is going to give us
a better idea of how informative that data is but you don't need
More and more is not necessary in terms of genetic data
So I think that what they have what they had
At the beginning
Would be more than enough to give them they just had to run it through a different analysis
Looking for different things. So, you know like saying that they took all this
you know stuff in like
Hit hit it or like to see for secret stuff with it. They didn't need to but they did
DNA like it's not like one to one test
Like once you have DNA from a plant you can run like tons
DNA like
Tons of different analyses and PCR and shit
Like I have I have a freezer full of probably
800 samples some stuff I bought some stuff was donated
While collected I didn't steal it and I mean, you know like
It's okay. Yeah. No, no, hold on though. The question has been for two years three years now
Where'd the samples that you built out the 50,000 snip chip came from I just
Know that they have it. I know that it's a
larger
Dataset than the one that they were initially using for the reference gene for the gene kit
Well, that's fine. I don't look real quick. I've
Simply asked the question and they've refused to answer
time and time again and
part of the reason why they've been very hesitant to answer this question is because
They told people early on
What they ended up doing in terms of taking the data set that they got from
samples collected from people who provided the original
Data and you're saying right now. They didn't even need any more data. They didn't need more samples
They could have used that initial
Let's say it was 30 plants that they collected from people like my buddy Goldberg
Like they collected from Raymond
Watson yeah, okay
So all of those samples that they collected from those people they then
Built did you think that maybe he's not allowed?
Hey because he's
Works for a company and maybe under an NDA
Totally fine. And if that's the case, I'm not sure
But real quick
Open cannabis project and the thing that we were told
by the executives in that company by Nishan by Mowgli by
Page the PR person
Was consistently that they were being transparent
That they were being open that they didn't use any
They may have very carefully selected things that were not
Anonymously donated or people from people that didn't want but we know that's not true
But you don't know you don't know that
You'll be just David Watson
David Watson is one of the people that provided the the data set that they collected from people who provided the original
data set
Don't know that will be just David Watson David Watson is one of the people that provided the original reference samples
Okay, but it doesn't we know that subset
but but but we don't know that they use his samples either for the
SNP data set. We don't know what they use. And yes, that is a valid question, which which samples did you use to create your
Variable SNP data set
That's the only question that I've been asking three years and if you could exactly
That'd be dope
That's the reason he asked that question several several times
I hate to keep chiming in on this but it the dude didn't answer it was very specific. Oh
My god, seriously as a company you're not gonna tell anyone what exactly like part of the genome that you're using as your
Reference data set like that would put you out as that would
To
Didn't make any sense. No, but number two, it doesn't matter like the genome is you know, 80 million base pairs
Picking out the 30,000 that they're using like whatever like don't pick your own
It doesn't
Know no, there was an opportunity cost that was created by a company going around saying hey, we're gonna do this open source
thing and it's gonna protect you and fuck Monsanto and we're here to protect you and then goes to the
Investors and says hey, you know what?
Monsanto shit
all of this
Next-gen sequencing and snip data stuff. You're never going to even if you had the data and
Knew what they were using. You're not going to be able to
Compile like you're not going to be able to do what they do unless it's exactly they don't publish this
Exactly what they do. You can't compile
Your data with there it's really like a non-issue like it doesn't
It's not
Compilable data and the same thing with medicinal genomics like they just have
What they do is what they do and you you?
Ask them the question like which part of the genome are you sequencing? They won't tell you that either
I get that
So one of the things is is and you missed this part
but we went around and we talked to a lot of breeders a lot of breeders and individuals who ended up submitting samples to phyllos and
Individuals who had to pay phyllos money to do their samples and other folks who have worked with medicinal
Genomics and had to pay them and we talked to these people back in
2015 homie BAM was in here just a minute ago. He he popped out again, but we went around and we said hey
You know what?
Genetic sequencing we've done this course in
Genomics, we think that it may be useful for us as a group in the community to pool our resources
and to try and do yeah, yeah
Yeah, no, I get this but what ended up happening in
2015 while we're doing this phyllos is also going around to the community and saying hey do our thing and
phyllos ends up getting a
Two million dollar revenue stream from the community
Okay, you know what you're like, okay, they're a business as is medicinal genomics like
I
Get that they're a business. They're also a business
To who is making money by taking your samples is it?
Probably not I didn't send any samples to them and I knew it was a scam from the beginning
but what they sold us on was
Explicitly that they were against that
Protect the community that can't be separated out from
Anybody who's taking money from you is a business, right?
I
Get like I'm not like naive. I fully understand this and I didn't support it like saying that they're a business
Yes, they're a business. They also engaged in shady
unethical business practices
by lying
Can I can I interject here for a second, please?
That's part of why the OCP
There was a nonprofit that was founded out of this that disbanded because it because of these points and then also
There are people who broke ties
knowingly because of these things so it's like
I just think that's clear. I did speak to that and and there are different
Goals, I mean, I mean we're all working. I don't even know like I have a goal
But I don't take people's money. Like I would love to actually
have Ian talk to you about you know, like I want to figure out how this
Cannabis picture all gets this puzzle gets put together. I'm not a business. I don't take people's money, but
And also my genetic tool is out there like anybody can use it and we can
Compile that data. I feel like businesses like
Phyllis and like medicinal genomics. They have their own specific
Genomic regions that they target and they're not going to tell us because they don't want us to compile information
because they
They're very specific
Their businesses, but anyway, um
Just to
Phyllis didn't have any cannabis and couldn't have any cannabis because Phyllis wasn't a cannabis business
Phyllis relied entirely on other people for their samples
And so all of their data set is built off of the samples that people for provided to what?
What that's the truth that was when Phyllis first got established in 2014, yeah
well
it's a genetics company like
It was it was because it was tissue samples that were not actually was a tissue
non-viable in line
classified as
You know you take a
Stem sample
Then over time things changed and so it's like
There you know now they're regulated
yes, and they they change their business model as
companies do I just
Trevor I do appreciate everything that you said. I just am having a hard time finding
What
What you what what what?
Compared to other things that are going on in the industry and other companies that are doing the same thing
What did they do that was so bad?
Like that's what I was trying to interject with earlier is that I think that I've come to the core of what the
miscommunication is is a Trevor comes from a places where we have this honor code and
Business doesn't work on an honor code
but when you get start mixing cannabis and business together and you
are claiming to be
Part of this this old-school crew and and want to work on that honor code
you you better do what you say you're gonna do and I
Understand when you're coming at that from a business
Point of view that's not how it works, but that
We we we have been in a completely different type of business
Environment, you know to where if if somebody isn't keeping their word, that's your livelihood
So I think that that's the miscommunication that I'm hearing
Like what do you do when you have to pay?
your people to do the work that needs to be done in order to
In order to convey the information that you said you were gonna give to the community like I never like
You know
Business but look the issue is very simple
He tried to tell everybody how they were pivoting it did
Mowgli he tried
He's
According to Nishan Mowgli was the bad guy and the baddie who did everything was wrong
100% like look I you're talking to somebody who literally
Like lived this shit free
I don't know him, but I I can like I
Watched his videos from when he first started phylos and
His vision is absolutely like what I would love
to see happen where we can just like paint this picture of how cannabis has
You know like just
being used and utilized by humans and the evolution and
Everything all that stuff like he did that he spoke to me and actually I was kind of pissed because I like I want to
Fuckin do that and this guy's already doing that
But then
don't be because like you actually have the opportunity to do it because like they
perhaps the galaxy you
As a population geneticist, I'll defer to you
When phylo started and I was just starting out as like a baby PhD like it was
And then like the stuff that Daniela Vergara and Nolan came were doing like I was also mad that they were doing the same stuff
I was like dude, fuck these people like they're stealing all my ideas and no
We all have the same ideas like we all in this
cannabis space
Want the same?
We have the same questions and we want to figure out the answers and I feel actually true
I mean, I don't
Think there's a big difference. I think that the wired article actually from was it like 2019?
Actually really does kind of like go over all of this stuff in the video. I mean the same thing
It's like I lived and breathed this I was good friends with Natalie
I stayed up late talking to him and having all sorts of things and I don't
Know I mean people I know tons of people like we were approached by them
There's always been a huge divide between small craft farmers and
Biotech large this is this is big I
Think this is a different conversation
like where
And where I'm coming from is like we want to know like
Like hold on. Hold on. Hold on. You are a scientist and you have made it very clear that there's a big distinction
Clear we don't get to say that fight that Maui silos were on some science shit
Sorry
Can you repeat that?
Yeah, like you you've made a very clear distinction between the work that you do as a scientist that is not
Profit-oriented and it's not within the corporate space and the type of work that operates within corporate spaces and the type of decision-making
That operates within those spaces. You've made it clear that medicinal genomics and phyllos are profit-driven
Corporations and when we've pointed out hey, they explicitly told a lie
Like they said this to us and then they said this to a different audience and they are the exact
Diametrically opposed opposite thing your response is well. Oh, yeah, of course
Why wouldn't they they're a corporation corporations have to pay the bills, right? And so
The point is is that you're a scientist the work that you are
Doing is driven by an effort to to come to the truth and understand these things
Understand cannabis population genetics on a true scientific level
phyllis had corporate
profit driven motives that determined a lot of what they ended up doing and Mowgli did present an image and
did present this idea that they would trace the whole history of cannabis and that
Genomics was going to provide the solution and they created a very impressive three-dimensional representation of this thing
But that doesn't mean that they didn't lie to people and that doesn't mean that their business wasn't built on a fundamental
contradiction that you yourself have recognized which is the
disconnect between
Project and
their business model because the open cannabis project and the rhetoric that accompanied it was
Absolutely part of the sales pitch and part of the business
From the beginning I agree with you. I do agree with you. I
think that the
Where they came from at the start
Absolutely changed
And it was not a good
Move at least the way they handled it. So I'll say that and so I agree with you in that facet
That was the criticism. The criticism was hey you started out selling us on this bill of goods
That was that you were IP protection and a community
Population genetics project and then flip the script and went Monsanto, which was the thing that they were. Oh my god
Monsanto nobody went Monsanto. Hold on real quick
They're not with Monsanto they
Oh my god, seriously. Go ahead. Yeah
To characterize
When they went month, oh, they didn't go Monsanto
I'm characterized. I'm explaining
I
understand that and
Presentation that was given. Oh
Zynga was explicitly saying there are big ag
Companies that are going to enter in the space. We have a first mover advantage
We're going to be able to position ourselves in such a way that we're either going to be pot out by one of these big ag
Conglomerates or become one of them. That's the
presentation Oh
my Atlanta
just because they have an employee who did work for Monsanto does not mean that they are
Partnering or
Hold on. Hold on. I just I understand that but that's not what I'm saying. I didn't say they partnered with
Somebody past employee history and say
They're Monsanto because that's not what I just said
What I actually said
It just makes them look as bad as they are
So hold on I didn't just say that though that is one element of it
They're hiring practices were part of it, but that's not what I just said. What did I just say? I said that
Mowgli went up and said to the people at the benzinga conference
That they were they had a first mover advantage
because of their connections in the cannabis industry because of the huge genomic data set that they had amassed and
Because of this they were going to be positioned in a way that
Once big AG
Conglomerates move in they would either be able to be bought out by them or would have such a great advantage
That they would be the next big act. That's literally what Mowgli said
Okay, so when did all of this happen?
It was it not in
2019 yeah
All right. And so what has happened since then it's been two years
I
Just feel like this is a
Whole lot of
Unfounded like witch-hunting kind of stuff like yeah, I get it. It's it's
sounded really bad and
and
There is mud dragging
Whatever but
They haven't partnered with Monsanto there is no
Frank and weed there is like all the scary shit. Everyone was freaking out about
But that's what's being said that's not what when he's characterizing as a Monsanto style
business a large ad corporation not specifically
Partnering with Monsanto not coming Monsanto. He's just specifically copies
Typing it and actually it's bear, right? It's bear
But
He's not say we've never said that they were partnering with Monsanto
Okay, they were saying is they were classifying it as a Monsanto type of company
That's all that he's that I believe is trying to be expressed
All right in for context the big at the big five ag companies
Are now the big four ag companies?
Because Monsanto is no longer one of them because as Jason pointed out bear has consolidated
Monsanto inside of them and after that consolidation it made it so that there happened to be a lot of
Monsanto employees at the woodland facility who were looking for employment and got into the cannabis industry and
These individuals that were referring to it specifically and that's fine. That's not the issue. The issue is that
Mowgli and Nishan went and said to the cannabis community from
2014 to
2019
Fuck Monsanto, you can literally you said you watched all his videos if you watched all of Mowgli's videos
Say fuck Monsanto
Okay
Wait, hold on. They may think fuck Monsanto on some sort of like
theoretical abstract level
on a material level
When they go in front of investors and say hey, we've leveraged our relationship with the cannabis community
We have this incredible
Genetic data set this puts us in a position to be ahead of
Monsanto and the other this is literally what they said
Just let me you know, I try to let you finish and I apologize that I don't always and you know, I suck for that
But they said very explicitly
We are positioning ourselves to become the next big ag company or be bought out by one of them
Their words not mine, it's all on video all of its there and so when you ask and they're like
why would anybody be upset about that it's because there is a
Explicit lie and
misrepresentation for five years that says we are going to stand as a bulwark
Against this thing and then going to investors and saying hey
We've just captured all this data in these
Relationships that give us the ability to be the thing that we just told them were a bulwark against
Okay
I just want to say this
I think we're going back you guys are going back and forth on a lot of points if we could like if we could spit
Positive and I asked you both like what could we do to?
Like do this, right?
Would that be available to kind of like turn this towards the positive
Yeah, if young is a great person to speak on that. Can we talk about that?
I just I think we've been we've been drilling this really hard
I think nice to turn towards how we're going to be positive and move things forward
That's been the goal for the past two years since what I now refer to as phylo skate
um
I I started joking about it like in the nonprofit board meetings and the other things over time just because
It's kind of like it's like the he who shall not be named kind of scenario
But I think that you know, we spent a lot people. Okay, so I don't even know how to
Refer to there. There was definitely a group of people that came together
After phylo skate there were board member there people cared, you know people really really cared about the community
They care about the plant they cared about the future vision and and still wanted to you know had those same things I believe
That you were speaking to
Dr. Anna that like there was
You know that we all a lot of us. I mean I was I bought into the whole OCP thing
I used to have like my OCP buttons like no and like I believed in it. I believed in the vision
I've had a
conversations about this for years because I think there are people who really really care and I know that some of those people are on
stage here and I think that's the core of the conversation is
that we have a collective vision and I think that
There are people outside and inside of that collective vision. And then there's people I think that there are I
Really don't like the us versus them piece, but I think it's very important to remember that
Big alcohol big tobacco
Biotech are all here and pharmacy pharmacy come, you know pharmaceuticals are also very much in the cannabis space
They are not just targeting, you know, like big mainstream. They're targeting woke cannabis
They're targeting regenerative cannabis. They're targeting legacy cannabis and if we have
Any thing to do in this space over the next few years?
it's to stand together with the United Voice so we can actually survive the next phase of what's happening and
Come through and pull through in a good way and that the legacy, you know the breeders
I mean, this is the eight-hour breeders roundtable, you know
Now I think or at least seven hours. So we're at 10. We're at 10
This room Susan's in the audience there she was I we did the show and this room started right after the state of new
Cannabis news hour and has not stopped since okay. So we care it's like
I mean we like care we can't work a little bit
Can I just want to wrap up right because I actually have like a concise thought is that we do care there are people
in this space who care
And there are nonprofits that are working
And there are nonprofits that are working
Unsylo'd and are working with some of the for-profit companies because I've worked, you know
I work in the adult use space. I work for for-profit companies. I'm a consultant
I mean I do big large-scale agriculture. I plant 5,000 acres of plant. I also do craft production
I care about regenerative practices like I but my nonprofit work is something that I do on a personal level
Because I I'm on a mission with this plant and so I think that
that there are there's an issue and there's a there's an equation and a problem that needs to be solved and
That is the work that we're doing and and you know
I have friends in all of these different spaces and I think that I think it's important to remember that you know
There's a lot of really smart people and that you know at this point
As far as Phylos is concerned, you know, they're they're a business in the cannabis space
They are definitely are they've taken interesting direction
they have a lot of incredibly smart people on their team and
they're still here in the space and I think that part us a one solution would be to have an open dialogue conversation
between all of the
Genomics companies and larger companies and there's a lot of people there
You know are working for profit, but I think at the end of the day
There is some small steps that we can take as a community
To have a strong voice and to be able to kind of rise up together
And I think our nonprofit work is part of that
So anybody I mean what we do at the ethical data Alliance, which is a branch of Green A
was at Rosenthal's nonprofit
You know, we're really working to try and create solutions of
transparency for the industry
through the work of the
ethical data exchange network so that we can actually forward an advanced science on all of these fronts and and that we can actually
that all we can story tell and
Give back because the farmer always ends up getting the short end of the stick in this scenario a lot of the time the breeders
Do too. So I think that there are some elegant solutions and creative
creative ideas that we can kind of come together as a community and
I think that at this point, you know, we need to work together as a team to
actualize these visions and I mean I think
It's looking to the people that are actually doing the advocacy work and are not necessarily here
For big profits and you know, even if they work with companies that do for-profit work
It's I think there's people like we need to stand as advocates together to kind of get through this next phase
So I can wax poetic for probably hours about this
But I'll just be complete on that and and say that it's an open call like we have a call tomorrow morning
We do like monthly calls where we're it's invite people in the community and we're trying to create plug-and-play solutions
Utilizing specifically blockchain technology to kind of create transparency
because I think that data is gold and
That is like and also, you know, it's like we're on a clubhouse
here and it's not just
plant diets not just cannabis the ethical data alliance and the work that we're doing over there as we've realized that
You know, there's a ton of other magical botanical substances and not just botanical
There's all sorts of substances that need to be protected in the future and there are
patents aggressive patents coming through
so I think there's a lot of work to be done and it's a deep deep conversation that can keep going here and
I'm here for it a hundred percent
and I think that a
To dovetailing the two conversations together
Some very simple straightforward
requests were made
given the context in the history
Phylos
Nishan Mowgli the whole team has always said they've operated with the best of intentions
that they're not trying to be some sort of corporate big ag takeover and
That they're all about openness and transparency
We requested multiple times I have for years
that they
release the actual snip chips
If it's completely proprietary and it's a data set that's not connected to anything that was open cannabis
project related that wasn't connected to their
customers who they said they were protecting from proprietary sort of
Big AG
types
It would be really cool for them to provide that information and you can say hey
It's all there as a population geneticist who has the tools and the understanding and the ability to discern that
But we already know that they've already discerned it. We already know the sample set that it came from
Actually, I would prefer that everybody use my micro satellites to pull everybody's data and be able to do
Hold on hold on I think you're misunderstanding my meaning and implication there
Like I'm totally your data's like I don't think Phylos is data is all that great. It's not about that
It's not about the quality of the inferences that can be made from it
It's not from the scientific truth here here
we're dealing with some commercial principles some commerce type shit and some ethics type shit and the
Ethics type shit is they kept telling us open cannabis
Transparency they keep even to this day years later trying to say hey, we're not the bad guys. We're not trying to be shady
I didn't I want to know what we're gonna do to move forward because that's what I'm trying to say a few dozen times
okay, well the thing are this a request was made by Evian for the data the
2500 snips it would be cool to get those the
50,000
Because everybody could do it like the same way in their lab like that's that's fine. I get that but that's not the issue
You can't reproduce them in different labs unless you're doing these X and then they're not releasing that data
Guys, we're right back to 10 minutes ago
We're moving on so yeah
I was trying to say that how we move forward are very simple and not for us to get back into that
It's for the snip chips. The two of them have been acknowledged that exist could be provided to the ethical data
Group and you know what? We have a lot of data out there. There's McKernan's group. There's
Phylos's data, there's the data that you've done. There's dr. Anna
There's a lot of different data sets
I read all the different papers or at least try to and
The point isn't to say which one's the best or which one isn't it's just to say that in moving forward
It would be cool in the spirit of transparency and openness for phylos to work with Evian and the ethical data
alliance to
make this data available as
Part of this moving forward effort and I think that Evian and I talked a little on the back channel
But there's copy left that has also emerged and there's just a lot of groups that have emerged in the fallout of
phylos that are trying to push forward in this in a
constructive way and
to the extent that it can be like phylos involved in that and if there's
sincere about their
Intentions they could provide that information
However valuable it is apparently sometimes it's a valuable sometimes it's not
Hey London, I was just trying to say like
The data that other like for-profit companies used
Like you're never gonna be able to compare that data set with things that are published like micro satellite data
Anybody can do that. So for example Trevor could take
All of his samples and do PCR using my like whatever published doesn't have even mind
But there are several out there like that's how we can compile data all over the world
not just
Here in the US or in Canada like that is how we can compile data without
Using these, you know companies that are for
For-profit
I just add one little teeny thing is that I kind of feel like we talked about it earlier
but I just want to clarify and I actually wish that I had a couple other people here because I feel like I'm kind of
My brain isn't 100% where it should be too, but I'm fairly certain that the what happened between and where and where we talk about
Like I don't want to even use the term lie, but just where maybe there's some misconceptions as I
Do realize that some of that data was published
But the work of the open canvas project with the phallus galaxy and what was supposed to be made good on there
Never actually happened. So there that maybe there are some stuff that is in the public
You know and is it visible but there was incomplete work that was never accomplished
And then it's fine that that has nothing to do
Well, no, it actually does because that's what we've been trying to do is to get them to make right
It was like a moment where you're like, hey, you could make good on this basically and it never did happen
Yeah, and I have a quick question because you've said that
Your marker micro satellite markers and the other published data sets that are you know, the
the purple cush genome for instance are useful because they're public data sets and
they're
Standardizable and can be used by other people as opposed to these
phallus or medicinal genomics data sets
I'm confused because you've also said that the
2500 to 3000 snips that they have give good result
good resolution in terms of
population genetics and
so
It seems like it's useful information even if there is better data and even if it's not
Necessarily the most useful I think Evian pointed out that it's like this literally has been the issue for
The last three years we've been asking for just transparency and openness on this data set
Given the context of the sales pitch and the pivot
We've just wanted to know what's going on with the data and what did they really do and we still haven't gotten answers
And so that's why we want these snips even if they're kind of you know
Useless or I don't know. It seems like I've gotten two answers from you that they're both useless and
not very informative and
useful and informative
Trevor can I throw something in here guys?
I think that we're not really getting any forward momentum with the whole thing because
Let's cut it for what it is
Isn't a tie to Phylos anymore means that Phylos is always going to have a scapegoat
They can put everything on him and say he's the big bad wolf
He's the one that made all these poor decisions. The fact of the matter is just like with politics
You're not gonna get someone that will say I am right. I was wrong. We made a bad choice
business
We're not going to do this. We're going to be more transparent moving forward. So it is a buyer beware type scenario
So moving forward, how do we take this data?
How do we compile it all together and still decipher it and sort the shit from the actual factual data?
Okay, the bomb every part
Can I just say one little thing guys because I just want to make a little point here and I think I've been touched on
It for a minute, but there is every power in this room
like I mean the fucking passion guys like between you Trevor and
Dr. Adam is Trevor and every everybody on this stage is really passionate and cares about that
This subject and what we are doing forward and I think it just is my personal point of reference
If that same energy was put into moving forward and forgetting about that shit, you could get a lot of done
I'm just I'm a move pastor kind of guy, but that's just my opinion. Go ahead. I'm done speaking
You're really mad look at the cute baby because you can't be mad
I'm looking at your baby, but I just want to say like if if somebody's putting out data that you can't
Combine your data with their data like that's a problem. So
Microsatellites the stuff that I do and then I am NOT taking samples and I'm not a business or anything like that
But like this is how we can all
Compile data and get real like information about the plant
This is like what I want to do from the beginning
And I'm not you know, I'm not
Talking about medicinal gin no mason. I'm not talking about files like dude
we need to come together as an industry to get the information that we all want like how
How everything is related like breeder information, etc, etc
And the way that we can do this and the way that is done in
cultivars of other plants its
microsatellites, so I'm gonna just
Shut up now
No, no, that's from you're speaking from like the perspective of figuring things out in terms of relationships and doing
Proper population genetics and doing the phylogenetic tree, correct?
No, oh I'm talking about how like the the information that
Medicinal genomics and phyllis is putting out for a breeder
You know whether they want to use that information or whether you can use that like you need the same information from microsatellites
It's just a different tool and it's more
Universal than what they're using the tools that they're using
Are specific to their labs and you have to get your hands on whatever the fuck they're
Like markers are whereas microsatellites are like published data like you can
literally like find my microsatellites and
Order them and use them and and and do the same shit I did
but with other samples
Yeah, so I I've read a bunch of the literature and so like Judy Booth or Judith Booth, excuse me
and her work on terpenes or
some of the work on cannabinoids like they've identified particular markers associated with different genes and
That has practical application for breeding and things of that nature and
There's different markers for different applications. Is it just microsatellites you're saying that are the valuable?
No, microsatellites are going to give you
Relationship information they don't give you like
Information on what that plant is gonna express. They're not yeah. Yeah, they're good for population genetics and relationships
Which is what?
To what to breed with what like what's closely related versus further apart that kind of stuff
What do you have
What don't you have?
sister brother and uncle that kind of stuff
That's one element of what we really want to understand is and that's what they were doing with a
like
phylogenetics and really trying to develop these relationships and
And that's what phylogenetics is giving you with their
genetics
But okay real quick, so let's say I am
Mr. Trees and I sent in a sample and it's Pam number one and Pam number one showed no relationship to any of
the samples that were in the
Reference set that they used and
So they've got some sequence data from him there. I assume short read. It's they used Illumina
So it's short reads on
Illumina sequencing looking at snips in the genome and
that information
Possibly Evian's pointed out that not all of it made it up on to the NCBI but like potentially theoretically
It's up there
now those snips are snips that or those Illumina sequence reads are
Informative of that plant, correct? I mean they may not be informative on like a population genetics level
But they give some idea of some of the genomic material
Within that plant, but we don't really know anything because we don't have much
Like we don't have the methods section like we got in your paper, right? I
mean with phyla
Um the information that is in NCBI will give you zero information about
anything about that plant other than
If you can
Like had a bunch like if you downloaded a bunch of data off NCBI and wanted to know
How that plant was related to other plants? It won't give you anything. It's not
gene data
And so it's not gonna tell you anything about the plant
okay, so
If we if we were to take all of that data that they published
I thought we would be able to take the you had said earlier that we would be able to
Identify the reference snip set that they had used to construct the relationships
Wait, what?
No, so they use that genetic data
To basically construct how those things are related to each other
It doesn't use
G it's not
They're not comparing genes or what genes are expressed or traits or anything like that. It's just
Get that I get that. I apologize
No, no, I I
Realize that I'm taking us down a path that we needn't go because we've covered this and I think we're having a very good
Discussion about population genetics, which is the thing that I am much more interested in
Solutions and a doctor Anna I would be curious to like as far as the solution and everybody, you know
just everybody in general and I'm curious Jason's perceptions and other people's perceptions because
Right off the top of my head and I've actually already wanted to do this because we've been having the conversation with like
IP lawyers and you know plant plant patent variety
Lawyers, and this has been a big part of the conversation for a long time
I think that you know
Really what I would love to see is some of these genomics companies come together and have like a panel
Discussion around and some of the genetic scientists and all of these pieces of how we advance this how we move forward
What we can do the data that we already have together
Because also a big part of it is, you know
There is a difference between like the craft breeders that have been on this panel
I mean money is a huge differentiator here
Especially when you're talking about like large biotech big AG, you know
This is a very different conversation and especially when you see the spaces
You know the large biotech or the breeding at that level is a lot more aggressive. There's a lot more crisper
Information and I do see that, you know personally I'm not opposed
I'm not I'm not I'm not opposed about probably it's not it's not a thing in cannabis. Oh, it's
Okay. Well, maybe we should talk offline because there's definitely a lot of conversations around that that are happening. I mean, yeah
Well, no, there's people doing it. I mean, so it's like that's a if that so there's also been a ton of
brewers with cannabis breeding with the specific genomic with with all of the with the
Genomic piece at our fingertips. There's been massive breakthroughs in the past few years
I mean the work that Oregon CBD has done with you know, genomics is
Surely fascinating and just the whole triploid breeding and the advancements and what that could mean for the future of the industry and
And so I would love to see I mean for me I'm about like what are the issues we're having in the industry
how do we create solutions and how we move that forward but also as
you know because
the thing about data and it being public is
There's a reason why people hold these cards close to their chest and is because they are not
You know, we're making major advancements and and whoever holds the keys to the kingdom
You know is kind of like gonna be who wins at the end of the day
Oregon CBD is definitely winning the race like
they and and and they are a CBD company right now, but
You know that they're poised for when federal
comes through they they have I know they have a
ton of
Stuff like just lined up ready to go. I
Know they do
Certainly. It's all the same plant, right? We all know this it's tight. It is
And it's how we're gonna do it and so I think that's part of why why I mean I said this earlier
I think before you were in the room is you know
I've learned at I don't like this us versus them game with cannabis now as we've all learned
The research we're able to do currently based off of hemp is huge
So I think at this point we just need to kind of figure out what's the path forward and if we really care also about
the end consumers and patients then how do we
Tie this back to that because at the end of the day, I think the people who really care actually, you know
It's like profit be damned, you know, this is like this could change the future of humanity
So I think it's like people who actually care on that level. Yeah
Yeah, but there are so many companies that are like, oh shit. We can make a ton of money, you know, and it's like ah and
You know, maybe that's where I file is fucked up. It's like we need money, you know, like it always comes back to money
so for me
Like I always
Look at who's making the money
You know, but anyway, oh
God
genetic stuff is so interesting like with CRISPR and
polyploids and
all the potential
Applications but you know people don't realize like the cannabis genome is a fucking mess
No, we do I think a lot of us actually
Know like I'm not saying you but I'm saying a lot of people don't realize the
The cannabis genome is a mess and and as far as genetic engineering goes, it's not really a thing
That's gonna happen
mmm
Anytime like in the next couple of years, but like those things happen on a lot of levels
Between the two is that genetic engineering has already been happening with canvas for a super long time
genetic modification is
a different animal
Genetic modification is changing them genetic
trajectory like the evolutionary trajectory of an organism by
Artificial selection or whatever we've been doing to cannabis for the last 10,000 years
genetic engineering is fucking like like going in there with like
CRISPR or something and and and
Being very invasive with the genome
Animal gene
I'm doing CRISPR or
like
UV or like there's lots of ways to do it
But genetic modification has been going on with cannabis for about 10,000 years as far as we know
Just by selection and breeding and stuff like that
So I wanted to just comment on data because I do love data data is what I've spent the last 20 years
Focused on myself because I do work in data warehousing and data architecture not specifically genomic data, but mostly corporate data
data for large companies and corporations and so there's definitely lots of examples of
shared available
data sets that are common and used
That are in many cases provided through government agencies in some cases, but there's other sets that are out there whether
traffic
business registration information
population data
Different data sets that do exist out there that are available to be used in conjunction
with other efforts both private and public
so that those common data sets are
Become the
Standard the benchmark the basis for the other efforts and when they are
regularly shared
They do become
Better and stronger because you can have more people contributing to those data sets to ensure that they are
Correct and accurate and fresh and all of those things
There are definitely ways that Evian was talking about and that we've definitely heard her speak about
We've talked a little bit about
to
build data sets with tracking that allow
Legal use of that
entity that data set that
material
In ways that can be tracked can be monetized
And can be referenced more importantly, so there's definitely ways to do that
For instance, you know, I work I work for a company that does
corporate data registration and we purchase
data on
Companies we purchase data on contacts
Phone numbers email addresses those things are licensed. We have the right to publish that
phone number
For a certain amount of time and when that license expires we can no longer
Show that phone number on our site as a product. So there's definitely ways that you can take that data set
you can choose who has access to those data sets and
Charge and monetize money based on usage
Viewing or actual usage and combination of that data set or further licensing. So this is Jason and I'm done speaking on that. I
Would just like to put out there that Canada already has a patent on a GMO cultivar
that they can extract trichomes with
H2o they don't need to use hydrocarbons and they genetically modify that and they have a patent on that. So
It's definitely coming
Yeah, and I'd also like to say that like, you know, it's a corporate strategy and there are those who are going to pursue that corporate
strategy
Regardless even if it's not necessarily like the most practical thing. It's one of its
It's a what like
Phylos did a
Very clear. Hey, we've got genetic data
Invest in us because we've got this huge genomic
data set
Other people will also present themselves to investors using
genetic engineering
CRISPR these types of things as ways of you know
Accessing capital and another I mean there's also kind of another
subgenre of this which is
the
The yeast people all the folks that want to take can have an cannabinoids and take the synthase genes
and put them into
different bacteria
microbiome
Microbes and doing sort of like
cannabinoid synthase through those processes
that's another form of genetic engineering that we're going to have to confront and I know people who have had
varieties that are had unique or minor cannabinoids and
were approached by
different individuals who agreed to give them royalties and you know do different deals with them and
It became apparent that there was never going to be any royalties
received because the plan wasn't to grow out the populations and to
develop cultivars for commercial release into the commercial recreational market or into hemp market
But was instead being developed for bacterial
Applications and so
That's something and the reason for that is because THC CBD these major cannabinoids aren't really worth it
But things like THC V and some of the minor cannabinoids are still worth it in that sort of sphere
and so that's something we also have to confront and deal with and the more we can scale up biosynthesis of
different cannabinoids and secondary metabolites within the plant the faster we can push back and make it so those
Technologies aren't even feasible
Yeah, I also think that a big important part of this and
the ethical data alliances really
Emphasis ethical that's where the big issue all of the issues that have sprung up around this
have to do with pretty basic ethics and if we can figure out ways of
Doing ethical data sharing and figuring out how to
Deploy
Genomics in a way that actually is helpful for the community
That's you know, that's your
Area of expertise dr. Anna, so I defer to you, but that's something that we should be talking about
Hi, I a hundred percent agree with that
I have no I have no argument against that like
And that's why I keep saying like these for biz like for profit companies
They're not in it for
ethics like
They're for profit
companies
so I feel like the
Community needs to come together
Maybe to create an alliance
Like
Evian has like
Was a copy left has
Where we can create?
our own database our own
Our own genomics genetics database where we can create
our own
Picture of what's going on with cannabis without having it being marred by
people who are
Just really in it for business
practices because I
Fucking hate that like I guess
Yeah, so you're down for the cause
Yeah, it's like trying to find the balance between like all right
We need X amount of money to be able to fund this and be able to provide this for everybody
But you know, we're not trying to make this
For profit so it's like trying to find that you know balance to be able to make it
accessible for everybody and feasible for everybody but also
You know useful for everybody at the same time and it's not like okay
So medicinal genomics like they cut like three thousand dollars
to submit a sample is not
It's it's not okay like who can afford that if you're a regular home grower
What the fuck like a couple hundred bucks? All right
Yeah, I just want to say that like as far as what we've been doing this work
There's a group of us literally like we're doing it
It's like
And we were originally when we were originally writing our bylaws and all the different things
the part of our original goal had been to actually Trevor and other breeders like your names came up because we
Wanted we wanted it to be so open that the community was able to come in and just be
Participate and be active within it and because we knew after phylos
We're like people are gonna poke holes and everything that we try to do and that's why like right now
We're funded by the community
So as a private grower
if I wanted to
submit a sample to
Medicinal genomics today. How much is it?
It depends on what you're wanting
It's more affordable than it used to be. I will say any sort of genomic sequencing is becoming more readily available
I mean in that that's been that's you know, but
Can I really quickly
I
Can I really quickly
I
Can I really quickly
Screen an entire population
then and granted
Training and not be like I'm not sure what I think there's the the can seek 90 or something is a
Marker set that
medicinal genomics uses I
Don't know how much the cost of those screenings are
But my experience has been that it's fucking exorbitant and so if you're gonna grow a population of hundreds of plants and
Try and screen them for particular markers. You're talking about
You know
Tens of thousands of dollars
bare minimum
And are they willing to give you that data? So if you have a lab, can you run that yourself?
Um, yeah
And I I think are like on the same team now like wow like yes this like no you can't and they should
Provide that and that's what the opportunity cost has been like
Damn it to Peter didn't enable snips
Okay
Cuz you know the snips and I'm behind I'm saying stiffs instead of clips because I really wanted to get get that because it started
As a very kind of like you guys debating quite avidly and passionately
I think it's really positive because it sounds like you guys are on the exact same page now
Which is really kind of refreshing and and beautiful to see it's almost a high note
That might be a good suggestion to end on I don't know about you guys that you can go for ten and a half hours
But I'm gonna have to call it quit
Holy cow talk about going from one end to the other I just want to say that
Thank you Trevor for allowing me to share the space with you, bro
No
Like text me anytime if you want to talk like having to talk offline I'm out
Word, thank you
Yeah, thank you. Um, I just want to say like yeah, I don't uh, I don't disagree
I
mean, it's still fuck Philos like
100% and what they did was fucked up
I'm not I'm not budging an inch on that until they show up with the snips
the
2500 or the
50,000 or a damn good explanation from Alicia Holloway who deserves all the fucking credit for
building out the galaxy doing the principal component analysis being the brains behind that operation who has never been
Given the credit that she deserves for what she has done and
That like, you know
Mowgli and Nishan like those guys got some character issues, but like I love Alicia
Every time I see her like we have the best conversations by the way, she's like like I'm a fangirl
We have with the best conversations I love Alicia Holloway like she's great
Yeah
There's great nice people working in all of these spaces
I think it's like what separates the you know
That some people have five hundred thousand dollar sequencing machines and have the access to do that sort of work
Whereas for the rest of the community and for like your average legacy grower
it's like there is a
There's a big difference especially kind of it kind of circles back to all of the stuff that you've been posting lately Trevor is like
It's like what we have it's like it's an accessibility
Issue really at the core of it and it does kind of boil down to money
so it's interesting, you know to kind of see it circle around in that way because
You know, I think there's a lot of we've also been doing incredible work with reading for a really long time
without having to have
$500,000 I mean like some of the best cannabis I've ever smoked was not didn't require a
$500,000 sequencing machine, you know, so I think that maybe
Ties back to what we were talking about earlier to with the magic. So it's like really at the end of the day
There's no one right way to do this
I think people have had great results across the board and will continue to
But maybe it's a difference between breeding and just magic chucking wizards, I don't know I
Want me some?
Just to say I need to see some more of those
All I gotta say is like, you know the phyllos and doing genetic testing is great and all but you know
it'd be really nice is be able to do affordable testing at home of terpenes and
Cannabinoid profiles and be able to selectively breed and be able to test multiple plants across the board
via testing and select via testing and be able to do it at home at affordable cost and
I feel like that would definitely
Steer the breeding direction and people that actually care compared to pawn chuckers in the sense that
You would actually be able to kind of work towards an end goal compared to just you know
Your senses are great and all but it would be nice to actually see data to back up your senses
Yeah, there's a lot of in-between also I will say it's like, you know, I've never
We haven't had access over the years
But we you know
Pulled together money to buy like a GC machine and the orange photonics and like there's things and I don't know how close we are
To just I mean, I don't know if you've ever actually run
Samples through those machines, but like once you actually work with lab techs and run them through the machines yourself
But you know, it's like this is complicated equipment that generally need a lab tech horse
Maybe someday there'll be some sort of tech that makes that easier. But like it is quite science. It's complex
It's not like some of those things. I don't know
I mean
I still feel like it'd be great for it
There's a lot of in-between I think
This is why we need to pool
resources and it really sucks the phylos took two million dollars out of the community because if we had taken two million dollars as a
Community and put that towards getting GC machines
Getting hiring techs building out our own internal labs
system and
maintaining affordable
Trevor two million dollars is like
No, no, I understand that that's nothing that's enough to get a
Get like two GP machines and like maybe no, it's that's all you hold on. Hold on real quick as
Elka was just saying it would be really nice to have access to this and we as a community
Hold on can like I heard what you said
no, no
No testing no go
That was
What's gonna be what's going to
Testing at home is never really going to be I mean not for a long time be something that
will happen
I'm not saying testing at home. I very clearly said we as a community come together and build out a
I was addressing other person's comment, but okay. Oh
Hey guys, I'm really sorry. I'm really sorry. I got it. I got to go. It's getting super super late
I know it's ridiculous for anybody on the East Coast. I don't know how the hell you're still awake. I got little kiss to go
Thank you, Trevor. Thank you, Anthony Peter and Elka for holding the room Evian Lucas chase and dr. Anubis
Thank you guys so much for letting me share space with you and being part of this conversation. Have a wonderful night
Ciao guys
Same to you London. I think that it got to where you were trying to steer it to just in a roundabout way eventually
And just to finish up on what I was saying
It would have been it would be really cool if we took our resources and I don't know why this is a debatable point
Because I think we've all come to the agreement that phyllos and even potentially medicinal genomics though
I think that there's much better
Results that have come from their work
Particularly their work with
Oregon CBD, but I'm leaving that aside. It would be great as a community to pool resources and
To actually do the systematic work that we're talking about and I agree a hundred percent with you Elka
Like as much as genomic testing is cool the upshot for me out of the phyllos thing
was really like
Largely to say fuck genomics this stuff stupid one
It doesn't scale at cost like I can't afford this when I'm growing out tens of thousands of plants if I want to do real
Breeding so it just doesn't make sense and I really need this, you know GC information
I need to know the actual chemotype of my plant much more than I need to know whether or not it has
some marker or not like maybe I can get to there at that some later point, but I
Went hard on
just learning
genetics traditional genetics before people had
these types of systems
and
Most of plant breeding was done that way like we only fucking started getting
Genetic sequencing and applying that in plant breeding in the last 30 years and most of the games were accomplished a hundred years ago
No, absolutely
That facts right there. I mean that first thing I ever read was like a squash plant just for like reading
When they teach some basic reading in like fifth grade, it's like a you know, this is a this is a topic
I think I mean, I guess that's kind of and I would love to hear dr. Anna if she's right she bounced
But I feel like there's a piece with the
Traditional breeding that you know, I really love that
You've been pointing to Trevor and I think it's a really important conversation and how all this stuff ties together because there is a difference
I mean people who have can afford to house the
populations when you're when you're breeding at scale and you're you know, you have really incredible equipment and then you have I mean
It takes a lot to afford to have lab techs. I mean we have the GC running with the lab tech
Running keeping the lab going is such a pain in the ass, you know
I mean to just be a hundred percent Frank
It's not easy and and I think that that's a I know that people are trying to do like mobile units
Also to go around and help different breeders
There's somebody who does that in Oregon and has like a mobile GC unit to go around and like help people
Do the thing and that's like super accessible equipment, you know
It's like maybe I don't remember how much like maybe 20 grand or something for a base model
But it goes up if you want to test her beans and other things
You know, I guess those numbers sound big to some people but I think when you start to compare it, you know
I don't know. It's like it did there's all these different types of breeding that Trevor
I guess I'd like, you know, maybe we need to like differentiate like we have type 1 type 2 type 3 type 4 type 5
plants maybe we need to start
Creating a new model. That's what we're actually doing and have been doing in this space
And because I think there's just it's like different styles
Essentially and you know people can critique all they want one thing or the other or call people pollen chuckers
But the reality is we are where we are. We've gotten here by a bunch of different weird means
And so like where are we going now?
And how are you get there and how are you know?
Like lift each other up like with collectives like I'd love to see a breeding
Collective or something with that equipment accessible to people
I mean that sounds like a pretty easy grant or something for somebody to put together
So I'd love your other people's perceptions on you know, just like path forward solutions I
honestly feel like if you kind of did that aspect but like if you were able to get the
scientists aspect as far as
Nationwide kind of together to
You know work for the community and
Had
Necessarily an aspect like Logan Labs does with soil testing and you could you know?
Send off samples at random and you know for an affordable price and you know, you can get it from statewide
It would allow
For a large enough database and a large enough population that you could make it
You know a feasible business plan but also, you know be there and available for the community
And be able to provide
Access at an affordable price as well
Well something to think about though moving forward and how this thing unfolds at the federal level that
The the newer players and the bigger players that come to the industry are
Going to have the ability to have those resources to be able to do all this stuff in-house
so unless we band together and make these things an
option then it's the reality of
Removal or rescheduling of cannabis from a controlled substances act
It's true because they have money. I mean like I'm sorry to go
I want you to hear what you have to say Trevor
But I do just want to say that I think that that's a really fantastic point chase
And I think that I mean that's really the equation is like if you have money to house
Those sort of breeding operations. It's not easy. I mean to really do it properly and to utilize all the equipment
I mean, it's costly especially if you're doing like, you know, any sort of feminization process or reversal
at scale and
Pollen production at scale. I mean there's a difference also between on that cutter
How we would categorize breeding and the different levels that you can finance it
There's also how you can catalog the difference between their seed production
Which is like what I'm more familiar with is like, how do we produce seed at scale?
You know where we're like, you know, you're running like volume, you know, that is a different category
So it's like once you've dialed in your breeding
How do you scale the breeding process is a whole other equation that a lot of people just don't fully understand and it's not cheap
To do like a larger scale like that
So it is gonna I think that it is time for people to kind of see where it's heading and kind of bond together
Because money really will make a big difference
Setting standards also is going to be extremely important. I'm sorry for interrupting you Trevor
I know that you wanted to throw something in there, but until we also have standards across the board
You know going from one state to the next and they're testing for you know, different pesticide
amounts, I mean
Ridiculous things that we need to have and the fact of the matter is most of these
Coa labs are doing nothing more than testing the bare minimum for whatever category it is. They're testing for I
Think we have to stop relying on them and that this discussion is kind of
So
You yes co-signing everything that's been said by the previous speakers I agree with everything
and
I think that
There are big
Big
Capitalized interests that are going to do these things in-house that are already doing these things in-house and
I want to also like just for context point out like Todd Todd McCormick was up here talking about
David Watson and Robert Clark doing this in the 80s and bringing David paid in
Like they were managing to do these things when the equipment cost
significantly more when
Access to the materials and the technology and the information was far more restricted
but they figured out how to do it and I think we too can figure out how to do it because we have
access to far more resources and
Are much better positioned and you know, like not everybody I get
Regulations have screwed over tons and tons of people. I'm one of those people BAM was up here. He's one of those people it's
Excluded tons of people from accessing the market it's fucked up
But there are ways that we have good people who are in the industry
We have good people who are outside of the industry. We all have a shared interest in common set of goals
we can pool our resources together and
actually develop
If we get a lab and we have a lab that's doing, you know
If in Oregon there they've got their samples and hopefully things open up and we're able to send samples across state lines
we don't have to rely on an outside lab and even if
The standards at the lab may be skewed or may not be exact
The thing is is that you have to maintain the single lab and the consistency
within the lab and the standards that they're using because all of your data comes from that lab and the
Standards that they're using in your standard deviations, even if they're off by X fraction, you know or percentage
That may be true
but you still need to have that data set because you're making your standard deviation analysis off of
That information not off of information coming from a different lab with different protocols that comes up with a different percentage
The standards really need to get aligned
I think is a huge huge huge issue in the industry and I think that way there's been a lot of
conversations around the labs and like just there's so much
differentiation even in state that now they're starting to do more audits and we just we don't have any sort of
Standardization at this point. It's actually very concerning on
multiple levels beyond breeding
Not to mention how long it takes for the logistical aspects of
Waiting for some of these labs to actually do these tests because it's not all the time going to be real-time data
Or data in real time, I mean
Well, I just wonder is like being a community when say one of our fellow
Breeders or growers is you know in a hardship?
We can come together to raise money, you know to help them out. But if we all collectively came together to
You know fund something that we all believe in
and create a
centralized testing lab slash database that
we can essentially feel as a third party that we can kind of get unbiased feedback from and
You know, maybe if we didn't necessarily believe their testing have it tested by somebody else but be able to
collectively as a community fund a
Project to be able to help us as a community because we're definitely able to do it
Amongst each other as breeders and growers, so I feel like if we all came together
We could definitely I mean the unfortunate part once again
It's like you say the regulation between state to state this that and the other
however, say we
Created a centralized testing system or testing laboratory that we were then able to mandate every state
I guess in a sense, you know, you got one, California, Colorado, Oregon
blah
You would have the same
Same
SOPs this that and the other to then be able to
Consistently test
Nationwide almost I
Love everything you're saying I would just say decentralized for the wind in general
Especially when it's coming to those sort of things. It's probably better at this point
Yeah, that's where I was going is who you gonna trust to be in charge of this fucking thing
Exactly and that turns into and I want them to use a terrible analogy
I'm gonna try to rework this but you guys can probably think what I was actually going to use there's going to be too many
bosses and not enough employees from that standpoint that there's going to be too many people in the because we all know that there's a
problem in the cannabis industry amongst other industries that there's a lot of
chest pounding going on and people saying that they're the best thing since sliced bread, but the reality is that you know,
a lot of people
Aren't even operating at standards that we would be impressed by most people that are actually even working in the commercial space
Are not operating at best of practice level that they're just operating and they're kind of doing the I will ask for
forgiveness and for permission because I can get away with doing these things until I get caught just because that's kind of the mentality of
the whole cannabis industry from a
Defiance of law or authority as a whole
Well, it's been also a lot of like, you know us against them and it's been more of its competition it's not
You know, there's been less collaboration historically
I mean, we're just kind of getting past that now where we're realizing the power of collaboration
I mean, that's why I've worked with the ethical data alliance
Why I really believe in what my nonprofit work and advocacy stuff is is because it's like an opportunity to give back
In such a glorious way that I think it really could make impact and that we have it's like where people are giving us grants
because they see the value of what we're doing also and then people are joining and there's like opportunity there for it to be
You know there it's we're for us to fund ourselves to do something incredible I think is you know with the ethical data exchange network
It's like an opportunity for that and to partner with other people in good ways and there's a lot of collaborations
Part of why I love it because I'm kind of over the competition model
That's part of why I'm an educator because I want to you know, I don't not like oh, there's enough of us
There's enough growers
I'm like I we need to leave a legacy and pass on some of the wisdom to people who feel called to agriculture as a viable
You know, it's a viable career path. And so it's my duty to like pass that on to the next generation
I don't feel like I want to you know, hold that so close. I feel like people feel called
I'm gonna share with them and same with the consumers. So I think it goes all the way across the board
I'm gonna go soak at the hot springs and I'm gonna listen for a second
but I'm gonna go soak and I really appreciate the conversation and I encourage anybody to come join us at the ethical data alliance and
Hear what we're talking about. See how you can plug and play and it's it's an awesome. It's an awesome network of people
It's an alliance like in the real sense of the word
So, thank you guys so much appreciate all of you and check your back channel some of you
I think I'm gonna hit you up for some different things
G before you get off
Access, whatever it is. Is there an online platform or a way to be able to join that without being physically there?
Oh, yeah. No, it's all virtual. We meet we've met every week
Three times a week for different sections of our group and we have all sorts of advisory boards
Actually was feeling like we need a better breeder advisory board
It's kind of been on the back burner and for a second, but yeah, we have a website ethical data
net I think
But you can DM or on Instagram. But yeah, we meet tomorrow morning and then
pilot meets the next day and then we have a fundraising team and you know, we
We're totally open. It's all volunteer. So it's a really cool
Group
I'll shoot you a an email after
Me on IG and I'm I answer I respond and you know
I care and I think that I'm really super grateful to the future cannabis project
We were wanting to do like a panel for a while and have I I would love to break all these things out and have deeper
conversations so
I'm here for all of it and to like gather the people, you know, I think also
It's like learn we have so much to learn also because I think it was chase you were saying, you know
Like as federal legalization happens, you know
We're already modeling what it looks like for seeds and genetics within the hemp because we're able to do that
You know and we're able to move things around so there's a lot of headway being made and so, you know other type one and type
Two cannabis or will closely follow behind hopefully within the next decade, you know, I'm not super
super high hopes I'm still just waiting for some sort of descheduling so
Yeah, I think this is such an important conversation Trevor. I'm so stoked that you're back man
I wish I had time to read all your articles and all your stuff
But it's like I definitely saved things and I want to go back to them later. So thank you for
Showing up and being seen by the community is really badass to have you back, dude
Thank you, and it's really been awesome to share some space with you and like, you know
The full memory jug and you know having been at medicinal genomics
conference or
Whatever they call it
Man, can't imagine. Yeah, which is should be happening right now and everybody's super fun
Like so fun because it's actually one of the best gathering of the scientific minds from like all over the world
Is it such an incredible event? So
May next year maybe
yeah, no, I hope so because it's super cron and yeah, just good times and I
appreciate you and the kind words and
everyone this is
This has been a great conversation and I think that it's been
interesting to have the different
you know the
Experts who you know to kind of share, you know to have doctor and it come on and share her perspective as a
population geneticist
Was very interesting given the context of the earlier patient. I
Guess one thing we have to keep though is that she does have a bias looking at that because that is her wheelhouse
I'm
She came on especially after the
After like the whole that was a historic moment
I just want to definitely point back to that because I feel like it's
Important conversations that need to happen around this topic and it's like high time
That that we have them again on a public forum so that people can poke holes
Through all of the stuff and can have the debates because it's like overdue. I
Think moving forward that if
someone was going to try to have
Members from some of these groups like phylos and medicinal genomics that we kind of set it up where it's not
The the same way as earlier where it kind of felt like we were
Ganging up on. I know
Oh my gosh the sheem or whatever his name is. I forgot it already. I'm having a break for it. But Nash him. I'm sorry
Nisha
Yeah
I didn't want to even jump in and say anything because I felt like he was being
Kind of jumped on by everyone that was in the chat at that time, which is all very warranted
but at the same time
I know that anytime that you have multiple people kind of picking and prodding at you
you're automatically gonna get on the defensive and you're not going to
You're either gonna kind of shut down or you're going to kind of get mad and lose your cool and say something stupid and just
Kind of leave the thing
so I think for us to be able to get some of these answers that we need we need to probably
Put it in a setting that would kind of be conducive to
Not necessarily cornering them but putting them in an environment that they have direct questions that they can't kind of scapegoat
around
so
formatting questions in a certain way
Yes, no type thing so that way they can't give the political answer for you know, whatever it is that's being asked
Yeah, I'll say to he did. I mean, I will say I think a panel discussion. You're totally right chase and I think a panel discussion
That's like well thought out with like a really awesome moderator that you know
Really cares about all the different things and doesn't have a bias
I think is incredibly important, but I will say that I mean Nishan
I appreciate because I've you know confronted Nishan in Portland at different events and just definitely like we've had that
Conversation and not in a bad way because you know, it's like we live live in Oregon
We see a small place, you know, we everybody sees everybody at events and you know
It's I've been to events at Phylos's place, you know in historic years and they were awesome
And it was great and fun and saw all your friends, you know, it wasn't like a terrible thing for a long time
It was like, you know small and intimate and they had this incredible building with an incredible living wall with the massive
I mean it used to be different before this last incarnation and I will say that I think in the future
Maybe what we could do is like he he did he came into the breeders roundtable?
So it's like there's it's like you come into the wolf's den you're you know with that sort of with the history and the whole
Thing I mean, it's like it's it's like I don't know. I mean
He's been big lurking
for quite a while
The last yeah in all of our breeder conversations on Monday
I said like little back channel messages to everybody
I haven't like
you know, you welcome me back because I I
have a sporadic relationship with the internet and so
I
Like I did the Phylos thing then I disappeared for the better part of the next year because I had to deal with local
political bullshit and got that handled and
I came back after it was all dealt with and made a post on Instagram
Nishan was up in there making comments and it was just like fuck dude. I've been gone for two years and here you are
Commenting again and like clearly he and I have some history and
You know, I think that a
Discussion should be had I should not be part of that discussion. Um, I can help people ask questions, but um
You know, it would be really good to see
Nishan really Alicia because as I've indicated my opinion of the whole Phylos
Situation and like team like I think she's the brains of the operation and can actually answer some questions
But dr. Anna made a good point
These people are under NDAs and can't disclose this information because they know they were never
Fucking you know, like that's proprietary information
Did they take that information that they got from the data sets that they are from the samples that they got? Sure
Yeah, they did is
Dr. Anna, right that it
Information out there on the NCBI in the fucking
snip data in the different reads that they published
You know possible any of us reconstruct that in any meaningful way fuck no, so
The thing is is that like I don't necessarily not to mention Trevor that most of them if they're not
Executives or owners will probably if they were just an employee
Probably have NDAs where they can't say anything anyway, so even if they wanted to say something that
You know, I don't know how it is
Exactly no moving forward but you know that sometimes that either has a lot of traction or has absolutely nothing
you know with it so
and then it all turns it down to a
Battle of potential if you did have some type of a civil suit or something of that nature
Then it turns into you know, how big of a bankroll do you have to be able to fight something like this?
You know and then it turns into the the stereotypical who can run the other players out of money
And they're usually the winners of a civil case, unfortunately
Yeah, and we just want to have a conversation and some transparency about what happened two years ago when a fucking company just
voted hard
Explanation other than fuck that guy Mowgli, you know
All I gotta say is I gotta get off here is that my whole drive home, which is about 45 minutes
Was listening to him dodge your main two questions
for almost an hour, so
If you're better at dodging questions, then you are answering them. It tells me something's up, but
Much love to everybody. Thank you for all the information tonight. Hope everyone has great night. I gotta go
Good night Lucas
Good times man, and that may be a good time to end things cuz I gotta put my three-year-old to bed
Yeah, that sounds good man, we've been on here for a little bit of time so I
Said the question I wanted to ask the entire time
You said you were packing your bowl for the 10 a.m. Conversation. What did you put in that bowl?
And you're muted
He's coming in with his delay
I
Got the mic I
Hit this thing like four times before it came on. I think that it has like a
You just muted yourself again
He's spoken that good shit
So by the way while he's mastering the mute unmute
This has been quite the day
Tony would you agree that?
This conversation had many twists and turns today's was a day of patience and reward
Everybody that tuned in and stayed in or kept coming in appreciate it because everybody knows they heard some something good today for sure
100%
Can I ask what happened it was there an earlier breeders roundtable that because I thought that I was late
Whenever I
Then I was like, oh, I don't know what the hell they're talking about so I'm just gonna sit here and listen
Well, we had started with my partner to that
Had history with the r4 for Charlotte's web line
we started there and then we got off from there and went into the file those topic with one of their
personnel they're asking to join the
The conversation and then we just branched off in multiple directions from there man
Todd McCormick came on and was talking about the Hayes and some of the skunk stuff
We just kind of went all over the place. It was a killer show today
Like we couldn't have probably put this together. It had to happen organically basically for to get the information we got out today. I
Got you. And before I get off of here, I'm gonna put up a picture of what I just harvested. This is
my grape ape crossed with
My Odonata, which is the Santa Maria
crossed with top 44
Cantaloupe Hayes, so this is a actual seeded buds still with that much trichome production, so
Interested to see how my coa's go
The cantaloupe Asia used out of there
Do you know maybe like what circuit that's from or is it older stock newer stock that that was pulled from?
I'm sorry. I was trying to hit mute and cancel myself out and I didn't hear what your question was Tony
I believe you mentioned cantaloupe Hayes. I was wondering if you know anything about
Like what circuit that might have came from like what years?
I'm wanting to say that that is probably going to be
Either late 90s early 2000s that came from my
My friends there in Amsterdam, so I have no earthly idea. I'm not the greatest on putting
This stuff in bags other than stuff with Sharpies on it and as you guys all know
You know what happens to a Sharpie after it's been on a bag for years and years and years
So I would be I would be lying to you if I told you I knew for a fact Tony
I was just what I could I ran some cantaloupe Hayes back in
2003 and 2004 I did some breeding with it
So I was just trying to see if possibly there was some correlation to maybe the genetic stock. That's all
yeah, I have a
super silver sour diesel hash
I
Have that I keep in my forever stable, and I also have a super silver sour diesel Hayes
that are
the
The two that I run in my my forever
stable so besides that I don't have any other hazes that I run normally just because of the
flowery time with the other ones that I have
But anyway, sorry for interrupting and I know you guys are trying to roll this up
Alright no problem brother. No problem. Thanks for coming through
All right, so Elka during our 10 a.m. Conversation, what did you hit?
out
I was smoking the same thing all day
And I've been smoking the same thing for quite a while now out of necessity
And it's that black lights times 88 cross that shit has
really been getting me through some hard times and the black lights and and
general that's why I bring that up is because as I
Got those seeds I guess about
three
three maybe four years ago, and I started selecting through those things, and I've just I fell in love with that shit and
just that
It's all that I've been messing with is that pure and different crosses
And I really wish that I've gotten a male out of those things man
So I would have been able to keep it pure and alive
