All right, and we are live. Welcome everyone. Thanks for waiting. So I thought it'd be fun
today and this is actually something we wanted to do last Christmas but didn't get to it.
But basically in the in the Christmas spirit today we're going to talk about see if this
sounds familiar a photo period plant that grows to a lot of times 12 feet tall ish.
They're wild varietals and cultivated varietals. Does that sound familiar? Today we're talking
about the poinsettia. The journey from gangly Mexican shrub to Christmas icon and here to
drop some knowledge on us is Jim Faust who's you're in South Carolina. Yes. At Clemson.
Amazing. And you want to just give a quick background on what you spend your days focused on.
Yeah, so I'm a researcher and teacher in the field of floriculture. So I work with
cut flower producers, potted plant, bedding plant producers. And then since industrial hemp has
become legalized in South Carolina, we have started to do some cannabis related projects
on campus also because it's it's cannabis is awfully similar. The production is awfully
similar to many of the plants that we grow as ornamentals. And I'll share with you some of the
similarities between poinsettia and cannabis that are kind of kind of remarkable how similar the
production methods really are. Sure. Go for it. Do you want to touch on some of those and then
get into the presentation or we're sure we're going to go there first. Sure. Yeah. Or everyone.
Yeah, this is good. So some of the similarities, the scheduling is almost identical. So I tell my
students, if you can grow poinsettia, you can grow a good cannabis plant. And so some of the
similarities are that they are obligate short day plants. That that means that we have a vegetative
phase by when we have the plants under long days or 18 hour day and six hour night. And then when
we want them to flower, we go to short days and and then we can immediately trigger flowering to
start to occur. So the scheduling in that way is identical. The mechanism for initiating flowers is
identical. The plants start from cuttings. So you have to grow in my world. We call them stock plants,
but this is our mother plants. And so we we grow our mother plants. We harvest cuttings. Those
cuttings are propagated for poinsettia. It's three to four weeks. So it's a little bit slower than
cannabis, but similar. And then we transplant those rooted cuttings and we keep them under long days
for one to four weeks, depending on how big a plant we want to grow, just like in cannabis.
And then when the plant is the size that we like it, we we pinch it. We let the lateral shoots start
to develop and and then we put them under short days. So we switch them to a 12 hour photo period
or in nature that naturally occurs in the fall, usually around the third week of September is when
a poinsettia will initiate flowers. And and then it takes eight to nine weeks to when you can harvest
them. And that that puts the harvest of poinsettias into the middle to late November, which is when
the market is. So those schedules look pretty familiar to cannabis growers, I would imagine.
So if we today I'm going to then talk about the history of the poinsettia. And to me, it really is
one of the most fascinating stories in the plant world. And most people have never heard the story.
And I guess that's why I'm here today telling you. And all plants have pretty interesting stories
of how they've gone from a wild type to a domesticated plant that has real market potential
and has real value as a medicinal or an edible or an ornamental. And so every plant has a
interesting story. But the poinsettias is just it's a remarkable story. And so we'll share that
with you today because we've gone we go from this is a wild poinsettia that I have collected in
Mexico and brought to the US and flowered it. And so you can see what it looks like. And then,
of course, this is our modern day poinsettia. So over really a 200 year history, these things have
been transformed into a Christmas flower. And it's not only just changing the plant that make it look
different, look more commercial, but it's also the marketing of it was significant to attach it
to Christmas because it obviously when it came to this country, it had no attachment to Christmas.
So it's not just the how the plant grows, but how the plant has been marketed to become the Christmas
flower. So that's what I'll tell you that story today. But before we get started, we'll just a few
definition of terms in the poinsettia world, we call the red leaves, bracts, they're modified
leaves that have turned red. And so that's the showy part of the inflorescence. The true flowers
are in the center here. And so if we zoom in on those, these are male flowers, you can see pollen
being born. And then these are nectar glands that attract pollinators. And you can taste them. They
are quite delicious. Tastes much like honey. And then these are the female flowers that you don't
often see on the poinsettia that you will buy at the store. They usually emerge a little bit later.
And if you buy a plant at store, take it home, you have it in a low light environment. And often
there's not enough light for the female flowers to actually develop. So if you have it outdoors,
in the higher light conditions, you will see female flowers, they pop out of the middle of this.
This is a cyathium, the cluster of them are called cyathia. And then this is the female flower.
And, and then if you if that flower gets pollinated, if the plant produces three, each pod
will produce three pea-sized seeds that actually get physically expelled from the the seed head
when the when the seed is ripened. So it shoots it out a couple meters
to then fall on the soil and germinate and grow.
So as you are probably aware, the poinsettia is native to Mexico. The the green, the red dots here
show you places where it has been collected in in over the past few decades. And actually down
into Guatemala, you'll find some although it can be pretty hard to find in Guatemala, it's been my
experience. But on this west coast along the spine of the Sierra Madre, you have the poinsettias
growing in these highland areas. And specifically just south of Mexico City is where the heart of
the poinsettia is from. And this is where Joel Poinsettia is said to have collected the first
poinsettia and shipped it to the United States in 1828. So for for me, I have worked with poinsettia
growers and and I was at a grower last week that does 4 million poinsettias. So it's large scale
production, really interesting, I think. And but we I've never seen a wild poinsettia. So
several years ago, we made arrangements with a Mexican scientist to that he said he would be
willing to show us some plants in the wild. And so we flew into this little strip on the Pacific
coast, in a town near Manzanilla. And then we traveled up into the mountains. So you can see
it's back up into these mountains here. And the distance is where the poinsettia resides in nature.
And so we hike in, park along the road and the first thing is,
Wait, hold on, I want you to tell the part of the story because we're actually going to bring
on the producer of Narcos soon. So tell me the question that your tour guide asked you.
Oh, yeah, what's going to he did skip that. So, so the this this guy's a plant scientist. He's
actually an American guy who's married a Mexican woman. And so he teaches at a Mexican university.
And he's a bot. He's a botanist. And so he meets us at the airport. I've never met this guy before.
And, and, and, and, and we're walking out, out of the parking lot of this real little
rural airport, and going to his old, you know, beat up 70s hippie van.
And the first thing he asked me, he says, So how risk averse are you?
And I thought, Well, you know, we've, we've been playing this for, you know, actually,
it took a couple years to pull it off, and come a long way. And I'm willing to take a few chances.
And he said, Well, the thing is that you need to be aware of is that where I'm going to take you
today is he put up his hands and he said, it's it's right between where two drug cartels
operate. And so he thinks it's, you know, probably a safer place to go. But you know, you just,
we're not going to spend a lot of time out here. So my idea of this trip was to go, you know,
traipsing out into the beautiful Mexican forest and, you know, see these lovely plants. And
his view was, we're gonna get out of the car, go into this canyon, take some pictures and get the
hell out of there really fast before anybody sees us. And, and so we actually ended up spending about
four hours in there. But yeah, it was, he was he was a little concerned about
what we might stumble across, I suppose. So we hike into this ravine. And, and, and what you
first start to see is these plants up on the on the hillsides. And, and, and, you know,
quite beautiful. Come in here, this is my wife and I, the plants are weak stemmed or kind of on the
walls of this ravine. And then they kind of fall over into the ravine. And what I actually wanted
you to see, you can, you see these ones in the foreground. But if you look back up way up into
here, there's a whole bunch of them. You know, there's 20, 30 picture poinsettias in that slide.
But most of them are fairly gangly, lanky stems, single stems. The bracts are not real big,
but it was a beautiful location. Again, this is one that's on the, on the floor of the, the,
the, the river at the base of the ravine. So it grew straight up. And, you know, so that's,
you know, 12 feet tall with a single flower at the top. You know, not what you think of when you
picture a Christmas poinsettia. And, and then this is a close up of a young one. And you can
see the bracts are relatively small. This is an absolutely gorgeous plant. And yeah, but,
but not what you picture today. And so, you know, to appreciate, we weren't really the first
people to appreciate poinsettias. The Aztecs cultivated them for their beauty and for their
medicinal value. So the name in the local language is, the language is Nahuatl. And they call the
poinsettia the Cuetla Xochitl. Xochitl means flower. Cuetla has different translations.
But it was used medicinally to encourage milk flow in nursing mothers, as this picture shows.
And, and, and of course, at that time, often, you know, people would associate
a plant's potential value with, you know, some of its physical characteristics. And so it kind
of makes sense that you might think that this might help with nursing mothers, because you have
this milky latexy sap that flows from the broken stems. So, so they used it medicinally and,
and cultivated it. And we'll get back to that in a little bit. So even today, the in the local,
a small city, south of Mexico City, called Taxco, it's a silver mining town. And they still,
in the square out in front of the main church in the city, they have a display, and they have a
festival of the Cuetla Xochitl. And they march the plant up through the city streets, and take it into
the church and put it on the altar and kind of celebrate it. Taxco is the city that Poinsett is,
the legend is that that is where he collected the plant before he sent it to the United States.
So there are Mexican scientists today that are going around the country trying to
save the germplasm, you know, what is genetically still available in the country,
so that the so that we don't lose all the genetic potential of the plant. And so they're going
around collecting specimens in many locations. And this is just a picture that they shared with me
to show you the variation in appearances of plants that they have collected across Mexico today. So,
so if we go back to the kind of start our part of the story in the late 1700s, so the Spanish
were starting to, you know, travel and explore in Mexico. And one of those expedition groups
was documenting the botany and the flora and the fauna of the area. And so they had artists with
them, and they would collect herbarium specimens. So they'd take plant material, dry it, and then
send these specimens back to Europe for, you know, the academic botanist to begin to give
these things names in the Linnaean system. So you give it a genus and species name. And so this is
the first drawing painting that we have of the poinsettia. And it now actually resides in
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, of all places, at a botanical library. And, and so this, this was
around 1788, and it's a beautiful picture. And, and the name that they gave it at that time was
Euphorbia, which is the name we still hold today as the genus name, and Fastuosa. Fastuosa means
proud. So it's the proud euphorb. Most of the euphorbs are not very pretty plants. So this was
one that was a showier one. And so got a bigger name. This is an example of the herbarium specimens
that were actually collected in the, this one in the, in the 1810s, sent to Europe, identified.
So it's kind of cool to see those still actually existing, the original specimens that have been
harvested by the earlier explorers and botanists. So we move up to the 1820s. And as you can see,
you know, Texas is actually a part of Mexico at this time. And, and they,
Mexico declared independence in 1821. And the US needed to send somebody kind of on a spy
expedition to Mexico to kind of see what was happening in the country. And the US was interested
in acquiring more land here from the Mexicans. And so they sent a guy down there who had a lot
of experience with international travel and was good with languages. And the guy that they chose
to send was a gentleman named Joel Poinsett. And Joel Poinsett is actually still a fairly big name
in South Carolina these days. There are a lot of things named after him. He was a local politician
that then, you know, moved up from the state legislature to Washington, D.C. and became,
you know, kind of known nationally quite well. And, and he, so he was a statesman, a politician,
and, but he was a hobbyist, plant lover. And- Wait, actually, can you, because I think his
background is, he's like James Bond. Can you talk about where else he spent, he logged significant
time in his life pre-Mexico? Sure. So, so he was actually like a third, fourth generation American.
He was a French Huguenot family that had, you know, left Europe to flee for, because of religious
persecution. And, and so during the independence, his family, the 1770s, his family sent him,
he's a young child, sent him back to England to be schooled. So he was actually schooled in England.
And then after the things kind of settled down, after the, the revolutionary work, his family came
back to the Charleston area. His father was a doctor and he had been sent to school to be a
doctor. And he, he left after a year. And then they went to school to be a lawyer and he left after a
year. And he had this kind of wonder lust as many youth would still do today. He wanted to see the
world and he didn't want to be tied down to a business. And so he took off, actually his parents
died. He had a good bit of money and he got on a ship and went to Europe. And so he hung out with
the Bonapartes in France. And he was just, you know, just a, I guess like a hippie backpacker
sort of guy. And, and he went to Russia and got, was well-known with the, the Czar's family.
And they asked him to stay because he was, they enjoyed his company. And he obviously was good at
languages to be able to do this. He, he went to, he met the, I think it was in Iran. He, he met one of the,
like a leader there. And, and they had never even heard of the United States at that point,
because this was the 18 teens. And so the country wasn't that old. And so word of this country had
not gotten to Iran yet. So he, when he met the leader, he explained to them this, what this new country was.
And, and then the U.S. government, because he was good and well-versed traveler, he had never
been an employee of the government, but they basically hired him to go to Chile to be a
diplomat. And so he goes down to South America, and he, he really fails miserably as a diplomat.
He gets in what, you know, you think of a diplomat as being diplomatic, and really, he, he really was
passionate about the American model of government, and, and really felt the, the, the New World
countries and leaders really needed to separate themselves from their colonialist past, and, and,
you know, really set up an independent republic and not be tied to either Britain or Spain and,
or Portugal. And so he's, he actively got involved in the, the local politics, supporting
political leaders that were more likely to set up an American type of style of government.
And of course, this was not well received. And he ended up having to flee in the middle of the night
out of Chile, when the leaders that he was working with got kind of thrown out. And so he
had to go across South America over to Brazil, get on a shipping boat to get out of the, get off the
continent. He gets on this boat, it ends up going over to Madeira, and off the coast of Spain. And,
and while he's on this trip, he's actually taking horticultural notes, which is interesting.
He's actually, he has notes where he's describing the, the wine production in Madeira.
Because his idea was that these plants have this great economic value that can, that can really
push the American economy forward. And so if we could bring, you know, wine production out of
Madeira and bring it to South Carolina, the farmers there are going to do better. So he's taking notes
on his way home. He eventually comes back to the States. And, and then in 1822, he gets chosen to,
and he actually traveled in the U.S. a good bit. And he got elected as a politician in South
Carolina. And in 1822, the U.S. government asked, the president asked him if he would go to Mexico
and explore, and kind of be a spy, the countryside and document what he sees. So he's kind of this
travel writer guy. And he wrote a book, and I'll show you in a few minutes the book.
And it's, it's really a decent read. You know, he taught, it's a diary of his trip,
and reporting about people and, and, and the crops and the animals and the lifestyle of the Mexicans
at that point. And, and, you know, he, he was a bit harsh on, he did not care too much for the
Catholic Church. He did not care too much for the Mexican government. And, and this ended up plaguing
his life as a diplomat in Mexico, which we'll talk about in a second here. So the point is that he's
not a botanist. He's not a horticulturist. He's a hobbyist, he's a plant lover, for sure. I would
call him a horticulturist, perhaps, but on a hobby level, he's, he's a, he's a politician,
a statesman. And, and so, and part of why I'm telling you this is because he's not, you know,
we think of a botanist, a plant explorer. These are just people that like plants. They don't
care what the hell the commercial value of the plant is. It's just, they go out into the woods
and find something that they hadn't seen before. And that's really cool. That wasn't Poinsett. He
was looking for plants that had real economic value. That was his thing. So he kind of sets up
this, this system where he is, has people collecting plants in Mexico while he's there
and sending them to the United States. And he's also having people in the States send him plants
from the States to Mexico to see what, you know, he was not just trying to steal stuff. He was
trying to, you know, let's see where, you know, if we can learn where these plants grow best,
maybe we can take something that, you know, we didn't know had some economic value and make
something out of it. And so this is a list of one collection that, of plants that was sent from
Poinsett while he was, so initially I may have got a little, this confused. He went down as a spy in
1822. And then he went back down in 24. 1822 and 1824. Oh yeah, sure. 1820. And so he went back
down as then as the actual first American diplomat to the, to the, to Mexico. So, you know, this is
the first time an American representative is actually in there, not as a spy, just as, as
you know, here's the Statesman, Joel Poinsett, let's, you know, establish business opportunities
and let's, you know, government, you know, connections, do what diplomats do. But while
he's there, he, you know, does other things. And one of them is he has these nursery men
and, and some of them, he also had people that were like in the mining world. They're interested
in mining, collecting silver out of Mexico. And, and he's like, okay, you're coming here
for mining purposes. Great. But bring some plants while you're there, while you're coming. And then
he'd load them up with plants to send them back to, to Philadelphia and New York. And so this is,
this is a list of one particular shipment. And these shipments, there were, it wasn't,
there were multiple shipments. And, and so this is an example of where they've numbered the plants
that they've collected. And if you start looking at the list, what you'll see are, these are
plants that one would collect out of the market, not, not in the wild, for the most part. You see,
you know, yellow beans, nectarines, sweet pumpkins, 26 is a variety of seeds,
cherimoyas. Some of these are ornamentals. There's a critigus, which is hawthorn. There's
alligator pear is avocado. There's actually rice from China on this list. There is,
what else does it have? Castor beans, muskmelons, miraculous wheat, Mexican pumpkins. So these are
the things, here's a very handsome tree with red berries. So it was, you know, a hobby type of
thing to do, but it certainly was not part of his day job. But they, so they did this and,
and then, so this is happening. And, and, but to me, this is a great, you know, we think of
politics, it's a great story because we think of politics as being terrible today. And I think
politics has always probably been terrible. And this is just another example here. And, and,
and this is how the plant really gets point, the poinsettia gets poinsettia's name is because of
this political story. And that is John Quincy Adams is the president. And so poinsettia is
working for Adams. Poinsettia is, he did the same thing in Mexico that he did in Chile. He, he,
he got involved with the politics at a level where he took sides with the local politics,
and that just did not go well. So in the newspapers in Mexico City, you know, he's
getting lambasted and saying, you know, send poinsettia home, we don't want this guy here
anymore. And so poinsettia in 1827, he writes a letter to Adams, and he says, okay, I think,
you know, my time is up here. This isn't going so well, can I, I want to resign. And Adams,
I guess he probably sits back in his chair and thinks about this and thinks, well,
maybe this isn't such a good idea that you resign, because Andrew Jackson was going to run for
president against Adams the next year, which is 1828. And Jackson is from Tennessee, poinsettia
from South Carolina, they're buddies. They, they, they, they're close political allies.
And in the previous election, 1824, the election actually went to the House of Representatives
to make, it was, the elections were different then, it wasn't just like one man, one vote.
It was, the elections actually went to the House of Representatives to make the final decision on
who got to be president. And, and so Adams was concerned that this would happen again in 1828.
And poinsettia had some influence in the House of Representatives. He had been in the House before.
And he thought, Adams thought, if poinsettia comes back now, he's going to be influential
in the House and he's going to help Jackson get elected over, over me getting a second term.
And, and so Adams writes back to poinsettia, no, why don't you just stay there a little while longer
and, and wait, basically wait till after the election's over and then you can come home.
And so poinsettia is stuck in Mexico. You know, he's no longer as effective as a diplomat. The
Mexicans don't want to deal with them. He has nothing else to do, but send plants to the states.
And it happens to be during this last year of, after he wanted to come home and was denied,
is when he actually sent the poinsettia to Philadelphia. And so if he had come home when
he really wanted to come home, the plant would not have his name and we would have forgotten him in
the history books for the most part now. So politics was dirty then too, I guess you could say.
So, and then, you know, poinsettia, I just love this quote. It's he, he, he, when he, in the 1830s,
he comes back and he speaks to the Horticulture Society of Charleston and, and he, and he
exhorts them to introduce into our country new fruits and vegetables or useful and useful plants
or ornamental plants. Let every member of, in this organization whom business or the pursuit of health
or pleasure leads to travel in foreign lands, bring back with him seeds and plants, not here
the two cultivated there. If one of these succeeds, just one, he will be rewarded with the consciousness
of having conferred a lasting benefit upon his country. And of course, this is, this is poinsettia.
This is why we remember his name is because he, he sent a lot of plants, but there was one special
plant that he was giving credit for being the first person to have sent a live plant out of Mexico.
People had collected herbarium specimens decades before poinsettia, but what are goods are herbarium
specimen? You got to send a live plant if it's going to have some commercial value.
You can't grow a herbarium specimen. So this is what poinsettia did. Unfortunately, the other thing
that he's known for is, is what is still today referred to as poinsettismo, which is to meddle
in another's affairs. And so this term you will see he used in Mexican politics and, and because
he was not particularly well-regarded and he has been remembered in Mexico as a bit of a villain.
And so I mentioned that he had written one book in 1822 about his travels before he was a diplomat.
And this book is titled Notes on Mexico, which is a bland title, but it is an interesting book.
Well, what is really interesting, I have found a Spanish version of this book.
And the Spanish version is entitled Teodio Mexico, which translated means I hate you Mexico.
So this was their, their interpretation of, of Joel Poinsettia. He was pretty harsh. He was
critical about, about some of the people that he visited. So it's not, not, not all that appreciated.
Even today, you know, it's like, you know, the Mexicans often feel that, you know,
Poinsettia stole their plant. The US has made a lot of money off of this and we've never gotten a dime.
That attitude still exists for sure.
Yeah. And just quickly that his name, you touched on it, but like when someone calls
someone else, can you say it? Poinsettismo?
Yeah. Like, I just think that's funny. So, so in the, in the chat, there are people from Mexico.
So it's, you are touching on the fact that the American version of a lot of this stuff is
different than probably the Aztec Mexican, you know, historical documentation of kind of how
things went down.
Yep. And, and I'm not going to tell this story or don't have it in the slide set, but, you know,
it happened again in the 1990s. An American professor went to Mexico on a, actually just a
botanical, on a botanical expedition documenting euphorbias. And, and so she was just kind of
attached to it. She wasn't, she was a horticulturist and she stole a plant called Euphorbia cornastra.
And Euphorbia cornastra is a very rare euphorbia in point in, in Mexico. It's, there's only a
couple locations in the whole country where it still exists. And it's called the Dogwood
poinsettia. And it's called the Dogwood poinsettia because it has white bracts,
and like the Dogwood flower. And she brought it back and gave it to a breeder in the States.
And, and since that plant is closely related to the poinsettia, the breeder was able to
cross pollinate them. And through, they don't actually do that very easily, but
she was able to figure out how to do it. And, and produced a hybrid. And that we call them
Euphorbia hybrids. And if you go into the stores today, you will see hybrid euphorbias being sold
that are relatively new to the market. Really just the last five years have these been introduced.
They're all, we call them Euphorbia hybrids because the, the growers don't, you know,
there's a limit to how many poinsettias you can sell because poinsettia is so attached to
Christmas. But if we call this thing a euphorbia, maybe we can sell it some different times of the
year. And, and, and they're actually quite beautiful plants. Very much smaller bracts,
look a little bit more like the wild type and where you see them in the stores,
mostly is in, in the month of October. There's some very hot pink varieties of these hybrid
euphorbias. And, and so they're sold in conjunction with Susan Coleman Breast Cancer Awareness Month
of October. So you still them sold in, in grocery stores around, at least around here, you'll see
them in October before really it's a poinsettia Christmas season. So that's another example.
And so when I went to Mexico, you know, the guy that I met, the scientist out there, he was kind
of skeptical at first that I was coming to steal plants. Cause he said, I've gotten a lot of people
call me and said, they want to see wild poinsettias. And I've always said no,
because they were people that were wanting to come to take something to commercialize.
And, and he said, you know, as long as you're coming to just appreciate the plant and not steal
it again, you know, I'll show you where they are. So, so we haven't commercialized anything
but it's, so it's still an issue. In fact, he used the term bioterrorism to describe this propensity
for American horticulturists to steal Mexican plants. All right. So getting back on this story,
we have the plant that poinsettia sent went to Bartram Botanical Garden, which you may know of
as in still in Philadelphia today. The Bartrams are kind of famous Americans, John and William
kind of pioneers of natural history and botany. They built a business in the 1700s starting
that was collecting new world plants and selling them to wealthy Europeans
because the Europeans had beautiful gardens. They had a pallet of plants from Europe and Asia,
but they didn't have very many plants from the new world. And so the Bartrams would go
collect specimens from across North America and Mexico and, and, and, and sell them. And
they would transport them in what were called Bartrams boxes. And they would pack these things
full of seeds and cuttings and, and, and their family made a living for three generations.
And so by the time poinsettia had sent a plant to their, they call it Bartram Botanic Garden,
but in that day, a botanic garden was what we would think of as a nursery or a garden center today.
It's not a displace. You collect plants that you may be collecting them, but you're collecting
them for the purpose of selling them again. So it's a commercial enterprise, not simply a public
garden. And so they produce plant catalogs to sell their plants. And this is an example of the last
one that they ever produced was in the 1830 something. And, and it's for fruits and ornamentals,
trees and shrubs, greenhouse plants. And they would list hundreds of plants and even something
like geranium, popular flowering plant, they would have dozens of different varieties or strains.
And so you could see on this list, there's some familiar things, fuchsias and gardenias and ficus.
We look in here, there's euphorbia. I'll zoom in here. Euphorbia poinsettii, the splendid scarlet
euphorbia. They were selling for two bucks a plant in the 1830s. And, and which is kind of
remarkable because recently Lowe's had a Black Friday sale where we have 99 cent poinsettias.
So we haven't really done so well on getting a better price for them these days.
So 1828, when the plant comes to Philadelphia, Bartram's Garden, it kind of exploded in
popularity. Plants went to Europe. The first botanical drawing in Europe from these plants
that poinsettia collected was in 1836. So you have botanical magazines that would draw these
beautiful pictures. What's interesting to me, endlessly fascinating, is you look at that
and you say, my gosh, either this artist had a, was very, very creative, or he wasn't actually
drawing a picture of a wild poinsettia. If we look at, this is a wild poinsettia. And
that's what the guy drew. I know, very imaginative. Or what I think this suggests is that poinsettia
did not collect a wild poinsettia. He collected a plant out of the marketplace where the Aztecs
had already domesticated this plant and grew it with bigger bracts, a little more showy plant
than what you would find in the wild. And so really the breeding started back in the,
probably the 1500s. Montezuma was well known for having the first botanical gardens. The Europeans
claimed to have the first botanical gardens, but you'll notice that the oldest botanical gardens
in Italy are in the 1500s. 1515, I think is the day. Soon after, you know, the first explorers
were in Mexico and saw what Montezuma had done and already had created a botanical garden,
they took the idea back and started doing the same thing in Europe. So this is the oldest known
variety that we still have today, oak leaf. It's from 1923. And so my suspicion is this is much
more like what the plant that poinsettia would have sent to the US rather than a true wild plant,
something that already had some domestication, bigger bracts,
a little showier plant than the wild type. Another example of how the plant took on really
quite quickly in the States is, and how connected poinsettia was politically,
James Polk was elected in 1844, and they had inaugural balls back then. And his wife, Sarah,
had a beautiful dress. And if you look on the dress, there are poinsettias. And this, again,
not, you know, this is less than two decades, 16 years after the plant ever arrived on the,
in the Northeast. And it's already being put on. And the reason was, Polk was recognizing
the value of poinsettia as a political ally and recognizing the work that he had done in Mexico.
So they put this plant that he was, it was already a big deal in Mexico. And so he was
already being called a poinsettia at that time and put it on, got it on his wife's inaugural ball
dress. We'll jump forward to 1873. And the next big, or next interesting step of, was that there
was another European explorer. And this guy was an orchid hunter. He was, he would go and collect
orchids and sell them. Well, he found a poinsettia in Mexico in 1872 that we call a double
poinsettia. And so what it has, instead of having scythia in the middle, true male, female,
reproductive parts, all of those true flower sexual parts have become petaloid. They show up as
petals rather than true flowers. And so it's called a double flower. And of course we do this
with roses, wild roses have five petals, but the roses that we sell all the time now have a hundred
petals. It's because all those reproductive parts have become petaloid. And so this plant,
interestingly enough, was sold for $1,000 in 1883, 1873. A New York florist was flaunting his
wealth and bragged about how much he paid for it in the local newspapers. And, but what was
interesting, one of the leading garden writers at the time, his name was Robert Boost, and he wrote
this about the double poinsettia, which is interesting. He said, since the introduction
of the poinsettia from Mexico 40 years ago, it has been without rival as a distinct scarlet-bracted
winter decorative plant. Also note that he says it's a winter decorative plant. He doesn't call
it a Christmas plant. It is now, however, likely to be effectually superseded by a new and totally
distinct form recently discovered in Mexico, namely the double poinsettia. So he was predicting that
no one is going to grow the poinsettia as we have known it up to this point in the last 40 years,
because this plant is so much more beautiful than the regular poinsettia, the single flower
poinsettia, that everybody's only going to want to grow the double flower, and it will totally wipe
out the old one. Just like roses. We don't really see a lot of single flowering roses. They're all
doubles. Well, that has proved to be quite wrong. You don't see double flowering poinsettias
anywhere today, which is interesting. The poinsettia in the 19th century was not the Christmas flower,
and I will, I guess, try to prove that to you by showing you some Christmas cards from the
late 1800s, and we'll show you what plants are important to the people in the 1800s and what they
associated with Christmas. Christmas, the Christmas plants in the 1800s were, this is holly,
yeah, and this is mistletoe, yeah. So holly and mistletoe were like an ivy, were the big ones.
Here's another holly being shown in a Christmas card. We've got Santa looking somewhat modern,
and with carrying some holly branches. We have all these people talking to Santa on the phone,
and he's all these kids, and he looks like Santa, but these, notice the plants around here are
primarily holly plants. They even, on their Christmas cards at that time, they had a lot of what we'd
call spring plants. Seemed a little, seems odd now, but here are roses on this Christmas card. We have
roses here, Merry Christmas. We have carnations, dianthus. We have sweet peas with children's
faces in them. We have tulips, Merry Christmas with tulips, but they look kind of peculiar,
and you don't see a poinsettia in any of these. Here we have a choir, but you notice the flowers
around here, if you recognize those, those are passiflora or passion flower. So we hit, oh, and
actually there's some bizarre stuff too that I don't know what they were thinking. Here we have
like a Katy did with a tambourine celebrating a frog and a cockroach doing a dance. You've got
some birds that are looking like they're ready to torch somebody. May all jollity lighten your
Christmas hours. It looks kind of scary to me, but yeah. So, but once we turn the century, 1900s,
the picture has changed. The plant has become associated with Christmas for the first time.
You won't find anything prior to 1900 where poinsettia is attached to Christmas. You have
growers starting to grow the plant and sell the plant as cut flowers during the Christmas season,
and I'll show you these pictures. So these are all early 1900s California's Christmas flower.
You could grow poinsettias in Southern California on the coast, outdoors year round, or South Florida.
Here's 1906 poinsettia blossoms. Merry Christmas. 1906, more poinsettias. You can see it all of a
sudden, it, the page has turned. It is now a commercial product, and we're starting to see it
attached to Christmas regularly. And growers now in greenhouses are growing the plants for, for the
winter holidays. Primarily selling them as cut flowers, big tall, because they were big plants.
They would get several feet long, or you could grow them as a potted plant, but they didn't make
a very good potted plant. They weren't very popular as a potted plant for a couple reasons.
They didn't branch. The stems were erect and, and kind of naked. And then as soon as this plant was
put into a low light home environment, the leaves fall off. Like in 48 hours, you have no leaves left
on this plant. The bracts would stay on, the leaves would fall off. And so what growers would do is
they would actually plant a fern in the middle of the pot so that you would have some greenery
when these leaves would fall off. But not that show you have a pot, but that's, that's, that's
how we sold potted plants. Here's a advertisement, 18, 1917. You can see they're selling some foliage
plants and begonias that, for the Christmas season, Christmas peppers, which would be a, you know, an
ornamental pepper. But this is what their poinsettias look like. You put three plants in a pot,
and they'd have fairly naked looking stems. So what changed next was that a guy named
Paul Ecke, his family had immigrated from Germany to California in the, really at the turn of the
century, around 1900. And they, they were growing, you know, they had milk production and, and eggs,
and they did different things. And then when Paul, the, one of the sons, took over the business
in about 1922, he really started pushing the cut flower poinsettia market. They were close
enough to Hollywood that they would cut, their business was actually on where it is now Sunset
Boulevard in Los Angeles. And they would cut poinsettias, field grown poinsettias as cut
flowers and sell them on the roadside. And so it really became a poinsettia business.
And the Ecke name, his name was Paul Ecke, the Ecke name really became synonymous with the
poinsettia for the next hundred years. You could, if it was a poinsettia, it was from Ecke. They,
they really have dominated the market. And I'll explain why as we go through this.
The U.S. patent system started in 1930, 1930. And so one of the initial, this is plant patent
number 176. So it was pretty early in the, this was the first poinsettia, number 176. This is the
first poinsettia that was patented. And you can see it is the double poinsettia that Paul Ecke
ended up patenting and naming it Henrietta Ecke. Basically all the varieties that he came up with
at that time, he would name them after family members and Henrietta was his mother. So that
was a 1936 introduction. And this is actual Henrietta Ecke that I have grown in my greenhouses
in recent years. And the business model that the Ecke's had was we would grow cut flowers for
December Christmas sales. And so that's what this is a picture of workers harvesting
cut flower stems out of the field. And then you could follow that up with letting the,
because these were like shrubs outside. And so then you would let them go dormant
as they do in the wild. They grow during the wet season, then it goes dormant in where these are
native to in Mexico in February, March, January, February, March. And they lose all their leaves
and they just look like brown stems. And so they let them go dormant. They shear them off in the
field and then they go through and they bare root them. They shank them up out of the soil,
bundle them up, take them to a barn and pack the different varieties that they had. These are the
variety names on the stalls here and pack them into there. And then they would load them in
cardboard boxes, put the boxes on trucks, take them to the local railroad station. And that's
how they would get to the East Coast growers. And you would do this in March, April, the growers
on the East Coast Midwest would get their boxes of, we call them dormant canes. Is this a stick
is all it is. But poinsettia roots well from just having a stick. You don't need anything else. You
don't need leaves. And you root the stick, you grow the plants through the summer and then
sell them at Christmas. So that was the market. And then this is what a greenhouse would look
like in the early 1900s full of poinsettias. They tend to again be pretty tall and lanky.
And then again, this is what they look like in a potted plant.
So one of the interesting techniques that the growers did at this time, because the plants
would get so tall and if you were trying to sell it as a potted plant, not as a cut flower,
you really needed a shorter plant. And they didn't really know how to do that very well,
except if they would bend the stems. And so what they would do is they take a big long stem
and you actually macerate the stem with your fingers and it bends down and you macerate it
again and it bends up. And so you would shrink the length of this stem from being really long
to being short and so it would look better in the pot. And this was a common technique used to make
a decent looking potted plant. And you put a little twist tie around it so that it would look okay.
All right, so we'll jump ahead to the 1950s. Paul Ecke named a variety after one of his daughters,
Barbara Ecke Supreme, and this was the dominant variety in the 50s. You might not be able to
appreciate the scale on this plant, but that inflorescence is 20-24 inches across. It's huge.
The sciatica are the size of your fingers. This was what we called a tetraploid. It had double
the chromosome number. The plant had this naturally sported and increased the chromosome number and
so this was really seen as impressive. Really big, so it really was a cut flower variety.
It was difficult to grow it in a container, but this was the dominant container grown variety in
the 50s. The USDA got involved. I realized that, hey, this is a really valuable crop now. We need
to have a scientist dedicated to breeding poinsettia. And so they had one of their scientists
started learning how to breed poinsettia and really launched the exploration of the genetic
potential of this plant. And he really started to create more compact plants with bigger bracts,
looking much more like a modern-day poinsettia. This is an example of the fields that Ecke would
have in California, and it was said at one time you could drive from LA down to San Diego and never
be out of sight of a field of poinsettias. Their main facility was in Encinitas, just north of San
Diego, but this is what it looked like, where again you have acreage of plants being grown
for cut flowers and then for the dormant canes that would be shipped across the country.
And it became, as the plant became more and more popular as a holiday plant, then the dormant canes
became the real market because there wasn't that much demand for cut flowers. And the cut
flower you could only really sell locally in Southern California. You couldn't ship these
very long distances. They didn't hold up that well. So then a twist in what happened, you know,
Ecke was the king of the poinsettias in the 50s and the early 60s. And then this small Ohio grower
with no experience in breeding at all starts to do some crosses, you know, where you would take
pollen from one plant, go to another, grow some seedlings and have something unique. And he got
lucky because the biggest problem with the poinsettia in this era was that the leaves would
fall off. That was the biggest limitation. As soon as you put it in a little bit of a cold environment
or a dry or a dark environment, the leaves fall off. And then, you know, that limits its market
potential. And so this guy named Jim Mickelson, he was doing some breeding. He's looking at his
seedlings, you know, he grows them out, has them flowering and said, oh, these all look okay, but
nothing's unique. Well, it's the story is told that he threw them all in the dumpster and then
came back like a week later and he noticed some of the one plant in the dumpster still looked really
good. And he pulled it back out of the dumpster and said, maybe we have something here. And he
named the plant after his father, Paul Mickelson. And what this variety had was leaf retention,
was what the term was used. The leaves wouldn't fall off so quickly. And within two years, Paul
Mickelson totally wiped out the Eckee market. Everybody grew Eckee varieties. They were the
main supplier. And all of a sudden, everybody switches to Paul Mickelson as this is now the new,
you know, you have to grow this one because it's so much better. And so, and Mickelson would make
them available. They would sell them to people as rooted cuttings. So, you'd take a cutting,
root it, and then sell them in trays. And this was much easier than buying dormant canes shipped in
a railroad car from California. And so, the Eckee business kind of really got pushed to the side and
they were not doing well. And Mickelson was becoming the king of the poinsettia because
only his varieties were popular. So, Paul Eckee has a son, Paul Eckee Jr. And so, now we'll call
him Paul Eckee Sr. Paul Eckee, he realizes he needs to become more of an aggressive breeding,
has an aggressive breeding program. What he was doing up to this point was simply, you know,
when you grow acres and acres of plants, you get natural things happen. You have mutations form,
the plant sports and you get something different. You collect that one, and then you call it a new
name. So, he wasn't breeding poinsettias. He was just, again, you have millions of these things,
you're going to get some natural variation. That's interesting. And you take those cuttings and you've
got a new variety. Well, breeding means you're more actively pursuing certain characteristics
and traits that you want these plants to look like. So, Paul Eckee says, I need to have a
breeder. What am I going to do? And he realizes, you know, he's got this guy who is the gardener.
And he's a another German immigrant who had come over and he was he and his wife were tailors.
And his wife was the nanny for Paul's junior's children. And so, she's already working on the
farm at the, they called it the ranch. She's works on the ranch because she's the nanny.
And Paul Sr. says, you know, the nanny's husband seems like a pretty bright guy.
Rather than have him sweeping leaves in the garden, maybe we'll have him breed some poinsettias for
us. And so, they showed him how to do it. And the technique's simple. You take a paintbrush and you
dabble on some male flowers. You collect the pollen. You go over to a female, you pollinator.
And then you come back a couple months later. You collect the seeds. You grow them out and
see what you get. And so, they started to do this. And so, the guy's name is Franz Freworth.
And so, he becomes the breeder. And in three years, he has, you know, luckily, serendipitously
come up with an introduction that he calls C1. Not a creative name, but was an absolutely
beautiful plant. This is the first poinsettia that really, really looks like a modern poinsettia.
And if you grew it today, it's comparable in showiness to a modern poinsettia. The only thing
it doesn't have, really, is the bracts are kind of low, light red. And the leaves are light green.
And today's marketplace demands a really deep red and a deep green, almost black leaf. So, these,
you know, they look faded if you put them next to a modern poinsettia. But the characteristics,
scythia in the center that are really tight in a lot of them. And then you got just a whole
bunch of bracts that are just super showy. And so, Ecke's back in business and kind of as
because Franz did such a good job at finding the next generation of plant people are interested in
switching from Paul Mickelson back to Ecke. So, they kind of regain their crown as the kings of
the poinsettias. The other thing that happens at the same time is just an absolutely incredible
story. And it's what makes poinsettia different than any other plant in the world.
Is that there's this little Norwegian guy. His name is Tormund Haag. And I had the benefit of
meeting him many years ago. He's a grower, a good grower, and his little Norwegian greenhouse.
He walks into the greenhouse one day and he sees a plant that looks like this. And he recognizes
that there's something unique about this plant. He's got a lot of poinsettias in his greenhouses,
but he's got one that's different. Because your normal poinsettia looks like that. And
growers typically would grow what we call straight ups. One stem gives you one flower.
And they would put three or four or five plants in a pot to make a nice potted plant.
What Tormund Haag realized, he has a plant here that has a characteristic that
we end up referring to as free branching. On the left is traditional branching. This is what all
poinsettias look like. They're kind of gangly still. They still look, they have that habit of
the wild ones still. Tormund Haag finds a free branching plant in his greenhouse. You pinch it,
just like you pinch cannabis, to increase branching. But instead of getting a few upright stems like
this on the left, you get a whole bunch of nice lateral branches on the left. The plant's more
compact. And this is what a potted plant is supposed to look like. And if I can get one
plant to branch like that, I can put one plant in a pot. I don't have to put three or four. And so
that's a no brainer economically. I can save a lot of money. Price is going to be cheaper. I'm
going to make more money on this. And my costs are going to be lower. So all of a sudden,
as this gets developed, and it takes them a few years to become developed, but in really in the
late 60s, this is starting to become a thing. Growers realized, hey, I don't want old,
straight up traditional branching varieties. I want a free branching variety. And so Tormund
Haag named the plant Annette Haag after his granddaughter pictured here. And it was introduced
in 1968. And just to give you an appreciation, this is Annette Haag. This is Paul Mickelson.
And of course, there's really no comparison there if you're trying to grow a potted plant.
The one on the right is a commercial plant, not the one on the left.
Excuse me. Now, if you've met any breeder or anybody that's in the business of breeding,
you will quickly realize that what breeders do is, well, you steal from your customers.
You steal from your competitors, right? Because you can't patent sexually propagated plants. You
can patent a clone, right? So every plant is the same. I can patent that. But if I do a sexual
cross and produce seeds, it's no holds barred. So what I do as a breeder is I can go to the
garden center even, and I find somebody that's growing impatiens or begonias or poinsettias,
and I can take the pollen from that plant, add it, put it on, dust it onto another plant,
get some seedlings, and I will soon have a plant that looks, you know, has a lot of great
characteristics. And so I'm basically, you know, I'm kind of stealing. It's legal. So I guess you
shouldn't call it stealing. I'm borrowing my competitor's genetics. I'm taking the traits
that this person has put a lot of time into developing into this plant and put them into
my plant. And then I can sell my plant as being just as good as their plant. And that's all fine.
That's what we do. Well, the thing with everybody sees Annette Haag, this is a free branching plant.
I need free branching. So I take pollen from Annette Haag. I pollinate another Annette Haag
or another plant. And I get that free branching characteristic into my seedlings. And soon I'm
in the marketplace. Takes me a couple years. I'm behind. But I catch up quickly. Well, the thing
is with Annette Haag is I can grow a thousand seedlings, 10,000, 100,000 seedlings. I can grow
seedlings from 1968 to 2021. And not a single one of them has ever had the free branching
characteristic in it. None. No seedling from Annette Haag branches freely like its mother
or its parent. What's going on here? We don't know. But Echi has, Echi actually contracts
with Haag. So Echi becomes the seller of the Haag genetics. And so Annette Haag is Echi's plant. So
Echi is dominant. They were the only people in the world that have free branching. They don't
know how they got it, but they got it. And so their plants are really popular. So they're dominating
the 70s. And then Paul Senior. But Jim, just quickly. So does that imply that
everything was clonal? No. Well, I mean, poinsettias are clonal in that they're always
propagated by cutting. But in the breeding process, you do sexual crosses. Right. And
when you do crosses with Annette Haag, you do not get free branching. That characteristic does not
come with the genes. That's the bottom line. Got it. It's not a genetic characteristic. Yeah.
It's something else. So Paul Senior, he was European, German born, and his wife was Swiss,
and they lived in California most of their lives. But they were born and raised in early life in
Europe. So they would go back to Europe every summer. And he had a big, they sold poinsettias,
a lot of poinsettias in Europe. They were the dominant supplier in Europe, as well as North
America. And so he would go back every summer and visit his customers. And he decided, you know,
he heard about this guy named Gregor Gupier. And Gupier was a German fellow that had a little
breeding, little greenhouse in his backyard that I have had the pleasure to visit. He's no longer
alive. But the greenhouse is still there. His family uses it as a little sauna. And he had a
little greenhouse in the backyard. And he would, he was playing with different plants, including
poinsettia. And when Paul Senior visited him, I suspect he didn't know what he was getting into,
but he walked into Gupier's greenhouse, and he sees all these free branching plants.
And they're not Annette Haag. And he's like, how did you do this? And of course, Gupier doesn't
want to tell him right off. But Paul was smart. He offers him $5,000 on the spot if he tells him,
and offers them royalties. So anytime I, if you tell me your technology, and anytime I use it for
any future poinsettia that I produce, I'll pay you a royalty on every single clone, every single
cutting, I'll give you a, you know, a couple pennies on and it's going to be a lot of money
if this goes well. And so Gupier sells him the technology for $5,000 in royalties.
And what Gupier did was this. He took, on the left we would have a non-branching plant. So,
you know, it's just a variety of that traditional plant that doesn't branch. He would bring in
Annette Haag, and he would graph them together. And something, we don't know what at this point,
it's going to move from the, oh, I have this backwards, I'm sorry. The green one is the
free branching plant. The blue one is the non-branching plant. And something would move
from the free branching plant into the non-branching plant. And then the free branch,
the non-branching plant on the right would become free branching. And every cutting or clone that
you harvest from this plant for the next 20 years is going to also be free branching. So, you graft
once and you can get this free branching characteristic into any poinsettia.
And then what you do, actually what you sever this plant, you sever that one. And so now you
have a free branching plant. You had free branching rootstock, non-branching scion,
and now the scion, the vegetative part, is now all free branching. The characteristic has been
transmitted from the left to the right. From branching to non-branching.
And so that is what your plant looks like. And to today, every poinsettia that you buy in the store
is grafted at one point in its life because that is the only way to get branching into a poinsettia.
And so this is what it looks like. You can see the plant on the left, plant on the right.
I've wrapped the union, the graft in some tape. And then once it has taken hold, I sever this one,
I sever that one, and now I have a free branching plant. I take cuttings for the next 20 years.
Yeah. Every plant has whatever it is. We don't know what it is at this point, but it works.
And so Ecke learned this technology in the mid-70s from Gutbier, and they didn't tell
anybody. And so for the next 10 years, 12 years, nobody else in the world can compete with them.
So for basically 10 years, they have a net hake, and that's really working well,
from the 68 to 76. Now they learn how to actually get that. And nobody else has free branching
plants. So you have a monopoly on this thing for 10 years. And then you actually learn how to do it
yourself, and you create a whole bunch of new varieties that are free branching, and nobody
can compete with you. You are the poinsettia grower in the whole world because nobody else
knows how to do this. Until you get some scientists that think, wow, this is a really
cool problem. Let's see if we can figure this out. So after you have this basically monopoly for two
decades, and the Ecke name is the same as saying poinsettia. You say Ecke, you might as well say
poinsettia. There are two scientists at the University of Minnesota. Harold Wilkins, who
unfortunately passed away this past year, and his graduate student, John Dole, who is now a dean and
a horticulturist at NC State University. They decide they're going to try to figure this out
in the mid 80s. And effectively, they released the secret. And of course,
the poinsettia world has been very competitive since then. Ecke kind of lost their hold on it.
And Harold Wilkins would tell the story that he sent his graduate student, John, to Europe to
give a talk at an international horticulture meeting. And John was telling people basically
how you get free branching is grafting. And John was looking down at his notes and giving
his presentation to all these European growers in the audience. And when he looked up from his notes,
he realized there was nobody left in the audience. That once he had revealed the secret,
all the European growers had all immediately vanished from the room and had already started
their own breeding programs. Harold is known to have exaggerated. But yeah. And so really,
within a couple years, then there's other major players that have their own free branching
genetics. It wasn't until really the early 1990s, 1991, that USDA scientists published
conclusively what this branching agent is. And what it is, is a phytoplasma. A phytoplasma is
a bacterium that lacks cell walls. And when that bacterium gets into a plant cell, it can affect
the hormonal concentrations in the plant and the hormones in that plant then affect branching.
And so for all other plants that we know of, and phytoplasmas are not rare, but when you get
phytoplasmas in the plants, they tend to be pathogenic. They cause diseases and they cause
growth that is undesirable. And so we're usually trying to prevent phytoplasmas from occurring.
Poinsettia is the only plant that we know of that phytoplasmas have, you know, created some
beneficial response. And so today, if you want to breed poinsettias, you have to do sexual crosses.
You have to take pollen from a mother and a father, or from the father, put it on the mother.
You grow seeds. The seeds never branch. And so you don't have a commercial plant until then you take
a free branching plant, you graft it to your seedling, you get the branching characteristic.
The phytoplasma moves from the free branching rootstock into your seedling, and now you have a
plant that you can evaluate for commercial success. So today, every poinsettia that you see will have
phytoplasma in it from, you know. Now, how does it get into it in nature? Usually it's insects.
There are leafhoppers will suck enough solution out of one plant and then ingest,
inject it into another plant when they feed on an uninfected plant. So that's how it's usually
transmitted in nature. Yep. We do not know how the phytoplasma got into the poinsettia in the
Norwegian greenhouse. I have my ideas. The real irony of the whole situation is that what appears
to have happened is that a Paul Mickelson variety, or Paul Mickelson, the variety Paul Mickelson,
was infected with the phytoplasma. And when, because today, and I've done this personally,
if I take a Paul Mickelson variety and I put phytoplasma in it by grafting, the plant that I
get is Annette Haig. Annette Haig is just Paul Mickelson with phytoplasma. And of course,
you know, Annette Haig became the ownership of the Ecke Ranch. And so, you know, Paul Mickelson
lost the business back to the Eckes. And the reality is the Annette Haig really was his plant.
And legally, if it were today, he, you know, the Eckes would not have ownership over that plant.
But at that time, we didn't understand what caused the free branching. So,
there were actually lawsuits filed and argued in Norway that the Haigs and the Eckes won.
So, Mickelson lost control over the plant that actually probably was his.
All right. So, the end of this story really is that then, you know, Paul Jr. was quite the
marketing guy. You know, his father really got the business going, but he was a marketing guy. And so,
he really pushed the poinsettia to be really synonymous with Christmas. Not just a good
looking flower, but this is the Christmas flower. And so, through his marketing efforts, we had,
you know, three decades of just linear growth, where we went from, you know, $40 million a year
in sales to over $250 million in basically, you know, 25 years. It just skyrocketed. And, you
know, he just used some good marketing techniques. You know, for example, product placement. Before
you think of product placement as, you know, now it's all the time in movies and stuff. You know,
he would get poinsettias in the most unusual of places. He would get them on TV sets. This is the
Diana Shore show. He would give the poinsettias, and this is actually Paul Jr. here talking to
Diana Shore. And then news TV broadcasts, he would get them on the sets. And of course, he was not far
from LA. He was in Southern California. And so, you know, he had a lot of influence and, you know,
made relationships in the TV world. And, you know, on the Tonight Show, Johnny Carson, and then later
Jay Leno, always have poinsettias at Christmas. Always. And so, he just hammered that home that
the poinsettia is the Christmas flower. And that really is what has driven the plant.
It's been good marketing and continued good breeding over the past several decades. So,
really, poinsettia is no longer just a Christmas flower. It's not one of the options. It is the
option that we associate with Christmas. So, that is basically the story how you take a gangly
Mexican shrub and make it into a holiday icon. That was awesome.
Well, thanks. Do we have any questions? We do. Comments? Well, so, I guess some of my first
questions, because there are, and everybody start throwing your questions up. But you sort of
touched on this, but the recent project in Mexico to kind of document the different
genetic expressions from different, I guess, microclimates or varietals. That was going to be
my question, which is, you know, the poinsettia, you showed a bunch of red dots of them growing
all over. And so, it is, they do express themselves. The poinsettia in one location
looks different than those growing wild in another location. Yes. Okay. That's awesome.
So, similar to cannabis, right? You have the like... So, yeah, there have been now pretty
nice genetic studies done where you collect from different populations and you can
show what the gene flow occurred was. So, they can show where the hotbed of
genetic variation is, which is in the state of Guerrero, south of Mexico City, which is where
the city of Taxco is and where Joel Poinsett collected those first poinsettias. That's where
there's the most genetic diversity. And then you can go up the coast, the Pacific coast or down
the Pacific coast. And the plants clearly spread from that area in those two directions. And so,
there's actually not as much diversity in those two directions where the epicenter of diversity
is right in the state of Guerrero. Yeah. And eccentric... Go ahead.
Well, and there is one whole ravine in Michoacn that is only white poinsettias.
And my host said, we cannot go there. That is right in the middle of one of the drug cartel
areas and it would not be safe. But there is one area that is just white. The other thing that's
interesting too, there's only been a few events in the history of the poinsettia where we've gone
back to the original germ plasm. Really, poinsettias have only been shipped from Mexico
to the States a few times. And so, all the genetic variation you see today in greenhouses and garden
centers and stores is a result of really a handful of plants, not a wide variety. So, for example,
there was a pink variety found in the 1950s that was shipped to the US, a genetically pink one.
And so, pretty much all the main pink ones today are from that one or associated with that one pink.
So, we haven't gone back to the source a whole lot to bring in a broader gene pool. There's a huge
potential to do that. It's a lot of work because once you start introducing the wild type, you're
going to get all the junk that comes with the wild type. And so, it's going to take a lot of
generations of crosses to bring in some new trait from the wild type to the, because the domesticated
one is so superior in terms of performance and appearance that, you know, you have to find some
trait to make it worthwhile going back to the wild type. And the trait that
I would argue is the holy grail is whitefly resistance. If, you know, the problem, big
problem we have with poinsettias is that they get whiteflies and it's really hard to not get
whiteflies. So, you know, you have to do a lot of work with either biological controls or pesticides
to keep the whiteflies off. If we could find a wild type poinsettia that had whitefly resistance,
gosh, that's worth millions of dollars. And so, while I'm traveling in Mexico, I'm talking with
one of the breeders who has collected plants from across the country and he has them all at his
research station. It's a government research station. And so, I say to him, I said,
do you have any that are whitefly resistant? This is a very valuable thing because, you know,
they don't have a good perception of what the market really is. It's just different there.
And he said, oh, yeah, we have whitefly resistance. And I'm like, oh, my God, you know,
I got to see this. And so, we go out to his field. And it's like a football field full of
poinsettia shrubs that he's collected from across the country. And he walks me over to this one.
It has all of its leaves on it and it's a big plant. And he said, this one's resistant. And
I grab it and I shake it and I'm telling you, there's a million whiteflies go flying from this
thing. It's like, what is this? This is not resistant. And he said, oh, yeah, look, all the
leaves are still on the plant. If you look at all these other ones, the whiteflies infect them and
the leaves all fall off. And so, this one is resistant to the whiteflies. Well, no, they love
feeding on it, but it just doesn't happen to drop its leaves. So, anyway, we don't have whitefly
resistance yet, but that would be a reason to go back to the, you know, try to find some in the
wild or to, you know, try to, all we need is one. Because when you have an asexually propagated
plant, all you need is one. You don't need a whole bunch of them. Yeah. So, just to give you some
context, we've talked a lot about kind of wild land-raised heirloom cultivated, you know, varietals.
And you had mentioned that there's obviously the wild stuff in Mexico, but that the Aztecs and
Mexicans and the people who were indigenously there were selecting for hundreds, if not
thousands of years. So, there was human intervention and like, I think you mentioned
Montezuma had a botanical garden. Yeah. Yeah, he was well known for liking plants.
And there was actually a few generations of family that were all called, there's Montezuma,
you know, different ones, but the story is that, you know, they would have runners,
these long distance runners would run like marathons daily to bring cut flowers to, you know,
his living residents in Mexico City. Because Mexico City is, you know, a little cloudier,
cooler climate. And so, you know, a little bit further away was a better climate for growing
flowers. And so, they would run these flowers. So, he'd have fresh flowers around his house.
And yeah, so, they were really known to have the first botanical gardens. And they really
were medicinal gardens. That's why you were collecting plants primarily, was for the
medicinal characteristics. But, you know, there's quite a number of important Mexican plants that
are important ornamentals. And I suspect they did some significant
collection of those and improvement, things like marigolds, zinnias, I think dahlias,
are things that I would expect that they made some significant improvements, just selections.
You grow, you know, you have a lot of seedlings, and you see one happens to have a bigger flower,
and you choose that one. And you keep doing that for tens and hundreds of years, and you have
something that really no longer is comparable to the wild type. Yeah. And I think, you know,
I think improvement depends on who you are and what your perspective is. Because I view the modern
Christmas season in America poinsettia as like the shiny red apple of, you know, it looks,
it has that bag appeal. And in the cannabis world, we talk about this too, like the ugly heirloom
tomato has more taste than the pretty grocery store versions. And so I'm just looking at...
Well, you know, this is the nature of commercialization is you go to the mass appeal,
and the mass appeal sometimes isn't the best, right? In fact, when I grow wild ones, people
always come into my greenhouse and say, wow, why don't we grow modern poinsettias to look like
these? Because these really look cool. And there is some effort to have some, like I talked about,
the hybrid euphorbia is really do look a bit more like wild types. They're much more beautiful plant.
But yeah, I mean, it's, yeah, it's like, yeah. I think my mind was blown. I mean, you know,
I knew nothing about the history. And that's why I thought this would be cool to have you give
everybody the history because I think 99% of the people watching didn't know any of this and that
it didn't always look like the shiny red apple of poinsettia plants. So can you just quickly talk
about like, you mentioned some of the other ornamentals, you know, what was the rose 500
years ago, also something that did not look like the modern rose in everyone's garden? Or like,
what are some of the other plants that just have transformed over the past couple hundred years
through human intervention to the ornamental we know in every grocery store where we buy flowers
or whatever? But it's certainly not an ornamental. You take corn, you know, corn is actually native
to the same area that Mexico is, that poinsettia is. You see a wild corn plant, you would not
recognize it. It has one kernel. It's this little grass with one kernel, or sometimes I have a
little sheath of kernels. It looks nothing like anything we eat. And yet people, you know, corn
is natural and healthy, but it's not at all. It's a man-made product. Same thing, like, have you ever
gone hiking and tripped over a cabbage anywhere? You know, there's nothing in the world that looks
like a cabbage except in cabbage fields. You know, we have totally changed almost all the plants that
we consume. Apples, you know, you don't, you won't go anywhere in the world and find an apple
falling on your head that is that size. That doesn't happen. Everything has been transformed.
I would say the exception is some tropical fruits. There are some, you know, fruits that we eat that
from the tropics that are not all that distant from the originals. But everything, you know,
I always find it curious how, you know, we perceive, the foods we perceive as being so
natural are there. If they are not genetically modified organisms, what are? You know, I mean,
we have modified the appearance and the size and the flavor of everything that we consume,
from whether it be meat products or plant products. You know, these things just don't
hardly exist in the wild. We've had to change them because, and it's been to our benefit.
But yeah, go look up what wild, you know, the indigenous corn. You just wonder how
anybody ever got that into thinking what a modern-day corn plant looks like.
There's, you know, never in a million years to think that's going to evolve or be, you know,
made into an era of corn. Yeah.
And so it seems like, you know, a big goal of all these breeders was achieve the kind of short
squat plants that have lots of branches. So as we fast forward to the 2020s, I guess my two main
questions are like, what do you see at the forefront of poinsettia innovation? Like,
what are they, what are people trying to achieve? Is it different colors for, just for fun? Or is it
even denser, shorter squatter? And then you, in the past, you mentioned Southern California as
kind of a hotbed of commercial production. Where are the bulk of poinsettias sold throughout the
U.S. during Christmas season grown now versus 25 years ago? Sure. So the way the poinsettia market
works is you can breed poinsettias anywhere. So there's breeders and there's one, there's only a
few in the world. There's one in California and there's a couple in Europe. Yeah, that's about it.
Is the Ecke family still?
No, they sold the business in 2012, I think it was. And, you know, so the breeder that they have
now is still there, but, you know, they operate under a different name. And so the family is
completely out. And so it's kind of like Oldsmobiles and cars, you know, it was a big name at one time.
And it kind of has disappeared. And so, but they still breed in Encinitas, California there.
So once you, you know, you're looking for certain traits, because you're always trying to improve
these things. Most of the time, I'd say now we're looking for production traits, not for appearance
or consumer traits. You know, we really can't get the plant to look a whole lot better, assuming
you like the big red ball. You can't, you know, it's as good as it gets. I mean, you can't get
more red on it. You can, you know, we can have shorter ones, taller ones, and we can do that.
But, you know, it's a good, it kind of maxed out its potential in terms of visual qualities,
in my opinion. Unless we kind of go to some old style bracts, or, you know, there's some of that,
but that'd be a niche market. Mostly the breeding is for production characteristics, things that
give growers problems. So, for example, in recent years, we've improved the stem strength a lot.
So, you would have these nice branch plants, but then the branches break off easily when you take
them home. So, now we have plants that are strong, so you can like drop them on a concrete floor,
and they don't fall apart. The one that I'm most interested in, and we are working on,
my research on poinsettias today is all based on heat issues. So, with climate change, you have
different, you know, temperature patterns, and you have parts of the country that are
experiencing hotter fall weather than they've had in the past. And poinsettia is susceptible
to heat delay, meaning the plants initiate flowers in September, early October. And if you have high
temperatures at that time, then flower initiation does not occur so quickly. And so, you delay the
initiation, and then when initiation does take place, you still have eight weeks before it's
going to be a marketable plant. And so, now, instead of initiating September 21st and marketing
November 21st, you're initiating in, you know, October 5th. Well, that means it's going to
be ready for sale December 5th, and that's too late. The market is not in December for wholesale
poinsettias. You start shipping in about the 10th of November to the end of December 1st
in a wholesale facility. You hit December 1st, and you want to be sweeping the floors in your
greenhouse because it's empty. You don't have a market for these things if it's delayed. You know,
there's a three-week window to sell them, and if you have a two-week delay on your flowering,
you're in trouble. You're going to eat those plants. And so, we are trying to understand
what causes and how to avoid heat delay. And so, and actually, the real solution is going to be a
genetic breeding solution. So, we were working with the breeders to help them screen their
varieties for heat delay so that then they, when they go to introduce something new and interesting,
it already has those good characteristics. We don't get it into the marketplace, and then the
growers have crop failures finding out, oh, this is heat sensitive. I can't grow it. So, you know,
they can identify the varieties that have the most heat resistance and make sure they're marketing
those, especially in, you know, Texas, Florida, Southeast, not so critical in, you know, the
Pacific Northwest, perhaps, but Oregon had some pretty hot temperatures this fall. So, it's
production characteristics that we're looking at, and heat delay being a good one. Things like
susceptibility to diseases or, you know, you can still get improved branching or bigger leaves,
smaller leaves. You know, there's some characteristics that, you know, make a plant
a little bit better. Currently, there are 140 approximately varieties that you could, at least,
that you can get, poinsettia varieties. We have different colors, and those are interesting,
but for the most part, the poinsettia market is red and then white, and white's popular because
people like to paint them, do weird colors and sparkling and stuff on the glitter and all that's
weird, but, you know, people do buy it. And so, we get a lot of interesting colors, pinks and maroons
or peachy yellows, oranges. We try to do poinsettias for Thanksgiving and had gold orange-ish
colors, and that didn't go off all that well. They're really nice looking plants, but, you know,
people did not associate them with Thanksgiving, even if the colors were the right colors.
So, you know, basically, you're just trying to get a better red, but the reality is there are a lot of
good varieties to choose from, and it gets, it's competitive. It's hard to, you know,
you're taking something that's near perfect and trying to improve it, and it, you know, so it's
it's difficult. We're not making huge advances like we did through the 60s, 70s, 80s, and 90s.
It's definitely slowed down a lot. So, once you have identified a variety that's interesting,
what you do then is you produce the cuttings offshore. So, we do the mother plants. It's,
you know, as you know, growing mother plants is very labor intensive, and we don't have the labor,
and it's too expensive to do it in this country. So, there are no mother plants, stock plants
grown here. They are grown in Mexico, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Guatemala. So, Central America and
Mexico are where the cuttings are produced. So, you have large farms, maybe 20, 40 acres that
just grow mother plants. They harvest the cuttings. They ship them to our growers as unrooted
cuttings. Our growers propagate them in July, in the early August, and then they grow them in their
greenhouse for December sales, or, yeah, November, December sales. So, that's kind of the scheme.
The states that are important, you know, Southern California was just important back in the day
because you could grow these things year round and in unheated greenhouses. So, and it was drier
than, say, South Florida would be. You know, Florida, the humidity isn't that great. So,
it was just one of the few places in the country where you can really do them well year round,
and it was nice and cool and high light in the San Diego area. It's kind of perfect climate.
And so, you know, back in the day, that was the place to do it. Now, you know, there's no
particular reason to be there. And so, the growers, basically, you have to have, you know,
you can't ship these things very long distances in any sort of cost-affordable manner. So, you know,
you're not going to ship more than 500 miles in a truck. So, you're going to have locations in
every state or every other state sort of thing. It's going to have some pretty big growers
to take care of the different parts of the country. So, most states have, you know,
a dozen or so mid-small grower. That would be somebody less than five acres that, you know,
just does some stuff for local sales and local garden centers. But, you know, it's a mass market
product for the most part. It's not a very profitable crop to grow at all. So, you really
have to grow it on a large scale to do well with it. So, really, what you have is a few really
large growers sell to a large part of the market. And for the most part, the vast majority of
plants are going to go through Walmart, Lowe's, or Home Depot nationally. Those are the big ones.
And then, you know, Costco will have some and there are some others. But, you know, it's a
Walmart, Lowe's, Home Depot world. They are the drivers. And you had mentioned that they'll use
it as a loss leader, right? Yeah. Yeah. And so, you saw the Black Friday thing. Yeah, it's definitely
a loss leader. And they did a study at Walmart, oh, it's probably been 15 years ago, where they
kind of asked the question, do we really have to grow or sell poinsettias because they're really
not, you know, it's kind of a pain for them to have a plant. They're not a live goods type of
business in the winter. They have a garden center in the spring. But, you know, that's closed in the
winter. And now you got to have a live good in the store. And it's not that, you know, there's just
logistic problems. Poinsettias are cold sensitive. So, you know, you're shipping them in Michigan and
Minnesota, you got to really protect them. And so, you know, it's a bit of a pain to have
poinsettias. So, Walmart said, maybe we don't have to sell poinsettias. And so, they did an
experiment with some of their stores. And their data showed that the stores that they put
poinsettias in had better Christmas sales than the stores they didn't put poinsettias in. And so,
their conclusion was poinsettias are harbinger of the Christmas season. So, when we are decorating
and getting ready for Christmas, we need to have poinsettias in there at that start of that season,
because it is a signal that we have made a seasonal change and you are okay to start
shopping for Christmas. And so, which is good for growers because they're putting them in the stores.
And like I said, growers, most of them will tell you, we don't make any money off of a poinsettia.
We're happy to break even. And so, you might ask the question, well, why would you bother to grow
them? And the reason is, you've got this greenhouse, what else are you going to do with it at Christmas?
There are no other Christmas flowers to choose from. In the spring, we've got a bunch of stuff
we can grow and we can sell the heck out of the spring sales. People landscape, landscape,
landscape with flowers. That's great. Great business. Make a lot of money. Summer's okay.
We kind of get through the summer and then you've got basically August through December,
what are you going to put in your greenhouse? It's going to be empty. If it's empty, what do I do
with my employees? I've got 100, 500 people. I can't lay them all off. They got to keep them
busy. And so, well, they grow poinsettias. And so, you pay some bills, pay your overhead,
keep people employed, and get back to the next spring season where you're going to make some
more money. But in the meantime, you're happy to break even.
How would you describe, I mean, you covered it, but can you kind of re-describe,
like, I assume your parents are not PhDs in horticulture. Like, are they more laymen?
Yeah.
So, is it the genetics from the rootstock of plant A are
going into plant B, which is grafted onto it?
No. You know, genetics implies that, you know, it's in the DNA code, right? That the DNA of that
plant is doing something, right? And when you do a sexual cross, that's where you're mixing the DNA
of the mother and the father. And if you have a DNA, a genetic characteristic, like, let's say,
big bracts are a characteristic. And so, you try to get that gene from the mother into the father.
And you cross, you know, you have sex between the mother and the father flowers. The offspring,
some of them are going to have the big bract gene. Some of them are not, right? There'll always be a
proportion of the offspring that have blue eyes, brown eyes, big bracts, some genetic characteristic.
What we have with free branching is nothing that's in the DNA code. It's a living organism.
It's a bacterium that doesn't naturally grow in a poinsettia, but has somehow gotten into there
and done something that confers a beneficial trait, at least in terms of the commercial
production. And so, and what's interesting with phytoplasmas, which are these bacterium,
they cannot be cultured outside of the plant. So, you would think, you know, you could,
if you identify a bacteria that did something good to a plant, well, you grow the bacteria in
a petri dish and then you spray it on the plant and then you confer, you know, you do something.
Well, these bacteria, they lack a cell wall, so they don't survive outside of the plant.
And so, you can't culture them. So, the only place they live is in plant tissue and in the sap of the
plant in particular. That's the only place they live. So, somehow you have to transfer the sap
of one plant into the sap of another plant. And we can do that by grafting. You can, insects can do
it. Grafting can do it. There are some parasitic weeds, like daughter. Daughter is a parasitic weed.
It actually feeds on a plant and then it twines around and then feeds on another plant. And so,
this phytoplasma can go from one plant to another because they've both been infected by a parasitic
weed. So, that's something that's not a genetic. It's not in the DNA code. It's in the, it's a
biological, it's a totally separate biological organism that somehow changes the branching
habit of the plant. And we do know in plants, we can manipulate branching somewhat by manipulating
the hormone content in the plant. Just like people have hormones, plants have hormones,
and those hormones affect the way the plant grows. So, if you increase the concentration
of some hormones, you're going to get more branching. And so, and we can spray hormones
on plants and sometimes we do do that to improve branching of some plants.
But it doesn't work as well as the phytoplasmas.
Is there another plant where this same phenomena has been noticed in the same way that mines were
blown with the, with the poinsettia? No, it is, that's what makes it unique is no other plant.
And in fact, people have taken these phytoplasmas and tried to put them in other plants
to improve branching unsuccessfully. Well, not just improve, but it seems like that's what they
do in poinsettia. But do they do something totally different? And like, I think you mentioned that
that they're typically a pathogenic phenomena. But are there other crops where like when one
type is grafted to another of the same crop that some cool expression happens that we actually want?
Well, yeah, I mean, we graft plants for that there are some benefit. I mean, we'll graft
tomatoes and cucumbers and some fruit trees are frequently grafted. And there are different
reasons of doing that. But in none of those cases is it because you're transferring something
biological from one to the other. So for example, we graft
watermelons is a fairly commonly grafted plant. Watermelons are very susceptible to root pathogens,
diseases in the soil that kill the plant because it infects the root system.
Well, we have pathogen resistant root stock. I mean, we have pathogen resistant watermelons
that are not very good watermelons. And so how do we get that pathogen resistance
into a good watermelon? Well, we take that resistant type of watermelon, and we use roots of
it. Because those roots are going to be resistant to that soil borne pathogen. And we graft a good
tasting, nice producing watermelon on to that root resistant pathogen resistant root stock.
And so now we get all the good part of the good plant above ground and all the good part of the
good plant below ground because we've done this graft. And so we've inferred disease resistance
by using two plants, which is easier than trying to breed that resistant into a good
tasting watermelon. You just graft the two together. So we do the same thing with tomatoes.
You know, sometimes in fruit trees, we're grafting dwarfism. So, you know, you don't want a fruit
tree, it gets hard to collect the fruit if the plant is a fruit tree that gets 20 feet tall,
you might want a more dwarf growing fruit tree. And so you can take the really nice growing
apple and graft it on to dwarf root stock. And then that plant, the shoot does not grow so tall.
So now you have a 10 foot tall tree, not 20 foot tall tree, because you've grafted it.
We graft peaches in South Carolina, I guess probably all peaches in South Carolina are
grafted because we have a soil borne pathogen that, well, it's their nematodes, little microscopic
worms that damage the peach root system. So we have nematode resistant
peach root stock. And then you take the varieties that produce really nice peaches,
but are not resistant to nematodes, and you graft them on to these guys. And now you can have,
you know, good tasting fruit and nematode resistant root stock. So we use grafting a lot,
you know, a lot of horticultural plants, but not for this reason, not for some organism to
be transferred from the root stock to the shoot. Because, and to prove that, like if you have
like if you take the, the tomato example, or, you know, watermelon example, you have
resistant root stock, non-resistant shoot, shoot produces good fruit. If you take a cutting off
of that tomato, and you root it and grow it, it's not going to be disease resistant. You need the,
so the disease resistance from the resistant root stock is not transferred to the shoot.
So, you know, I take a cutting from the shoot, and I all of a sudden have the roots from that
shoot are not disease resistant, if that makes sense. Whereas with poinsettia, once you've
grafted at once, you have actually moved the beneficial thing into the above ground tissue.
And so that above ground tissue, you can propagate cuttings forever, and it's always going to still
it's always going to still have that phytoplasma living in the sap of the plant.
Yeah, that's what I was getting at with a question, which is that that phytoplasma
triggering something that we find beneficial happening, it seems like the poinsettia is
kind of the only plant you've really seen. All right, so are you, are you ready for a tough
question? These haven't been tough. All right, you are wearing a Steelers hat with the number 33
on it. In Steelers history, don't say anything yet, there were some notable players who wore
the number 33. Charlie Seabright, Jerry Shipke, Harvey Clayton, Bam Morris, Merrill Hodge,
Frenchy Fuqua, and Trey Edmonds. Which number 33 are you representing with that hat?
Well, that's not why it's on the hat, but Frenchy Fuqua was my guy. It was, you know, 1970s.
Frenchy Fuqua would wear fur coats, and he had a pair of shoes with glass heels in them, like those
you know, like a big heel, and he had goldfish in the shoes, like they were living in the heel of
his shoe. So he was like this fantastic dresser. And yeah, so Frenchy Fuqua was the guy.
And, but the 33 is the year of the founding of the Steelers, I believe, 1933. That's why it's on
there. But that was an impressive list. I like Merrill Hodge too, though. And Bam Morris was
quite the player. Although he, you know, he got kicked out of the NFL for, or kicked off the
Steelers for smoking marijuana. Okay, here we go. A visual, can you see that?
I'll see if I can find another picture of him, but that is an epic, he was a,
he had a goblet with his pimp juice. Yeah, there he is. That's Frenchy Fuqua
with the heeled boots with goldfish. You can't see the goldfish.
Yeah, wow. That's actually on Google. That's the only good picture. I'm surprised. I would
think there'd be more pictures of that. That's amazing. Well, I'm cognizant of your time,
I think I speak for everybody when I say that was amazing. And can you give us a little teaser? So,
what would next Wednesday around the same time, 8am, that'd be 11am your time work?
Yeah, that's fine. Okay, so I'll see if that works for Allison as well.
Do you want to kind of just give a teaser of what you got? This is like the cliffhanger,
like end of this week's episode, people getting excited for next week. So,
what are you guys going to talk about next week? Well, we're going to talk about photoperiodism,
which is, you know, how plants tell time. And, of course, this is the mechanism we use to
trigger flowering. And so, you know, plants use this mechanism in nature to know what time of
year it is, so they can say, okay, this is the right time for us to have flowers so that we get
pollination or whatever. And so, we've done experimentation, looking at how cannabis
responds to photoperiod. And we've done this because historically, the indoor growers have
basically used an 18-hour day and a 12-hour day. And we wanted to ask the question, well,
what happens between 18 and 12? Certainly something interesting must. And then the other question is,
are those really the photoperiods we should be using? They certainly work, but are they the best?
Should we really be using 11 and 17 or 13 and 18? So, I guess that's the teaser. And we haven't,
I would say we haven't fully answered the questions ourselves, but we have some pretty good
data that we'll share with you. And so, it's still work that is in progress,
but we'll show you where we're at in understanding how to manipulate photoperiod
and some of the aspects around manipulating photoperiod of cannabis plants.
You've been on the FCP and your phone is now blowing up. You're famous. You're cannabis famous.
No, I'm joking. Just my very last thing is it was interesting because it seems like with the
poinsettia, it's not just photoperiodism that dictates when it starts to do what it does,
but also you mentioned heat as another, is that a second factor in the poinsettia?
Yeah, I would say heat isn't like a trigger. It modifies the response. So, if the temperatures
are optimal, the signal, the photoperiodic signal is stronger. So, I guess you'd say
temperature modulates the photoperiod response. And so, you kind of have to do both of them. You
have to have the right temperature and photoperiod, but photoperiod is the trigger.
It's the temperatures, the dial, to modulate it better. It affects the rate at which the
photoperiod signal works. So, you can cause if the plants flower, go from when you start
the flowering phase, the 12 hour nights, it takes eight weeks. We can actually, we can
manipulate that with temperature. So, we can make it seven weeks, eight weeks, nine weeks,
10 weeks with temperature, but you still have to have the photoperiod signal.
And we've done experiments through that. We'll probably talk about that. They're interesting
where you do what's called cyclic lighting, where instead of just turning the lamps on for 18 hours,
you could turn them on for 12 hours and then have some pulses of light in the dark period.
And you would get the same response. So, it's a way to save energy if there was a desire to do that.
Got it. All right. Well, hopefully, we will be back on next Wednesday at 8 a.m. Pacific,
11 a.m. Eastern. So, we originally actually had another show right after you with,
I don't know if you know who Scott McElroy is from Auburn University, but he was going to talk
about Nikolai Bavilov from the Soviet era grains and cereal crops and kind of this guy's place in
history. But he is sick today. So, we're going to try to punt that to next week as well.
And I did have, I was trying to get a surprise guest on with you to say a quick hello,
but it didn't happen. But maybe that surprise guest will come on next week.
Okay. Look forward to that. And with that, to everybody watching, thanks for watching.
And let me just look at our quick calendar here today is, oh my God, there's a Chadwick
Westport show tonight at 7 p.m. Pacific, 10 p.m. Eastern with the ranch selection. So,
see you all then. And maybe in between. So, with that, I will kill the transmission.
