Here just off to the side hanging out, but look at that.
So kill your live.
Gil is going to be YouTube famous.
People are going to recognize him in the grocery store.
Let's see Gilligan.
There he is.
I let let let me give us some names so people know who the hell is.
So we have a special.
So conceptually, the idea of this show is
for kind of the review crew to talk about what's crossing their.
Their radar every week, and then sometimes we'll have growers on.
Today is one of those times we have Mr.
Snow till in the house.
Thank you for joining us.
From from Sonoma or where are you?
I live in the in the Bay.
Oh, right. The bed.
Sorry, we were talking about someone else who's a little north of you.
All right. You're in the Bay Area.
Cool. And so last time you saw that guy
where that guy, he had a very different look.
I'm a different person.
Yeah, you did. Right.
Your whole look like this is totally different than I know.
I looks like a little boy.
Well, I want to hug him.
He regularly had to clean it up.
Yeah, I remember he was our
he was our porn star in disguise.
Yeah, I remember that.
That was that was funny.
And I actually believe him at first.
I was like, I want one.
Porn star on site.
That was I was Tom House is Tom doing good.
He's good. I got to check in with him.
He is he moved to Connecticut.
And yeah, living in the country in Connecticut rather than
do you remember how hot it was in the valley that day?
Horrible. Yeah.
The the valley in that was like August or something or what?
It was some time of year where it was just super hot.
And it was like the one day where it was super humid, too, right?
It was gnarly, but I think we had a great conversation.
And yeah, I mean, Joe, do you want to introduce yourself?
Introduce myself?
Yeah. My name is Joe.
I am one of the two co-founders of Snowtel.
We grow very high end
flower that some people really like.
And yeah, we use we use no till living organic methodologies
loosely based off of muscle and the guacos
teachings or more of his ethos, because I would say
he wasn't really doing something particularly
cannabis related.
You know, he was all about natural farming and just the idea that
you can produce a higher quality crop using something that.
Like just working with nature as opposed to kind of
how chemical agriculture has pushed things a little bit away from nature,
a little more of a claim to sterility, but also
to what certain people in my school of thought think would be
taking the heart out of it and in and into and some people would agree
somewhat of the quality, you know, like one of the things that turns around
to organic farming is, you know, you you eat that organic fruit and you're like,
oh, my God, I didn't know it could taste like that versus the vegetable.
And then, you know, I happen to find a similar thing with the cannabis as well.
So that's why I do what I do.
And yeah.
So so by the way, the is this what you guys are smoking on right now?
Is that what you said you have good?
It is, which is really, really delicious,
you know, and I think that we are tasting a lot of what you're describing.
So do you want to, I mean, get into sort of what that methodology
methodology looks like in practice a bit and the evolution?
Where did you start? Yeah.
OK, I started actually.
OK, so I'll tell you what I what I originally, originally started with.
And it was because I started growing back in Israel.
It was very highly illegal at the time.
Access to growing information that was more organic
was only stuff we can like research on YouTube.
We were basically me and me and my good buddy.
We were watching all the subcoolers videos at the time,
and we'd always see him with super soil and we'd be like, oh, my God,
that seems so cool that the flower looks so fire.
But we were stuck with a very limited amount of nutrients at the Israeli
growth stores that we could use at the time.
And what we would what we would grow with back then
originally was biovis.
And then we switched over from biovis because we started using a different
type of pot.
I think they were called auto pots back then, but it was basically pots
that the bottom feeds water, basically like a DWC, but with soil.
So the bottom would like fill up with some kind of water reservoir.
And then you would never really water the soil on top.
It would just be like a soil medium, usually like a 50 50 cocoa.
So it makes with some added perlite.
And we then eventually went into using advanced nutrients with that
because it worked better with that kind of like more hydroponic
hybrid hydroponic thing.
So started with a little bit more of an organic bottled nutrient
moved on to advanced nutrients.
That was a span of about two and a half years I was growing like that.
Then after after I was going for about two and a half years or so,
I moved out to California.
I had at the time just started really researching no till.
I was very I was very sold on super soil because I was watching that for years.
I'm like, I'm going to come to California.
I'm going to do super soil. It's going to be amazing.
And my buddy, who was the one who taught me how to grow back in Israel,
who taught me first with bio-based and then advanced nutrients
because everyone has a teacher when they first get into it.
You know, it is there's someone you're following,
someone you're learning from, whatever.
So that was kind of my guru at the time.
And he sat me down and about six months before I moved to the States,
he sat me down. He's like, you have to watch this video.
And he pulled up a Mendo Dope Boys video.
And it was him checking out a group, someone called Minnesota Nice, I think.
And he was one of the first people we ever saw do no till.
And at first I was looking at the videos and I was seeing some of the flower stuff
and I was like, it looks good, but I see some comparable stuff with the super soil.
I'm not 100 percent sold on it, whatever.
Blah, blah, blah. Six months later, moved to the States.
I was helping a 10 acre farm with their outdoor grow, finish up their harvest.
They were doing pretty much a hybrid, like straight in the ground,
but using bottled nutrients to supplement and just try and grow like big,
you know, four or five, four or five pound trees.
And I was helping them finish it up and we finished up
and there was a small shed to do about a 10 liter.
And they both of the owners had left
leaving me with like 100 pounds of material of their material to just watch over.
And the landlord of the property came by and wanted to invest in like a small
like 10 liter in that in that little shed that they had.
I mean, this is up in Trinity County, just to give you guys an idea of the setting.
And he brought me to the grow store.
And just two weeks before that, I was actually looking up the entire recipe
list of how to grow with no tilling organics from Mountain Organics
because I finally found him on on Instagram.
And I was just so blown away by the pictures and everything I saw.
So when he took me to the grocer, I was I was like, am I going to do super soil here
or am I just going to go straight for the no till living organics?
And it would probably work out better had I gone straight for the super
so because I was researching that way more at the time.
And I will say one thing about no till living organics.
There's a lot of caveats and a lot of ways, like a lot of people get excited
when they see people who know how to do it and they see the flower and they're like,
oh, my God, I'm going to produce it just like this.
They jump right into it, not realizing that you if you don't know what you're doing,
you're dealing with fungus gnats, root aphids, regular aphids,
spider mites, potentially all that stuff.
And on my first ever grow there, we actually all those things came up.
We managed to treat all of them.
And we still ended up being able to sell that flower to dispensaries,
which is the first time.
And this is back still to 15 era.
So, you know, you didn't have a lot.
You didn't have a license.
You were just able to come up as long as long as your stuff passed lab testing,
which I was still surprised it did because there were spider mites on that crop
and whatever.
We obviously did a good job cleaning it up in the trimming, however it is.
It unfortunately happens.
Yeah, no, it happens.
It's not it's not something thankfully like now with the experience
I have growing in a no till setting like that's never been.
That has not been an issue for a very, very long time.
We have some occasional pests that will come up from time to time,
but they're kept fairly in control and we have a lot more experience with them.
But at that time back there,
we we basically so so I basically did this whole no till setting.
We managed to sell that flower to a dispensary,
which was the first time that outdoor farm ever managed to get any crop
into a dispensary.
So they were very excited about it.
And then lo and behold, after like a few more months of doing that small shed,
we decided it was time to look for something a little more high end.
And we didn't want to we didn't want to risk continuing in the outdoor market
because we already saw some of the trends that,
you know, you guys are seeing now in the market with, you know,
not worth harvesting because to trim and process it will cost more than
what you can get sometimes on the pound.
So we were already starting to get very weary.
And that was even back then the outdoor market was still going for two K plus
2,500 plus a pound.
So, but, but we were seeing the writing on the wall and we're like,
let's focus small indoor, whatever. So I went with the one, the, my, my co,
my, my co founder, who's actually now in Vienna,
Austria doing doing advocacy work out in
Europe, which is kind of awesome.
What is the name of the organization that he is involved in?
He's he's part of the veterans. It's a man I should,
I should know this better, but it's,
it's some kind of vet cannabis veteran Alliance or something like that.
But it's basically he himself, he was in I'm Israeli. He's Israeli too.
He served in the IDF. He, he saw a lot of really terrible things, you know,
that he obviously had cannabis was very helpful for him to deal
with his PTSD and some of the experiences he went through.
And he naturally connected here in the Bay area with a lot of the other like
American soldier vets who have very similar experiences and have also gone from
being on one side, like one type, like, which is like, you know, type a army,
whatever to now cannabis free love and all that kind of stuff.
And it, yeah, he, he really, he really he,
either way, he really gets along with the veterans there.
And it's really awesome to see what they do together and kind of how the
advocacy work they're able to put together just by being veterans and saying
like, Hey, we we've seen some shit and this stuff needs to be
legal because this really could help bring, make the world a better place.
Either way. So, so we went down, we went down to Emeryville at the time.
We found a small grow there.
And we started building the brand from a small 12 lighter in Emeryville over the
course of two, three years. And about four years ago,
we really started ramping things up, scaling up. And since then,
things have been going very well. And, and yeah,
and that's kind of just like my old, I've been growing out for about a decade.
So when I, when I say my two and a half years in Israel,
I've been about seven and a half years now living in the States,
I'm doing this here. So that's kind of just my growing,
my growing life story. I'm, I'm, I'm,
I'm happy to finally say I've been growing for a decade,
but I'm also like, damn, I'm old.
I have a question, just going back to the super soil.
I've always thought it was just really cool that you run TCA genetics.
Did you sort of,
was there a connection there and in researching the super soil and wanting to
grow cool stuff?
So that's how we knew about it. So back then, okay.
So if you want to hear my story of how did I discover it?
Like, like get exposed to any of this world.
It was at that same guy who taught me back then who was growing off the biovis.
He was already researching a lot of stuff, cool stuff. And back then in Israel,
you mostly had hash and you had some good weed,
which was always called hydro. It didn't make a difference how it was grown.
If it was like anything better than just complete crap, it was like,
well, he's a hydro, you know, it's like, it's hydro man, you know, whatever.
So it's just, it's just out. I see Gil's very familiar with what I'm talking about.
So either way there was so, so yeah, so you had the,
you had the whole hydro thing going on there where everything that was decent
was called hydro. And then this guy comes over and he's like,
he hits me up because at the time I'm not gonna lie,
I was dealing a little bit to get through school and whatever.
It was great money back then. 120 shekels of gram, roughly $40 a gram, you know,
just why not? So he hits me up being like, yo, your brother,
your brother told me that, you know, you might be able to help me out, whatever.
So I went ahead and I I was like, sure.
He comes over and he showed me flower that blew my mind and was all TJ genetics.
It was chocolate. It was train wreck. No time wreck.
Jilly bean and plush fairy. Those are the four strains. So I don't know if you,
yeah, I could tell you guys might be familiar with some of those strains and
what they did to me from like a, like, like I felt cannabis was one thing.
And then he showed me this. Well,
these strains well grown also fresh because a lot of the weed back then in,
from in Israel was that was decent, was imported from, you know, wherever.
And it was crushed like a rock basically worse than what you see now in some
places. And so, so for me it was very exciting. I'm seeing these crystals,
whatever. And that's what I was like, teach me master. And, uh,
bro, yeah, there are no, uh, been a grower pretty much ever since. But yeah,
and I hope I'm not getting the story wrong.
You were motivated to grow no till before having ever smoked or really seen no
till flower in person.
Yes, correct. So, so that's what I was.
So that's what I was saying is that fast forward about two and a half years,
I'm moving out of the States. I had already seen a video about no till.
I'm in the States for about a month and a half. We're helping them with trim,
helping them with their harvest. And then, like I said,
there was that fluke opportunity. And during that month and a half,
while I was doing that, I was, I finally made an Instagram account,
which is still the Instagram I have till today. Although back then I had,
it was under a different handle before.
Like I came up with the whole snow till idea. Um, and,
uh, yeah, I, I, I was watching,
I was seeing the pictures of mountain organics is flower and it,
it just blew my mind. And that's why I decided, okay, I'm going to be doing like,
like I need, like whatever this guy's doing,
this is the nicest pictures I've seen on Instagram. I'm going to do it.
And then I was just blown away by the results and just continue down the
process, uh, from there on out.
Absolutely. Mountain organics. So cool. And we really appreciate, um,
you introducing us to him and sort of all of the work that he's done. Um,
and it's really cool to see a lot of those processes brought to light,
I guess we, I guess should probably talk about the joint we just smoked.
Cause it was really good. And I'm certainly feeling it. Um, yeah,
there was, there's some real potency behind that.
And, and, and the guy who selected that, right. So I actually,
the surprise guest I was trying to get on, but his internet's crappy was mean,
Jean. And, uh, I was going to try to get skunk tech on too.
Um, but you work with a lot of his stuff, right?
Yeah. Yeah. Skunk tech is an amazing guy. Um,
one of the things I really liked about working with him is the humility.
Like he has a huge following the ability as a breeder where he's very much like
I let, like, I've sat there with him a few times doing selections or whatever.
And he's just like, I let the people choose, you know, what, what is like,
what is it that you want? He doesn't ever try and push like a,
this is the one that I like. And this is the one you have to get.
He just makes a bunch of seeds,
lets a bunch of people choose and then kind of promotes the things that are just
getting the best feedback from the people who he's doing these testings with.
And, um, he's, he's just really been great to work with. He's very responsive.
He, any questions I have about strains, he's always very willing to help.
But I, and just like, how does that sour diesel headband look like?
Uh, like bag appeal wise, what would you say about that?
Yeah. I mean, it is structurally pretty stunning and tight.
You want to hold it up? Yeah. Um, let's get,
maybe I don't know what's the best way to do it.
You might want to just hold the flower and put it right by the camera.
Yeah. Let's do that. Ooh, it's really sticky. Um,
yeah.
So back in Gabe's porn days, he was known for his hand work. So
we're seeing those hands up.
Oh yeah. Very good. He's got the motion down.
But it's, um, I mean, it's beautiful. It's very, very resonance.
I structurally really tight,
not really Fox Hilly at all. Um, and given,
I was surprised I was surprised by, by the way.
I'm sure you were about to say that, but yes.
Yeah. No, no, no. I mean, it's, it's the same thing, but it's,
I mean, all of his stuff also is really dense.
And so I guess what else have you run from him?
I know the pie stream was skunk tech.
So I've run the pie stream. I've run his selection of horchata,
which was extremely, so that's more of the sour diesel headband. Um,
pie stream, you'd have to go way back to find in my videos. Um,
it's from last year I posted one. Um, but I ran,
yeah, the pie stream is one of my favorites. It's, it's,
it's a little bit of an intense smoke. It hits,
it hits the throat and lungs a little harder than usual,
but it's because when I tested it, it's like,
and this is not one of these like padded tests.
It actually tested a 40% cannabinoids, which blew my mind. Um,
and it just has such a stickiness to it when you break it down. Either way,
it's probably one of my personal favorites. The only thing I don't, I,
we don't grow too much of the pie stream is because it is, um,
small bud size. So it's these like really tiny rock hard crystals,
which is like, if you're into cookies, you don't,
you appreciate that because you remember OG cookies. That's how it all was.
But nowadays you have these like monstrosity hybrids and you know,
the average consumer doesn't necessarily look at how dense the crystal
structure is. They're looking at like, Oh my God, it's a big, it's a big,
you know, a big donkey dick.
And I'm just not that to go into what we were talking about before we got on.
Um, sorry, I ramble.
I appreciate it because I think it makes sense.
Okay. This is where this is a rambling friendly zone.
So don't worry about it. Perfect.
I'll keep going.
Um, but I, you know, you really have carved out a very particular niche.
And I feel like you produce a specialty product.
I know a lot of it has spoken before it ever, it really exists.
How much is bag appeal relevant to you in your market,
given the position you found yourself in?
So, so, so that's a great question.
I put myself in a weird position where I care less about other metrics that
seem to be more important to other consumers. While I, uh,
like I care more about bag appeal. I care about terp terpene on the flower itself.
Um, I'm less concerned about how quote unquote something smokes per se.
Um, I, I, I found that that's not been like as important to us because I
find that certain terpene profiles, when they're really expressed extremely well,
they,
they carry a bit of a harshness to them because you're talking about volatile
essential oils and that's a known thing with terpene.
So when you have a very high terpene count, that's very,
like you can smell and you can break it down.
It's not always going to translate with every single strain the same way.
Not to say that stuff doesn't smoke well, it's still very smooth,
but like I put the bag appeal and the terpene of the flower itself and the
structural health of the flower before I put something that's like, Oh,
that was like extremely smooth on my lungs,
but might not have had the same potency because potency for me is also something
extremely important because I'm a big believer in the medicinal aspects of the
flower. So if something is not knocking me silly, like across the face,
I'm not necessarily crazy about it. Um,
even if it's like, Oh, this is nice to smoke, you know, whatever,
like there are herbs you can grind up that are very enjoyable to put in your
lungs.
But I don't even look at any of those as the ideal way to consume because I
think vaporization could be, I don't think there's the right advice is yet,
you know, it's a whole, it's a whole complexity thing. But for my market,
they absolutely rely on the fact that when they're getting snow till it is going
to be frosty, it is going to smell amazing. The flower,
it is going to knock them on their socks usually. Um,
and that's kind of been the expectation for my consumers. Um,
generally speaking. So, uh, those are, those are the metrics we go from.
That's the,
that's the niche I've carved out because I also found that to be one of the
least filled niches right now. You know,
you have a lot of people trapping and saying,
this is good because look how it's most wants to be in a pre-roll,
but you've never even seen the flower before. You don't know nothing about it.
You don't know if there's been artificial Turks added to it. So on and so forth.
So, um, for me, it's all about how it gets to the consumer.
When they're breaking it up,
they're having this visceral experience of I can't even roll this joint.
My hands are so sticky, like that kind of situation, um,
which is not all my strains because there's also like a whole different
discussion on different types of resin. Um, you guys I'm sure notice it too.
Some resin types are a little sandier. Um,
even if the strain has grown beautifully and super crispy,
those sandier stuff always,
it actually lends itself to usually smoother smokes. Um,
while some of the resin profiles that are like super sticky and like the paper
is just stuck to your hand while you're doing like,
those tend to be the ones that really hit heavy,
but they also come usually with the potency that relates to that,
if that makes any sense.
And I think, and you know,
I think hatch makers and maybe even Max could sort of speak to this more acutely
because they've gotten so into it, but I, you know,
and I think it is those firmer trikes that sort of fall off.
And so as the market becomes, you know, more specialized, it might be,
you know,
the stuff with more combustible heads that doesn't wash that becomes the
specialty flower that people are looking for.
Yeah, that very possibly so.
Yeah. I mean, maybe there isn't much going back there, but, um, it's interesting.
I mean, do you, how,
how much do you think about like head quality and texture as you're growing?
Head quality and texture? Um, it's complex.
We tend with no-till I do find that you get large stocks.
You also get large heads, but you also get large stocks,
which I think drastically helped the quality of the bag appeal when you have the
large stocks, because large stocks really help them. It, it, it kind of,
it kind of gives that layering to the crystallization versus being like super
tight on a very short stock. Um,
so I do care about the quality of my resin. Um,
but I don't understand enough about it to say I'm an expert.
I would definitely agree that hash makers as a whole, um, tend to really like,
they, they can, they, they blow my mind with their knowledge of resin.
I look more of like, how does this visibly look on my flower?
And that tends to lead me towards things with fat heads and long stocks.
Like that, that just naturally tends to be the stuff I end up selecting for
myself and deciding to grow.
I don't grow things that have just stocks with almost no head formation because
that stuff I've always found to be, um, just not a great high,
if that makes any sense. Cause there's a lot of weed that you will see like that,
that like when you use it, when you put it under the loop,
the loop there's actually no heads left there. It's really just,
you're seeing a bunch of like stocks, maybe some powdery mildew that looks like
crystals, you know, all kinds of crazy things. Um, you, you'd be like, I,
I've always found that looking under the loop is
the best cannabis critics I've seen all do that.
I'm sure you do that yourself, um, as well, knowing, knowing you, uh, Gabe, but,
um, I've,
I found that to be extremely helpful when really judging the quality of how well
the resin heads are intact on the flower.
And at what point I'm trying to, for a life, sorry.
Yeah. At what point in your journey did you start using the loop?
Uh, when did I start using the loop? Honestly, as far back as Israel. Um,
and I'm not consistent with it. Like I'll, I'll do, I'll,
I'll go into like a month where I'm doing a lot of, thank you. Um,
where I'm doing a lot of looping and, uh,
checking and seeing what's going on there.
And then I'll go a few months if I'm not growing any new strains where, you know,
I just trust the process. I could still see with the eye, very visibly,
the crystals and, you know, not necessarily delving as deep into it.
Does that make sense? But usually with new strains, it's what I'm, um,
I'm looking for when I'm testing.
What is your process for taking a new strains?
And we talked about your relationship with skunk tech and taking some of those
cuts and we're about to do so G, which is sort of a mystery cut, right?
Yeah. And that's what I'm smoking right now. So it's perfect timing. Um,
the James OG is a mystery cut. Indeed. I'll, I'll get into the story in a second.
Um, but one of the things that, uh, for me, um,
is to trust the breeder.
There are so many people who call themselves breeders nowadays,
and they're not necessarily breeders.
So I will try anything from a trusted breeder if he's giving for me,
for me to fit for it, for me to test it. Um,
I'll usually put one plant in the room, um, grow it out with everything else.
I'm usually super attentive because even with breeders,
I trust and everything like that. Um, it's extremely scary for me.
The idea of her math, uh, hermaphrodite, because one of my,
one of the first squirms I've ever done and it scarred me till today had giant
balls right at the bottom of the plant. I didn't notice it.
And then that last month of flower where I thought it was going to turn into
beautiful flowers, it turned into beautiful seeds,
which was not fun to smoke and it was not.
Yeah. It's like, it's a rite of passage for any grower. Um,
it's actually the reason that till today I actually don't grow from seed,
which is why I'm able to trust some of the breeders I work with a little more.
Cause when I'm growing that cut of skunk tech stuff,
that's not the seed stock I'm growing from.
That's from his personal selection of the seed stock. So he does, he does, uh,
he does a whole testing of his, his crosses beforehand.
And he'll keep a few of those phenols with a very selective group of people that
he'll actually share the direct vino with. Um,
and then it will eventually maybe like half a year down the line,
get into a nursery in California that you'll be able to actually buy that cup
from him. Um, but so I, I generally speaking,
trust the phenols I'm working with that they're hopefully not going to
hermaphrodite because they've already been tested and it's been gone through
whatever. And, uh, and I just see if I like it.
So, you know, some, not everything I've, from every breeder I've had,
there's definitely been some things that cut out,
but there's also been some things I've, you know,
incorporated and have made staples in my garden.
And has everything been tested indoors before you?
Uh, yes, I do make sure. Uh, I definitely,
I think I have worked with some breeders who haven't quite tested things
indoors, but I still trust them enough.
The only issue with that really comes down to that hermaphroditism where
something that might express very well with the natural light cycles outside
when put in a strict 1212 might do, it might do some funky things to it.
They were all of a sudden like, Oh, nevermind. I'm actually a dude or maybe not.
And so because, I mean,
I think you will probably keep a larger nursery than what gets rotated in,
but do you want to just quickly run through most of what you're flowering out
these days?
Lately I've been on a big James O'Gee kick just because gas has been pretty
prevalent. Um, as you notice from the James I sent you, it has,
it definitely has, I wouldn't call it like it's not perps,
but it has like a coloration to it. That's just not your average lime green.
It's got some kind of like bluish purplish you to it.
Um, but I think adds to the bag appeal of it still being an OG. Um,
that one's been a big one.
We're starting now to ramp up the sourdough headband just because there's been a
lot of people, um, who have been really, really into it. Uh,
I'm doing pie screams still not a ton of it again because it's got that small
nugg thing, but for the people who love pie screaming,
they just can't get enough of it. So I try and keep around, um,
a small supply of that going. Uh,
motor breath OG is always in and out of my garden.
Like I'll have it for a month. I'll have it. Yeah. Your favorite.
Every other month or so I'll have a run of it. Um,
and it's just so nice and so good. Um, that one, uh,
we have, uh,
what about, what about the J one?
I was literally about to say that. So it's funny.
Mastro master bought me some down a couple of weeks ago.
I'm smoking some right now.
So the J one is a classic example of an old school strain that will not smoke
traditionally well, by the way, it does not at all, but it,
it tastes amazing and it gets me so high.
It's the smell on it. It's just like,
is it to pin lean forward? Is it, is it a tradition?
I have not, so I've not gotten lab tests done for a mountain. This is okay.
So that's directly, that's the cut from mountain organics.
That is a 20 plus year old cut of J one, um, which if anyone's unfamiliar with J
one, it's Jack rare cross with a skunk number one. Um,
and wait, wait, sorry. Yeah. So I don't know if it's terpene lean heavy,
but my guess is it would be for pinning, uh, the pinning,
uh, what's that one that I'm trying to think of? Um,
not leaning pine piney.
My guess would be terpene lean, piney heavy. Um,
might have some limiting in there as well because it does have a little bit of
that lemon limey thing, but that could just as well be pining expressed.
Um, I'm not sure if it's alpha or beta, whatever, but definitely pine piney,
piney, definitely high in terpene lean.
And I would guess probably something like a lime lean in there as well,
but I will let you know for sure. Once I get it lab tested,
it's just one that's very new to us. So I haven't yet.
Max, what's it like?
What's it like? Yeah. Oh bro. I mean, it reminds me of like back in high school,
like Jack, the smell of it is just so plunging. You bro. It's so flipping,
are you taking it? I mean, I guess do Jack's need to be taken a little longer.
Are you taking it longer than the cushions?
Wait, are you max that I met? Oh my God. Sorry.
What's up man? Yes, sir.
Oh, very nice to see you. I was like, he's like,
and I got a professional, like how the fuck does this guy getting my flower?
And I was like, and then we're okay. That's right. I'm,
I'm seeing everything on my phone. So you're all very tiny to me right now.
So that's why I couldn't.
Perfect. Yeah. What's up Joe? Wow. That's awesome. Great to have you here, man.
Yes, sir. It's good to see you.
Cause this is like the, um,
so what you, what you guys are smoking is a sour diesel headband, right?
What we just, uh, and are still, and by the way, Gabe,
the commentary in the chat, they, they are marveling at your Oakley's and,
uh, we feel like you just came off the, uh,
spring training baseball diamond right into this conversation.
Yes, Vivian Westwood. These are not Oakley's, but a vibe's a vibe.
So this, this is the, uh,
you Gabe, you guys are smoking sour headband,
right?
Yeah. So we just did, but I think Joe did run this cut, but so.
You did. Yeah. So I, yeah. So I, so let me explain.
That is actually slightly different. That's our diesel X I 95 X headband.
And that when I actually ran that cut, um,
that was not a cut that I'm releasing. It's extremely, extremely gassy.
It might be a cut that I will go ahead and use for hashing purposes later on.
But to me, it didn't, it didn't check all the, um,
all the bag appeal check marks I was looking for in flower currently.
Um, but that was also from a cut that he gave me that he selected.
And it was one of the stinkiest cuts I've ever grown.
It literally, it smelled like dirty tires.
Like it was disgusting in the best way possible is the best way I can say it.
Um, I don't know, personally, I like turps that I'm like, Oh, Oh,
like that. I get so bad, but I want more of it in my face. I don't know.
I'm saying that.
Who wouldn't want turps like that in their face. They're like, Oh yeah. Yeah.
So, so the gas cap, I definitely recommend, um, turp wise, it's insane. Um,
but this is this one that they're smoking is called nug head,
which is strictly sour diesel X, um, headband.
That sounds nice.
And we're about to spark up the James OG. So this is just, you know, as,
I think people are wanting to know more about, you know,
different coaches and sort of distinctions between coaches.
This is a cut you took in that I always remember you saying is pretty lemon
forward, right?
Not lemon forward, gas forward,
lemon notes and slight, slight lemon notes is the best way I would say,
because I wouldn't say it's not like a lemon up or something that you smell.
And you're like, Oh my God, this is straight lemon, orange turps right here.
It's more of something that's like, this is gas, but it's not leaning towards
that chemi side of a lot of the modern OG crosses that you have in,
let's say the motor breath where the motor breath is straight oil rag
tires.
I'm at a gas station and someone spilled oil on their car and I can smell it
and it smells great and whatever. It's more of like, Huh,
I'm at the gas station.
Someone did that and I'm eating like a little lemon tart at the same time.
And it's adding like something little to the, to the mix here,
but it's not the overpowering. I'm not getting chem there.
Is the best way I can say it. I'm getting gas with something else.
I don't know.
Something else. I don't know.
It's still an OG.
And so what is the story of this cut and sort of how you acquired it?
So this cut I acquired
through a guy named James who me and my business partner met years ago.
And this is like one of those old school people. He had, I think,
property out in Nevada County.
And he was growing for many, many decades.
He had access to some incredible cuts. The electric sugar that I, that I,
that I grow was a cut from him.
I had a bubble burst that I was growing for a little while,
which was a cut from him. My James OG is a cut from him.
And at the time that I was working with him a little bit and whatnot,
he actually had access to some other really amazing genetics.
And he was like, he had a, he had a facility in Oakland.
We would go there, he would give us some cuts.
He would just ask to bring back some flour from him because he just liked the
way that we grew out his material.
And the James OG was an interesting one because right before he gave me that
cut, like the other stuff I knew what the crosses were, but like my electric
sugar, I, he told me there's a lot of 33, 8% at Sherbert.
And the, the James, he didn't, he,
he gave it to us. And then two weeks later,
he told me that he moved up to Humboldt.
And then before I ever asked him for the genetics,
we have literally not heard from the guy in close to three years now.
So I have no idea what James OG is. Oh. And when he gave it to me,
he called it OG. He's like, this is my 20 year old OG cut.
It's better than your motor breath. He called me. So he forced me.
He's like, you have to do, he's like, you try my motor, but he's like,
this is great, but take this. So he gives it to me. And then, uh, yeah.
And then, uh, he disappeared. And so we just called it the OG James OG,
cause his name is James and I don't even know his last name. So yeah,
that's the story. It's not very exciting.
It's it's limey to me,
which is something I've always heard people say is like true of the
earliest OG kushes is that it was actually more of like a lime than a lemon.
And then I've heard people say that that's in the master or like the real cut of
master that floats around is sort of that version of OG kush.
This is awesome.
Thank you. Um, I, yeah, it's,
it's one of our most popular strains right now. Um, for a reason,
it's just super pleasant to smoke. It's one of my, it's one of my smoothest smokes,
but also carries all the potency has the gas, um,
is a little more functional than a motor breath. Uh, high,
like you're still going to get lit, but you can go to sleep if you're tired.
But if you're first waking up and you're like,
I'm going to smoke OG in the morning,
I would recommend James OG as like one to try. Cause it also like,
just extremely cerebral.
So if you don't have any tiredness from the day and whatever,
it will knock you out.
It will instead give you kind of a psychedelic experience. Just, yeah.
And so do you, do you have lines that you, um,
like in terms of stuff you want to keep for a while, like, do you have a,
like, are you just always moving on to new stuff or do you have stuff that's
like part of the stable that you want to keep around for a couple of years?
And then how are you keeping those cuts?
Cause you must have a growing list of cuts that you like.
So I'll give you an example. So our Barney's bakery,
which is really just a very unique ice cream cake cup we got.
I'm keeping that around forever because it is one of the best yielders. It's,
it's just an amazing strain. Now you guys know what happened with the ice cream,
the ice cream cake crash of 20, what was it? 2020 or something like that,
where it just was like, everyone's like, Oh my God, this girl is amazing.
It looks amazing. We're all going to grow it. It's good. Of course it's purple.
And then everyone's like, everyone has the same thing. Fuck this.
So I'm keeping it around because I think a lot of people are gonna get rid of it.
It's going to go out of style,
either cross it or bring it back as one of those strains.
That's like an OG nowadays where it's like, Oh, gee, was round.
Everyone lost their cuts of it. Cause everyone's like,
no one cares about OG anymore. And then the few people who kept cuts of it are
like, fuck. Yeah. I'm so happy. I didn't throw that out.
And I'm the only person I really respect who said that about ice cream cake.
Oh, okay. Well,
Well, no, I'm saying, you know, I think it's a, there's,
there's real credence to that.
Oh, okay. Okay. I just, I get, I'm starting to get how you guys are. I haven't,
I'm right there with you.
No, I think it is a keeper and I think, you know,
there's unfortunate circumstances and there's a lot that it happens to a lot of
things. And I think there,
it's hard for people to distinguish like between the purple punches and the ice
cream cakes, like the ones that were overgrown and good.
And there was an unfortunate outcome in the ones that were maybe not as good.
Yep. A hundred percent. And one thing, by the way,
interesting mentioned purple punch, by the way, uh, if anyone's curious,
purple punch is one of those strains that is, is, um,
big stocks, tiny heads. It's one of the strain. I actually,
I called that myself when,
when I should take and purple punch were going around together.
When I first saw purple punch, I'm like, hold shit.
Look at that. Purple smells like punch.
Like literally smell just like punch. At least when it was grown well. Um,
and just completely covered in crystallization, but I would smoke it.
And the more I would smoke it, the more I'd be like, for me,
for whatever reason, this isn't hitting me like some of the other stuff I went
under with the loop. And I discovered that it was one of those. And then,
and then I had that confirmed with a few other breeders and whatnot.
And that's part of the reason some people continue to breeding with purple
punch, but a lot of people cut it out of their lineage and their lines,
but it's just something I want to point out.
So if you ever do get some more purple punch at any point,
definitely take a look under a loop. Tell me what you find. I'm always,
I'm always curious to hear more and see what other people have experienced
doing that. So that's really,
and you said it's something that has a thick stock and a small head.
Is that what you were saying about it? Well, long stock, long stock,
small head. Oh, long stock, not thick. Yeah. Not necessarily thick,
long stock, small head. I guess it would be just as relevant for a thick stock,
small head. But even some people would say like headless weed,
where you'll even have stocks without there actually being a head at the end
because it doesn't fully form or develop. And there's a lot of weed like that.
It's kind of like looks really good.
If it doesn't have any kind of potency or that extra thing you I recommend
looking under a loop saying that you can find,
you get the 60 to 120 X loops at a grow store for like,
I think 20 bucks or something.
So if you're someone who cares about your flower and really wants to see what's
in there and find all kinds of crazy shit,
probably shit you don't want to find sometimes, but it's there. And,
it's it's something I recommend to everybody.
I had a question. You had mentioned the James OG is a 20 year old cut.
And I wanted to ask a personal question.
What were the core strands that you grew up smoking or maybe that you grew that
kind of steers you in the direction of your current menu in which you're
currently growing now?
So my current menu is decided by what people have liked.
I would say a big influence to my current menu would be my brother,
my older brother who got me into cannabis. He's always been a big OG lover.
He's always been a big believer that it's never going to die and that people are
always looking for good OG.
I think that's just proven to be true time and time again.
But my current menus, it's a very, I just have a large variety.
I try and keep something of everything. So for instance,
like my J1 is now going to replace a Mirage strain that I had for many,
many years because they have a lot of similarities.
The Mirage is more strictly orange while the J1 is, you know,
got that piney turpentine kind of style thing.
But I don't feel like I have room or the market right now for two of those types
of strains because of the redundancies that they have.
So it's something that I would rather go ahead and call one,
focus on the other.
And I only keep the other one of something I'm calling for a new purpose if it
was something exceptional.
So like even though I've been growing a Guava Gelato that has a lot of
similarities to my ice cream cake,
it's just because the gelato which has a little bit more of a gas to it is a
little more in style.
I'll always keep the ice cream cake because of its exceptional growing
properties. Whether it will be to bring back again as like an heirloom,
like this has been ice cream cake's been out 10 years,
bringing it back or something I even just breed with.
There's a reason I'm keeping it around.
Another strain like that that I have that I keep around that I don't throw out
and I literally don't grow and have not been growing it for years except for the
occasional like plant I'll throw in the corner just for my personal smoke is a
Sunday driver. I have a really, really great cut of Sunday driver.
It's a super, it's just, it's like, it's, it's, it's very doughy.
I is the best way I can explain the Sunday driver,
like a sweet baked good doughy kind of flavor that really I don't see a
lot of in flour anymore. Um,
very different from like the Skittles kick and the candy guests,
it's something else. I, I can only explain it to you by sending you some,
let me try it out. Um, but either way, um,
uh, so I, I keep that around because it, it, it's an exceptional, uh, strain,
um, has exceptional qualities to it. It's not the best yielder.
And because it's an older strain that not a lot of people want anymore.
It's not as any viable to grow for production, but I'm going to,
I'm always going to keep that in my library. So if I,
if I were to do like a rundown of every single strain, I, I,
I still have right now that I've kept, um, my oldest strain that I've,
that I've had since being in California will be go time.
It's the only thing I've kept from seed that I did.
I've just had the opportunity to honestly,
and thankfully I've been lucky enough to be able to work with some great
breeders that have taken some of the other stuff I found with seed and been
like, I'll just take this breeders cut that he gave me that, you know,
it's, it's from the source itself.
The guy who made the cup did a 200 seat selection is like,
these are the, these are the five Finos, which one you like the best.
I'm like that one. And I just stick with that.
So I've had the opportunity to replace a lot of things.
I used to have a pineapple express from seed. I replaced that.
I used to have a blackberry OG from seed that I replaced.
I used to have a Jilly bean speaking back to the TGA genetics of my own.
When I moved to California, I grew Jilly bean again. I replaced that. Um,
I had a Shangri-La pound hammer that I replaced.
I had a bunch of different things that I replaced basically.
But you kept the go time, which jinx proof. Um,
so like, I guess, yeah. What is it about that one that,
that you kept around and what were you looking for in that hunt?
I didn't know what I was looking for.
That was my first Fino hunt when I moved to California planted,
we planted like 70 or so seeds. I packed, I did one 10 pack of go time.
It was looking like sad and floppy leaves the whole time in flower,
but very green, very healthy. And, and the more you get into growing, and I was,
I was only a few years into growing at the time,
but I always felt like I wanted like just the perfect leaves that were always
like up and like ready to go and praying.
And you actually learn later on that certain weird characteristics,
like those to really unique and awesome flowers.
It was a strain we were about to throw out. Is that go time right there? Wow.
Peter's got some crazy.
Yeah. Am I not hearing you right?
That kombucha's got you wasted tonight.
It's a, it's some bubbly kombucha. Uh, what was that? Oh, so yeah.
So this is the go time and it's, uh, Norton cross with,
is that the Josh DOG? Is that the male?
No. So Norton is sour diesel cross with cheese.
And then that is crossed with Jesus OG.
Okay. And Jesus OG is Jack the Ripper cross with Hell's OG,
even though none of the Jack comes through in my go time. Pretty much.
You get strictly out of the four strains I mentioned, the sour diesel cheese,
uh, Jesus OG and, and, uh, sorry,
Jack the Ripper and Hell's OG out of those four grandparents that that strain
has the one that comes through the most by far was the cheese, um,
which I was very excited about.
I keep it around because no one else grows fucking cheese.
I think cheese is amazing.
I have my own thing to pick with like Rosin competitions
that don't have a standardization for different flavor profiles.
Like you should not be judging candy gas with cheese when you're doing like a
Rosin thing. It should be like a, it should be a, okay. Savory flavors,
sweet flavors, that kind of stuff.
Because ultimately everyone's going to always gravitate towards like Skittles
because it's like, Oh my God, it smells like candy.
I'm going to smoke the candy, whatever. Like that's going to smell,
quote unquote the best. But when you go through the different things and you see,
and like some, some cups are doing this already.
Like some of the more advanced ones and the better funded ones,
like Emerald cup actually does do like tiered categories of like,
but sweet, sweet, like profile baked goods, profile,
this profile, whatever. Um,
but I keep the cheese around cause I don't think anyone has cheese right now.
Or very few people do. I think it's one of the best highs,
one of the best flavors. Um, it is one of my most polarizing strains.
I have people that will die by my go time and say,
this is the best shit I've ever smoked. And they only want my go time. They,
they don't care about anything else. I say they don't care about my
cheese.
But I, yeah.
Okay. Well, nevermind. There we go. If anyone would have cheese,
it would be you. That's not fair. Okay.
The average consumer doesn't have access to cheese. Okay.
Gabe who knows every grower happens to have some cheese on him. Okay.
Point proven.
And it's something that I am happy to have around.
Like I get a strawberry thing to it and there is kind of a berry ish thing to
the go time weirdly, but I never associated it with the cheese.
Gotcha. Yeah. And before we went live, I was talking to someone mentioned,
Boneyard and Tony has a lot of cheese,
a lot of cheese. Okay. So people,
people in the chat can comment on it.
But I think it is what I've heard is that it's actually not a healthy plant and
that, you know, it is stuff like the go time.
That is going to be the true representations of it that are able to make it to
the market because you know,
people can flower out their really sick plant and you get something that's pretty
muted. But you can call it cheese and you can maybe be telling the truth,
but, or you can find it and see it, which I think is cool.
And it's really cool that you bring that to the market.
And that's one of the things, my go time. So remember how I was telling you,
I thought it was like a sickly plant at first, like with droopy leaves again,
that really came down. It was like about seven years ago.
It was just due to still being relatively new as a grower and learning about
different expressions and how they don't actually indicate anything about the
health of the plant. Rather, it's just like, as long as the color is,
the color is right for what that strain should be color wise.
I'm not talking about color, I'm talking about like the leaf color.
Then you know, it's okay. So it has,
it has this weird kind of thin long droopy leaves.
So it doesn't really go up and pray until it's about a week or two into flower.
Then it will do that. But up until that point,
whenever you look at it in veg,
it just kind of looks like just a drop of a sadness where some of the other
strains will do that.
I was about to throw it out because I was just,
I saw so many of the other strains that were looking all perky when we were
doing that seed front. I'm like, no, these are going to be the ones.
And I brush against it and I come downstairs cause we had our grow up in like a
little loft thing. It was like right at the beginning,
when we first decided to do no till seriously.
And we moved down to Emeryville to that loft apartment. And I, and I,
and I, I smell my fucking clothes and I'm like, it's not,
it's so stinky. Like, and this was during veg,
before it went into flower just off of a stem rub. And until today,
I can give you a stem of that go time and you can just sit there all day,
just rubbing it. And like, it's just insane how strong,
like a cheesy sour diesel smell just emanates from it. Um,
so that's when I was like, we're going to see what this does.
And then when we put it into flower and everything we pop in that seed run,
that one just blew our mind. It has an interesting,
because it's a cheese turf profile. I find cheeses like it's,
it's one of the hidden turps where even when cured,
well it won't necessarily pop as much as when you finally break it open.
And when you do break it open, the cheese just emanates a lot more. It needs,
it needs to be cracked into while gases tend to be a lot more, uh,
uh, like a lot more forward in the way they smell. When,
when you like crack open a jar,
like when I crack open a jar of something that's an OG or a gas, I'm like, Oh,
yeah, that's the gas where like a cheese I'll be like, Oh, what is it?
And then you break it and you're like, Oh, Oh, Oh my God. That smells like
stinky cheese. Either way. So I loved it. We loved it. It's my,
it's my co-founders favorite strain. And uh, yeah,
I grow it till today because I just have a hardcore group of people who,
you know, they just love the flower. So
the James OG was the, was the first train that I had from you when I met you
that night. That shit is just insane. Oh my gosh.
The James OG and the go time. The go time. The go time is my favorite. Yeah.
The go time and the J one go time to J one James OG motor breath.
They're all your favorites. I love it. Guava.
Yeah. I want to bring jinx on and have them walk through all this work.
Yeah. I've done, I've met Jinx a couple of times. He's really, really sweet guy.
I really love the work that he does and you know,
just the message he's sends out to the community is really great. Um,
I, if you ever bring them on, let me know. I'd love to say hi.
It'd be awesome to get to, yeah.
So I get to talk with him about the go time in particular. That'd be cool.
Yeah. And with people who grew his stuff too. Yeah.
So other people can remember this good idea that we all have.
We'll make it happen. Absolutely.
I must. Um, you grew runts at least once.
I feel like I saw runs and so it sounds like that's when you retired.
Do you want to know? So my runs is a complicated story.
I think my runs was actually Sherbert Skittles cause I once got a Sherbert
Skittles cross. So just Sherbert X Skittles. I got it. I got a Sherbert Skittles.
Um, many, many years ago. Well, not many, like, sorry. My,
my growing career is 10 years. So many years ago is about four years ago.
I got a Sherbert Skittles. I grew it out. It's not amazing. Super candy.
Gassy. Um,
lost the cup just was transferring grow rooms at the time.
Something got lost in that. And we're like, where's the Sherbert Skittles. Okay.
I guess we threw it out. But then the guy James, who I told you about,
he told me that he can get me the original runs.
Like this must've been a year later or so.
I didn't get the Sherbert skills from him,
but he told me you can get me the original runs.
And he gave me a cut that was almost identical to the
Sherbert Skittles just in the way it expressed itself. He called it runs.
I called it runs. It was characterized by very, very,
very like the tiniest bugs you've ever seen,
completely coated,
completely purple and just smelling like straight candy. Um,
and after growing it for a while, I just had several like,
established breeders who looked at it and tell me like,
they just don't think it's the original skip, uh, the original runs cut, um,
that I thought it was.
So at that point I thought it might've been the Sherbert skills and I just
retired it because I was kind of not feeling the candy gas thing anymore.
And I have enough people have access to the real runs cut that I'm like,
if I'm going to start doing candy gas again,
I'll just grow the real runs and just go from there. Or if anything,
I'll just grow Skittles at that point.
Cause I have enough gas that if people really want that candy,
just go straight for a Skittles thing.
Although Skittles is a notoriously difficult strength to run.
I did grow the original skills once like five years ago. Um,
and it was a finicky plant. It was a very finicky plant.
Like I did not enjoy growing it. I did. I do not feel like,
like I understand why some of the price points that you see for it are there
because I don't see why many people want to grow.
But like the biggest thing with it, very easy to mold.
So if your germ is not perfect,
the biggest bugs and the nicest ones that you're looking at the whole time,
you're like, I can't wait to smoke you,
which is always the one that's going to break your heart because it's the one
that's most dense and has the most mass. Like we,
we got some mold on those back then. And it was just like, I'm not gonna,
I'm not going to risk growing a strain that does that. So either way. Um,
so no runs. Um, but if I go back to something, might do some Skittles, uh,
limited release or might find the OG runs that actually is runs,
not what was given at the time.
Yeah. And I was only curious why, why you retired it,
but I think your current rotation,
you have something equivalently sweet and interesting in the pie screen.
That is exactly. Exactly. Exactly. And I would prefer it personally.
I prefer the pie stream. It's passion is more like intense fruit salad,
like syrupy almost in its, in its snow. Um,
which can be driver. There's similarities. Now that I'm thinking about it,
there definitely are. I would say definitely like
the baked good kind of sweetness comes through with the Sunday driver and that,
and then you just add like maybe some like
strawberry banana, just nuttiness to it.
I actually just recently grew some strawberry banana. That was fun,
but I've, I've had that access, that train on and off for years. And
as much as I love it, um, it's, it's, it's a, it has weird structure to it.
So it's not really super viable for
it doesn't, it kind of grows too large of molds indoors, right?
It could do that.
But for me it's more that it just likes to roll with a ton of leafs.
Like, so it's just a lot of extra work, the leafing a strawberry banana cut.
It doesn't like to put on like the nice, like good, like go time is amazing.
You don't even need to like trim that shit. It's not giant buds. Like they're,
you know, they're golf ball buds everywhere, which is fine. Um,
and, but the light penetrates right through. Cause it,
it'll just have like a leaf here, the leaf here, like, you know,
just like very sparse and spread out while the strawberry banana would be like
leaf leaf leaf leaf leaf leaf leaf everywhere. And it just be like,
if you're not pulling that off, it's going to affect bud size.
It's going to affect the airiness of it. And you know,
unfortunately the market that's not as forgiving to those types of things. So I,
I shied away from it where the pie screen for instance, is very small buds,
still a decent amount of deleting because the leaves are very big, very healthy.
And it's, it's one of those weird things where if you,
if you're ever growing a strain that has beautiful resin rails, it hurts more.
I promise you it hurts more to delete when you're pulling off leaves that are
just completely frosted and covered it. Like you're like, I don't want to do it,
but it is,
and this would be just a tip I'd give to any grower who goes through this
problem and they're kind of early on the journey.
It's always worth taking that leaf off because what you're going to get in bud
structure under there by doing that is astronomical.
And I used to be a big believer funnily enough in, sorry,
I'm really going on a one year. I used to be a big believer in the idea of,
not a big believer in it,
but open to the theory and idea of not doing any kind of pruning or deleafing
because all of its solar panels, blah, blah, blah.
But I will honestly say just from a lot of experience testing
both of those out, deleafing will always give you better bud structure.
I think that's why those kinds of strains get mostly
run by hashmakers.
Your stuff in the past has sometimes gone to hash. Like where,
what are your thoughts on that? And I mean, I know you really grow for flower.
Well, that's starting to change. I don't know, Max,
did you get to try any of the, uh, the go time hash?
I did get to try some of the go. I want to try that.
I didn't get to try any of it.
I didn't get a Christian Christian Christian brought over a jar.
Christian brought over a jar, uh, un, uh, unlabeled and, uh,
I got to go into it pretty hard. Yeah. I'm learning. I'm actually,
I'm learning FaceTime and Christian right now. I'm learning FaceTime and Christian.
Oh, that's awesome. That's awesome.
Eternal.
Yeah. Eternal hash.
I just, I just did. Yeah. I,
I just did a collab with the hash for the go time and we got a whopping like 5%
to Ross and yield on it. Um, which was, which is pretty good from what I understand.
Um, and it was the first, that was actually, so all my other hash, uh,
attempts still now I've got, I'm, I'm, I'm very, I'm,
I'm just like a neurotic juice. I'm like, no, I can't do it.
Like it's going to be too much, whatever. So, um, I,
I basically was always scared to ever commit to a full plant and it
always really affected the yield on all of the,
the ashes that I tried doing.
And I would only use lowers and like basically the LARP stuff that you wouldn't
anyway, it's all this flower. Um, and I was always getting like,
you know, anything from like one to 3% on a good day yield.
And this was the first time we did it.
And everything so far has been at minimum three and a half plus percent on all
the yields since we started doing some of the full plant.
And I got to try the strawberry banana gooey ran. Um,
that one blew my mind and I really liked it. Um,
and the go time apparently came out amazing. I have yet to get a jar to try,
but I will one day.
I literally have a couple of dabs of the strawberry strawberry. You
you're saying you just had some.
Yeah. Yeah. No, I have, I have a, uh, Paul left a jar over here, uh,
like right before he left for, for a Spanavis.
So I have like 0.2 left of it. I'm just conserving it slowly.
Like a rainy day.
Cause I'm not growing that strain anymore. He knows.
Paul was telling me to keep it for him. And then he was like, God,
just smoke it. I'm like, Oh, thank you, bro. It's so, it's so ignorant.
Yeah. I love it. It's so different. I'll save you a dab, Peter.
I'll save you a dab. I got enough to give you a dab. Don't worry.
Excellent. What were you going to say, Gabe?
Oh, Joe, how did you get that cut?
Oh, sure. We've been in banana. Google was from Willards. So kind of the whole,
the whole mountain organics family, um, uh, that will,
ours is, and that's where I got the J one from. And,
and guys actually very exciting and growing.
I'm going to be growing the one, the original, the one cut,
I don't know if you guys are familiar. It's like, it's an, it's Kandahar Afghani X.
Like these are like 1980s crosses, like real, real, um, old school stuff.
Uh, so I guess that's, wow. In, in, in today's days,
we're talking about maybe 30 to 40 year old cuts. So, um, uh,
I finally, he, mountain organics gave me like, he was just,
he was in the room moving his groans around.
He gave me basically like an already flowering like branch, like,
that was like maybe a third of the way into flower. And he's like,
like in water. And he's just like, if you could root it, like,
and grow it out, whatever.
And it's taken us about four months to get it from,
because it always will take the plant a lot longer to root.
If you're trying to clone when you're already in flower, which by the way,
if anyone's unfamiliar, you can do it. And all you really need is water.
I recommend arrow cloners. They're the simplest and easiest way to do it. Um,
you, uh, basically, uh,
we finally rooted it to collect three weeks through after three weeks through,
we then planted it. And it's still,
you have to keep in mind has like all this flower and shit going on,
but you're keeping it in 24 hours to re-vegetate and you slowly start seeing it.
Like it does all kinds of funky stuff. Cause basically the little, uh,
leaflets start popping out of the flower for anyone's who unfamiliar with the
revenge. And then finally, um,
about like two weeks ago that plant that was down in one of the mothering beds
we have has grown quite like beautiful and nice and whatever.
And we were able to finally take our first cuts of it.
So hopefully we'll be having flower bed in the next three to four months.
Cause it's about three months growth cycle from the time to take the cut,
you know, vegetate it, flower it. And then, uh, yeah, we'll have that.
And that's actually one of the things I'm most excited about is the one from
Mount Organics. Cause that's the strain that got me to start doing no till.
Cause I saw that all the way back. Um,
like all the way back when I was like saying, I saw him growing stuff.
It was the one, uh, so, uh, not a lot of people know the strength,
but it's going to be awesome. I'm very excited either way. I'm really stoned.
Sorry guys. And you also gave Willard some stuff, right?
Um, I gave Willard, I think my motor breath of a gene to mess around with.
Nice. Oh, and I gave him, and I gave him,
I think maybe the pie screen. I give him the pie screen to mess around with too.
So it'll be cool to see those in half. Yeah. Um,
pie screen is very interesting.
When you wash the trim,
it's one of the highest yielding trims. You wash the flower.
It's one of the lowest yielding flower because all the flower nodes are these
basically these small little rocks. What's any,
everything that's in the inside of that rock does not like
get out or translated to hash.
So it's like a 1% or when you're doing the flower,
but it's like a 3% or untrained,
which is kind of nutty because the trim is just like,
remember I was saying like it's one of the ones I had trouble deleting because
the leaves themselves are just so coated. So maybe there, maybe,
maybe what I should do is just, instead of you leave that,
just like take that all off on day of harvest,
collect it and maybe just send that to hash.
But we tried it with a very small amount just to see what the difference is
because I had trouble with that strain when I did try,
I'm hashing it before with just like buds and lower buds at that.
But maybe if I can figure out a way to get it to be a better hasher,
I think it would be one of the craziest profiles on the market to be honest.
It's just, I don't know. What did you think of it, Gabe, when you,
when you smoked it, when you tried it?
It's it is really,
it's a different berry than the Sunday driver because the Sunday driver is much
brighter. It's like dark stone fruit.
And it's similar to, I'm forgetting what the other,
the snow plum, but it's this, I guess it's more of a sweet,
like has that baked good yeasted thing. It's really,
I like, I like Gabe's descriptions because like,
I had a lot of pie scream down here in LA and I was like, it was good.
I liked it. And then Gabe's poetic about it.
Oh, I like, I'm like, yes, that's what I wanted to say.
Oh, that's, is that the pie scream?
It was no, this is the a 33 cookie.
Gabe, you gave me, Gabe, when I saw you at your house,
you gave me some pie scream.
From it was, it was half of the jar of snow.
Oh, it was.
Have you been smoking on that? You should roll that up right now.
Oh bro. It's already, it's already been smoked. All I smoked it all.
What did you think of it, Max?
I mean, I smoked in a donut, smoked amazing.
My buddy, one of my buddies,
I actually had a buddy that was visiting from out of town from back home.
And he, uh, he was, he was tripping out over it. He was like, bro,
I need so much of this. Please give me something. I love it.
It's a, it's my, it's my strongest strain by far. Like when you smoke it,
it's a total headache.
Yeah. I was going to say, cause it flipping had me straight wonked out.
Yeah. I can't, I can't function after smoking that one to be honest.
And it's so delicious. You kind of like it.
It's so delicious. The smell on it is just like overwhelming.
It's like it's candy.
Yeah. Literally.
It's one of those strains that you can lick your lip afterwards. And I swear,
I swear it's sweet. Like it's like the, just the,
the glucose from the plant just because of how, yeah,
I don't know. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. Yeah. Awesome. Great.
Yeah. It's, it's, it's one of my favorites, honestly.
Like I have not been blown away by someone's genetics like that in a very long
time.
I was blown away by the J one just because it's been so long since I've smelled
something like that. So yeah, just to smell something like that. It was just,
it's so overwhelming. The nose, just on that, like I'm a big lemon turban.
That is just like a high burning, just like so strong.
It's so something that you don't see ever. And it is just like the best,
it smokes insane. It gets you so high. The flavor on the note,
the nose is just so appealing. It's insane.
Yeah. That's my most psychedelic one right now. I'd say like,
just from like, if you want to smoke outside and like the morning and like,
beautiful day, cloudy day, whatever day you smoke it, you're just like, whoa,
my, my world just lived. That's just unique to Jack.
Like I used to go to dispensaries when I was like,
what were, or even like to Amsterdam, I guess,
because I was like living in Israel when I first started smoking in my late
teens. And when I would go to Amsterdam, I would, uh,
I'd be like, what is going to make my heart palpitate the most?
And it was always either an OG or a, or a Jack.
And that's how, that's how I, uh, and that's what,
and that is how I pick my weed. But yeah, you know,
well you do a killer job, my friend.
Yes.
The James is really heavy. Um, yeah, that's why I can't talk anymore.
It's everything you want from a coach. I'm blown away.
I, we didn't talk about the sour headband a ton. It's,
what did you select your one out of five? I mean,
like when you were looking through the different selections, um,
some of them had maybe a little bit of a stronger smell.
Some of them had a little bit of a better, better, uh,
structure or whatever. But for me,
that one hit every box and that's kind of what I need.
It looked amazing. The smell was very, very good too. Um,
it broke apart. Like when, when you broke into that sour diesel,
like so the sour diesel has some similarities to cheese in that sense,
where it's one that really on the, when you were breaking it up,
I'm sure you noticed it really came out the, the fun a little bit more. Um,
but it just hit all the boxes that I needed to feel like it's something
that I want to look was there.
Snow was there the taste on it when I saw it, it was there. And, uh,
it just, yeah, it just blew me away.
And it has, you know, it's different than just a pure sour.
It has more of like a round like fuel thing to it.
It's darker.
I don't know what that's from necessarily if that's in the sour diesel lineage
and not expressed directly in the cut of sour diesel that's used to breed.
Cause you know what I mean? Like within that genetic profile of sour diesel,
it's possible there are some fuel stuff because I know a lot of later fuel stuff
was made by mixing sour D into stuff. And I mean, it is called sour diesel.
So there is a diesel aspect,
even though I think a lot of people get on the sour train as they like to call
it. Um, so, uh,
so yeah, it's a, it's a great train. I really love it.
Yeah. Um, it's, it's really good. I mean, it has like,
it is sort of cushy in a way that I didn't expect.
What did skunk tech say about it when you were grabbing it?
Oh yeah. He approved of it.
It was between that one and I think it's number 11 that he told me he worked his
favorites. And I, I,
I leaned towards this one because I think this one had a better bag appeal than
number 11. I think 11 was the one that had a slightly stronger smell. Um,
and, but this was the one that I was like,
I think my people are going to want this one. So he's like, yeah, this is like,
that's one of those dudes. So I picked that one and uh,
I've been very happy with it. So
Gabe,
can you talk about some of the stuff that's crossed your
path in the LA scene over the past couple of months?
Um, yeah, totally. Um,
I guess we did, we did just smoke some Skittles, you know,
there's a lot of candy. Candy is everywhere. Um,
but it's really hard to do right. Um, I'm curious. Yeah.
About how Skittles. Yeah. That run sounded really interesting. What else?
There's a lot of OGs. I think a lot of people are bringing back sours,
which is why I think that's what we were talking about. Um,
and sort of how this got into my hands.
Yeah. It's cool to see all of the different cuts of sour and skunk. I,
the reason I was asking what's going to have said is his cut of sour diesel is
one that's circulating around a lot in that. I think people really like,
I know that even sort of some of the people in New York who like hold all of the
cuts of sour have incorporated skunk tax cut into,
into their nurseries, um, and what they grow out.
So it's cool to see all of that stuff. I don't know.
There's nothing sort of new and exciting from a genetic perspective.
I think people are like, you know, you said earlier,
going back to sort of older things, a lot of OGs. Um,
and I think a lot of the more forward thinking and a lot of the people who are
popping seeds at this point,
I'm as opposed to taking in trusted and cuts because of the state of the market
have to be hash makers. Um, and so right now I think in the flower market,
at least sort of the people who are succeeding or the people who are running
the tried and true material. Yeah.
I don't know. Is that how it is up in the, in the bay too?
I mean, it's just a shit show everywhere.
You just see a lot of like cheap stuff everywhere.
And a lot of people who I think are just struggling because we're having a lot
of, uh, economical issues on, on a broader level.
And I think a lot of people are taking very personally, like, Oh,
it's cannabis that's like being affected. And it's like,
I don't think people are understanding that people are just spending a lot less.
So you're just in a situation where if you're not bringing your like a plus game
to the market, you're not succeeding at any higher price point level anymore,
which I think was actually a natural correction that needed to happen because
you were seeing a lot of stuff, I think in previous years,
that was $70 aides that just you're like, how,
how, how is that possible? Um, now we're seeing,
I think stuff that's more representative that if they're going to claim to be in
certain price points that they have to look and, you know, be a certain way. Um,
uh, and I do think that we're seeing just a huge uptake in old school strains
in general. Like I've seen like, uh, have increased demand.
I've seen the Saudi,
the reason I'm growing the sour diesel headband is for that very reason is
people are just looking for that old school thing. Um, hazes.
Yeah. Hey, uh, hazes is complicated. Actually.
I'm not seeing any hazes anywhere. If you find a good cut of a haze,
let me know. I also just am scared of the flowering time on a lot of hazes.
You have some like 14, like super solvers, I think like 12 to 14 at least. Um,
so it's just like,
who the fuck has that many months in their room to commit to a strain that when
someone gets it, they're going to be like,
this doesn't look like weed I'm used to. And you're like, well,
let me explain it to haze. And it does.
You've lost them on the fact that it's not a rocky candy gash,
but doesn't some of the mountain organic stuff. I mean, do you run
is his 14 week, 14 to 16 weeks. I don't, I don't run any of this stuff.
I asked him specifically for the stuff that's up to up to 10 weeks max.
Um, but usually I'm looking for eight to nine.
And is that, so even the J one, does that stay within nine weeks?
That was what you smoked a max of that, I think like day 63 or something.
So it's about nine weeks. Yeah.
Which is, which is, which is why it's an amazing Jack because it,
like that is not normal.
A real OG Jack's usually about 11 12 weeks, 11, 13, even some,
even 14 plus, uh, depending on the cross and you know, which,
which was hunted. But generally speaking, uh, it's, uh,
generally speaking, you find that J one, uh,
that Jack is a longer firing strain.
So having something that was eight to nine weeks was like a big tip,
a selling point for me to be like,
well, and I think that even sort of in the 10 years that you've been growing,
there's like increasing pressure to get that extra cycle and, and to, you know,
shorten down the flowering time and to not sort of run those things.
And so I guess what's been your experience with that?
Um, yeah, like even for me, there are economical pressures. It's like this,
it's like I could either try and give something to people that, you know,
what I believe to be a fair price point for something that I would hope is a
really good quality. Um,
you have other people who are more interested in just maximizing the amount
they can get for a smaller amount of production or whatnot. Um, there's a,
there's a lot of complexity to it. Um, I, I,
I find that for me personally,
it makes more sense to grow stuff that doesn't make me need to put
high price points or pressure onto,
because I think there's enough hybridization that's gone on that will allow you
access to certain flavors that,
although originally you might not have been able to get with processing this and
that, um, you are able to now, so like the J one, for instance,
it's very good. And you can tell me max, if you would agree,
it is a good representation of Jack.
Do you feel like you get the Jack experience from it?
A hundred percent. That's where I get. That's why I would,
that's why I have it as a Jack.
Yeah. So, so,
so I have this access to this cross now that that can do that in an eight to
nine week period versus on set.
I can grow like the OG Jack and it's 11 to 13 weeks.
I'm now spending more time in my grow room. That's more electricity. That's,
you know, now all of a sudden I need to go from a price point of,
let's say it's hitting end consumer $50 an eighth or whatever.
That's going to end up hitting him now at like $75.
I think he'd rather just get a J one,
have it a little more fairly priced and feeling good about the fact that he's
able to get this amazing weed that fulfills this and encapsulates that.
And that's kind of been my problem with hazes in general is I'm not seeing a lot
of things that are coming out from a haze perspective that makes me go,
I can't get that in other places that are hybridized to flower in a much shorter
period of time. And, and which is why I always ask people,
if they have access to it, I always want to see it, look at it,
maybe experimented with myself.
And with potentially more viable structure.
Yeah, of course.
I think it's, it's a tricky problem.
Yeah. It's hazes. People just won't get what they're seeing.
They'll see this totally airy thing with like light sprinkling of crystallization.
Not realizing that sometimes those hazes contested extremely high numbers because
it's, it's very hairy, a lot of pistols coming out, but, uh,
uh, you, you, you have tons of tiny, tiny little houses throughout.
He's just very, very tiny. But if you look carefully again,
with a loop at those tiny, tiny couches that are kind of strung together,
if they're grown, right, those couches will be completely coated with crystals.
And that's, that's something that you don't see a lot because he hasn't grown
well a lot because most people are growing gaze and not to say that you can't do
it while outdoors, just, I always talk about this,
that outdoors does have the just addition of you're fighting against elements
that, you know,
especially in an increasingly changing climate can make it more and more
difficult to have a standardization, you know,
which is why obviously hybrid systems I think are great light,
greenhouse, all that kind of stuff. Um, either way. Um, yeah,
but you don't see a lot of hazes grown indoor anymore.
So I think that leads us to a very obvious question.
Like what does no till growing mean indoors?
Like how is that like practically applied?
How does that practically apply?
It just means that basically what I'm doing is I'm using, I'm still using, um,
things to control my temperature in the room.
I'm still using an artificial lighting to allow me to, that's my sunlight.
Uh, but what I'm,
what I'm not doing as opposed to other most other indoor growers is I'm,
I'm not replacing the medium in which I'm growing with every single cycle.
Instead I'm using,
I'm creating a medium once and that medium gets used cycle after cycle
by helping enrich it and helping build.
I'm basically building a mini ecosystem at the bottom of each of my,
at the bottom of each of my plant beds and that ecosystem thrives and feeds the
plants, um, moving forward. And it kind of creates a,
it creates a situation in which we have less waste.
There's no materials being thrown out that all the bio-maize,
like one of the things I love about how I grow,
like it literally puts a smile on my face after,
like at the end of the cycle and keep in mind,
I have gone through a lot of different methodologies. Um,
so it's not like I'm just saying I like this because it's the only way I've done
it.
I've come to learn to like it is the fact that when I'm harvesting is I'll take
leaves off, I'll take branches off and I'm just throwing them right onto the
ground again. And you just letting that go cycle after cycle.
And there will be a bed and it's kind of amazing how it just doesn't grow in
mass because the way stuff gets shredded in the soil just keeps this really
awesome equilibrium. Um, there it's,
it's almost like this magical layer that you can imagine is just constantly
disappearing and you keep on adding more onto it and just keeps disappearing
and you keep adding more to it,
but the mass never grows and it's because technically that mass is getting put
back into the tree. So it's a really cool, uh,
this cyclical thing that happens. Uh, but yeah,
I mean it's just using, in my opinion, the best of both worlds,
but I am extremely biased because this is what I do.
So did you ever, do you know what solar tubes are?
Solo tubes,
solar tubes. They're like, um, on your roof,
it's like this magnifying glass that comes in and then you have a,
a, like a, a mirror, a pipe full of mirrors.
And then it comes into your house or into a room and gives it the sunlight while
the sun is out. And then you have the supplemental lighting, uh,
outside.
When it's cloudy cloudy day. Yeah. So, so that,
I think that's an amazing idea. I, it would,
it would depend on where do you live and the design of the room. You know,
like if you live in a place that has ample sunlight, honestly,
probably a desert. If you live in some kind of desert area where it's like sunny,
most of the year, there's almost never rain. Um,
that would probably be a great solution. I don't know.
That would probably be a great solution. I live me in the Bay area. Hell no.
Like I'm going to be using the light anyways.
Yeah. The Bay is pretty cloudy.
Yeah, it's pretty cloudy, but, but there's,
there's an advantage there.
You can use a lot of outside air in the Bay for cooling because the air is so
it's naturally cool. So you can save on a lot of electric costs that way. Um,
different types of ways to work with the environment, but I, I,
I definitely agree with the idea that you should work with whatever environment
you have that can increase, obviously the efficacy of an indoor girl room.
Um, there's a whole argument to be had in my humble,
maybe not so humble opinion about
efficacy of growth in square footage compared to what that
costs on growing outdoors,
because growing outdoors does have a lot of costs to the ecosystem
and what that, what that is an energy. And at, within,
with another element added on top of like,
how could we incorporate as a whole as a society, just cleaner energy.
So doing things like this is never being used from a coal source in the first
place. So it makes everything we do with our indoor power,
less of a, we're pulling from the planet, but like if we, you know,
use more nuclear energy,
which is actually one of the cleanest forms of energy that some people are very
against for reasons I don't understand, but whatnot to power all our cities,
then we could grow indoors with lights and we're actually not using anything
because that's a self sustaining system.
That's completely regenerative and just keeps going forever.
And if we make it like, you know,
we do in the States and not how they did in Russia back when they made
Chernobyl, which we do, there's fail safes. It will never blow up,
all that kind of stuff. And, you know, I can keep either,
I can keep going on about it,
but I think there's a way that we can get it that you can still have that indoor
setting still maximize your environment perfectly and,
and therefore take less of a cost to the environment on what it is to per
square foot of how much you have to chop down a forest,
what not using nutrients in the ground, which most people do anyways.
So that's running off into the rivers, which is causing terrible things,
you know, so it's complicated, I guess. Sorry.
I know you were probably trying to ask about some of those things,
but I just went on a whole rant about it.
That's okay. It was passionate. It was fiery.
Yeah. I like, I hope I made a lot of points, but.
Well, I think, I mean, but are the outdoor grows you're comparing to,
um, cause like,
I think like a no till regenerative outdoor growers not like pumping nutrients
that go into the rivers and.
A hundred percent, but even, um, I mean,
I have nothing against someone growing a no till outdoor,
but the one thing I will say is that your success outdoors as no till growers
is going to be greatly mitigated by the environment because, okay,
like here's some realities. Like if you're growing completely outdoors, right.
And you're doing, yeah, you're going to have things like fires.
You're going to have things like bug infestations that can happen anywhere.
Yeah.
Stuff like that. And then, and then anyways,
this piece of land you've cleared to now grow outdoors that you're trying to
quote unquote regenerate is getting harmed by the very not.
Well, it's not getting harmed,
but the crop that you're getting is drastically getting reducing quality and
reliability. Now it's, and it takes more space,
like growing outdoor actually takes more space like indoor cultivating.
What's great about it is it's efficiency. You've got four cycles a year.
And in this square footage, you've produced X amount.
And if you're doing it outdoors, it's not guaranteed, which is why, again,
I do think there's a great argument for the hybrid hybridized systems,
like using greenhouse type situations.
I think that's really where it's at using those in the places where there is the
right environment. But even those turn into their own shit shows.
I've been to massive greenhouses throughout the, throughout the state.
And I will tell you, you see some crazy shit there that you're just like, okay,
this is almost like growing outdoors,
but hotter and more humid because just all the plants in there and it's kind of
nutty. So.
I've seen like pest outbreaks and.
Yeah.
I've seen some crazy shit on some out there gardens that just would make me a
little bit uncomfortable. Sometimes consuming some of that product,
to be honest. A lot of powdery mildew, a tremendous amount of powdery mildew,
a lot of powdery mildew, which by the way,
will not show up in tests because if it's under like a certain percentage or
whatever, and when they, when they do their loop analysis, they don't,
if they're not looking exactly on that little leaf that was left over from the
trim with the powdery mildew, it won't like, they'll just pass it. And, uh,
you,
you end up with a situation where it's something that I don't necessarily can
produce a product that is always of the same level.
So you're just going to be dealing with a lot of variety, a lot of stuff.
And I know that makes me somewhat unpopular in the no-till community because
it's like, Oh, it's going against it or whatever, but it's just what I've
experienced. I think you can do outdoor and it can be great and it's fun and all
that.
But if you're trying to produce a consistent product for someone and they want
to see that relative consistency,
you're going to have a much easier job doing it on an indoor setting.
Yeah, definitely. Like when outdoor is good, it's really good.
Yeah.
And then when indoor you can get consistent of like very good, very good,
very good.
Yeah. Yeah.
Sometimes I'll be blown away by what I see from outdoor farms.
Like there's no doubt about the fact that using just sunlight as a whole,
which is why your idea of using the whole, the mirror thing,
outdoor is a great idea.
And I think that's a great idea.
And I think that's a great idea.
And I think that's a great idea.
And I think that's a great idea.
which is why your idea of using the whole, the mirror thing,
that would be great because you'd finally be introducing certain types of
turps. But you could also do that kind of lighting.
Like if, if I would recommend anyone who can,
who has the proper cooling to add any type of CMH lighting into their current
lighting regimen,
because the ceramic metal halides have one of the largest spectrums,
which is the closest to like actual sunlight that you'll get.
And with us, that definitely helps us produce a higher terpene flower for sure.
As opposed to just traditional red, red light, high pressure sodium.
So yeah.
Hold on. Let me.
Bright, beautiful.
We don't need to listen to her. I don't know. I don't know why the video.
I was like, I don't think I added that audio to my video.
No, I added it, but I'm trying. Yeah. You know what? All right. Let me.
Oh, there we go. All right. Hold on.
Bear with me.
By the way, guys, my phone battery's at about 5%.
So if I disappear all of a sudden,
I mean, this has been fantastic. And I feel like I learned a ton.
And the flower really is this, this, these batches are spectacular. Um,
and it's really cool that you introduced the sour diesel. Um,
how would you describe where the sour diesel had been sort of fits in your
lineup with the last year?
It just fits in that old school sour. I don't have any sours.
I don't have any proper sours. Um, I know it has some gas to it,
but I'm sure as you, as you're breaking it up,
you still got that like sour D under overtone, whatever. Um,
and I just needed something in my lineup that had that.
The top dog sour diesel went fast.
Yeah. I mean, there clearly is a demand for it.
This has that like lactic acid lightness that to me is sometimes even sort of
like a scary sign in terms of like the effects to come. Um,
but the sour notes are on and, but there is more of like a backbone and it's
cool because I mean, I don't know what headband is. Peter, do you want to,
what I don't, I have no idea what headband is either. So please,
Peter, can you tell us what headband is?
I don't know what headband is. I don't know what headband is.
Peter, can you tell us what headband is?
Before our time.
Peter's very high right now. I'd have to look up the,
someone in the chat. Yeah.
The Kambucha and dabs.
What were you downing on tonight?
Uh, it's the same, uh, stuff from nerds, which is,
um, sorry, I'm super high right now.
It's the honey banana crossed with Wilson zero.
Oh, so this is, this is,
this is, um, well it's nerds.
So that's that. And then the flower, well, the flowers fire Peter.
Yeah. Well, you guys are going to be smoking that.
And we're going to get the grower and, uh,
uh, mission Hill melts who did this on together
to talk about that.
Joe, the next couple of years, inaugural guests.
So this is our first time ever doing this. Thank you so much for.
Yeah. Joe. So thank you for coming on.
Oh yeah. Of course guys. Thanks for letting me just run my mouth.
I appreciate it. Anytime you need me to just let me know.
I'm happy to get on and, uh,
we'll do it again soon. And next time I'll have his weed too.
Yeah. Yeah, definitely. For sure. Um, but yeah, thanks.
Love you guys.
Oh yeah. Max, we got to catch up. I'll see you soon.
Peace dog. Yeah.
We have a, we're going to do Tuesday night. Gabe.
Hell yeah. Okay.
