Future Cannabis Project, FCPO Deuce, back in our lives. Thank you everybody for
joining us once again on a Friday night. We've got another fun Daga Breeder
profile for you tonight. We are highlighting blackbird preservations and
you can go to Daga.Garden, catch out some of the offerings over there. But we're
just gonna kind of go around real quick say hellos and then we're gonna jump
into the story of Mr. JT up here. So let's start it off with you, Blackbird
Preservations. How are you doing tonight? Outstanding, outstanding. How you guys
doing tonight? Awesome man, excited to be here. I've had a lot of people hit me up
in the background of like, oh can't wait for this, you know, can't wait for this
one. I was even, Peter was on an episode the other day and he was, he was almost
like fanboying out. He's like, oh I've been waiting to do this one for a while.
So we're all, we're all kind of excited here. Yeah, yeah, thank you. And then we've got
down on the bottom there, we've got Mr. Toad. He is kind of, you know, one of the
resident experts over here on the Future Cannabis Project and FCPO Deuce. And he
graciously is donating some of his time tonight to kind of help me along with
some of these classics that you work with. Maybe offer a little bit more
background to some of the things that we've been doing. So I know everybody
knows you out there, Mr. Toad, but please go ahead and say hello to
everybody if you unmute yourself there. Wrong button, but that's okay. He knows
how to get back. He's got the, he's got the key to the door. Shit. All right, well
hey, we're gonna get this started off anyways. You know, one thing I always
like to kind of learn about people, I have the unique opportunity of getting
to talk to some pretty cool people on a frequent basis. I'm sorry about that,
guys. I'm the guy out here with the worst internet connection in the whole damn
cannabis community, Mr. Toad. So if you need to reach out to me, make sure you
got a can and a string. I'm always on the other end. Get the hamster turning the
wheel a little bit faster. You get better reception out there, right?
The mountain style. Oh snap. Paris, Hamilton. Yeah, but so back up to you, JT. We're always
curious. We love to hear about the different strains. We love to hear
about the different things that people are doing, but we also like to hear a
little bit more about, you know, just kind of the breeder and maybe what kind of
brought you into cannabis? Was it, you know, early on? Was it later? Medical or
recreational? What kind of led you down the cannabis road or how'd that get
started? Yeah, it was really some friends of mine, parents, that were, you know,
well, they were kind of at the end of their career, really, but, you know, that
was my first live plant and it was probably, you know, like fully
flowered and just, yeah, that was my first live plant probably like three or
four years after I'd started smoking. And so, you know, I just spent a lot of time
hanging out with, you know, with their parents and whatnot and shooting the
shit and started to learn about how they did things and, you know, and
that's where it started, man. I mean, that was, that first plant, it was
the old bubblegum cut and they had a couple others, but that was the first
one I had seen and like, you know, got my nose into and got a good whiff of, you
know, right? Like, so that was the beginning and, you know, so I fucked
around for a little while and then I kind of went back to school and
had a different life for a little while and, you know, got serious about
my career and that was, you know, ended abruptly on me with an accident. So I
came right back to, you know, what really made me happy for, you know, for a
few years there. And so, you know, here I am, I guess. It's been crazy, you
know, like probably how it would have been 2013 or 14 was my accident. And so
right then and there I started kind of, you know, getting back into the
research and hitting the forums and, you know, just, you know, from IC Mag to
roll it up to THC Farmer or to, you know, just kind of, there was a little
overgrow in there, I think it was. And, you know, just trying to re, you know,
get familiar with things again and like kind of get caught up with the
equipment and, you know, methods and stuff like that, you know, like, and
because, you know, five, six, seven years, a lot changed, you know, and LEDs
started coming around and, you know, it wasn't just the standard, you know,
metal halide and high pressure sodium, right? So there was all kinds of new,
new stuff to kind of look into the plasma bulbs and, you know, all that
stuff. So, so I started digging in and it wasn't maybe a year later and I was,
you know, I was fired up again and, you know, just like a real small scale, kind
of like a closet micro grow, just get my feet wet and checking out this new cocoa
coir stuff that I'd never heard of. Right. You know, back then it was either
you either grew outside in dirt or you grew inside in rockwool. And that was it.
You know, like you go to the grow shop and it like he, he, he must have bought
in bulk and then repackaged and it was like just Dutch A and B. No, the, the,
the label was something he printed off on his computer and taped to the bottles.
Do you know what I mean? He was a real cool guy. His name was Jerry. Total
fucking stoner. Right. And, uh, but that's, that was it. You know, there
just wasn't like shelves and shelves full of products. And, uh, you know, it
was like a, you could do like a flood and drain type of deal, but it was all right.
You know, it was all rockwool, rockwool or maybe, uh, um, you know, the, um,
like the grow stones or whatever, but it was real limited. And, um, so getting
back in and, uh, uh, getting familiar with some of the new stuff. And, and so
I, you know, I checked out the cocoa coir and I've kind of been in and out of
that and, and soil since then. So I'm trying to, I'm doing a little bit of both
now.
It's it's, I always liked the A and B again, when you have the, you know, the
space and the ability, why not run it a couple of different ways? If you can keep
on top of them all, um, man, I would, I would hate to, uh, imagine like five to
seven years from now, like stopping, you know, all of my information because it
growing for the longest time was kind of the same, you know, it didn't really
advance that much. And then at the timeframe that you mentioned, uh, a lot
more interest in it, a lot more research dollars, a lot more companies getting
into it. And the technology is just boom, boom, boom, boom, like fast.
Yeah. Cause I think Colorado had gone, they had gone legal a few years after I
was out of it. Like it really started to open up, you know, California was always
ahead of everybody. And, but, um, I, you know, like I was, I was, uh, just back
out of culinary school and working, I think maybe, maybe in long Island, um,
when Colorado went legal. So it was like, you know, and I'm missing all this shit
and I'm just like, you know, living the life, but totally different life. You
know what I mean? Um, so yeah, heading back into it, it was like jumping on the
freeway at a hundred miles an hour.
Try jumping on a treadmill when it's at 10 miles an hour.
Yeah. But, um, but yeah, it's been cool, man. And just, and just especially the
last few years getting to meet me and chat with some of the people that, that,
that have had the opportunity and, um, you know, be able to, to grow out some of
the stuff that, that I've, that I have it's, it's real, it's, it's surreal. Um,
uh, just a lot of fun.
Now what, going back to, you know, the, the friends, parents, was this at a time
when like strains came with names? Like, do you remember what they were or just,
they were just plants? Cause I mean that my beginning goes back to time where it
was, it was either you have some, or you don't have some, that's what we called
it.
So, right, right. This was, um, they had the bubble gum and it didn't, they
didn't call it Indiana bubble gum. That was just the bubble gum. It was like
90. Well, this is the early nineties, like 92, 94. I think I finally hooked up
with them in 95, but they'd had the bubble gum for several years and they had
another one. They just called it purple cause it turned purple. Right. They had
a grape one. They called it grape cause it tasted like fucking, it was like
grape Kool-Aid. Um, they had a cotton candy and, um, lose and another one that
was called dead middle because the middle, it was like a three, it had three
main stocks and the middle one died for whatever reason. And so, but they've,
you know, kept the plan around and they just called it dead middle.
That's cool.
And that's when straight names made sense.
Yeah. And it was basically like a handful of, uh, of, you know, couples or
whatever that all grew and they like, so they grew their own thing and then
would pass around cuts, you know, to the, you know, to the other cats in the,
in the, in the area. Um, but yeah, it was like, you know, it was real low
down underground. This was out in the middle of the, you know, the sticks.
And, um, so yeah, there was, it, it wasn't like anything famous. They just
kind of called it what it was, you know, whatever, whatever it smelled or
tasted like, or, you know, the purple, what it looked like. The one was named
after one of the, one of the cats that, that had found it or whatever. Um, but
that was, yeah, it was real simple, you know, real simple, just like the, just
like the setup. I mean, you know, literally rock, wall, Dutch a and B and,
and you know, uh, a blue bulb of veg in and a red bulb, the orange bulb, the
flower under, right. That was it. That was it. But it was some, I mean, you
know, we all, you know, especially when you're, your first taste of really good
shit, especially it was a long time ago. You maybe tend to, Oh, you know,
exaggerate how good it was, but you know, the, the flavor and the smell though,
like that, you can't like, you know, even with that, you know, like I said,
being grown in rock wall with the, you know, your, your bottle newts or what
man, that shit, it was a kind of weed. Like you don't forget like the fact that
you can lick your lips for, for an hour and still get that, that sweetness on
there. You know what I mean? Like there's, that's something special and
that's, you know, I, I credit, I credit the grower. So for, for sure she was
fucking good.
Yeah. That is amazing when it coats your mouth and you do, you, you kind of just
get that spit for a while and you're just like, damn, that is a good smoke.
It's, it's like when you had candy as a kid and you'd get, you know, there's
still some on your lips and you could taste it a little while later. Like
that's what that shit was like, man. No joke. And you know, it may not, may not
be the strongest weed that I've smoked now that you know, that I've, I've
ventured on, but it was definitely some of the tastiest. Absolutely. Absolutely.
And that's a big factor. That's huge for me, man. Like, cause I like to smoke.
So I like stuff that tastes good. It's like flavor and effect, you know, I'll
take something that flowers for, you know, for 15 weeks and you know, if it
tastes good and it gives you good ride, that's, you know, yield is, yeah, it's,
it's, you know, it depends. I think when you have a mixed garden, you can get
away with, you know, with a couple that maybe you trellis up against the wall
and you know, they're going to flower for, for 12, 14, 16 weeks, you know, you
kind of make them grow across the wall and, and, and, and let them, you know,
Christ, you might run two cycles or something. Right. While that one's just
going, that's, I have five trellises, a horizontal or a vertical trellis for
that, for that purpose. And so, yeah, when you're, you know, if you mix and
match a little bit, you can, you can afford to flower something out for, you
know, for a good while and, and maybe not worry so much about what it's going to
throw down for yield. I know it's not like a commercial viability, but you
know, for the, for the, you know, kind of home grower and smoker, that's a, you
know, good way to go about it.
And that's usually what we're after, you know, as, as like the home grower and
the connoisseurs, because, you know, I like a little bit of variety as well.
And, you know, I have a particular plant count stick within that. But I do still
like the variety. So kind of like you mentioned, sometimes you might get a
couple rotations through while the long flowering one is going. So that, that, you
know, like crop rotation, mapping these things out, thinking like three cycles
ahead. These are important things because then you can get away with that type of
stuff.
Right, right.
And, and yeah, you know, it's, it's again, there's always, whether, whether you are
just the home gardener or a craft gardener, or even a commercial person,
you'll always grow a couple of those headstaff strains that, again, they may be
longer, they might not yield as good, but they're absolutely worth it.
Yep.
So enjoy that. And for you, it seems that you were kind of drawn maybe a little bit
to the bubblegum, bubblegum kind of stuck out from that crowd or what, what do you
remember, you know, licking your lips for back then? Which one was it that made you
want to kind of carry forward later with it?
Well, yeah, it was definitely, it was definitely bubblegum. It was definitely
bubblegum. The grape was delicious. The Lose was a little spicy. I think it was
either Lose or Dead Metal that was a spicy peppery kind of guy or gal rather. But
yeah, it was the bubblegum. It was a, you know, like it was the first plant I'd ever
seen and smelled and, and you know, that. And then it took you back to like the
opening, opening packs of baseball cards and getting that shitty bubblegum.
Wow.
You can, you know, it's got that.
Oh yeah.
You know, so that definitely kicked it off.
That is awesome. Mr. Toad's coming in with a little bit of a chopped up internet
signal, doing a little bit of the Kanye West auto tune on us.
I can't laugh. I just finally got good internet here. I, you know, miracle, but.
Yeah. Yeah. It's a, is it the, I'm sure we all remember dial up here.
Hey man, don't make fun of the length of my cable.
No, you're coming in good now, Mr. Toad coming in great.
Turned off the 5g. Had to fuck with the router. Sorry guys.
So bubblegum is one of those, you know, it's one of those cultivars that there's a
few different out there. You had mentioned earlier, you know, some people put the
Indiana bubblegum tag on it. Other people just go with regular bubblegum. There's a
lot of breeders. You know, I just think about like European seed banks that had
that, that offer it. We know it can't be all the same. The one that you had though,
sounded kind of like the winner, the one that actually did taste like bubblegum.
And it's a perfect descriptor when you say the baseball card pack gum instantly
know what that is.
Yup. That, and like what it reminded me also of is the bubble-icious regular, just
the pink bubble-icious. Okay. Yeah. That pink bubblegum. I have the, the Indiana cut
and one that's, I just said, it's just labeled the Dutch bubblegum. Cause it's
like a serious, you know, I think it's serious seeds that had it. Right. So I have,
I have those two and they're similar. I think the, the serious seeds one actually
has more of the bubble-icious. It's a little, I think it might be a little
sweeter, you know, a little more sugary. And the the Indiana cuts got a little more
of the, you know, like that cushy back end, the little, you know, that kind of
hashy Afganica back to it. So, I mean, take your pick. You know, they're, they're
both good, you know, and it's not like, it's not it's not knocked down weed. It's
not the, you know, it's not going to hit you like candy. It's for me, it's like
one of my, one of my kind of go-to daytime smokes when I'm not looking to like really
run around and do shit. If I want to go out and play golf or go out in the yard,
like that's a nice, it's a nice smoke. Cause it's not too heavy. It's not too
heavy. Yeah. And, and again, like I like the flavor and it's something that I can,
that I can go out and smoke a couple of joints of and, and not get floored, but
still like, man, I just love that flavor.
Again, everybody's, everybody's got to have that one. And how about you, Mr.
Toad? Was bubblegum something that you came across yourself as a grower?
Yeah, I came across it in the early 2000s.
Okay. Right around the same timeframe. I think he's frozen though. I'm getting
better at telling when people are frozen. He'll, he'll probably come back.
And again, that, you know, that kind of sounds like the same timeframe that you
were talking about as well. And I know a lot of things, as you said, it was not
the same environment that it is today. Things were still a little bit more
underground. It was kind of like a tight circle, like one guy might know somebody
from out of town and maybe that's how it kind of came into the group, but within
the group, it just kind of spreads around. Cause again, there's a lot of
times you don't want to lose a cut. So you got to make sure somebody good has
that backup.
Yeah. Yeah. And so they, yeah, they traded, they traded amongst each other
so that they had kind of things backed up here and there and, you know, in case
anyone had to shut down or, you know, some, you know you know, pests moved in
or something like that, you know, it happens. If you need clean cuts, you know
what I mean? So yeah, they you know, they backed each other up and stuff, but
yeah, it was, it was, it was, this was, you know, still 90, you know, mid nineties,
early nineties. And yeah, there wasn't anything that, that, that people wanted
to advertise or anything, being able to get the good shit. Like you had to, you
really had to know somebody because it didn't stretch far, growing massive
quantities or anything, but it was just really good. And it was, you know, it was
well worth it, but you had to know somebody. Yeah, it was tough. You could
get, you could get midsies all day long, you know, like that was no problem.
Yeah. You know, that, that was easy, but, but to find the really good shit in the
nineties, like you had to know somebody.
Yeah. That that's kind of what, you know, separated people or, you know, we'll just
call them businesses, made one business more successful than the other. It's like
you have something that the others don't and you hold it tightly. So everybody's,
you know, coming three blocks over to your business versus, you know, whatever
they can get. So yeah, things were held pretty close at that time. Did you guys
work mainly with clones or were you guys popping seeds as well? Like where, where
would seeds even come from at that point? There, there weren't a whole bunch of
vendors other than a lot of the Dutch ones that I'm familiar with.
No, no, it was all, it was all clone. It was either clones or bag seed. Okay. I
mean, like, you know, and you'd, you'd, you'd search for one, hopefully you'd find
one in some of that good kind bud, you know, once in a while you'd find a little
bean and you know I remember my buddy, like we grabbed some smoke from mom and
went out and whatever. And we got back and then we had found a seed in it, you
know, and he had, you know, he had burned a seed and he came home and he told his
mom, but she was like, well, you still got to look for him. You dummy.
Never know. But yeah, that was it, man. And like my, the first, the first clones
I picked up, I didn't even know what the hell they were. Like, it was just like,
Hey, get me some clones. That was, you know, right. Can you get me some, give me
some plants?
I don't know what it was. Right. Like, you know, if it was good enough for somebody,
you know, like back then, if it was good enough for somebody to keep around and
like go to the trouble to root them up and it wasn't garbage, it might not have
been award winning, but it was, you know, but that was, you know, here's, here's
your clones, call them whatever you want.
Right. Right.
It's like, what is it? I'm like, I don't know. It's green bud.
Got some, don't got some. Kind bud, not kind bud. And that actually makes me
wonder. Yeah, no, that makes me wonder Mr. Toad too, because I know, you know,
again, like we were saying, it's fairly easy to find different places to pick up
seeds these days and some pretty awesome seeds. But back then it was, you know,
what a high times magazine and a hope for a Dutch company sending it over.
What, what, where's the,
Yeah.
Options?
Well, it depends on who you knew at the time. The average smoker. And by that, I
just mean someone that was smoking on the weekend or something, or, you know,
maybe only a few times a month. They were probably trying to pick it up from the
back of a magazine or something, one of the old bag books, but they've had seed
Cadillacs going back to the seventies, the late seventies. I think it's the man's
name is Jerry Beasler. He put together one of the first catalogs that had seeds
in it that had, it actually had the line. That's a precursor to what we know today
as Cali O. There was a line that was passed around in the early eighties, late
seventies. That was called orange spice that he was supposedly the man that was
supposedly who bred it. So we have him, we've got Sam, we've got Neville
eventually all at the very end of the eighties, but you were pretty much taking
a chance with sending your money to somebody you'd never heard about that you
don't know anything about and hoping he's going to send you what you were after.
Right? So that's what most people were doing or just getting the seeds that came
in that press mix that we were all smoking back in the day, unless you came
from a spot where I did, like I grew up in Humboldt and I had dudes giving me
seeds going back into like 1980, 80, 81 would have been around the earliest time
we were gifted some Afghani lines. That's when I started to learn how to clone in
81. So I knew people that were cloning in the late seventies, right? And 78 and 79
is when I moved here and we met some specific people up in the area where we
eventually bought a hotel and fishing lodge in Humboldt County. And those people
were running clones and seed stock for a long time. Right? So I ended up meeting
some people that they're the ones that show me kind of like the commercial side
of cannabis in the early days in the, in the black market side where it wasn't just
one dude growing a 10 lighter so that he could feed his family. It was dudes running
underground facilities and shit, right? They're digging shit out and building
fucking places just to hide these grow rooms so that they can put shit in or like
me and my brother hiking up into the hills up there in Humboldt, we used to think we
were just camping, but every year we were going on a specific date with backpacks
full of cuttings that we were hiking up into the hills and planting in patches that
they'd already went out and pretreated the year before. As soon as they chopped down
and harvested, they would go back up and put what they needed in those holes so that
they would go through the winter, everything in the soil with the microbes would fucking
break down everything. And then the next year you could come and plant right in
those holes and they'd leave and they'd do hundreds and hundreds of holes because
they didn't plan to come back. They just, as soon as harvest is done, that's when
you come back and no one's watering it, no one's fertilizing it. And that's the way I
grew up. I thought everybody was doing that. So I thought everyone had seed stock
and the stuff I was getting, I was being told where it came from. So it was an
Afghani, it was a Thai, it was Colombian. It came from different regions of
Afghanistan if it was given to me. And then at the end, this old timer, before he
passed, he just gave me a whole shitload of seeds, which I have in a giant collection.
I've got probably 30,000 seeds from this cat at least that are a mix of everything
that he's had since the early 60s. Like before I even met the dude, he passed when
he was around 72. I'm trying to think how old Brewer was. And I met him when he was
like 62. He started gifting us seeds between the age of 62 and 72 of stuff that he had
collected when he was my age, when I had met him. I had met him when I was around
18. So he started collecting seeds early in his life and he knew he loved the plant.
He just didn't know what the fuck he was going to do with it until he eventually ends
up with the place that he had up there.
He was the cat that basically you went and leased land in the area so that you could
guarantee you were going to pull off a harvest every year. If you didn't pay him
either an herb or money, your shit was getting busted.
So what he had set up in that area was there was grows that they would put in that they
literally would turn in every season.
They'd put in a hundred plants somewhere in the most fucked up area and then they'd
catch that shit on fire and turn it in.
So what would happen was everyone in the area is a volunteer fireman or a volunteer
police or some shit.
Right. So now everyone's got a job and everyone's locked up on a fire and on a patch
that no one gave a fuck about.
Right. So now everyone goes and harvests everything up on the hills, brings it down.
It's like a three way of getting paid, man.
It's crazy. They're renting out water trucks, they're renting out cats and dozers and
shit. They're also the guys that are getting paid to drive their own machines because
the federal forest service has to rent them.
They pay them and then they get hired on a job.
And then what would happen is all those people ended up in my hotel for dinner and
lunch because we were the only place within three hours for these people to go.
And they knew this shit. So every year during the harvest season, this happened every
year for like 10 years.
It was crazy. And it finally stopped when that OJ trial happened.
And they never went out and fucking did any fires or shit that year.
Everybody was watching the OJ trial and shit on TV.
It was crazy. It was crazy, man.
It's horrible, man. Everybody's watching a slow white Bronco drive down the freeway.
But I get what you're saying, though.
You know, it was kind of diversion.
It's like, look over here while we're busy over here.
And at the same time, yeah, when it's that small, the community, the economy is so
closely connected.
It's almost a little a job, a little job assurance there.
Yeah, because cannabis in that town, I was at this little tiny town called Orleans,
California. There was nothing in the town besides a school.
My hotel, Fish and Lodge, which is what when we got it was like one hundred eight years
old. This was in the 80s.
It was one of the oldest buildings in Humboldt.
We were in the process of having it given a historical landmark when somebody
actually burnt it to the ground.
Right. So I mean, the people I met up there, the
people that were up there were there for a reason.
And they weren't there just because it was a beautiful place.
Right. A lot of the people up in there had left society for one reason or another.
They're up there with aliases.
And these cats, like the best weed of my life, came out of this fucking little tiny
town that I've been chasing the weed from this dude since.
Let's see, I was a junior.
Let's see, after being a junior, the last time I was up there was 2000, I want to say
four. So 2004 would have been the last time I had this dude's week.
And I forgot to fucking like I was too high.
I wanted to get seeds and shit from him.
And all I did was buy a fucking pound of weed for me and my homies.
And we smoked out and shit.
Next thing I know, he's gone.
He's on his fucking donkey headed back up the mountain.
And I don't know where the fuck is Patches.
I don't know where he's living.
I just know he lives in a gold mine up in a fucking hill.
And he's been growing weed up there for decades.
Right. And his brother, so his brother thinks he's a fucking space alien and shit
that was brought here from outer space to protect like the forest.
The dude's crazy, crazy.
It's loony tunes.
But his brother grows the best weed in the world, man.
The best we'd have ever smoked.
I've ever touched.
And nothing I've ever had has ever come close to the shit that cat fucking grew.
Space weed sounds sounds good to me.
So, JT, what what kind of got you into the idea of breeding?
Was it something that was more necessity, like, hey, I need to make seed stock
for next season, or did you kind of start out like, you know, I've got
a couple of real potentials here.
And did it start out with some of the classics that you're currently running?
Because we'll definitely get into those and those are awesome.
But how did you get started with the breeding?
What drove that?
Yeah, aside from like, you know, making a few.
Like seasonal selections, you know, basically just keeping a few beans out of
the out of the best plants that that finished outside, you know, it wasn't,
you know, again, we're running from bag seed.
So, you know, it was basically just which ones didn't mold, you know, which
ones smoke the best and, you know, I mean, just basic stuff, but at least gave me a
look at, you know, for for a few years running.
OK, you know, these seeds did better than the year before, did better than the year
before, and, you know, as far as just overall performance and, you know,
resistance to pests and and that sort of thing.
And then and then I went on hiatus and.
After I got started back up, it was just, you know, kind of messing around.
That was when I discovered, you know, the whole STS thing, and so I reversed a
couple of plants and, you know, just chucked a little pollen around just to see,
you know, what would come out and.
You know, out of the F1s and then make seeds out of those and see, you know, and
then you find out that, you know, the F2s are fucking crazy and, you know, you get
all kinds of stuff and.
So I messed around for a little while and then, you know, it all started, you know,
the the seed side of things really started with picking up a pack of Bodie's
Northern Lights F3, which was, you know, limited and yeah.
Not, you know, they weren't really easy to find, so, you know, I mean, I spent a
few hundred bucks on on a pack of seeds and at the very least I wanted to make
more so that I had more to go through.
Yeah.
And, you know, in case like I had to shut down and, you know, I want to make sure
that I have these for for later.
So I did that first round of selections actually kept.
I still have one of the one of the females that I kept out of that first sack
because I did end up finding more of those original beans.
But, you know, as I'm in the middle of making a you know, making a few for future
future use, I.
You know, more and more people are hitting me up about, you know, are you making
more? You're going to make them available?
And I said, well, I don't know.
We'll find out. Let me see how they turn out.
You know what the.
You know what the females ended up like and they were great, man, they're.
I did find my outlier, the kind of Hawaiian leaner in there, but for the most part,
they were, you know, what you would expect out of, you know, out of the NL five and
lots of frost and some pine and some little skunk and lots of fucking hashy, you
know, hard, heavy goodness, you know.
And so I think I think I might have had 30 packs that I could let loose and they were
gone and, you know, a couple of days and I was like, oh, that's cool.
You know, it was like, yeah, you know, like, you know, all right.
And, you know, I don't know, it was maybe four or five months went by and I had
contacted Snow High because he had had that very limited release of OG Chocolate
Tie from from Howard and it's a little different than the other chocolate tie
line. He said they're same but different.
Same same start, different selections off of the F1s, I guess.
And but and I asked Snow if it was cool.
And so I reproduced those and made those available.
And, you know, I was able to take care of Snow and send him some artwork and some
other shit and some more seeds to work with if he needed them.
And, you know, people snatch those up and I still have my female keeper from that
from that run. And it just kind of, you know, went from there.
And in the middle of all that, like, you know, it allows me to not only look through a
bunch of seeds, you know, to do these, you know, kind of reproducing some of the lines.
I can look through a bunch of different seeds and maybe find a keeper.
But I can also, you know, hit a couple of other females along the way.
You know, I can always take some of the pollen off of maybe one male that I don't know,
maybe has better structure or, you know, beefed up a little more or just, you know,
you know, just had more had more vigor to him.
It just looked like a happier, stronger plant, you know, and maybe collect some pollen
off of him and hit some of my other females.
And so, you know, it allowed me to get a better look at what the you know, what the males
in the line were doing.
Right. And and just look through a lot of seeds, man.
And, you know, I found several cool keepers in the line so far.
The Tom Hill Hayes, I found pretty much what Tom had described through a lot of his
posts. You know, the the goofy, the kind of the purple one that was it's real pretty and
it smells real good, but it's, you know, lacks pizzazz.
There's one that was a little just a little broader leafed and it finished quicker and it
was a nice plant and probably good for somebody that, you know, was like maybe like an
intro to Hayes kind of thing, you know, like a training wheel.
It's long. It was a little easier to grow and it wasn't quite as fucking flighty.
And then and then the you know, the the real spindly, I don't know if it's maybe a
Colombian trait coming out of there, but the real narrow leafed, real, you know, real
feminine girl.
Red stemmed, I think I found a couple of them had maybe red stems or maybe I just
underfed it. But you never know.
Yeah. So it's been really cool just in that sense to be able to get a broad look at a
lot of different shit.
You know, like we did the Williams wonder I did a quick run with those and, you know,
there's been some failures to, you know, some lines that just totally blew up on me
during testing and, you know, that's good.
You're doing that, though.
Disco balls.
That's why we do balls everywhere.
I know.
But yeah, it's like I said, though, it's it's it's been it's been fun to be able to look
through all that stuff and find some good ones that Mung Thai was an amazing line.
I ended up using that and with the Vietnamese black to make my Astro zombie that I'm
working on right now.
And just that's an amazing I think that's RC Colas for my CMAG.
He did, you know, this.
It's pretty awesome.
It's pretty awesome.
And that's like that's a great one, too, if you it's it's easy going indoors and it
does. There are some that finish on the faster side.
You know, you can get in with like 13, 14 weeks, I think.
OK. But, you know, a good introduction plant, man, that's just fantastic.
And the Vietnamese has got that, you know, real high flying zap to it.
They're spicy.
There's some, you know, it's like a lemongrass and sometimes a little cedar or, you
know, like a little a little woody to them.
But they're made for a good combination.
That was one that, you know, I wasn't very familiar with myself at all was the Vietnamese
black here. And this is one that you actually have up on the Daga Garden website right
now. Looks like 15 regular seeds per pack, which is awesome.
Flowering time of 14 to 16 weeks.
But here's here's kind of the like a profile that we're getting from that.
Yeah, that's the longer finishing ones.
Have you found any like licorice profiles coming through on that?
No, I haven't. But I have heard of people finding them.
It's just not as I think that I think it's what is it?
The Mekong green comes through a lot in that in that cross because it's Mekong green.
And oh, man, I wish somebody would help me out here.
Shit. But no, I haven't found any of the licorice ones myself.
And Kionas is like that lemongrass spice with like cedar kind of bite to it, but not the
licorice. No, I'd like to find one.
Now, when we're going for one of these, you know, the 14, 16 weeks here, what sort of
advice do you have to anybody as far as like nutrition?
Like how how do you kind of feed this to keep it going?
Maybe like what pot size do you recommend or are you potting this a lot?
It sounds like you might be outdoors, so that might not be a real question for you.
But if somebody were going to take this on inside, what can they kind of expect maybe
with like the feeding and the growth structure, the morphology of the plant?
First off, if you're running them from seed, you might even just want to, you know, if
you just want females or whatever, sex your plants and take clones and then go and flower
your clones. Right.
Because they will be a little more manageable, I think, you know, and and at that point,
you know, once if they're big enough to take good clones off of, they're going to be
sexually mature plants.
So you could put it, you know, you could take a nicely rooted plug and get it
established and be able to flower that out within a couple of weeks if you wanted to.
Right. And that'll help your that'll help your your your height management.
Sativas, I think, you know, if you think they need to be up potted, I think they're a
little easier because they do run longer and they're a little more amicable.
If if you're mid flower and they need a little more, you know, if they if you if they
look like they need a little more leg room.
When I run when I run them in cocoa.
I just I try and feed them a little lighter and that's about it, man, I don't use a
different pot size, everybody gets run in a two gallon and.
And. No, I like to definitely you got to run them from clone, so they'll go they'll go
crazy from seed, you know, most likely, especially if you don't top them and try and
train them. But that's another good thing about them is that they're usually really,
really easily trained.
And like I mentioned, the trellis, the vertical trellis, if you know, if it's
something that you can kind of stash in the corner and you can train it to grow, you
know, more, you know, more along the walls a little bit, you know, and, you know, that
way you can fit plants in a little closer to than you would if it was just trying to be a
big, you know, big bush.
So I do I do try and train them up against the wall when I can and just take it a
little easier on the feed.
There are some that are just just hungry plants.
So, you know, I mean, you're going to come across the one Mung Thai that I ran.
And she ran like another week or two longer than the one that I capped, but like
ate like a beast, you know, and it was almost hard keeping up with her, really.
And part of part of me going with the faster one was the fact that it just fit in with
everything much more easily.
So.
That's great advice, too, because a lot of people don't have experience and I'll throw
myself in this category to growing a lot of these longer strains, a lot of these longer
flowering strains, we're always really happy when we get to smoke them because there's
something to be said for a lot of these longer flowering strains as just, you know,
magic. I see you smiling down there, Mr.
Toad. You know, what do you got to say maybe about some of the effects of the
longer flowering strains that, you know, the 55 days, 60 day strains might not bring
you?
They bring a whole different complexity to the high.
The faster flowering, it's not all of them.
But a lot of times what happens is that for me, like, like a concentrate, like the
high is real peaky, gets you high for five or 10, 15 minutes, and then you just crash
right after that.
With these long flowering equatorials and even plants that aren't from the equatorial
regions that are long flower, the fact that they stay underneath light that much amount
of time allows these trichomes to build up different complex terpenes and thials and
there's different lipids.
There's so many different complex things happening on a chemical reaction because of
it being exposed to the sun.
That just can't happen in 56 days that I believe.
Right. So that's why I feel some of these things that act differently on me.
So when I smoke something that's like the Mahes or the Congo or a Vietnamese black or
a Maltai, any of these things, they put me on my ass but make me like my mind's wandering
deep into space.
I'm thinking of shit that I didn't even know I was doing.
It just leads me in all kinds of different directions just from sitting there thinking.
I used to install stereos and I would sit there and do math like on my spare times.
Do math or mathematics?
Or meth.
Okay, good.
I didn't know if you said like methamphetamine or mathematics.
Those things are a little different.
No, no, no.
I'm just kidding.
I'm just kidding.
I'm just kidding.
I'm just kidding.
I'm just kidding.
I'm just kidding.
I'm just kidding.
I'm just kidding.
Mathematics.
Those things are a little different.
Mathematics.
Okay, mathematics.
Okay.
Trigonometry.
The good kind.
I got like tablets full of that shit from all my spare time just doing equations and
shit but I was always high as fuck, man.
I've been smoking good ass weed like that for a long time.
Dude, fractals.
That's probably something that will come to mind on a good sativa high.
Sometimes when it gets a little hallucinogenic, everything is just fractals to me which is
no complaints here.
JT, how would you kind of maybe describe some of the difference in effects that you yourself
are getting from some of the longer sativas, especially the Vietnamese black in particular?
Yeah, it's a space ride.
Someone was asking me about, I don't know, I was describing maybe like, I think it might
have been a Kandahar black or something like that.
That it's got that, it's a heavy indica that kind of you can feel it behind your eyes,
that pressure behind your eyeballs.
This is like the exact opposite where it's just light and spacey and your mind can race.
It just, it really, it's a lightning kind of buzz.
You can feel you're a little lighter, right?
I don't know.
It sounds like that nervous anticipation, that excitement that you get before something
cool is going to happen.
Your body's a little bit buzzy, it's a little bit lighter.
You kind of have maybe the metallic taste in your mouth.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
It sounds like you're about to blast off.
Yeah, yeah.
And that's like that, what did we make?
The Mumbimbi Mamba.
So the Strawberry Mamba 4 from, I think it's Anunnaki by Mumbimbi Madness.
And that was like almost the perfect ride between both, it gave you both ends.
It was the first 10 or 15 minutes you'd think like, you're like, damn, like there's, you
know, when I first tested it, I was like, oh shit, the Mumbimbi didn't come through
at all.
It's just like, you know, like a nice mellow stone, you're into the couch and you're like,
you know, your eyes start to get a little heavy and then all of a sudden it's like second
gear and your fucking brain starts winding up and you're like, oh, okay.
And then it's like magic carpet ride from there, you know, like you're watching a Willy
Wonka without the TV on kind of, you know.
It's cool, man.
I dig it.
It's definitely like a very happy, you know, just enlightening kind of ride.
They can get a little edgy, you know, and especially for people that aren't used to
it, it can be a little, you know, I call it, well, I call them window lickers, right?
Like you start hearing shit outside and you're, you know, up into the shades and pulling the
blind.
Oh man.
You know, so the Astro zombie, there's a couple of window lickers in there.
There's the really, there's a few that have this, you know, kind of like Burton Ernie
hair on fire look to them, you know, like these multi head, they top themselves and
just grow crazy.
And they'll have you, actually it kind of looked like that, that tried that Vietnamese
black there.
And they'll have you, they're a little edgy.
The Mung Thai brings it, you know, kind of, it kind of levels it out a little bit, still
real high and happy, but a less, a less of that scoop of the ceiling kind of feeling.
Shit.
This sounds, makes me want to throw some in the dirt right now, actually be like, okay,
hurry up and grow.
Oh dude.
I'm, I'm, I'm stoked.
Like I've, this is the third batch I've looked through and the first peach girl that I found
out of the, out of the, out of the batch, they're all really juicy fruit with like some
pepper and, and shit on the back end.
And sometimes a little woody cedar, but this peach girl is just, it's all like peach and
maybe like a little white grape, but it's so sweet and just noxious.
I want, I got to see her flowered out, you know, seedless grown out like properly.
And as I, these all went through stress tests and they're living in five inch pots right
now.
Oh yeah.
That's stressing.
Definitely.
So packed roots.
Yup.
Yup.
And, um, you know, solid, she's not looking as good.
She's just not, I know she's not as good as you know what she can look.
I want to see her in all her glory.
So I'm really looking forward to it.
Even if I got to, and what I expect really is that I will end up saving while going through
some of her, some of the beans in her there's F2s and all of them.
So I'll go through some of her progeny and try and find a male that like best represents
her, you know, as best I can.
And then, you know, let's see how their babies look and see what we can't do to, you know,
first let's do like almost like a back cross, you know, right back to her and see what her,
you know, what the frequency is in that first batch.
And if it's, you know, even 25%, I can call those, you know, aside and, and maybe line
breed a little from there and, and see how, uh, see if we can't, um, you know, tighten
it up a little bit.
They're a little, you know, it's, it's, she's the least, uh, you know, producer wise, um,
and probably the longest running from the way it looks, you know, she looks like she's
going to run every bit of 16 weeks and probably be on the lower side of, of, uh, you know,
the, the weight.
So I think we can probably improve upon that a little bit, maybe bring, maybe bring, I
don't, I don't care about the flowering time.
If I affect the ride, you know, maintain the flavor and effect.
And if we can find one, you know, that shaves a week off, cool.
But um, man, that, oh, that smell is just, just a minute.
She's like, you know, it's like a sweeter, brighter papaya.
It's really, oh, it's a, and I love the papaya.
I have her around.
She's, she's a favorite.
Um, it's like a little sweeter and a little brighter.
And um, and she's got just this beautiful, like green, like light green frosty buds with,
you know, the, the, uh, stigmas dry out nice and nice and orange, you know?
So she, I think she's going to be a real looker, but we'll, we'll see how it finishes out.
It's so hard to, you know, when they've been fucked with and then, and then you're just
like whack them with a bunch of pollen.
It's like, you know, they don't really, now they're, now their job is making seeds.
So you're not going to get, you know, the best out of them as far, you know, they're,
they're done producing anything else.
They just, they just want to finish them seeds.
It'll be nice to see her like well taken care of and, and, uh, and, and, and flowered out
without any, uh, um, you know, extra strain on her.
So, but yeah, man, that whole line is awesome.
Yeah, that, that sounds awesome.
And there's actually another one here that I was going to pull up a real quick that
actually has a few of the ones that you've mentioned.
Uh, but I wanted to throw this up here on here is Traps O'Connor.
He's I got the last Vietnamese black on Daga flexing.
That's awesome.
Big ups, Travis.
Yeah.
The enjoy man.
This is that one's making my mouth water for sure.
And another one that I wanted to bring up here too.
Make sure you get that space.
The girl ceiling space.
Yes.
The ceiling space.
I've had a lot of people grow, try to grow these, uh, plants, uh, similar to these,
even like the moldy madness.
And they're going to try to grow them similar to some of the other plants they've
already grown.
And these plants are got a metabolism that is much faster.
They grow extremely different.
They can be trained on a much higher level.
They're much more pliable.
Like he was talking like, um, uh, two cans was talking about stretching them up on
the walls.
You can make those plants do almost anything you want with the stem structure that
they have.
They are not brittle at any form.
They, uh, they, they're buying like they, they're going to grow all over your room
and over and above the lights.
If you don't want that.
And you mentioned a vine, like, and that, you know, this is just making me
wondering, you know, how a JT said, you know, kind of run against the wall.
Uh, one of the things that I absolutely love, there's this place called cloud
farms up near the border in Washington.
Um, it's a nonprofit kind of almost educational farm.
It's, um, for agriculture, it's not cannabis, but one of the awesome things
they do, they've got, you know, these rolling like.
Hundred foot wind tunnels that they can move around, but the way that they
trellis their cherries, it looks like a wine vineyard.
And that's exactly what I'm kind of picturing for a plant like this.
You know, you just set your, you know, your lines like six inches apart, run
them that way and just keep perpetually training them out like that.
I mean, this, this was a cherry tree, but it looked nothing like a cherry tree.
It was just the most amazing thing I've seen.
And that's kind of what I picture for this.
Cause I don't, I don't know.
There's a lot of training, you know, you can like do the main lining, but it
sounds like this, uh, like a, a wall trellis versus a flat top trellis
is the best way to go, you would say.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, if you want to use up that kind of extra space around the, around the
edges, that's, that's how I would try and train them.
Um, you know, like the, like the, the cherry tree style, it's called a
spallier.
Um, when you train your trees like that and you train them across wires and
then they do different patterns, they do the hash pattern, they train them straight.
It's pretty awesome.
Um, but yeah, yeah.
To utilize, utilize extra space like that.
Um, or, um, you know, drop a, drop a screen down on top, but you gotta, you
know, just remember you top them early, top them off and then just, you know,
one small plant by the time that stretches, that'll fill.
Your whole, you know, it's just like anything else.
So you gotta learn, you know, you know, some of these Indica's like you think,
oh, maybe they'll fill out a little bit and they don't do nothing, you know what
I mean?
They take forever to veg and then they don't do nothing in flower other than,
you know, fill out down.
Right.
You know, um, no stretch.
It's like, you know, whatever, however big you want it, when you want to finish
it, that's how big it has to be when you, when you finish vegging it, um, where
these are, you know, like, like Mr.
Toad said, there is so much more vigor in these fucking things.
Like my, I think I took a picture on the, uh, I put it up on my IgE.
I don't, maybe a week ago or so.
And it has, uh, you know, Keona's Vietnamese black one 64 and then my, the
lemon type cut that I had selected from the, um, the IX and, um, there, you know,
everybody had started out at the same height and they were easily almost three
times all the other girls, you know, and they're not all slouches either.
They, you know, there's a couple of them that grow pretty, you know, pretty well,
but these, they, they just go, they go, man.
They, the timing is different.
It's like you veg.
Well, overall, really overall, you're not losing a whole lot because you
veg for half the time and you know, you might, you know, out of clone, you might
veg for three weeks and be ready for a good size finished plant, you know,
depending on your setup and, and how happy the girls are and how, you know,
how fast everything's moving along.
You might, you're going to save three or four weeks on the veg end.
Possibly these girls, they're crazy.
That Keona's cuts up beast.
That thing just goes and that, um, that lemon Himalayan that I got from, from
country, that thing grows like a weed.
The, the Puna butter grows like a weed.
Yeah.
That's one that I definitely want to talk about eventually.
Somebody else's palm too, but right now, um, that beyond the brain grows pretty
fast, but not as fast as the, um, as the wild girls, man, they just, they're so
quick.
So yeah, you gotta be, you gotta be on it.
You gotta be on it, but it's, it's, it's not as bad as, as people make it out to
be, but you do have to, you know, just be aware of how, how big they're going to
get and, um, you know, and, and be ready.
That's why I say like, you know, grow them out, sex them, take your cuts and
then flower from a cut and that'll, that'll save you so much, so much headroom
and so much headache.
And I mean, you know, as long as you got a backup, you know, throw that thing right
in the flower, get it established.
You know, it doesn't have to be a big pot, do a one gallon, do a two gallon, get it
established and throw it in.
And like I said, if, if, if they look like they're root bound, they're a little more,
you know, they got plenty of time to go.
So it's not, you know, like, like transplanting an eight week, uh, an eight
week finisher after six weeks, it's, you know, you might, you might screw it, you
know, you might piss it off more than you helped it out.
Um, but with their, their little, they're a little easier like that, I think.
Yeah.
And it, and it does too, you know, it sounds like a style of growing there.
There's all kinds of different ways to grow, but then again, there's also kinds
of different plants and you are going to grow different styles, different ways.
And this just sounds, you know, again, like a different style from that no
stretching, bushy Indica that, that people have, but you know, there's always,
there's always a reward.
The juice is definitely worth the squeeze there.
Yeah.
And, uh, let, let's, let's bring up this one too, cause you've, you've mentioned,
uh, kind of the, the parents in it a couple of times, the mullum bimby madness
times, the Hmong tie in the Vietnamese black.
Now tell me, uh, maybe a little bit more about the Hmong tie.
Was it same morphology?
Same, same kind of, you want to train this one early.
You want to get it spread out as well.
She's a little more, well, there's a little bit of variation in there.
There's some that are a little more wild and put out the kind of the paintbrush
tops, um, and then there's the more spear shaped, um, a little faster finishing
like 13, 14 weeks.
Um, that's the mother that was the, the, um, Hmong tie number four was the mother.
So she was like that.
She had more spear, uh, more spear shaped, uh, uh, flower set, very juicy fruit,
really nice, easy high ride.
Um, and just overall pretty easy going indoors, not a, not a, uh,
crazy amount of stretch.
Um, and you know, pretty much manageable.
So I hit her with, um, a Vietnamese black male from, uh, snow high fat, uh,
origins, and the result is the, uh, the Astro zombie that I've been running.
So we took a male out of that Astro zombie, the first batch that I got, that
I, uh, popped and, um, used him on my raspberry flavored, uh,
Mullen Bimby madness.
The Mullen Bimby is just a, that's a dance on the moon.
That's a great, that's a great plan.
That can be a window liquor too.
This is, you know, a lot of these names, um, it's like they said, they just
sound so dang exotic to me.
They sound like they're from a long distant foreign land.
Um, it's great that you're able to kind of collect some of these things and get
good sources, uh, on a lot of them as well, because that's always important.
Uh, and you've run them out.
So you've really, you know, seen the proof is in the pudding.
This is not your average cultivar, uh, that people are experiencing, which is awesome.
Yeah, they're, they're, they're pretty special.
And, um, yeah, I, you know, I'm pretty sure it's got like, you know, the
Mullen Bimby's probably got a lot of tie and cause that's the way it smokes.
That's the way it grows.
That's the way it, uh, you know, it's got a lot there.
There's still some of that black pepper, um, and, and, and cedar in there and that
kind of thing, but these had, these have the occasional, the occasional raspberry
girl in there, so we just kept going back to the, um, to the raspberry girl.
And, you know, it's, it's, uh, it's not something that, uh, you know, everybody's
going to grow, but for those who do, it's a real treat.
I, I, I really enjoy that Mullen Bimby and, you know, the Astro Zombie
I've been sticking with.
So, um, that was, uh, it just made the most sense.
I had the, uh, um, what was it?
Neville's Hayes 21 by Mullen Bimby Madness.
But what I, what I ended up calling out of there was, um, you know, they're
starting to see, I think these were at F3.
We were seeing some of that NL five in the Neville's Hayes coming out.
Okay.
Um, so I, I, I just, it would have, I guess it would have almost, it would
have saved me a step in the BX because there was already Mullen Bimby in the,
uh, uh, you know, in the NH 21 cross.
But I didn't like that.
The, I didn't like the NL five being in there.
So instead I just went with something fruity and, and with a lot of, you
know, with a lot of punch and so the, so the Astro Zombie just made the most
sense, even though, you know, it took me an extra step, but it was well worth it.
And I'm just looking at these leaves here and God, they look, you know, a
beautiful color green, but I'm, I am, you know, definitely noticing the width.
Uh, you know, this is a nice narrow leaf right there.
Oh, that's so pretty.
Structure.
The bud structure and the leaf structure are both conductive for light getting
into that trichome and increasing all that essential oils that you're after.
So the, the time that people think they're wasting on growing these long
flower plants are, is returned to them when they do finally finish a room of
And like he was talking about here, if we would just grow them a couple of weeks
and then flower them instead of running them for 60 days, like some people are
doing with some other hybrids out there that just do not have the vigor of these
plants, you can fill a room very quickly.
And in the whole amount of time and electrical power is almost identical in
the long run, when you really factor things in there, what you pull out of a
room like this compared to a room of just any other average cannabis cultivar is
it's extremely, yeah, it's, it's eyeopening.
Once you get to the point where you're not growing grams of, of a biomass and you
start to factor in that we're growing glands and not grams, right.
When we're, when we want to get specific cannabinoids and the cannabinoids and
terpenes, we need to have those trichome.
We don't need to have all that fluffy ass bracts and all those stigmas.
That's exactly what we're not after.
We want trichome heads and a plant like that is easy for growing it.
And if you don't want to grow it for that amount of time, breed it to your favorite
plant and make a hybrid that possesses this metabolism with all the properties of
the plant that you love.
Bring this thing's power over across to it.
That's what you do with these types of plants.
Pick up.
Nice.
And see here, you know, Neville Hayes, definitely classic there.
Do you guys, you know, this, this I guess could be a question for both of you.
And especially, you know, JT, when you've grown out some of these strains yourself,
are you doing anything different with the light as far as schedule?
The, the standard is that you're doing it on a daily basis.
As far as schedule, the, the standard is 12, 12.
I live by 12, 12, but there's also a lot of people out there who get funky on some
of the like equatorial type sativa plants.
What, what kind of lighting have you run and have you experimented with a few on
these and seen, seen what works better or maybe, or if there is a difference?
You know, I don't have any way of measuring it, but they did seem to be a
little happier with it, with some extra UV in there.
So.
And that would make sense to just given a lot of the, what I, where I'm presuming,
I'm presuming the, you know, the, the, they're closer to the equator than for
farther away.
Right.
And in a, in a, in a perfect, in a perfect world, right.
I would have, I would be, you know, I would have a, just a sativa room.
Right.
And I would probably dial it back down somewhere to about nine hours.
You know, that last half of flowering the last eight weeks, we'd start to dial
back until we got to, got to about nine hours.
I'd run some extra blue and maybe, I don't know what I haven't read into the,
to the red, to the, what they're doing with the red end of the spectrum and how
that's, you know, affecting them.
But I think I would definitely try and run maybe an led panel that had, that
was tuned with that extra kind of UV end of the spectrum or just add it
supplementally.
But yeah, I've, I've, I've heard from a lot of people and, you know,
including I believe it was snow high that I was chatting with about it and he
says, yeah, just running them, running the hours down if you can towards the
end, you know, help some finish a little, I don't know if it's finish a little
quicker or just frost up a little more, you know, that was just kind of the way
they like things or, but I've, I've heard that from a couple of different people
now.
So I think in a perfect world, that's you know, a little, little extra UV run
them and run the, and really dial the hours back.
And maybe even just run it, you know, if you're, if you're able to do start to
finish and had everybody kind of synced up, you'd start out with, what would it
be?
It'd be a good fair amount of daylight, right?
18 hours and just slowly work it all the way back.
That'd be something cool to experiment with, man.
I know like, you know, people that get into it more than I do just that half
hour difference, you know, mine is like I go 11, 13, 11 on 13 off and just run
that to try and keep everybody somewhere happy, you know, and that's the, that's
the dance when you're juggling, you know.
Good, good point.
Yep.
I mean, we were saying that earlier, it's, you know, we both kind of like to run a
variety of cultivars and wherever we're at.
So yeah, you do the happy medium sometimes.
Yeah.
If you're, if you're running all kinds of stuff, don't feel bad about not being
able to turn the lights back or doing this or that.
It's like, you know, find a, find a nice medium, you know, and I try and do that
with the, with the food and, you know, the, the teas and all that shit.
I'm trying just, man, I hope everybody stays at least reasonably happy.
It's not, it's usually not a problem.
Like I said, there's some plants that I've, that I've, you know, walked away
from because it was just like, oh shit, man, you know, you're always kind of
pissy.
So, you know, it is what it is.
There's so many alphabets.
Yeah.
And you never know too, sometimes, you know, it may be a little pissy for you,
but it may love the weirdness or something that I got going on.
So that's going to vary for everybody.
Exactly.
Exactly.
It's, it's really, it's really funny how different they can act from place to
place.
I got, Keona, Keona made sure that I got a cut of Bodhi's lemon Thai.
Nice.
And so my buddy, my buddy got it over to me and I, you know, I saw some
pictures of his and I was like, oh man, that's cool.
You know, it's like kind of stretchy.
It's got these like popping like golf balls, you know, and I got it here and
threw it out and I was like, yeah, this thing looks like a fucking Muppet.
Short stocky, they'll internodes it close.
I mean, it's the same leaves, but they're just everywhere.
And I flowered it out and it's just this, you know, it's, it's a Muppet.
It was cool.
But it's, you know, it is what it is.
It just, you know, he's under LEDs and I got, you know, CMH, I think she was
under and, you know, just that's all it took.
Switching them up.
It's amazing.
Now one here, I'm going to pull up here.
One that I wanted to get to is, uh, see, I've been searching for half of this
and I'm totally curious.
I'm going to ask where you got the half of it.
Uh, but in, in this state, there's a, um, actually one of the larger companies.
They, they have a string called Hawaiian golden pineapple and it's golden
pineapple, but it's times Puna butter.
And I have never tasted anything like this.
You know how there there's like music artists and you always compare people
to them, you don't compare them to other artists.
This is one of those strains.
Like I can't, and I'm a DJ by nature.
So I love like, Oh yeah, this and this, you know, I don't know this and this, I
can't think of another damn thing that I could put to it.
So that's been one that I've kind of been just keeping my eyes open for it.
It was originally, I believe, uh, Adam Dunn, uh, had popped out the Puna butter.
That was the first kind of source that I saw from it.
Um, yeah, let me see.
It's not came from the islands.
Um, okay.
It tastes like, it tastes like hooli hooli chicken.
So it's like pineapple barbecue sauce.
Oh, wow.
It's, it's awesome.
It's awesome.
It's frosty as hell.
Um, Oh man, really vigorous.
It puts on enough weight for a plant like that.
You know, it's, it's not, it's no slouch.
Um, it's just a real happy, you know, sit on the beach and yeah.
And that's not a bad, you know, like the Puna is kind of in between that and,
and the picture of the, um, the Mullen Bimby two-step, you know,
it's a kind of hybrid of the two it's in between there, you know,
it's kind of wild, but it's still, it's still thick and it's just really
resinous and you know, what I like about those, that type of,
that type of flower structure is that there is so much room to grow those
glands without hindrance, you know, like that open flower structure where,
you know, maybe you can, it looks like a big baseball bat of a Cola,
but when you get up close, it's just all these like stacks of fucking,
uh, you know, a flower with just coated in sugar in there.
And it's all the way around.
Oh man.
That's the kind of, that's what I like about the, uh, you know,
the flowers on the longer ones,
because you get to really get a good look at all the glands, the plant,
it's not so stacked so tight and, and, uh, and bound up like the, you know,
like the Afghans are to be able to see a big listening,
you know, Cole of just, Oh man. And I bet they washed pretty well.
You know, I mean, you gotta, for that kind of thing,
you gotta breed for gland heads too, right?
Like that's what you're really harvesting gland heads. And, uh,
so you want to try and, you know, whatever,
whatever you got to work in there, if need be to get the, to get those trichomes,
uh, you know, big and fat and hash worthy, but man, that would be a,
that'd be a hell of a hasher plant. Yeah. That Puna butter is awesome, man.
We're going to, we're going to do some more work with that.
And that'll be something that, uh, yeah,
people will be able to enjoy more. Oh man. It's an awesome plant.
They're awesome.
Yeah. That, that sounds amazing. And that was actually,
you were kind of reading my mind a little bit there. Uh, just, I mean, gosh,
just looking at that plant, you see, you know, it just looks greasy.
It's got it all over. And, you know, I, I grow a lot for flower.
I don't really, uh, do any of the concentrates myself. Oops, wrong button.
Uh, but, uh, is,
is that something that you've experimented with? Cause I, you know,
just thinking back to that Vietnamese black, it had a, you know,
a very open structure. And from what I hear in my conversations,
talking with all these people who do presses and who do make hash,
they're like, that's almost kind of the ideal stuff,
kind of bud because it's got a lot of surface area,
a lot of open structure. Right. Right. Um, you know what, I,
I do not make much hash.
And so like any feedback that I get from anyone as far as, you know,
stuff of mine that they've grown out is, is, is very welcomed. Um,
because I haven't had a chance to wash a bunch of shit in a while. Um,
so, but that's something that I want to, um,
there's a few things that I can dig into that are in the stash. Um,
and as I was saying earlier, you know, the, the Puna and the, you know,
the structure, but the tricone size.
So that's something that I'm going to, um, keep an eye on as we, you know,
I got some, some varieties to look through. So let's look for, um,
you know, that'll be one of the things that,
that like right at the top of the list or tricone size, you know, uh, um,
you know, potency and, and, uh, um,
the size of the gland heads,
because that's something I want to be able to work into a plant with a more
open structure. Um, just for my own, for my own, uh,
for my own sake, cause that's the kind of plants I like to wash when I do get a
chance to, to, to run some, some water hash, you know? Yeah.
So I, yeah, I think they, uh, I think that can be a, oh man. Yeah. The,
the, the structure on those is just, it's just perfect. You know,
like you said, there's, there's so much more surface area.
And if you can, uh, combine that structure with, uh, you know,
a big bulbous gland head, that's really gonna return for you. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. That's gonna be a winner for sure. And again,
this is going to be bringing a different terpene profile that you're not
finding in a lot of other places. Uh, well, I, any place I can think of. So gosh,
I could just imagine that in a concentrated forum would, Ooh,
my mouth is almost watering right now. Like I just bit into something sour.
Yeah, I got, I got, we got the, uh, uh,
some buzzards wine hash, but I'm going to get into and check out and see what,
uh, you know, see what the females are like. And, um, you know, if they,
if they kind of fit that bill, we can give,
we can give one of the fellows to try and when there's only one way to find out,
you know, I mean, you gotta start with making a, uh, you know,
at least an informed selection is all right. Well, uh, you know, if,
if the sisters consistently throw big, uh, you know,
big gland heads, let's see if the brother will, you know,
pass that on to, you know, a different female.
That's the, that's, that's the, the,
the kind of the beauty and the beast of doing these types of things and
breeding, it's, it's never a fast process. You really kind of do, you have to,
you have to make the educated guess and then you have to run it out and then you
see, and then you go from there. And, you know, like you were saying earlier too,
you're able to, uh, in certain instances,
you were looking at particular morphology and you could see the,
the females morphology expressed in the male. And you're like, okay, that's,
that's the one that we're going with because that's the one,
that's the one, that's the direction we're trying to head.
Right, right, right. And without like, you know,
without a lab coat and a bunch of really expensive equipment,
I don't know which gene pairs are next to each other. Right. Exactly.
If there's, you know, linked traits, I don't know it on the,
but so I'll at least pick out the ones that I can see with my eyes and smell
with my nose. And, uh, you know, so if I can find her twin brother,
well, let's start there, you know?
Perfect. Perfect. And you know, Mr. Toad, I don't know, you know,
I didn't ask you this, uh, beforehand or we've never even talked about it. Um,
I'm not sure if you're familiar with Puna butter. Um,
but is that a strain that you have heard anything about or, uh,
have worked with in the past? Cause again, that was, that's kind of a,
one on the shortlist for me too.
No, she's one that has eluded me.
I have not worked with the Puna lines myself, uh,
other than smoking some with a partner of mine named Kali, uh,
who's from the Island. Um, he used to always bring some back.
That's as close as I ever got to it. Um, he's a cat that, uh, uh,
always used to, uh, match either NL five or that Puna butter.
Whenever we showed back up in town, um, him and a cat named William,
they were always battling out who had the best weed and shit.
They, they both were good, man. They're completely different,
but they were fucking bomb and grown correctly. Like we,
we used to try to take a bud and stick it on the outside of your window,
the either the driver or passenger side,
depending on what side of the highway you picked.
And we'd race down the highway and whoever's bud flew out first,
the other dude would have to pay up. Right.
And we used to do this every time calling and fucking William showed up in
town. William used to always show up with either the NL five,
or what was being passed as ATF back in the nineties.
Cause this was in high school right out of high school.
He went straight to the, uh, fishing boats up in Alaska.
And he was always bringing back in L five or the ATF and Kali was always
pumping out that Puna butter.
That would he chill back up when he get back in town, it was bomb ass weed.
I was happy either one I got, man.
I wish them cats would have picked up breed like me and cross those two
fucking lines together and made some magic.
But they were just smokers like back in the high school.
That's all we did was get high, man. We had 50 bucks.
We're buying eight, the weed, you got another 50 bucks.
Another eight, the weed. We did that nonstop.
We didn't care what it was called until we ran across some that was fucking
special. And then we wanted to know what the fuck that shit was and who had
it. And we're coming back there.
That's when you, you made your hookup with the cat and you'd buy that shit
until it wasn't in town no more. Right. You'd do that.
You'd know what time he showed up.
That's why we knew when William was here and Kali was here and then you can't
show back up.
You knew what time of year it was and you'd be at their house early and
shit.
Fucking winding and dining these motherfuckers seen who needs to reach
around so you can get some of the top grade all the time, man.
And we used to do that shit all the time.
That's funny, man. We had this, uh, this, uh, road around here was lakes of
Mammoth Parkway and it was just fucking pothole, pothole, big bump, big bump,
big bump. We would do kind of the same thing. We take the buds.
We'd like stick it on the windshield and whoever's fell first,
you're loading for the night. It was funny. You said that.
I'm going to go to the next one.
I'm going to go to the next one.
I want to bring up another one that is, you know,
absolute classic total foundation of a lot of these strains that we're talking
about. So maybe, you know, both of you, um,
I know you both got some experience with this one,
but the Northern lights number five F four.
So maybe JT, you can kind of start off by telling us, um,
what's the most important thing that you've learned from the Northern lights?
And then we'll go to the next one.
So the Northern lights is number five F four.
So maybe JT you can kind of start off by telling us, um, you know,
what you liked about it or what you found special about this particular one
and some of the possibilities for people that get this into their hands.
Cause, uh, dude, this is a, the backbone of backbones, you know?
Yeah. I like me and Jean says, I know like Northern lights is in everything.
Right. So, um, you know, if, if.
You know, even if you're just looking to smoke,
the, you know, it's got the power,
it's got all kinds of different flavors.
There's, it's not a, it's not an IBO, which is what I like.
There are some little variations.
There's, you know, little ranges,
range of pine and some are a little more hashy.
And, but for the most part,
it's big baseball bat colas, vigorous plants,
you know, beautiful branching.
You know, it really is just a great,
well, it's a back cross, but you know,
that just that little touch of wine in there,
man, it just, you know, like Mr. Toad was saying,
you take these Afghans and you add one of these,
you know, faster growing, more,
more vigorous type of plants in there.
And it just wakes them right the fuck up.
So that's what I, that's what I dig about it.
And the out crosses so far have been fantastic.
So it, you know, I was kind of hoping for, you know,
something that didn't do a whole lot,
cause I had, you know, some really good moms,
but they just needed like, you know, a little more,
you know, a little more vigor or a little more,
you know, filled out a little more, a little more power.
And, you know, I think we pretty much,
saw all of that depending on what it was crossed to.
They, they just perform really well.
And so whether you want to smoke
or you want to throw some pollen at something,
yeah, man.
And like you said, it's a classic.
It's something that, you know,
in some way, shape or form, we got to keep around.
100%.
Yeah.
Which again is really encouraging
about the work that you're doing,
preserving a lot of these lines
and offering up to people like myself, you know,
people from a younger generation that, you know,
may never have had the opportunity
to really have solid good NL number five.
Now, what about you, Mr. Toad?
I know that you've, you've been around
as long as this particular plant has.
So what, what, what has it done for you
or meant for you over the years?
Well, I grew up with this herb,
like this style herb, these,
the NLs were what in high school was sought after
in my time period, right?
In the early nineties and to the two thousands,
that's what people wanted to smoke.
If you could find it in my area,
I'm in the Northern part of California.
I had a lot of friends that grew up in the Washington area,
Northern Oregon area.
And like I said, this was the herb
that they were smoking up there
and would always end up bringing back here
when they came back to visit and stuff.
So that was something that we were always either chasing here
or we had in our own pockets, right?
Cause like I said, we had homies
that were bringing that stuff back.
So when you knew that was the case,
like William always brought a pound with him
every time he came back from the winter run
of the salmon boat shit that he was doing up there.
So as soon as he got here,
we knew he needed to have enough money to get back
and he had to have enough money to fucking do his shit
while he was here.
So he always sold a half a pound.
So if you could just get to him first
and pay him for what he needed.
And man, he only wanted a specific amount.
He didn't give a shit, man.
You bring him the cash money and you get to have that weed.
And if you were a connoisseur of cannabis,
that's the weeds you were going after, right?
Or if you had a particular favorite kind of cannabis,
you made sure that's what you got.
That's why I say there's average smokers
and then there's cats like us that have been out here
fucking hoarding plants in the back rooms
and fucking nooks and crannies for decades upon decades.
And there was dudes doing it before me
and there's gonna be guys doing it after me.
But if we just relied on people that didn't give a shit,
like we'd lost everything already, right?
And it takes that weird dude that wants to hide out
in the back room, smoking the best shit
that will attract people from the smell of what he's smoking
as opposed to the sound of his voice
or the scene that he's creating, right?
When that one cat whips out that joint
and he ain't said a goddamn thing
and everybody in the room radiates to her,
you know there's some fucking good ass weed like that.
Like the last time I had that shit,
besides my owner was in a NoFX concert in 2012
at the New Year's Eve concert.
This cat fucking lit up a joint with some fucking weed
that I could smell across the goddamn room.
We were at the Hard Rock and I'm like, what the fuck?
I turned my head.
I'm looking for smoke
cause I know that the smoke's gotta come up somewhere.
Someone's either gonna blow it out
or I'm gonna see fucking trail coming off a joint.
And I'm like, what the fuck?
And as the smoke's coming up,
I see this big ass security guard
and his homies rushing this area.
And I'm like, ah shit, they getting his ass.
And they fucking rush in there.
They got the wrong dude,
but they fucking swooped somebody up.
Fucking about a half hour later,
same dude sparks up some more of the same weed.
And I'm like, what the fuck?
Where's this motherfucker at?
Could not find him for shit.
But that dude had some of the best weed I've smelled
in a long fucking time.
And that's the kind of shit I'm talking about right there.
When you used to break open that No5,
you could be at a party and everybody knew what you had.
And then everybody was your best friend.
They just, they knew they were in for a fucking ride.
So they come checking you out.
That was the cat I was.
Everybody was like, Bones got that weed.
We'll go find Bones.
So I had some kind of fucking Afghan thing.
Like I said, I've been popping Afghani since 81.
And that's the basis of what's made the NL Power
what it is.
And those hybrids that they introduced into them
made them grow with the vigor that they have.
But a lot of those back crosses
that go to the purest Afghani that's in there
are what I feel is the power that I chase.
And a lot of the other people that I know that smoke that
or the reason you would chase the other side of that
is for line breeding it in a complete different direction
than that purest Afghani.
So that's why you would wanna go towards all the mothers
that were introduced to it.
And as opposed to trying to get back
to that original Afghani stuff that's in there.
But for me, if you're gonna go with NL5,
that's why I smoke it or NLs period,
NL1, NL2, NL5.
Those lines I wanna smoke is because of that power
that's in there from that Afghani.
And everybody's worked on it.
JT's worked on it.
Tricone Technologies has done NL5.
Gypsy Nirvana did NL5.
They've got NL5 went through Neville.
So many people have done work with NLs
that you can go in all kinds of directions
from line breeding,
but they all retain that same kind of power.
The NL5 hazes, they're just legendary
for what they can bring to the table breeding wise.
And on like power wise, right?
They're gonna introduce power to your hybrids period.
They're not just gonna grow bigger
and they're not just gonna grow faster.
They're not just gonna have giant leaves.
You're gonna be able to introduce that
to say one of the Momba and B two steps
and make a plant that's gonna grow much larger
than the Afghani.
And it's going to have the power
to increase the terpene profile
across on the other side of the mother.
It's just, it's magic, man.
That's where the breeding comes in.
So everybody's trying to preserve the same thing
someone else preserved, but there's magic in those hybrids.
We see this all the time and everything that we've learned
that was magic over these years, in the last 40 years,
everything that was out there that we love,
the NL five hazes, the skunks that were hybrids.
Like there's almost nothing that we all go back to
that was a open pollinated land race line
that we all remember.
They're great for breeding into stock
and to steering stuff in different directions.
But we all ended up with these hybrids
that we all knew as being great.
And that's where all these great breeding projects
get steered to brand new things
that we just don't know are going to happen.
We can cross brand new hybrids together
and find something that's better than both parents.
And it just takes doing that breeding.
Take some of JT's work,
take something that you've worked on Chad.
And the next thing you know,
you might have the next best cannon line
that the whole community is chasing
just because of the actual power that's in the plant
and not because it's hyped up.
Right.
And that's one thing that it seems that the NL five brings.
And I'm glad you mentioned the other NLs
because number five seems to be the most predominant,
the most popular, the most commonly observed one out there.
I couldn't sit down with four of the different kinds
and probably pick a difference.
So is the, just from my lack of knowledge,
are, you know, like the NL one, the NL two to the NL five,
are they drastically different
or are we talking about subtle differences?
Maybe whether it's morphology or effect or terpenes.
Like in that-
The one and the two are, you know,
one's Afghan, the other was, is what Afghan Hindu.
Okay.
They stay pretty, you know,
a lot more squat than the five does.
The five has still got some of that, you know,
it's got that hybrid vigor.
It gets a little taller.
It does throw a little narrower of a leaf.
You know, those Hindus, man,
the way I describe the Hindu,
like the Cola side of jeans, Cola root beer, BC two.
The Cola has like, it's got that prehistoric Hindu look,
you know, where the leaves are super wide
and the big serrations that come in flat, you know,
they're crazy.
And they got, you know,
sometimes got that little crinkle wave to them.
And they often finish out with, you know,
lots of crazy colors and purple and maroon.
And they're just, they're all, they're beautiful,
but they don't have the,
they don't have the legs
that that little bit of Hawaiian brings to the five.
Cool, yeah.
And actually we've got quite the source
to answer the question here.
Greg McAllister, original cuttings,
NL five had big buds up to two feet long,
NL two smaller plants with sticky wicked buds.
So exactly kind of like you're saying there.
Wide, wide leaf sets on those things.
Like they're gonna grow wider
than the pot you put them in for sure.
They overlap each other, they're so wide, you know,
like they're massive.
One of the leaflets on the leaf is bigger
than all the leaves combined on a haze together.
And you still got 11 more of them motherfuckers out there.
They're not just there for like solar panels.
They're also there for shading that plant
from the regional areas and those high deserts.
The light there and the UV exposure
can just devastate that plant.
So that the light's actually going more around the plant
than directly over the top of it.
So that plant has more foliage.
It has started to evolve into a shorter, wider plant.
That's why that plant has that leaf structure.
It doesn't need to have as much light
penetrating through there.
If it does, it's going to be damaging.
Those plants will show more bleaching
than you will from your typical equatorial
that has evolved around more high UV light.
Something that's been exposed to more 410 nanometers
throughout its evolution and its history
is going to be able to handle that a lot better
than when you take one of those plants
and put it with the light directly.
That's where that bleaching starts to come in
because those, especially with the LEDs we have now,
because they can act like a beam.
If you put them too close to the plant,
they don't spread the light out
and they will concentrate those 710 nanometers
can burn the shit out of the top of your plant,
bleach the fuck out of it
if it's way too close to the plant
or if it's concentrated too much on there.
That's why you'll get that underneath a metal halide
or an HBS with a plant that grows
right underneath the glass
and not the ones right next to it.
And it's the same light.
Yeah, because that shit beams straight down
out of the end of that bulb, right?
Yeah, so it's got that hotspot right there
that's concentrated in a specific spectrum
and that's what's fucking that light, that bud up.
So it just depends on how they've been evolved out there
or how you're breeding them.
If you've been breeding them over a few decades like that,
you could actually start to steer that plant
in a different direction
even though they had evolved with different,
like if we're not gonna introduce any UV out there,
we are actually starting to starve these plants
with an anorexic light spectrum above them, right?
So many of us out there are not introducing
any type of UV light to the flowers,
to their bedrooms in any type of way.
The plant's eventually gonna decide
I don't need to turn those traits on as often
and you're gonna start pulling out seed stock
through what you're breeding
that is gonna have issues
with being able to assimilate fucking light
that has a high amount of UV exposure.
And it's just, we're just,
we're steering shit the wrong way sometimes.
That's why I breed indoor and outdoor.
I try to do both.
We're definitely steering towards artificial environments
whether we are intentionally or not,
commercial landscape is predominantly artificial lighting.
So that's kind of the way things are going.
But I do, I have, I'm jealous.
I haven't been able to grow outdoors where I'm at.
The climate just,
I might be able to get away with some autos
if I threw them out there early,
but I've just never tried, never wanted to.
So yeah, having that outdoor,
you know, again,
cause I've smoked good California,
Northern California outdoor,
humble outdoor when I lived in NorCal.
And there is, there's just,
it's hard to put your finger on it,
but there's something a little bit different,
little bit, something to the sun grown buds.
Oh yeah, for sure, for sure.
And there's, that's also why I try and incorporate
gear that has been bred outdoors
because I do most of my work indoors.
So, you know, at sometimes at my own detriment,
because, you know,
some outdoor lines just don't like being indoors.
Right.
You know, but, you know,
Gene said that some of these,
these Kola root beers can be a little sensitive on,
you know, coming inside, but so far so good.
You know, I just keep an extra eye on them.
Nothing else is going on.
So it's like, fuck it.
I'm testing out a bunch of plants with that Kola root beer.
So, you know, we'll see how it goes,
but, you know, trying to bring in some of that,
cause I knew, I know,
you know, there's a lot of people that are still gonna,
they're gonna pop my seeds outdoors.
So I wanna make sure that,
that I have some shit that at least brings some of the,
you know, some of that outdoor bred genetics to the fold.
And, you know, some of that pest and mold resistance
and, you know, just generally being used to real sun,
real fresh air, you know, the whole,
you know, being in the dirt.
I mean, it's a totally different world,
totally different world for them, you know?
It definitely is.
Yeah.
So we'll try and mix in, you know,
and like these, you know, like that mung Thai,
obviously that started outdoors,
but that was bred indoors for a few seasons.
And obviously it's adapted a bit because it is,
you know, because it is a worked line
that's been worked indoors for several generations now.
It's got, you know, it's a little more tame probably
than it was three generations ago, right?
So that, you know, that plant got steered in that direction
because of the environment.
So I wanna try and bring some of that,
you know, cause a lot of these clones, man,
how long have they been inside, right?
Like if you keep something alive for, you know,
years and years and years and years and years,
they're not, you're not just working them outside.
They gotta come indoors at some point.
Oh yeah.
So to be able to, so hopefully bring some of that,
you know, that kind of outdoor hardiness to them,
I think is important.
You know, and as long as they don't freak out,
you know, as long as the babies don't freak out indoors,
or, you know, maybe that's just a label
you gotta stick on and say,
put these outside or be warned,
you know, kind of thing.
They're fantastic outside, right?
Like that's where they wanna be.
But if you wanna bring them in, you know,
there's, you know, sometimes it's worth it.
If that's your thing, then, you know,
if you're not worried about bringing them inside,
then go for it.
And I know some growers that, you know,
swear by, you know, once a year or, you know,
every couple of years, whatever,
to like rejuvenate a mom.
Just bring it outside for a little bit
and bring it back in.
And they're just like, it's hard to explain,
but it's there, the difference.
Well, I try, if I have pissy plants
and it's nice outside, if it's that time of year,
I definitely get them at least a few hours of sun a day.
Nice.
And in the, like in the shitty months,
the one, like my nursery slash, you know,
kind of recovery room is, it's just a bank of T5s
where I have a bunch of different spectrums,
a little blue, a little red, a little cool, you know.
And they really seem to like that.
It's not a powerful, you know,
you're not gonna grow monsters real quick under it,
but it's gentle.
And I think when plants are upset, oftentimes,
you know, you gotta, like they need light,
but you can't necessarily be blasting them.
And that full, you know, that broad spectrum, I should say,
that broad spectrum lighting, like I said,
if you can't get them real sun, that's my next best option.
But yeah, that just a suntan out for a couple hours a day
really does perk them up.
There's nothing like it, you know.
Yeah, that's a good way to put it.
Give them a little suntan, a little suntan,
everybody's happier, they feel better about themselves.
I'm joking.
I'm joking.
It's kind of funny.
Well, yeah, the NL5's awesome, dude.
And some of those outcrosses like that,
that ancient OG outcross that I did,
I have to make more of those.
I only ended up with a great few.
That was like old school weed to me.
You know, when you, it was like, it had that, you know,
like real shoe hash where you took some, you know,
some sift and put it in a baggie and stuck it in your shoe
and walked around for the day.
When you were done, you had a little, you know,
you know, a little bar hat, you know,
gross little melty hash.
And, but, you know, it's got that like hash,
but like shoe leather, real dank, dark,
not necessarily chocolatey or cocoa,
but you know, it's like dark and dirty and, oh man.
And it, you know, that kind of,
it'll make you cough a little bit.
It's a little, you know.
Cough till you get off.
Yeah, it's a little cough, but it's, oh man,
it was just so nice to come across that.
And I was, oh, cause,
and the ancient OG that I used has got a lot,
it's got some of that, but it just, man,
the two of them together was just awesome.
It's got that old school, like late eighties, early nineties,
like Indica, whatever it was, you know,
we didn't know, just dark, dirty, fuck it all was good.
Yes.
Yeah.
The magic, the magic.
The stuff I refer affectionately to as high school weed.
Yeah, the stuff you could feel behind your eyeballs,
you know.
Oh.
How does that Romulan NL5 of yours come out?
How does that turn out?
There's, dude, like there's lots of pine,
but there's some crazy fruit too.
And I've bred that Romulan, a similar line out
and gotten grape out of it.
Yeah.
Yeah, lots of hashy pine, lots of hashy pine,
big happy colas, big, big spear-like colas.
Yeah.
Alberni borealis?
Yes.
Did I say that right?
Alberni borealis?
Okay.
Romulan, which is another awesome staple there.
I haven't washed that one,
but that looks like it would be maybe not a bumper,
but it would, I think the flavor would be amazing.
Yeah.
That's what a lot of people are going for too,
is you get that sweet.
Yup.
Yup, yup.
I found the same profiles when I used the Romulan
and breeding myself.
I could pull out pine with some grape
and like brandy wine, complex fruit.
She was nice, man.
That's what I was wondering if you found something similar
out of there, especially with that NL5 introduction.
Cause I used the Cataract Kush,
which had a LA Confidential in it.
So not the same, but similar type of structure
and such on the plant.
That's what I was wondering on.
I love that, those crosses to the Romulan.
Yeah, it's like the Romulan and the NL5
both have fruit buried in the back in some of them,
depending on what they're crossed to
and just which bean you pop.
But yeah, there's some really interesting stuff in there.
I bred some Romulan.
It was a BX5F4 or something like that
and against my oil spill cut
and a buddy of mine pulled a grape Kool-Aid
selection out of the group.
I was like, oh, that's cool, man, right off.
I think so.
Now Romulan is one of those strains that for me,
I got to smoke it at night.
So what sort of effects are you getting off of this one?
Is it just a heavy hitter or what do you get?
Most of them are pretty heavy.
There's some that are maybe a little more dreamy,
but for the most part, the Romulan NL5 are pretty heavy.
Okay, and how does this one grow?
Let's see if I see the timeframe down here, it's weeks.
They finish within nine weeks.
Okay, so I was gonna say NL5 is usually
always a faster strain than what we were looking at earlier.
I think that cut that I have goes like 60 days.
Okay.
I wanna say, and so like the progeny
were right around there,
maybe a little bit longer on a few,
but very reasonable, very reasonable.
Big, nice branching.
It branches better than the mom.
And I think that's coming from the NL5.
It's got a better, wider, broader structure to it.
And nice size polas.
That, the NL5 stacks, I think it thickened up the Romulan
a little bit.
Good yielders though, good yielders.
Excellent, and that's what a lot of times
people are looking for too,
especially when you're making RSO or FICO or edibles.
You need that biomass there.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure.
For sure.
And that you like the NL5s, all those,
they're just, aside from the weirdo
that I pulled out of the first pack,
everything's been just really heavy baseball bat.
Like one big cola with your,
you know, vertical, you know,
nice vertical branching with, you know, fairly,
I mean, they fill out, they fill out,
but it's that, dude, you know, you see it,
it's just that stack right up the middle.
That's just-
The two liter of cola.
Oh, they're beautiful, man.
They're beautiful.
That, the weirdo though, the weirdo looks like,
Is that the one with the more grape, the grape Kool-Aid?
She's, she's like, she's a little fruity.
A little piney, a little more delicate,
and it's got a little higher of a ride.
And it's got, you know, like the fruit is up front
with the pine in the back.
And Lem had said when they were fudging out,
he's like, well, that one right there
kind of reminds me of the Hawaiian that I used to grow.
And so, you know, I just, you know,
kind of jotted that down and tagged it and, you know,
whatever.
And I've, I've kept her around.
I like the way she breeds out
because she does throw some of that fruity shit
out of there.
And it still has the strength of the NL5.
It's just more delicate.
And, you know, as far as the overall structure,
she's more narrow leafed.
She actually, I had a picture.
I know it was probably a while ago that I posted it.
Now I had a shot of her sitting next to
old Sog Super Silver Haze.
And I mean, I, I couldn't tell the difference
if I looked real quick.
You know, if someone came and did the old switcher
and I just, shit, I have to get a little closer,
get a little whiff, okay, I got you.
But it was kind of cool to see that, you know,
I like the weirdos.
I mean, there's obviously for, you know,
for preserving the line,
you want to go with the typical, you know,
whatever the, you know, breed standard,
I guess you want to call it is.
But I do like setting the weirdos aside
and seeing what, what they're all about.
You know, maybe breed her more to the, you know,
the more narrow leaf stuff and, you know,
still maintain that big, beautiful, she's stupid branchy,
you know, like that crazy sativa branching that goes on.
And so I think she's got, she's got value in that respect.
It's what I kept her on just because she different
and she's cool.
And, you know, it's not that much longer of a finish.
She runs maybe, maybe a week longer than the others
for the most part.
And, you know, but that line overall was, was, was awesome.
I got a bunch more I'm looking through
just for shits and giggles and great, great,
great work by Greg and man,
something we got to keep around, you know.
100%
People like to go back to it or like you said,
see it for the first time, or, you know,
they're, they're building blocks for a reason.
Like Mr. Toad said, like a lot of the stuff that you see now
it's, it's got the characteristics it does
because it started with that strong Afghani, you know,
and, and, you know.
I, I was, I was talking about this the other day.
That was something that, you know,
I kind of had the conscious thought of a while ago
because a lot of my base,
a lot of my seed stock was from the like 2010
right around that timeframe in the medical system here.
So it's not necessarily the new hype,
but it's definitely removed from a lot of these backbones
like the Afghans and the Northern Lights,
those types of things.
So I kind of had this,
just like conscious thought moving forward
is if I can start working with a lot of these backbones,
things that are more reliable,
it's probably going to be easier for me
to find their expression or lack of in offspring
when I cross it with something that's a crazy polyhybrid.
And from there, it would kind of, you know,
make the work easier.
You're only working with like one Rubik's cube
versus two and making it bigger.
So that's something that I love about some of these,
you know, I keep saying older cultivars,
but they have that just backbone to it.
Yeah, exactly.
And when you reproduce a line
and then look through their progeny,
you get a good feeling of what, you know,
is coming out of there.
And so that when you use it in an out cross
and you look through those progeny,
you don't just have that F1 line or, you know,
or whatever that one generation,
you have the following generation,
which is going to possibly open up, you know,
even more possibilities to you.
So when you do see the, you know,
the progeny in an out cross, you're like, oh, okay,
I've seen that and I've seen that back there, right.
And I've seen this one's right up front and this passes,
you know, so it's, there's, you know,
value in being able to reproduce
and then work from the out crosses
because you're a little more familiar with the lines.
You know, I mean, working with, you know,
working with the clone only is as fun,
don't get me wrong, but it's like,
I don't know what their sisters look like,
you know what I mean?
Right, so it's a little more, you know,
you end up with a little more guesswork, right?
Right, and you know, enough time, enough space,
big enough facility, it's all manageable,
but you know, I'm not rolling as I dream I could be.
So until that day comes, gotta be a little bit wiser
on what I'm doing.
Right on.
And how about you, Mr. Toad,
is that something that you've kind of seen too?
Because I know that you've worked with a variety of things
over the years, but you've also worked with a lot of these
more stable backbones or stable can mean a lot of things,
I just mean consistent representation
when I say that at this point.
Do you find that mixing that with some of maybe
the newer Rubik's cubes makes things a little bit easier
with the visual and senses that we have selection?
Yeah, 100%, I believe it's easier for people
to dive into breeding by taking something
that has repeatable traits and taking it
to whatever polyhybrid that they're in love with
and being able to see that new plant's breeding traits
because of the stock that they're using.
If you use something that's got true breeding traits
and you know 50% of the progeny are going to give
specific traits from your dihybrids or your tetrahybrid
that you're using, then you're gonna have
a more productive breeding.
You're gonna be able to start to guess
where things are going to line up
instead of having to actually do the breeding
to find out if that's what's gonna come out of a line.
The educated guess is something that you learn
through experience of actually doing that
with the cannabis plant.
That's how Mendel went and looked at peas
and decided is this plant going to breed
for specific traits?
Is it going to have wrinkles?
Is it going to be smooth?
Is it going to be green or is it going to be yellow?
Is it gonna be tall or is it gonna be short?
And that's where he came up with that pundit square.
So that's where I'm always telling people
breeding is math.
So if you have experience with the particular cultivars,
it can be anything that you love.
If you've have enough seeds of something
and you've dove into it far enough,
you start to understand what's coming out of the line.
The more polyhybridized it is, the harder it's going to be,
but you can do it.
But you're better off trying to take something
that's more of a land race,
that's something that's been line bred
to a specific filial generation
to give you specific true breeding traits.
And now you can take that and breed it to different females.
And when you see specific traits pop out
of the new population from each one of those girls,
you'll know that it's coming from her
because you've used that particular male
or a particular line long enough to know
that you're going to get plants that have these fat leaves
that are gonna grow a specific height.
They're gonna wanna flip at a specific time.
Maybe they show a specific growth on the node
at a specific time.
And that all comes from learning about a line.
And you can do that through either popping thousands
of seeds or by doing your own research.
All these forums are out there
and people have been posting pictures,
especially with Instagram now.
You can type in something on Instagram with a hashtag
and pull up a thousand different shots
of a particular cultivar or one of its crosses
and start to see similarities that are coming out
of something that's been crossed 25 different plants.
And all of a sudden you start seeing
like we could use freak show for example, right?
You'll start to see progeny coming out of the F3s
that'll start to show some of those traits.
And it's only possible from breeding it to that plant
and then trying to line breed it back into itself
because it's a recessive trait.
So when you start to see it,
you can tell somebody has done a specific amount of work.
That's how you know for a fact when it can pop out
in the seed stock repeatedly
or when someone else buys those seeds
and now they can use those to do the same thing.
You know the work was put into that line
or that that line's too ridden for these traits.
And that's where people should start off
if they really wanna start to get a deep dive into breeding,
not just making seeds,
because that doesn't take all that shit.
But if you wanna learn about the line
and the traits she possesses,
is she homozygous, is she recessive?
Is she carrying,
is she able to pass a specific loci
and in a position like her siblings
so that now you can breed those to a filial generation
that's not just an F3,
but an F3 possesses a specific amount of the traits
that you're after.
Because a lot of people just throw the impression
that if I go F1, F2, F3, F4,
that I've made a more stable line.
And that's not technically true.
What you really need to do is start to lock in those traits
that you're after, specific breeding traits
to make that plant a dihybrid or tetrahybrid.
So when you do breed it,
it has that ability to pass specific traits
and loci repeatedly,
increase the allele frequency,
and you're gonna have a more successful breeding.
Selection, yeah.
Selection is everything.
Like you're just saying,
you can just put two parents together,
take the F1s, put them together,
take the F2s, put them together and line breed.
But that's like line seeding almost.
There's no direction.
And when you have a focus
and you're selecting for particular traits,
the ones at least that you're going for,
yeah, you're probably gonna end up with a better F3, F4
than if you weren't doing that.
Still possible, but direction is always good to have.
And speaking of direction,
I wanna direct us to another strain
up for offer here real quick.
We actually had a question, Jamie P. earlier in chat,
I'd pop it up, but it was so long ago.
I said, yeah, we'll pop it up next.
But this was the lemon Thai that you had up here.
He was curious about that one.
So if you could give us any information,
that would be awesome.
Yeah, so the lemon Thai started out
with some seed stock that was,
that came from some of Bodie's work
and some from Robbie Vision.
And so all Dutch flower stock.
And so I started with a batch of F2s
and some that were labeled IX.
So an F1, F2, or F2, F3, or something like that,
what I was told.
So we started with that first batch
and dude, the plants are awesome.
Like they'll go a hundred plus days.
They are very resinous.
They got that beautiful open structure,
a lot of lemon zing, not like, you know,
the Vietnamese black has got the pepper
and the wood to it.
These are much more bright.
There's still a little spice to it,
but just a more bright,
zesty, citrusy kind of hit to them
than the real spicy black pepper lemongrass.
And yeah, it's a real enjoyable sativa.
It's not too much of a,
it's not gonna make you sweat
and or you know, peeking out the windows,
but it is a really, really enjoyable daytime ride.
Really happy, just makes your belly warm.
Yeah, and so that was the start of it.
The ones up, I do believe now,
I think are actually,
so I kept my male from that run.
I've used him on several other girls,
but we kept that male and I used him
on Bodhi's cut of Lemon Thai, the 57.
And you know, just like I described,
it's just such a beautiful plant.
And it's, you know, the plant of a hundred phenotypes,
you know, all the way from a stretcher to a cousin it.
And the environment.
Peter was asking here, he says,
ask about the Lemon Thai versus the last one we had.
I don't know which one was the last one,
but I'm assuming you would.
Yeah, so the last one was the original IX,
the reproduction of that.
So it would be however you want to label it, IXF2.
And then, so that was their first batch.
The new batch is using the same male from the first round,
but using Bodhi's cut of Lemon Thai instead.
So it's the same Dutch flowers line,
just using Mr. B's cut as the female.
Okay, okay, right on.
So it's a little more focused
and that's the direction that we're gonna take that now
is just to go back to Mr. B's cut.
So, you know, I did whatever it is,
number of packs, you know, for this round
and then I'm, that's it.
And so for the next one, if people still want them,
I'll do a BX with stock from her, you know, babies from her
and we'll find a male that, you know,
or try a couple of males, you know, to start
that look most like her and, you know,
have that same bright sass to them when they're, you know,
when they're mature and, you know, and go from there.
But I want to try and focus on that 57 cut though.
It's so lovely.
Now, how does like a chocolate tie and a lemon tie
kind of differ if I were growing them maybe in the same room
or are they similar?
I've never grown either myself,
so I wouldn't know what to expect.
The longer running NorCal chocolate tie
is more like the lemon tie.
And then the OG chocolate tie,
the one that Howard had put out
and Snow High had redone and I had redone,
they're a little faster, a little chunkier.
The one I kept is like super smooth chocolate, like cocoa,
you know, real dreamy high, you know,
kind of like get naked and run through the garden
kind of high, you know.
Yes.
That's a good one.
But it's not like the real up kind of rocket ride
that you'd expect out of the longer running one.
So that NorCal chocolate tie,
I think Ozark put a bunch out there.
So there's some cats growing them out now.
I have a few going.
See what we can find in there.
But yeah, that would be a little more like the lemon tie.
This one's real.
They're real feminine, you know, real sativa-like,
you know, they got that kind of hang to them, you know.
She's just awesome, cool.
So yeah, we're gonna go back to that.
We'll go back to the 57 tie.
And yeah, the chocolate tie I'm using in a couple of things,
one that I have.
But yeah, we'll check out that longer running one though.
I got my eye on a couple, so we'll see.
We'll see.
Always, right?
Always, always something in the back of the head
that's being worked on, right?
Yeah, you know, well, I like to just pop, you know,
sometimes pop a few and a few of these and a few of those
and just start, you know,
you never know what'll come along
while I'm kind of doing other stuff, you know.
Just to kind of keep, you know,
you gotta kind of cycle through that seed collection too.
Right, you can't let shit sit too long.
No, yeah, I recently learned that the hard way.
I pulled out some stock from six-ish years ago,
which in the big picture isn't that long ago.
And my germination rate was so embarrassing.
I think I might just,
they might find their way to the woods
and see what happens.
So, yeah, happens.
But yeah.
The West Coast land race.
Right, yes, yes.
It'll be the Washington native.
We'll call it locks and loins.
Shit.
Oh my God, locks and loins.
That is so right and so wrong at the same time.
I don't even know what to do.
I'm gonna bring up another strain here
because locks and loins, God damn,
that needs to be a t-shirt now.
And this one, here we go.
We'll go back to another kind of classic
potential backbone here.
Because this is one I hear mentioned a lot.
Again, as a base in a lot of things as well.
So the purple Pakistani shit trowel.
Yeah, that's, if you want color,
it breeds everything that I've hit, male and female,
out of the mom and out of her brother,
have gotten color.
And it's greasy, Rez.
I don't know, for you Washington hashmakers,
it's got that real grease to it, like it's almost wet.
And some of those purple turps, if you know what I mean,
it's got that almost, I don't wanna say lavender,
but there's a floral kind of purple smell going on in there.
I kept them around for the color.
I kept them around, well, just because,
I mean, apparently people really wanted
to get ahold of them.
I didn't, I think I put that many packs out there
and they were gone, gone.
I got Buddy Boy lined up and Mama's,
well, I gotta get synced up,
but I can do some more of those if everybody's out.
That's just a nice, I think it's a nice addition
to a breeding project if you wanna add some color
and if you're into that kind of lighter,
more floral turping profile.
Yeah, a lot of purple is,
it almost has to have purple these days.
And if you have something or you can find something
that's reliably able to kind of pass it on,
holy cow, and gosh, that was a beautiful deep purple
on there.
And I'm sorry to Mr. Toad.
She's not even the darkest one.
She's probably in the middle of the road.
She was like, I liked her, she was pretty much
in the middle as far as weight was concerned,
but she just had the better grease,
the better just overall aromas.
And like I said, real small, greasy, greasy girl.
But there was a darker one, boy, oh my God,
it was just, it just didn't produce much.
And it was really impressive to look at,
but I called her and all her babies
right out of the whole project.
Except for, I think I saved a few and gave some
to the cat that donated them to me.
But I mean, that was, they were extreme.
It was awesome to look at, but I don't know.
Yeah, I just recently grew The Freak Show,
which was awesome and it was fun to grow.
I'm absolutely glad I did,
but I didn't even put anything on it
just to kind of preserve it for myself.
Just, it was a little slow,
but an absolute fun grow.
Like I recommended, it's like a Gwar show.
Everybody should do it once, just do it once
and you'll be good.
Yeah, you really do have to go and witness that.
It's like that in Rocky Horror,
you gotta go watch it in the theater.
Yes, your life will be forever different.
I'm not gonna say better or worse,
I'm just gonna say different.
Oh shoot, that's awesome.
Let's see here, let me pull another one up here.
There's some killer stuff that can be found
in that package of Jolly Cush, man.
I've used that in some of my breeding also.
There's other cats that got seed lines on it
all the way around, but they always produce quality plants.
They've been bred to produce colorful, flavorful plants.
I've found stuff from carrots to pear to,
man, I've found some watermelon stuff
that come out in some of the hybrids.
It's crazy what you can find
that can come out of that paculine when you look into it.
She's nice for breeding with.
She's a line that you can use
for going into making your own F1s.
She's a lime bread and she's a heirloom plant
and land race at that.
So you can use her to add to pretty much,
like add her to an NL5, add her to a Hayes,
add her to anything else that you like.
And you're gonna get a very homogenous set of traits
that are gonna come out of from a majority of the plants
because of the thing that's been done with that land.
Drop it everything.
Drop it like it's hot.
But no, so you kind of mentioned
that it was a little bit of the nose
and a little bit of the color that you liked
about that particular plant, Mr. Toad.
Was there anything else that you liked
from having worked with it
and maybe used it in some other things
and, or just kind of speculate why it is so popular?
With the older heads, I guess I'm gonna say.
She's, for me, she is reminiscent of old quality hash
when you smoke her.
So I love hash.
So I, when I used her, I used her for making bubble hash
and I smoked the bubble hash.
I still have probably half a pound of it over here
from last year I got to run through.
I'm gonna turn that into some bubble hash, but she's nice.
The one that I was using last year to breed with
when I hit her with the Redwood,
we ended up finding some odd mutations
that were coming out of the leaves
where we were getting extremely serrated leaves
that looked like Edward Scissorhands, fucking hands, man.
They were not leaves that looked like normal leaves.
They were crazy that were coming out of there.
We found a few of them.
That Pachyline, I don't know if just the cultivar I picked
was bad with that Redwood, with the Hindu master,
because it didn't show up in anything else.
But something in that pairing, like we all talk about,
nothing's always gonna be great all the time.
That pairing I came out of that
was throwing too many odd mutations
that were not producing quality herbs.
So when the plants would end up in flower,
you'd get plants that half of it looked killer.
And then the other half looked like
it was a whole different fucking plant.
It was not growing the same
on a whole different part of the plant.
And we got that on all the mutations.
So sometimes you just gotta pull them off
and quit dropping them out there.
Once you start seeing that pop up
in a majority of the plants
that didn't show up in your small batch of testing,
just don't release them anymore.
That's what I ended up doing.
I just pulled them off the market.
Okay.
Let's shift gears here and bring up another one.
And this is kind of a,
you had mentioned earlier, JT, red stems.
The red stem, kind of the phenos or the red stem plants.
So I'll bring up this one here, just the name itself.
I'm like, ooh, that's intriguing.
So Ruby Vine Afghani, is that kind of,
does the name play on the red stems at all?
Or where does that fit into it?
Oh no, yeah, that was found out of
Bodhi's Kandahar Afghani.
It came out before the Kandahar Black.
And this was a little more broad selection.
That's where I found the Green Girl.
And this one in particular,
beautiful, beautiful red stems.
And it smelled like mothballs and cedar.
She was just a, oh man, I'm so sorry I lost her.
She was a real joy.
Yeah.
But yeah, just a beautiful, beautiful plant.
She was, and you got a picture of the male here.
So you used the male, I'm assuming, in this cross?
Yeah, that should be the,
that would have been the Kandahar Black Leaner.
No wait, no, there's a Black Leaner,
and then there was a Red Stem Leaner.
There it is, yeah.
Yeah, that's not the,
the Kandahar Black was the donkey dick guy.
Okay.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's the Red Stem guy.
And then his sister that was,
oh, they're just both gorgeous, gorgeous plants.
I don't know if I have any stash that I can remake that.
So whoever has any, make more.
Right, preserve, preserve.
Make more.
I don't know, I gotta look,
I might have to dig deep into the stash,
but even if I do have them, make more.
Yeah, we've got three, it looks like three left.
Oh, right on.
Yeah, three left.
So, yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure.
That was a nice little pick through on those.
I got another pack of the Kandahar Afghanis.
We're doing another batch of the Kandahar Black.
That it was, it's actually a combination of his,
that very limited release that he had,
and Underground Seed Company.
Unfortunately, and I think Erasining or whatever,
I think Landrace, Indian Landrace guy,
found the same thing as a lot of those males were sterile
in the Bodhi release.
And so I found a male that looked just beautiful.
And he had the purple sepals and the stems were just,
oh man, they were dark.
And he got that, the fade underneath the leaves
that starts real early.
That purple fade underneath.
So I pulled a male.
Yeah, I pulled a male out of the USC batch
and then the nicest female out of the Bodhi stuff.
And that's where we started with that.
So we're working on another batch of those.
And that's that, like if you want that real heavy,
heady behind the eyes,
kind of makes you feel like your nose is stuffed
a little bit and lots of color.
That's a nice line.
And I do think that using that male
from the opposite line there, parallel line,
I guess you could say, did help out quite a bit
because the babies were blown pollen just fine.
So they weren't like the Bodhi release ones.
So.
Cause that one, that one just wasn't,
it was a little sterile.
Let's see what's Mr. Toad,
are you trying to show us the screen there?
Let's see.
What do we got there?
What are we looking at there?
You're on mute right now, but what are we gazing at?
That's a cross of my package of Charlie Cush
to the Redwood Cush.
This is one of the mutations that we're finding out.
That's awesome.
That's great.
We found a few of them that were doing that.
And the buds that were coming off this plant
were literally, it looked like two different plants
were coming, were growing buds off the fucker.
Like one side had big ass spears
and the other side did not want to produce
any type of like actual bud.
It just kept growing this swag,
can't sleep and shit, it was weird, man.
But the lines killer.
Now in her own self, she was killer,
but she didn't like to be paired to my Redwood
because I paired her to my Icarus and she was killer.
There's the wax packs, there's totally packing.
I did a few crosses to her.
She just didn't like my Redwood, which was a master Hindu.
But that line has so much potential for breeding.
It will show you some weird shit.
Just like the Afku, my partner,
he just used that with one of his lines.
And the parent, the father's side that he used
did not pair well to that plant
and stuff that was coming out of there was just,
you wouldn't want to release it.
So lucky that folks do testing
to see what's going to pop out of stuff.
Or you could be ending up with a whole pack of stuff
that's just going to totally tear your room apart.
Like week five or something, right?
And now you've lost the whole facility.
It's kind of crazy because whether it's like
a whole facility and there's millions of dollars
or it's your tent of medicine,
either way is equally as fucked for the end user.
If it's just a dude that's growing for his medicine,
it's even worse.
I mean, I'm the perfect example of that, right?
I'm in a fucking wheelchair, man.
I got to wait another four months to get some herb
to take care of the pain I'm in today.
That's a fucking shit ton of work.
And if I got to go buy it from a place,
I'm fucked two times because now I'm broke
and I'm fucking smoking some meds
and I'm fucking depressed
because I lost my goddamn garden.
So it just keeps piling up on a motherfucker
all because of fucking somebody didn't either test
the fucking shit out or like they're just releasing
some bullshit that wasn't even what they said it was, right?
And it was bad shit to begin with, right?
So that's why we've got to go through some of the testing
that we go through, large scale or small scale.
You got to put plants through some form of testing
outside of the environment that they were bred in
just to make sure that something crazy
is not just going to pop out
because some dude likes to use, I don't know,
some dudes got a whole bunch of CFLs
and he's making his own hood still, right?
And the heat from that shit's building up
and all of a sudden he's getting more
from the hermaphrodites in the room and he's pissed off.
Now he's on every forum fucking yelling your name
and shit at everybody.
And all he had to do was hit you up in a direct message
and you'd send him some new shit.
Because some dudes will do that
and some dudes are cool about it.
Some people will send you pictures
and you're like, here, let me send you some shit.
And you send them some brand new shit
and everything's fucking cool
because they know shit can happen, right?
And it's not a whole line of hermaphrodites.
They're not minocious or anything like that,
but you just have one plant that had ethylene sensitivity
that's fucking not conductive for your environment.
So here's another pack of seeds, right?
And that's how we should handle it as the breeders we are.
There's a lot of cats that will battle you
all damn day in fucking chats over the seeds.
Even the breeders will fight back over it.
It's like, dude, it's just 10 more seeds.
Give them a motherfucking 10 pack.
Send them two 10 pack.
Make them happy.
Make them a fucking, you know, like a customer for life
or a friend for life at least.
Just because you sent them two more packs of seeds
because two or three seeds or something out of 50 seeds
you sent them the first time were bad or something
or something didn't pop, right?
I've had guys that were mad because they,
they bought a hundred seeds and three of them didn't pop.
And I'm like, well, fuck.
Here's another hundred seeds, dude.
I'm sorry, man.
What can I do, brother?
Yeah.
It helps to try and find, if you can find testers
with different, like completely different rooms,
different environments and different skill levels, you know?
And it's like, you know, if you're just getting started,
that's cool.
Just, you know, tell me.
I don't want a bunch of beginners, but I want to, you know,
it's all right if you're, you know, just getting rolling
and, you know, maybe not running the optimum setup
or whatever, that doesn't matter
because not everybody's going to be, you know,
set up the same.
They're not going to have the perfect temperature
and humidity and, you know, so it's good to try and get,
you know, people with all different setups,
people that are running outside,
people that are running, you know, in the Northeast
or, you know, which is way different
than the Pacific Northwest,
which is way different than in desert and, you know.
So, I mean, as broad of a spectrum of testers
as you can get is ideal.
It's tough, man.
It's, you know, it's, you'd think because not for nothing,
you know, and everybody listening, here's the deal.
Like, if you're a good tester,
you will never buy fucking seeds again.
Like, you know, I mean.
Good point.
Very good point.
Very good point.
If you're a good tester and you're running
maybe two or three different cats gear,
you will never have to buy a seed again.
Now, if there's something in particular you want
from somebody else, that's your business.
But as far as having enough to supply,
never worry about it.
Yep.
And even then, if you-
Because they're always looking for-
Say you're getting, you're testing for me, right?
Or you're testing for JT.
I know he's probably gonna do the same kind of shit as me.
You hook him up and shit because it's appreciated, right?
And once you pass them seeds to them,
they can do whatever the fuck they want with them.
Auction them off and buy those seeds you do want, right?
Yeah.
You're not gonna be mad.
Or fucking open populate the whole fucking pack
and start a new breeding project.
Like, for real, you're not buying seeds again
if you fucking, if you test for me.
Some cats won't take them.
Fucking Cheddar Bob out there,
that stingy motherfucker won't let me send him shit.
He keeps fucking, he won't do it, dude.
No matter what, he won't fucking let me send him shit, dude.
So I finally just sent him a fucking whole pack.
It fucking took forever for him
to get the goddamn digits off him.
And then I fucking, I sent him a whole shitload
so he couldn't say no.
And with his bad eye, he can't even tell
if it's one or two packs or 50.
He thinks you got one big sticker up there.
But no, for real, like-
Big stick.
If you guys go over to Dog Academy right now,
there's some of us breeders
that have our own test pages on there.
And if you're a test grower for one of us,
go start posting your shit up there
because the breeders are lurking.
The breeders are looking for people
that are actually putting in the time,
posting up pictures, saying the plant smells like this,
saying the plant has a veg paste that does that.
I fucking cloned them and they're fucking setting root
quicker than everything else.
If you start posting up information,
the next thing you know,
dudes are gonna just hit you up out of the blue
and ask you if you got space to run something in your room.
Eventually, you're not gonna pay for nothing
and you're gonna be in a position that you were.
You always wanted to be when you started buying seeds.
You wanted to not have to pay for them.
And you wanted to have access to all that shit.
And testing gets you into that position
and posting that stuff,
like you love the plant.
I say it's like a job, but for real,
testing and posting up the information you found
is kind of like a job.
It's the information in the old days
we used to go to jail for
that now you guys can literally take time out of your day
and use it as a hobby or whatever you want.
Use it for steering your education in a direction
because this stuff can be scaled up
once you start testing something, a 10 seeds.
Next thing you know, you're in a spot
that lets you do 15 plants.
And then you can do a hundred plant.
Then a place hits you up
and you're working in their facility
and you went from being a dude that just wanted 10 seeds
who now doesn't pay for nothing.
He's smoking his own killer weed.
He's growing it.
He's just teaching other people what to do.
And you're about to do a 2000 seed fucking tester pop
for the, you know, our pheno hunt, you're right?
Yeah.
That's where you, you know, that's the dream, right?
So you can literally pop a Ziploc bag full of seeds
and go hunting, right?
Yes.
Really look for something, you know,
look for unique stuff.
How fun, man, right on.
And that's a, that's a freaking huge jam out there
for anybody who gets the opportunity to test.
Sometimes, you know, you might start out
the first three, four weeks.
You're great at taking notes.
You got your measurements, you got your, you know
milliliters of everything.
And then you might start to slow down and taking pictures.
And you're like, ah, it's almost a harvest.
Keep, keep doing it and talk with the breeder too
because I'm pretty sure they're going to ask
or they have in mind what they're looking for.
And it might not be what you think they're looking for
out of it.
So be open there.
It's not always those pictures either.
It's not always the pictures.
Like I'm more interested in what that plant's doing
in your environment than I am the pretty pictures.
I only need that pretty picture
because everybody wants to see it when they buy the seeds
or when they're searching for it online.
Most people really aren't diving into the history
of the plant or we wouldn't be doing all these shows
so often about the history of the plant.
Like we'd know this shit because it would come along
with it, but it doesn't.
We just get pictures of pretty plants, which is awesome.
But that doesn't tell you about the history
or what's going to come out of it.
It's just, it's just a visual aid.
We're in a whole different generation
where that visual aid is gonna have an effect
on the breeding and that could be good and it could be bad.
That's the problem.
If we start staring shit to just look pretty,
that's worse than just staring it for only high THC.
We're doing plant genocide this way.
We're starting to get rid of genotypes and phenotypes
that will no longer exist just because they don't look
pretty enough for the camera.
Yes, there's no bag of peel.
Yeah, and that bag of peel, if you're an old smoker
like myself, I'm an old cat, I'm about 50, right?
Those cats older than me are gonna tell me I'm a young cat,
but I smoke old ass weed, man.
I've been smoking since literally the first time I smoked,
I was four.
I've been smoking since I was eight every day of my life,
except for five days when I went to Texas.
And you don't fuck with Texas.
It's on the street signs.
It's on the streets, right?
So, and then when I got sick,
those are the only times in my life
I have not used cannabis.
So, you can use this for what you need it for
if you use it for the correct ways and shit.
And it's out there, you just gotta figure it out sometimes.
So, the shit we got now is what's helping the people
that, like, in my time, wished we had this shit.
We wished we had a way to actually ask the dude
that made the shit that we were smoking, like,
damn, dude, what made you wanna do this?
Or how did you do this?
Because we'd be in a whole different realm right now
if we weren't stuck on that cow man bullshit
for so damn long.
Because we literally, we were, man.
We didn't have anyone to teach us
what we were trying to comprehend.
We just saw this information on all these forums
and five different guys had 10 different things
and we had to try 20 different ways
to figure out if any one of them was fucking right.
And then we failed 45 times.
And after a while, we eventually were like,
fuck, all right.
This one dude is telling me that you,
that's like Bog, right?
Bog used to be on the forums
and he would tell people all kinds of shit.
And eventually you found out Bog was telling you the truth.
Shit, he was writing down,
wasn't staring you in the wrong direction.
Wasn't trying to hype up his information.
He was giving you the information he had.
There was other cats out there like Hybtec
with reversals and shit.
Countryman.
All these old cats that were on the old forums
that used to share information
that was based in actual facts, right?
They weren't able to post the peer reviewed shit
that we can now because no one was gonna read it.
But they could give you enough of that information
to steer you in a direction to go look if you wanted to.
And it was always based in science, right?
That's why we know how to reverse plans with STS now.
Because a few cats in the early days took the time
to actually put the real information out there
on a damn forum where a lot of us were scared to go
because we thought we were gonna get caught
by the government or fucking our parents
or our fucking loved ones are coming in
to see what the fuck we're doing
with this brand new computer.
Are we trying to blow up the world?
Or what are we gonna do?
So we're hiding everything we were doing
and shit back then.
We weren't able to use the system
that's at hand at the moment.
People don't use it correctly to get it to the spot
they keep saying they want.
We want these true red lines.
We want the hidden gems of our past.
And we can actually bring all that shit back
if we would just take the time to put in the breathing
and do it as a collective instead of just doing it
as these single little dudes with small little populations.
When you can give 2000 seeds to a tester
and have them run through a population
and he finds that outlier,
that even though we're not looking for skunk,
all of a sudden shows up.
Or we're not looking for bubble gum.
Bubble gum shows up.
I just found bubble gum in both of my Ghost OG
to my Space Cheese and to the GMO to my Space Cheese.
Both of them have given me Topps bubble gum.
And not just in my plants,
but in two of the other testers also.
They're showing the same things.
So it's a hidden shit that nobody would thought
was gonna pop out of that cross, period.
You would not think Ghost OG or GMO
would give those profiles ever.
But they're there and they're on top of the GMO.
So the GMO is actually sitting in the backside
of what tastes like the old chalky Topps,
like stale bubble gum.
That's what it's coming through on top of it.
It's weird too.
And you break it up.
I was breaking up to take the seeds out of it
because I did a back cross using that phenol.
My mom's upstairs and she comes down and says,
what the fuck is that shit?
Smells like fucking...
She's like, it's like Beeman's gum or some shit in here.
They give her some of the bug.
And she's like, whoa, that's what it is.
And then my brother comes in the house
and he smells the same shit.
So it wasn't just my mind playing tricks on me.
And then the testers up in Canada that are running them,
they're in a whole different area.
Like we could never get as cold as Canada is where I'm at.
Even if the sun was out for four or five days,
they'd block that shit off.
We'd still be hotter than Canada.
It's tripping.
So it isn't just the expression I'm giving it.
This is what I'm trying to get at the environment.
So when they're pulling it out of an environment
that's completely different than mine,
with a soil that's completely different,
with inputs that are completely different,
lights that are different.
And they're still running that
in small population of testers.
That's where the people can start to line breed
for that direction on a plant that,
like everybody loves the GMO structure
and the color of the bug.
So you pull one of those out
that tastes like fucking bubble gum
and now you've got something that's banging, right?
And you can introduce it into the market
and you're the only person with it.
Now you can charge more for this product
because of the actual quality.
It's not just gonna be some junk.
The parentage of those plants make it great, man.
So now you just run some tests
and run it through enough patients
and they're gonna want it more and more and more.
That's how you get the GMO.
That's how you get MAC-1.
All these plants that are famous
because they look great,
but then once they get into patient's hands
and to the recreational smokers hand,
they prove their weight
and they just keep getting purchased and purchased.
That's why you release them on a small amount
and you get paid.
Right.
Well, I'm glad that you kind of brought up
some of the funkier, more kind of chemical,
chemi type of smells
because a lot of what we've been dealing with tonight
in your lines, a lot of the sativa heavy lines,
there's a lot of fruity, a lot of floral
and one strain and big ups Mr. Toad.
He's a huge help on my hunt in this line.
But I noticed one thing that you're offering
on the Daga too that catches my eye
and that was the headlights
because the Chem 91,
times the NL1, times the NL5F3.
I was talking to Mr. Toad before
and then Chem 91 is one of my all time favorites.
The Chem family is just awesome.
It's up there for me.
And so he recently had sent me a lot of his Chem work
and I'm excited to dive in,
but can you please tell us about headlights?
Yeah, so the headlights is the 91 by NL1,
which was made by Weasel.
And so we added that in with the NL5 male.
And first of all, the Chem lights is fucking awesome.
It's one of my favorite plants, the mother there.
She is just a joy to grow.
She's always so happy, so easy going.
It's got a little bit of gas,
it's got a little bit of skunk,
it's got a little bit of hash
and it's just a really easy going, happy plant.
And so the NL5 bolted up
and gave it a little extra pine tar kick
and there are some goofy fruity ones
coming out of that as well.
So there's some gassy fruit in that,
maybe two or three out of 10 females.
That'd be a happy, happy surprise too.
And again, I haven't had the chance to wash any of these
in any sort of quantity, sift or wash any,
but that one looks to be a good hash plant.
Yeah, a lot of potential.
And too, it's just, I mean, it's from like,
actually you guys can't see my little pointer here,
but I'm pointing at just the sugar leaves on here.
They're covered from base to tip.
There is a lot you could do with that.
And that's one thing that I look for in a lot of plants
and that I recommend to medicinal users
who are also making edibles or the FICO.
Cause again, we're growing trichomes.
So it's not always limited to the buds.
And in that case, it's like an extra bonus for you.
Cause it's like the buds are great,
but you also have a lot of stuff you can wash.
Yeah, there's a lot of material in there.
And even the larger fan leaves will have
a little dusting right around that,
where they all intersect or whatever.
There's a lot of resin on those plants.
You've seen the girls that do like the resin rails, right?
Where the leaf is, it's all concentrated along the edges,
but the rest of it is a little bearish.
You know what I mean?
These are just, it's just a solid, even coating of resin
everywhere you look on these.
Really, really happy with the way they came out.
Yeah, I think they'd be a great,
I gotta grow out of back so we could do some,
Wow, there we go.
Do some stuff.
Did that work?
Yeah, yeah, no, that would be, wee.
That's awesome.
That's a pretty girl right there.
Yeah, yep.
I love that Kim 91 too.
I just used her in the last two years
in some crosses myself.
She's nice.
StyleFrame, what do you, you know, kind of like that,
or what do you see passing on frequently from that Kim 91?
She'll pass her structure, bud size,
that profile that he's mentioned there earlier.
It comes across in a lot of that stuff.
She's killer, man.
The vintage cheddar that I did,
she looks very similar to the Kim 91 in bud structure
and the way the fan leaves will look like
they've burned themselves out on the edges
when you've grown her.
She almost looks like she's had a chemical burn
all the time.
It's weird to say that,
but it's actually true when you grow her out,
she will have the edges of her leaves
will start to look very yellow,
and it's not a deficiency.
And that Kim 91,
sometimes that'll pass across in her progeny,
shows up real hard.
Yeah, I didn't see any of these
and the Kim lights runs real clean,
real clean all the way to the end.
So whatever the, you know, that NL1,
at least that selection anyway, right?
Was clean as a whistle.
I know Kim gets a little dirty,
almost looks like it has like septoria or whatever
that leaf spot rust.
Right.
But it's just her bitchy fade.
She goes down swinging.
That's hilarious.
But that weasel Kim lights is just awesome.
Another great cut from him.
Nice.
Now, oops, wrong button.
At least I didn't disconnect from the show this time.
I've done that once before.
I've done that once.
Oh, shoot.
I was gonna say,
I wanna bring up another type of lemon project
that you had going here.
This one, the Ohio Lemon G.
Can you tell us a little bit about that
and how it influenced the Lemon Aurora for you?
That's the old Ohio staple.
One of many actually, you know,
the West Coast gets a lot of credit
for a lot of shit as they should,
but there's a lot of cool cuts that popped up
from the Northeast, the Midwest, down South.
And the Lemon G is one of them, right?
She's a big, tall, proud girl.
She's got a nice,
I mean, it's a chunky bud structure on her.
Until the end, she can kind of go a little crazy
and fox tail on you a little bit,
which is always, I think it's kind of cool anyway.
And just a real zesty,
real zesty, bright lemon
with just a little bit of a cushy kind of,
kind of cushy tar kind of back to it, but not much.
Real zesty, real zesty lemon.
And you know what I found anyway,
like it cures out a little more mild and almost fruity,
like a sweeter, like a Meyer lemon.
I grew out this, a buddy of mine passed me this cut
called Mirage,
and that was the lemonest lemon, oh my God.
It was just all, it was,
and I was real sensitive to it.
I don't know, it was lemon, but there was also like,
it was almost like lemon parsley or lemon basil.
Like there was an herbal note to it
that I just couldn't get past.
And no matter how long it sat in the jar,
it just, it smelled like the day you jarred it.
It was just like, holy fuck, it's all lemon
and just this herbal thing.
And oh, and I just, that one I couldn't,
that one I couldn't do, I couldn't even smoke it.
It was just so, so, so strong.
But this tea is nice.
It's strong, zesty lemon.
I like the way it cures out,
though, it cures out a little smoother.
And so the NL5 kind of filled out the flower structure
quite a bit, actually, and real resonance.
And there's like lemon fruit, pine,
a couple of hashy ones, but this was real,
the Aurora was real bright, real bright,
lemon fruit, real zesty.
The lemon strains, the really, you know, like zesty,
those lemon strains, like for me,
those are like the morning or get the day going
and daytime type of stuff.
They tend to, it's like the terpene profile,
you know, it like clears your sinuses and gets you going.
It like clears the head, you know?
Yeah, it's like waking up to a cup of tea,
you know, with like lemon and honey
or something like that, right?
It's, yeah, it's a good kind of a good wake up.
Yeah, I like that lemon tea.
It's, I thought the NL5 brought a little more power to it.
They're a little heavier than the mom.
Okay. So that made for a nice mix.
And that's good.
A lot of times, you know, we do hear that the NL5
is gonna be kind of one of those drivers of power
in some of the offspring,
is that that comes through fairly often, so.
Yeah, it wasn't as noticeable in the Chemcross
because that Chemlite is already pretty strong as it is.
Yeah.
You know, but like the lemon and the papaya,
it stepped up the potency without getting rid of,
you know, what I liked about is that that NL5 mixed well
with fruit and gas, you know what I mean?
Like it didn't overpower the fruity shit and make it,
and like, you know, delete the, you know,
that beautiful mango papaya, you know, flavor or the lemon,
you know, mixed real well with the Romulan.
Like they're like cousins kind of
in the flavor department, right?
You know, they share that heavy, heavy pine,
sappy kind of thing going on.
You know, just what a great outcrosser
because it is like really versatile.
I got a couple, I'm running out some longer flowering ones.
I got a cut of O'Hays that a buddy passed me
that it's pretty cool.
It's got like pineapple and bubblegum and cedar,
and just, it's crazy.
Like hard candy, not bubblegum,
but like a hard candy kind of sweetness to it.
And then like a little woody sandalwood cedar in the back.
So I'm gonna try her out against some longer flowering ones
now that the Poudre Butter,
trying to think, the Lemon Thai,
and a couple others here.
I gotta go look at my notes, but yeah,
now I wanna try them out against the longer flowering ones.
And a couple, I got the Indiana bubblegum
that I got a dust up with some NL5 pollen yet.
Nice.
And then a couple others.
I wanna try her out against the Death Widow,
the 95 cup winner, White Widow.
And a couple more solid lines right there too.
They're winners in themselves.
Yeah. Wow.
Yeah, and you know, the Death Widow is just, it's strong.
I bet.
And it could like go like, you know,
cause that Widow can easily go to the fruity side.
So that NL5, you know, whether it takes,
whether it gives it a fucking snarly,
gnarly hash kind of flavor to it,
or whether it goes real fruity.
Oh man.
Yeah, it's gonna be, it's gonna be fun.
Yeah. Well, my mind is still spinning on, you know,
what you said there is that the NL5, you know,
it went great with the gas stuff.
It went great with the sweet stuff.
And I've never thought about that before,
but damn, you're so right.
Like that's, it's interesting when you do have something
that can kind of go both ways like that
and not overly influenced, still be a little subtle,
but it does go well.
Yeah, and it comes out, it comes out in the male side.
Now, like I said, I've, I think I've seen now
32 females out of the original F3 stock.
And just the one had that Hawaiian lean
that had the Hawaiian kind of tropical
kind of thing going on to her.
But the males, the males shoot out that,
you know, that, that tropical,
tropical fruit in their babies.
And I've had a couple of,
I gotta think what I bred with that NL5 female.
My buddy's got it going actually.
Oh my God, is it gorgeous.
He's got the, my NL5 cut hit by my lemon tie guy
and the colors and the leaves is all,
that's just, they're so thin and long and just,
oh, it's very, very pretty.
You know, purple and maroon and oh man.
So we gotta, we definitely gotta visit this
kind of outlier cut a little bit just to have some fun.
And, you know, again, it's not breed standard.
So it's not something that I would,
you know, I would keep it separate.
Like if I did another F, the next NL5,
the next batch, I think what I'll do
is I'll try and get her hit up as well.
And then I'll offer, it'll be like, you know,
15 to 17 beans of the, you know, the, you know,
more typical females and then, you know,
a half a dozen or so of the, you know,
the Hawaiian kind of gal as a, you know,
as a freebie or kicker or whatever, you know?
I think that'd be kind of fun.
Those are always, always cool and always appreciated too.
And that shows up with an order.
You're just like, oh my goodness,
I got extra chances at some more flavor.
So it's cool to see those tossed in.
And that's a cool way for, you know,
people to kind of get things tested as well.
Yeah, because if that's, you know,
I mean, if that's part of the line that you want to,
that you personally want to explore and like, hey,
I like to, you know, I'll, you know,
maybe preserve some of the more typical ones,
but you want to kind of dip into something
that's a little different and you're into that flavor
profile or that, you know, that structure
and that kind of thing, then, you know,
it can make that possible.
Because I do like the weirdos.
I know there's a lot of people that like the weirdos
as well as keeping the, you know,
the breed standard kind of thing on hand as well.
Yeah, we're definitely a mixed bag as a consumer base here.
You know, old reliable, completely unpredictable.
We kind of almost want it both.
Yeah, right.
Yep, and you had mentioned this one earlier,
we were talking, you had mentioned the papaya,
which is a fricking, oh God, that's a great,
that's a great strain right there.
So tell us maybe a little bit about the papyrus
and what you were seeing there, how things kind of,
you know, came from papaya or came from the NL5
in this line.
Right on, so anyone not familiar with papaya,
that is from, so that's KC Brains.
I think it's KC Mango by Afghan.
And so that gal was sifted out of that cross.
She can be, she doesn't grow too slow for me actually.
She grows faster than the Hindu.
But I guess she's not a super fast grower.
If you're used to growing sativas,
you're like, okay, well, come on.
I don't think so, yeah.
Most people will do that.
So the NL5 sped her up, stretched her out a little bit.
And, you know, the flower set on the papaya
is pretty outstanding as it is.
So big, big colas, big, loud, loud tropical fruit on her.
Big, loud tropical fruit.
And I think that would just make
the most delicious bubble hash, like really.
Yeah.
You know, like the papaya itself is a really good plant.
Maybe a little slow, could stretch out and bulk up more.
And the NL5 definitely brought that
and gave her a little bit more, a little more strength too.
Yeah, that's another one of those strains that,
you know, like I was saying this the other day about mimosa.
It's profile smacks you in the face.
There is no, it might be papaya.
Like it is or it isn't.
You know.
That's one of those plants that you brush by
and you're like, hey, how you doing, baby?
You know, and then it follows you around for a little while.
Like, you know, that's, you know, there's a few
that just like, all you have to do is touch them
and they wake right up and it's like,
oh my Lord, that blueberry,
that old blueberry cut that I'm running is loud.
Like, you know, just a little clone of it is stinky.
And when you pluck a leaf, you can,
you don't even have to put the petiole to your nose.
The whole, it just reeks, you know.
That's papaya.
She's just not, you know, that's,
I like it because it's a, for me, it's a milder smoke
that I can just, you know, it's like the bubble gum
in the strength and flavor arena where it's just,
it's mild enough that I can puff it all day
and it just, cause it tastes so good.
Yeah, yeah.
I can't, you know, I always kind of like describe myself
as a sipper.
It's like, I'm constantly just taking tokes all day.
I don't sit down there and just like go in hard on a bowl.
But I do like those, you know, upper teens,
lower twenties type strains because I can maintain
and continue to get stuff done throughout the day.
I'm really fearful, honestly,
for when 30% plus becomes super common.
Cause you know, I'll either have to smoke less
or just get less stuff done.
I don't know what's going to give.
You know, there's, you'll still have lots of options
on what you want to get down on.
Oh yeah.
I mean, you know, the big numbers are, you know,
they're I guess impressive or something, but you know,
I think it's more about the, you know,
the combination of what you've got going on in there
and not just a, you know, one big THC number.
And I mean, the Panama Reds and, you know,
that Angola and the Hays,
they're not going to test fucking through the roof, right?
I mean, for being-
Right, they're 40s, 50s.
Yeah, and I mean, they put on well because, you know,
again, they got that nice sativa structure, right?
That open structure where they can pack on lots of,
you know, lots of plans and everything,
but you're still not, you're not breaking any records,
any THC records with them,
but I guarantee they'll screw you to the ceiling
more than anything that's popping in at 30%, you know?
And it's going to be a much more interesting high,
you know, whereas you're just stoked.
Yeah, yeah, my body is my testing lab.
And that's my gauge, that's what I go off of.
Exactly, and you know what,
what thrills you might be, you know,
overpowering to someone or bland to someone else,
you know what I mean?
And that's why, like, you know, look how amazing it is.
There's literally thousands and thousands
of different varieties that you can comb through
to find what jives with you, you know?
So like, man, whatever you're, and me, like, I like,
you know, it just depends on the time of day
and what's going on.
If I want something social where I can, you know,
talk to people without geeking out or.
Yeah, no, socially, you do gotta be social.
You can't be inside your head the whole time,
which is not uncommon for me to do either.
Like if I'm playing tic-tac-toe in my head
and I'm trying to talk to people, you know,
or, you know, playing Space Invaders
after I just smoked a big whack of Panama
or something like that, you know,
I can't, I need something I can function on properly
for the setting.
Gotta maintain, man, gotta maintain.
Oh, man.
Oh, man.
Well, hey, we're coming up here on the three hour mark
and I really appreciate your time tonight.
And I hope some people get, go out and check out
a lot of your gear that we have up on daga.garden.
And also Mr. Toad's work.
I know he's doing his awesome thing in chat,
answering and helping people out right now.
You can also find his work up on daga.garden.
I wanna give you, you know, just a little bit of time
to talk about your future.
Like where are you going, JT?
What can we kind of expect next
out of Blackbird Preservations?
What's getting you excited?
And what should we be getting excited about for you
before we go?
Dude, I love this Astro Zombie stuff, man.
I think I mentioned this is the third batch
that I've gone through now.
And it's like, okay, this is, you know,
this is something we wanna keep around and keep using.
And the combination of that really high flying,
electric Vietnamese with the flavor and the, you know,
manageability or at least more manageability
of the Mung Thai just made for an excellent, excellent pair.
I'm really, really looking forward to, you know,
I made a bunch of little testers
that are just about done cooking
or most of them are actually, they're done.
So we're gonna start to explore what it does
with other stuff aside from like that Mullen Bimby,
you know, was a close relative, right?
So we got some kind of, you know, opposite type mixes
that I'm gonna, you know, the faster flowering girls,
we're gonna try her up against and, you know,
see how that goes.
But the line work alone is gonna be awesome.
So what we got is the peach girl, the outlier there,
that's gonna be separated from the juicy fruit leaners,
you know, the juicy fruit black pepper.
That I think will be, that should be a quicker trip
because they all bred, you know,
they had two different flower structures,
but the, and two different buzzes.
Okay.
But it was all pretty consistent, you know,
about, you know, a fair mix of each.
And so I think the, you know, that side or the, you know,
that part of the line will be a fairly quick trip,
you know, a couple of generations
and we should have something that breeds really nicely
and shows up with a lot of frequency, you know,
I like the more, you know, the more electric side.
So that should be a fairly quick trip.
The peach should take a little more time.
Back to the, you know, we'll use some of her progeny,
find a son that looks like her and then, you know,
and then grow them out and maybe do a little line dance
from there to try and lock that in.
But that and the outcrosses I'm looking forward to,
the root beer Coca-Cola plants that we're running now,
are just, they're awesome, man.
And so we got a bunch of different stuff hit up
from the Death Widow to O'Hays to Franco's Super Lemon Haze,
Bubble Gum, Chocolate Tie, Blueberry, the Death Widow.
There's gonna be testers flying within a few weeks,
another month and a half probably.
Nice, nice, that's excellent.
Well, I'm shooting for end of January, I think it was,
that we're kind of looking at, but it'll be around there
and hopefully we'll have something, you know,
some good ones that come out of there for next year.
The Kandahar Black restock is gonna be out next year.
Let me think here.
What else am I working on?
Someone passed me some of the M21 Victor Barn
from Super Cediva Seed Club.
We're gonna be going through some of those.
And as well as Tom Hill's North Indian,
the skunk line that he had.
I'm gonna check those out
because they're supposed to be kind of cool too.
But the root beer crosses will be tested.
We have lemon Thai crosses in testing now
with the KD1 from Mean Gene and Chem D
as well as that Purple Pakistani.
Those should be some really, really colorful plants,
cool colorful plants, the Paki Thai cross.
So yeah, there's a lot going on.
Wow, yeah, that sounds.
You know, and I got Granny holding down the,
we got the 1968 Jamaican Lamb's Bread
from the Vibes Collective.
That's gonna go down for a charity event
to raise money for the water pumps there
that Green Boaty sets up out in India.
It's like 700 bucks a pump.
So I'm gonna put out like, you know,
I'll offer up like 20 packs or 21 packs
and, or well, I don't know, we'll see.
Good on you though.
Well, hopefully we'll get some water pumps put in.
That's the plan.
Yeah.
And yeah, I think that's, you know,
I mean, if you wanna check out what's going on,
you can, I gotta get my other account,
the Blackbird Preservations account unlocked.
I forgot my password.
No, no, okay, well at least it was you,
at least it was you forgetting the password
and not something else.
Yeah, yeah, no, it was just me being dumb.
But you can go to at J2Cans on Instagram.
And, you know, it's a private account,
but if you message me and say,
hey, I heard you on, you know,
the Future Cannabis Project,
I'll add you right up so you can check out what's going on.
You know, Daga will always have the, you know,
the fresh drops and everything.
So if you can't find me anywhere,
you can always go to Daga.
Yeah, man, if, so any questions, anything like that,
you can hit me up on IG.
And stay tuned, because there's a lot coming.
That's cool, man, a lot of excitement already.
Oh, also, hopefully for the spring,
well, I don't know, well, maybe summer.
By the summer, we'll have a look at what the,
the Monkey Paw reversal is gonna look like.
So just a cool cut, it's got a cool lineage.
And you know how the reversals kind of pop open
the gene pool and show you all kinds of crazy shit.
So I don't know, we'll see how it goes
against a couple of females and against itself.
Just for giggles, if it turns out cool,
we'll have some of those too,
because I think the cuts aren't always,
aren't always necessarily gonna be around.
And so if at last resort, you got some seeds
that are directly from it.
Awesome, man, well, that will be exciting.
And hopefully you keep us all updated here.
And we'll be happy to definitely talk again
when you're ready to come out
and throw some of those down for the people.
That is, that's fricking awesome.
Wow, I'm like my head's spinning.
I'm like, ooh, which direction do you go first?
Lot of directions there.
That's great.
Big shout out to the people helping me out.
I have some friends out here that are,
let me use a little space here and there.
And a buddy of mine out West that's running,
that's doing an open pollination for me.
And everybody really that's,
either helped me out or sold me seeds
or passed me a cut or anything,
even encouragement of a thumbs up, a like, whatever.
It's much appreciated.
I wouldn't be here without you.
So here's to more work.
And I hope I can fill your gardens with big sticky buds.
Heck yeah, man, well said.
That's fricking awesome.
I love that.
And I wanna give Mr. Toad,
I wanna give you a chance as well.
Just kind of give people the heads up
of where they can find you.
I know you're the man of many accounts.
So maybe we can put that straight forward
because some people might be like,
he doesn't respond to me,
but you have more than one account.
There's a Mr. Toad, Filialfeel, that's my main account.
I've got the Real Filialfeel, that's a backup account
for when all the busters start fucking reporting me
and I gotta fucking show up somewhere else
to let you guys know that I haven't fallen off the earth
and I'm still out here and that I'll be back.
You can find my gear over at Daga Garden
or over at Seeds Here Now.
Or if you wanna reach me and you can't get ahold of me
on any of these other platforms,
make an account on Daga Academy,
send me a message on my tester group
and I will eventually get back to you.
I'm not trying to slip nobody.
I'm busy, dude.
I'm a sick dude and it's just hard sometimes
to get back to everybody.
I mean, I've got 2,000 different friend requests
on Instagram, so if I haven't hit you back there,
I'm not trying to be an ass.
I just haven't got to you guys.
So if I haven't answered one of your questions,
just keep hitting me, I'll eventually get back to you.
I'm very sorry if I haven't.
As I see Billy in here in the chat,
I don't mean to be rude or nothing, partner.
Just sometimes shit gets past me, brother.
That's just life.
I don't mean to be rude or anything.
There's multiple ways to get ahold of me.
And as always, put at gmail.com at the end of philiophile
and just send me a fucking email and we can talk.
Easy, easy peasy.
And I'll admit sometimes I've been guilty
of reading an instant message
and not having an answer or response at that moment
and then getting preoccupied
and then it gets down the list.
Yeah, man.
I get a message from the person a couple of days later
and I'm like, oh shit, I never responded to the first part.
I'm sorry.
So that happens to you guys.
We're all human.
We're all human.
I do it all the damn time, man.
I have some health issues that'll pop up
right in the middle of me starting to go through
my emails and shit.
And next thing I know,
I've just totally forgot to even answer anybody.
I just did that with some of the testers
that I asked for help with out here.
I totally forgot to send them some information.
And they're all asking me in DMs, what happened to you?
And I was like, oh shit, I just totally fucking spaced.
Sometimes that's just how my brain works.
I seem like I'm not gonna forget shit,
but I forget 99% of everything, trust me.
Right, okay.
Well, I do actually, speaking of instant messages,
now that Mr. Toad, I've got you cornered.
I had a request from a scdunkslinger79
because you have talked a bit about pith otolysis,
otolysis, hollow stems.
His question is, are hollow stem plants
associated with enhanced or increased terpenes?
Because he's consistently found that hollow stem phenos
produce enhanced terpenes versus the sister pheno
with solid stems.
So that's his experience and his environment
with that particular strain.
And he also asked if that was,
well, it wouldn't be genetic
if he saw the same thing in the two.
Yeah, I don't know about that.
I've never paid attention to that.
I just know that the pith in that plant
is there to store macro and micronutrients
along with carbon.
So when that plant starts to grow very quickly
with a metabolism that's fast,
it can't sequester carbon out of the atmosphere
quick enough, then that plant starts to pull
from its stored carbon.
And that stored carbon is the pith inside of the stem.
That's where most of it's stored.
It's pith stored in many parts of the plant,
but a majority of it's in the roots and the stem.
So the plant will start to pull from that.
That's where we start to see hollow stems.
So when they tell you it's a boron deficiency,
it's more of a all around macro and micro deficiency
as well as carbon deficiency.
The plant's not able to sequester carbon
from the atmosphere quick enough
for the pace of growth that is growing.
The terpene could be from maybe that environment
that's causing that speed of growth.
Maybe that's what's causing that terpene production.
I kind of had to hypothesize too that,
typically we see that in a plant that is stressed
or like you said, it doesn't have enough.
And we also kind of know that stresses
tend to increase terpene production.
So I don't know the rhyme or the reason,
but I just kind of hypothesized.
I'm like, well, that might make sense
given that plant showing a little extra stress.
So who knows if the terpene's turned on.
That's what I feel the same way, man.
It would probably a chemical reaction to that atmosphere,
some type of a phenotypical expression
that's changing the chemo-war status of that plant
from possibly being too dry.
Or like I said, the plant's growing so quickly,
it's not able to sequester the carbon
and maybe it's taking that as some type of abiotic stress
and it's just offering a chemical reaction to that stress.
Well, we've, oh, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, I didn't mean to cut you off.
I was gonna say, it's a good question.
It's a good question.
Okay, we've got the answer as always from chat,
the answer to everything, everybody's problems.
There it is.
Needs more cow mag.
All hail the cow mag.
So we'll end that question with that.
But I do wanna wrap up by saying just one more time,
thank you again for coming out Blackberry Preservation
and sharing your strengths that you have on offer with us.
Thank you for sharing a lot of the backbone behind it
and for the work that you're doing preserving these lines.
They're important, they would suck if they went away.
So you're doing a lot of awesome work
and holy crap is the future bright.
So thank you, man.
Thank you for coming on
and thank you for spending over three hours with us
talking about some of the things you have on offer.
No problem, man.
Thanks for having me on.
Thanks Mr. Toad for coming out and chatting with me.
It was awesome.
Man, I appreciate it.
It was awesome.
Everybody check out his work, man.
Killer work.
Check out Blackberry Preservation.
If you guys are looking for some killer work, look for it.
Look for everybody else's gear on Doggo before mine.
That's one thing I wanna tell.
Just make sure I'm the last thing you're looking at.
So it's good from top to bottom.
That's how good that place is.
Not a bad choice.
But you were gonna wrap it up, JT.
You had anything else to say there?
No, just thanks for having me on.
It was awesome.
And when I have something more to chat about,
let me look through these lemon Thai crosses
and the root beer cola crosses
and see if we got any winners.
And if so, I'll come on and we'll chit chat
and we'll talk about those
and anything that's coming after that.
The Astro Zombies too, boy.
It's something I'd really like to get
into a lot of people's hands.
I just, I love it.
I love it.
If you're into growing longer flowering stuff
and you're not quite into the church floor type
of woody incense kind of stuff,
and maybe want something that lemon pepper fruit zing to it,
it's a good alternative.
I mean, they do smoke very similar,
but a little different flavor profile,
a little different than what you're used to
with the hazes, which are, they're delicious,
but not necessarily for everyone.
And maybe you just want a little variety.
You love that narrow leaf ride
and you're like, okay, I want a little,
like you go through your humidor
and you got all different flavors from all the, oh yeah.
Why not?
I say grow them all.
I say grow them all.
Grab Mr. Toad's haze and grab some fruity shit.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Well, for me, I gotta say,
I will be back here tomorrow afternoon
with the Perfectly Imperfect Grow Show.
We've got some awesome guests tomorrow.
We got Green Goddess coming on and Chicha B.
Yeah, we're gonna hang out.
We're gonna kick it.
It'll be a fun time.
They're both a riot in their own right.
So I just, that's gonna be a fun one for me.
So that'll be tomorrow, 2 p.m. on the West Coast,
5 p.m. on the East Coast.
But other than that, chat, dude,
thank you for hanging out.
Thank you for the support.
Everybody watching this on replay, booyah!
Appreciate you guys.
And Jimmy T Kids, Mr. Toad, Blackberry Preservation.
Thanks guys.
And we'll see you next time.
