We are live and we are in full high definition.
Come into your computer screen, your phone, or sometimes your TV.
But class is in session.
Josh is going to, let me put you in the pole position, that guy Josh, is going to walk
us through a couple topics today.
We have a crew of home growers.
A couple more will hopefully be joining us.
Is that your dog?
That is George.
No worries.
What kind of dog?
He's a little Chihuahua Terrier.
He thinks he's 100 pounds.
If he's 20 pounds, he's soaking wet.
But apparently the Roomba started moving so we had to go check it.
That is his mortal enemy, the Roomba.
So wait, can we see that pipe again?
Absolutely.
And Mr. Chad Westport, if you want to jump on, you're more than welcome.
And give us a little background on that.
This was blown by a friend of mine named Clinton.
He's blown several pieces for me, but I haven't seen him in years.
But I've had this thing for probably, oh, I don't know, eight years or nine years now.
It's one of my favorite pipes.
I usually, I'm more of a bong guy or a bubbler guy than a dry piece guy.
But I love these things.
I've always liked this style of pipe.
I sold them years ago when I had just turned 18.
I got a job in a head shop and we used to sell these little cheap ones like this for
$15.
But they were so thin glass, you'd set them down too hard and they'd break in two.
So nothing is nearly as nice or as quality as something like this.
But I still always love those things.
I buy one at least once a month to break it.
But the good old days with very old glass.
But all right.
And what are you smoking right now?
Oh, right now, let's see here.
I got a little, that is a beach wedding.
I believe I shared some of this with you when we were at the Emerald Cup.
That's the real purple one.
Not a lot of flavor, but real, real pretty.
And I got this girl here.
This is a pure sativa.
That's a lemon tie.
Who is, where'd you source that from?
So that's something you grew.
It was a lemon tie that you grew.
And where'd you get the seeds from?
That was actually bag seeds that I got from a guy years and years ago.
A friend of mine's father, when I started growing medically, gave me this old, I think
it was a, maybe a cigar box, I think.
But it was full of old film canisters, you know, and it had metal ones and plastic ones.
If you're old enough to remember film and film canisters, I guess I'm dating myself.
But these were old even for me.
And they had all these different names taped on the side, you know, like Afghani, tie,
Acapulco gold, red beard, you know.
And over the years, I've kind of just gone through them, you know, here or there.
I'd say one out of every maybe like 30 or 40 might pop, you know.
One out of those two that I get out of that, you know, most of the time they end up herming
on me about halfway through, but that one didn't, you know.
So that was kind of nice.
It just took a lot longer than I wanted to take.
But that's what happens when you grow a plant like that, unfortunately.
You know, sometimes patience is a virtue and something that you got to learn.
But yeah.
But it was fun, you know, it was a patience project to just kind of sat in the back, you
know, for, I want to say, was it like almost three and a half months
of flowering?
And before we started, I was telling you, I picked up the
the Solo Sprayer you were talking about.
Yes.
And so you said, all right, so you said I can actually shorten this thing because.
Yep. Attach that to that.
All right. And generally what I like, so like I have a Chapin sprayer, you know, like the
metal tank one, but it's like for my home garden, it's not really practical.
Yeah. So I kind of just like something that's like small and nimble.
And that's what I was trying to tease out of you is like for the home garden, kind of
what are your tools of choice?
Oh, yeah. That guy in your hand.
And my second favorite is this one here.
But I actually like that one better.
Is that also a Solo Turnit?
No.
HDX, got it.
Yep. They were out of the Solos, unfortunately.
OK, so this is as short as it goes, right?
Yes, it is.
And then, OK.
You just want to tighten that end after you get it to the length that you want and then
you're good to go.
And then if you take that cup, you can angle it upside down.
You know, take that cup. Yep.
Just go all the way up.
Oh, yeah. Now you got it right.
All right. So you can get under leaves.
And that thing sprays super fine.
Super duper fine.
I love that thing. That's probably, you know, it's a good thing.
You know, one of the best little handheld sprayers that I've ever used, especially for
applying any sort of insecticide or fungicide.
But it really works for anything.
Yeah.
Is that a box store purchase or is that an Internet order?
I actually, originally, I believe I picked it up at a local
store here in Eugene called Jerry's is where I think I originally saw it, which is a box
store. But I don't know if they're outside of Oregon or even southern Oregon.
But you can find them online.
You know, I mean, I got these on Amazon.
Yeah. So is a really big brand.
They sell lots of sprayers from all the way from something that goes onto a tractor to
that little guy. I think that's their smallest one.
But they sell really good quality backpack sprayers.
You know, my friends from the that do landscaping and stuff, they always use a solo
or I don't remember the other brand, but but solo is a really good brand.
I've had nothing but luck with them over the years.
All right, so we got Otis, where'd you go?
There he is.
Hey, what's up, man? I was just about to set up my computer so I could give a more
comprehensive broadcast.
Perfect. All right.
I'm going to step into my spot here.
Cool.
Nice.
Yeah, they're looking pretty good.
Yeah, I wanted to set my camera up properly so that y'all can see what I'm doing.
All right. We'll see you in a bit.
Yes, right back.
All right, so, Josh, you have a couple topics you want to cover tonight.
Yeah, we're going to talk about cuttings and transplanting.
You know, particularly transplanting into organic soil, you know, there's a couple
little tricks I like to use and, you know, I figured it's time to start sharing
them. You know, we could also do a little bit on, you know, topping and, you know,
trimming plants because I got a little bit of that to do, too.
But here I'll try to get this interview up.
Forgive me. I'm not much of a video guy here.
So far, so good.
We're with you.
And we're probably like two minutes out in the garden here.
No worries.
And what's that?
This is a small cherry
AK cutting that's about
oh, about three weeks old from root.
Yeah, close to four weeks, actually.
And I want to take some cuttings on it and I want to transplant it and it needs to
get thinned up a little bit and topped.
But I usually like to.
Do you feel getting all those things done at once is like less stress long term for
the plant? I like I like to prune and de-leaf and shape right before I transplant
as well.
Absolutely. You know, if I can do that, the less I'm cutting on the plant, the
happier I am, you know, but it's just inevitable, especially with a lot of these
hybrids out there that get so bushy so quick, you know, because it's inevitable that
you're going to top most of the time, you know, rare.
You know, I'd say, you know, out of the 10 varieties I'm growing at a time, there
might be two out of that 10 that don't like to be topped and yield better that way.
You know, but those are the exception to the rule.
Most plants love to be topped.
You know, they love pruning, promotes growth, you know, and when you prune the
bottoms and you get rid of that undergrowth, that's just a sucker growth.
And when I'm focused on the tops, you get a lot better profile and a lot more focus
on those top flower sites, you know, and and all of the problems that I ever deal with
are in the bottom foot and a half of every plant.
That's where you get the bugs.
That's where you get the fungus.
That's where you get the stem rot.
You know, so if you can clean that up and keep it clean and keep an eye on it, you're
not going to have those problems nearly as much, you know, and the more plants you're
doing, the more important that is.
But the fewer plants you're doing, the more you can do that extra little bit that
makes, you know, a small indoor garden so much nicer to run than a huge garden.
And while you get much better quality every time.
You know, that's the whole, you know, the whole point of growing at home is, you
know, I want stuff better than I can get at the store.
You know, I want strains that they never going to have.
They're never going to have that lemon tie at the dispensary.
You know, no one's going to take the time to grow that, especially not the prices
they're getting at dispensaries these days.
You know, that's a you know, hopefully, you know, hopefully one of these days, you
know, fingers crossed, knock on some wood, you know, but you know, we'll see how it
goes, you know, but but I like I like a lot of, you know, as much as I like the new
hypey strains, I like a lot of the older strains as well.
You know, I think there's a lot of good stuff back there that shouldn't get
forgotten about in the land of cookies and gelatos.
You know, not that there's anything wrong with those.
Those are fantastic. I love those plants.
You know, but, you know, you know, they're in every every dispensary.
Yeah, but. Not to keep asking questions before you get going, but how far away would
you be flipping this into flower?
Are you taking that into account when you're transplanting or pruning or just doing it
absolutely as the plant needs it?
Usually the way I like to do it is I like to run what I call what's a living soil.
So most of the time, how long I have in between transplants is dictated by the size of
pot that I am I'm in and how much light that container has.
So if I've got this three by three pot under just a couple of simple strip light LEDs
or a couple of strip light T5s, you know, that are four foot long, then this can get me
by for about three weeks without supplemental food.
But to get that extra week or so, I just take a little bit more of my hot soil and put
about a couple of tablespoons over the top and water that in.
And that keeps me nice and green the whole time.
But usually, you know, I've got about three weeks in between each transplant in my
bedroom. So I go from my rooted cutting into my three by three and then from my three by
three into either my one gallon or my two gallon, depending on how long I want to veg my
plants and how big I want them to get.
If I just want to flower them in a number five, I'll just throw them in a one for two
weeks and then transplant that into my five.
And then, you know, I'll flower within three to five days of that transplant, you know,
just to make sure I got as much juice in that pot as I can.
And I got plenty to get me through the eight to 10 weeks, depending on variety, you know,
but I still leave enough room at the top where if I need to, I can top dress, you know,
again, with some more soil or a dry amendment mix, you know, like a guy green or some
back guano. If I want to add a little back guano, it just depends on the tweaking that I do
for that plant, you know, and the special little needs that it wants, you know, you know,
unless it's something that I don't know and it's just getting the general program, you
know, but usually with the soil, you know, it just depends on how big it gets, you know,
like these, I'm going to grow a little bit bigger and I'm going to flower these and number
tens. So I'm only going to have two of them in a four by four tent, you know, and that will
fill up the whole tent, you know, and I'll get about, you know, give or take, you know,
you know, with the heat of the summer and CO2 and I unfortunately don't have air
conditioning in my current little tent.
You know, I'll be happy with, you know, like, you know, six to eight ounces a plant, you
know, that'd be really good, you know, but it's still going to be fluffy and I'm still
probably going to turn most of it into bubble ash at the end of the summer.
But unfortunately, I have a nice, cool garage and a backyard that is covered in trees and
no place to grow. So it's going to be a hot indoor garden this year instead of a outdoor
garden. So that's that's how it's going to be.
But but usually with a plant like this, I like to grow them as big as I can in each
vegetative pot before I move on to the next one.
So my rule of thumb there is usually I want a plant that's two to four times the height of
the container it's in. So this guy is about three and a half inches tall.
So I've got, you know, three times that height.
I'm about it, you know, around a foot.
That means I'm about ready to transplant.
That's about how big I want them to be.
You know, even, you know, even though I'm going to top it and I'm going to drop that, you
know, by, you know, a solid bit, you know, I don't mind that.
I still want it to here.
So I've got the ability to take that extra matter and turn it into cuttings or just have
it extra. You know, I'd rather grow it and have it and not need it and then have it be as
big as it can. And that way, when I put it in its number two, you know, I can again get it
another, you know, if I want to two and a half, three foot tall in that small container.
And then I'm ready to go right into the flower plant.
I don't I don't have to, you know, veg for very long, if at all, in my last container,
which is what I don't want if I'm relying on that container for my main source of food,
which I am. But if you're using liquids, then you can kind of just go as you need.
It just depends on if you have an automated watering system to keep up with your watering at
the end, depending on the size of container that you choose to use, you know, but you can do
the same thing with organic soil.
You know, it just depends on how you want to get there.
But, you know, off of something like this, you know, this is a cherry a.k.
plant. It takes about nine to 11 weeks to flower, depending on how big it is and how much you top
it. If you don't top it, it tends to have fewer larger colas that take longer to flower.
And if you top it several times, you seem to get more uniformed flowers that are.
A little bit denser than the larger flowers, and they seem to mature about a week faster, so
I always like to top my cherry a.k.
But.
That is an awesome plant, by the way, cherry a.k.
is some of my absolute favorite smoke.
Yeah, it was I was very fortunate to come across a friend who had it and for the longest time
he couldn't get it because it was a mutual friends and he just didn't want to part with
it at that time because it was the big moneymaker when it came to those BHO extracts.
It makes some amazing cherry flavored shatter.
But as that market has come and passed, you know, it kind of lost its flavor and it was kind
of going by the wayside.
And I'm like, hey, man, I still still really like that stuff.
Why don't you, you know, if you're not going to do anything with that, you know, pass it my
way. I won't, you know, you know, give the cutting to anybody.
And I haven't, you know, I pretty much hold on to it myself.
But I did make a shitload of seeds and those I've given out.
Oh, nice. What have you what have you made?
I would like some of those.
I actually a friend of mine, he runs a very small seed company.
I had given him this cutting while I was in between places and I didn't have a garden.
So he was holding on to it for me.
And I found an old pack of cherry, a cherry of AK-47 seeds that I had purchased in 2000.
And, you know, I just forgot about them.
They're at the bottom of a of a box.
And I'm like, hey, you know, I remember these.
And I pass them on to him.
And he found a male out of there.
And that's what we used to cross with the cherry.
And then we pop those seeds and and found a another male that had a cherry smell to it when you rub the stem.
And that's what we used to make the current batch of seeds that we have.
You know, when we cross that back to the original cherry mom.
Nice. I say we he did all the work.
I just claim, you know, I just claim credit because I gave it to him.
He really did all the work.
But so I like to go in the inside and clean up all these nodes.
This has got northern lights in it.
If I remember right. Or no, I'm sorry.
This doesn't have northern lights in it, but it grows kind of like northern lights in that, you know, if you don't clean up all these little things in the center here.
It just ends up producing a whole lot of larvae that doesn't get a lot of penetration unless you're running a very large.
You know, like HIDs, which I am currently not.
I've got a small tent, so I'm running LEDs.
So I need to clean it up more than I would if I was growing with bigger lights.
And what size pot is that in now?
This is in a three inch by three and a half inch by three and a half inch square pop.
But how many gallons is it shallow or is it deeper?
It's a. It's perfectly square.
You know, it's a three inch by three and a half inch by three and a half inch by three and a half inch.
They're one of my favorite sizes because I can get this.
It's a really flexible container, you know, and I can reuse them for years.
They're not like those blow molded ones that crack every third time I use it.
You know, those I am not a big fan of.
You know, I like containers that I can wash again and again and again.
If I can, I like to put on my dish.
Well, a dishwasher.
Hmm.
My problem is I have everything outside, so those shallow can take like I use that size.
I go into like five by five by like seven.
Oh, yeah.
Just because stuff dries out so fast and it's so hot.
Outside, I love a much, much bigger container, you know, like I would definitely be going from a seedling into a five by five or a six by six, a one gallon.
Yeah.
If I was going to be taking this outside when it was this size, you know, because like you said, it just dries out so fast, you know, with just the wind, you know, on a windy day, you know, let alone when it gets warm like it is now.
Found a nice big clump of compost in that soil.
Yeah.
Very nice.
OK.
The top dress under this cherry pie.
OK, these are the last products that I use that are not organic dip and grow for my rooting hormone.
I love this stuff. I've used it for 20 years and Clonex cloning solution.
I use it to soak my rockwool at about oh, I think about half of what they recommend, about half strength, about five mils per liter, you know, sometimes a little bit less.
I believe I use about a tablespoon for four liters and that usually is about perfect for me with.
With some hydrazine.
Yeah.
If I'm not using this, if I'm not making a sprouted seed tea, which I prefer, this is a nice alternative that sits on the shelf very well and I don't have to do nearly the work that I got to do to get enzymes from the sprouted seed tea.
It's just easier.
If you do make a sprouted seed tea, do you use any of that stuff?
I still use a little bit of the Clonex.
Yeah.
And I still I always use the dip and grow.
Yes.
Are you eyeing like natural alternatives to that?
I have, you know, like I've used different natural alternatives like nitrogen fixing bacteria instead of the dip and grow.
And I've used different organic amendments to for my medium base.
I just like the consistency I get out of the rock wool and the cuttings that I get and the vigorous roots, you know, and I really can't, you know, immediately after I get roots, I go right into an organic soil.
And I can't tell you that I notice a difference from using the organic stuff when they're cutting and rooting to when they're in a container.
Once I start growing them and they start uptaking nitrogen, I can definitely tell a difference.
Then if I use an inorganic nitrogen, you know, I can usually tell that at the end of my cycle.
But, you know, I've never been able to tell the difference, no matter what type of rooting hormone or soak I've used with my cutting medium, a difference in my quality or, you know, how resistant my plants are to any other product or whether, you know, my big problem when I was using chemical fertilizers on a regular basis, whether in a hydro system or in soil, was that organic pesticides and fungicides wouldn't nearly work as well for me as they would
in an organic environment.
I don't have any issue with that problem just by using some chemicals when I root my cuttings.
But, you know, I do like to stay as natural as humanly possible.
But, you know, these are just products that I've used for, you know, for years and years, you know, and, you know, they're easy to get and they're pretty cheap, you know, and I probably showed, you know, a couple thousand people how to do cuttings with these guys.
And, you know, really, that's the thing is it's easy to teach people how to use how to take cuttings with this and be very successful very quickly.
You know, like usually when I do this and I've got everything set up right, I usually have a rooted cutting in anywhere from, you know, four to five days and I'll be ready to transplant anywhere from, you know, seven to ten.
You know, whereas if I use a natural alternatives, it might extend that by anywhere from a day to a week, you know, depending on how warm it is.
And, you know, and again, how healthy my plants are when I take my cuttings, you know, that means everything, you know, strong, healthy moms make strong, healthy cuttings, you know, weak plants make weak cuttings, you know, so you're only your cuttings are only as good as the mom plant you're taking it from.
So make sure it's as healthy as humanly possible.
How do you feel about foliar feeding before taking cuts?
Oh, absolutely. I foliar feed at least once or twice a week with all my vegetative plants.
It's that's how I tweak and adjust my growth with my organic soil because the fertilizer is already in my soil.
I already got everything I need there.
I just want to tell it what to do, you know, specific things.
So I use my high nitrogen amino acids as a growth booster.
You know, I use my right there.
Love it.
You know, I use it.
You show that that's the big bottle.
Dip and grow.
Yeah, I worked on one of those for I swear I got like eight years.
Same bottle.
I think someone gifted me this about two years ago after they took one set of cuttings.
It's been running strong.
That's awesome.
Yeah, I really love that stuff.
But I'm always doing my foliar feed.
Like I'm incorporating different types of silica and seaweed to get my plants to either stretch, you know, or I'm using stuff like humic acid and monocilic acid to keep my nodes tighter.
If I've got a plant that stretches too much, it just depends on the manipulation and the shape and size I'm trying to get out of that plant at that time.
You know, like right now it's hot.
You know, I think we just had a huge heat wave.
We were this time last week.
I think we were sixty five degrees.
We're sitting at ninety two today.
You know, so, you know, so I'm going in anti stretch mode, you know, so I'm going to be incorporating my humic acid as a foliar spray.
I'm going to be using more monocilic acid as a foliar spray as opposed to the bio super seal.
That's going to help keep my nodes tighter for the next little bit while we're going through this heat wave.
But by the time we get to the weekend, we should be back down to 70.
And then I can go back to incorporating more of the bio super seal and the folic acid.
But it just depends on which direction you want to go.
You can go either direction, you know, and to keep them nice and green and happy, you know, in the small containers once they've been in there for three weeks, you know, adding a little either
cyto plus or any sort of micronutrients additive at that point with a little bit of nitrogen.
There's a product called Multi Amino that I like a lot that I've been playing with.
That's like a seven zero zero.
And it's got seven different types of micronutrients in it.
It's a great foliar spray for keeping plants in small containers longer.
Yeah, that stuff, you know, the combination of that and the calcium is how I keep happy green plants in small containers for a long period of time.
You know, it's just giving it that little bit of stuff that gets used up really quick in the soil, you know, without having to do something like a heavy top dressing or something like that.
And I'm going to scrape off the top when I'm going in.
Yeah, yeah. That stuff.
You foliar feed it?
Yeah, I foliar feed it and I water it in too.
This was the first one I went to and my rigorous decision making was kind of like I was like, this just looks like it has everything in it, like a multivitamin and everything else is like vitamin A, vitamin D.
And I'm just like, fuck it.
Let me do the the full spectrum vitamin mix.
Yeah, that sounds like a killer foliar spray.
Yeah, there's actually quite a few soil companies that are using that in their soil mixes now as a starter, you know, so they'll blend it into their soil mixes.
So right when you water it the first time, you got that nice big hit of micronutrients and aminos.
And it really jumpstarts your plant growth.
But OK, so I've got this girl all cleaned up, you know, so when everything's said and done, you know, I want about, let's see here if I can get a better.
Yeah, there you go. That's a better look there.
I want about anywhere from four to eight tops.
So what I'll do here.
And right about here.
Then I'll take this.
We need like a whisper golf commentator narration of what you're doing.
Good form.
Nice dip.
Thank you.
That wrist movement.
So what I was doing was I was taking the last node off of the bottom of the cut, cutting that flush with the stem with my razor.
And then after I get that done, then I make one last cutting on my cutting table, 45 degrees.
And then it goes right into the rooting hormone.
It's that, you know, it's that quick space from doing that 45 and getting it right into your rooting hormone, be it a gel, a liquid, you know, honey, it doesn't matter.
This is what prevents the embolism is getting it from that cut into here.
You know, I've seen a lot of people do stuff where they try to take cuttings underwater, you know, to prevent embolisms.
It's never worth the hassle.
It's never worth the mess that you make.
You know, just make sure you've got everything lined up as cleanly and as organized as you can.
So you're not knocking stuff over when you do it, you know, and, you know, have everything, you know, your pH already balanced.
Your, your cubes are already soaked.
You got your water ready for your plants when you're done transplanting.
Everything's sitting right there, you know, and then you go and you forget one thing.
I forgot my scissors so I can cut the tips off these leaves.
So give me just a second.
I got to go grab some scissors.
We'll forgive you.
It's funny.
We used to, we used to be told to do the cuts underwater when I was being trained to run this like 50 lighter that I was working at this Hydro spot.
And I was, I was always like, there's got to be a better way to do this.
Well, I found that a good chunk of people's problems when it came to taking cuttings was that part which is lingering here with the cutting in the air, man.
It's like, once you got that 45 degree going, get it in something.
Yeah, totally.
The less it's going to breathe that air in there.
Totally.
And the more you expose that mycelium, that's the stem cells for plants.
The more that you expose the rooting hormone, the more roots are going to come busting out the bottom.
You know, that's the difference between getting a couple days or getting them to blow out the side of that rock wall and knock itself over with how many roots are coming out of the bottom.
That's what I want to see.
I don't want to see one root.
I want to see, I want to see 50 roots coming out of the bottom.
I want to be thick as hell.
You know, I don't want that little bit stuff.
True that, man.
Here is a little trick.
So you take it and you choke it up a little bit.
Okay, and that gets all the tips of all the plant, all the leaves.
If you see any leaves you didn't get, that means it should be cut off.
And the purpose of that?
Think of it like a free anti-wilt.
It basically tells the plant after all those spots are cut to retain moisture and not wilt.
You know, but if I have an issue with bugs or fungus or if I'm taking it from a plant that I don't know or trust, using some sort of an anti-wilt product is a great way to prevent bugs and fungus from going from one cutting, mother to the cutting.
You know, so I have used it for that purpose in the past and I think it works well for that.
But most of the time I don't think using an anti-wilt is necessary.
And then I take it and put it in a dome.
And then, instead of spraying my cutting with water, what I do is I spray my dome.
And are you pH-ing that water that you're spraying in your dome?
No, I don't have to. I'm an Oregon.
Awesome.
I lived up there for four and a half years. It was awesome.
So, yeah, I put a little in-line filter on my hose tap in the back and it comes out at about 7.2 to 6.8 depending on the time of year.
After it goes through a hose, I can't ask for better than that. It's better than the well that I had.
Oh, that's great. Yeah, I'm in Southern California, so the water here kind of sucks.
My water kills dogs.
Yeah.
Yeah, dude.
I might be doing this the wrong way, but we're actually doing RO and then remineralizing it.
Oh, no, dude. That's exactly what I'm doing.
Cool. Some people have been telling me it might be overkill, but I figured it was like...
New, new, new.
I buy all my water and then I add my own minerals back into it. I use BioAgz, like T87 or CytoPlus and a little bit of good CalMag.
That's awesome.
I use the CalMag that Nick makes.
And you use your CalMag as your mineral buffer?
Yeah, I usually go anywhere from like 60 to like 110 ppms of CalMag.
The water when I buy it comes out at like 2 to 7.
I tested it a lot and it's been pretty consistent.
And then with the TM7, I usually throw like an eighth of a teaspoon per gallon.
I think that's like half or a quarter of what it recommends.
But sometimes I'll go more than that.
I'll go more than that, but right now I was using a bottled nutrient company that has some similar shit in it, so I wasn't going too heavy.
Yeah, adding that little bit of just something, some sort of micronutrients in there just makes a monstrous difference on how well that organic water works in your organic garden.
If you're running hydro and chemicals, it don't matter, man. You're adding CalMag anyway.
This is what I was using. The Build A Soil Big 6 micronutrients.
Oh, yeah.
Boom.
That's good stuff.
Build A Soil Big 6 micronutrients.
Yup.
I like that stuff.
Yeah, it's sweet. I've been liking it so far, too.
The plants are looking happy, too.
Oh, yeah.
There's a homie right there. Pax of the future, chilling.
Yeah, there's some of the plants.
We got kind of a funny split tent and open air system.
Well, we kind of figure out what we're going to do with this room, but we're pheno hunting a couple different genetics and got about like, I'd say about like a hundred little VeggieNaut babies in here.
We had an issue where we thought they were getting some kind of fungal pathogen in the root zone, but it actually turned out that it was just being root bound.
So we went up to one gallons and they're super happy now.
Nice.
Yeah, it's super nice.
Yeah, when I'm down with transplants.
Yeah, true that. True that.
True that.
It just makes them happy.
It just makes them happy.
Hell yeah.
Now, I'm using for soil today.
I pulled the sticker off the bag.
Organic Matters Soil.
It's made here in Eugene by a friend of mine.
I use it from beginning to end, from my three by threes all the way to end.
And it's my main source of food.
I don't use anything else.
That's awesome.
I might use a little bit of guano for a top dressing, you know, because I like that's what that seabird guano does.
You know, I like the added calcium and I like what it makes my flowers a little bit harder.
You know, but, you know, aside from that, you know, unless I'm doing a really long plant, you know, then I'll start messing with like a top dressing of like a guy green bloom or something like that.
But most of the time I leave an extra two or three inches at the top so I can top dress with about a half an inch to an inch of soil.
If I see I need that, you know, from that three, four weeks before flush and I'll just do that, you know, that way it seems to flush away better.
And I don't end up with that, you know, too green at the end.
You know, I don't I want to see all my plants go through the phases of seasons.
I want to see, you know, you know, dark green, you know, you know, really dark green, slightly lighter green and then a nice fade to fall, which is a yellow, pink or purple.
You know, I don't want it to be army green when I chop it down.
That means I didn't I haven't metabolized all the goodies that are in there, you know, and usually that means I was lazy and I'm in too big of a container, you know, for my organic soil, you know, because too big of a container means too much fertilizer, you know, and unless I'm going to be recycling that soil or I'm in a bed, you know, then that's going to be an issue.
You know, that's where, you know, I like to incorporate some sort of a salt leaching solution of some kind.
You know, my favorite one is called Spectrum DS from Tallo, I think is their name, Tannio, Tannio.
And, you know, they got a great product there, you know, same with their fixing bacteria.
So I really like those two. You know, they just are never in goddamn stock.
What do you think about Hydrazine as accomplishing that goal as well? I equate Hydrazine to paint thinner for a medium where it just it's like a race button.
Yeah, yeah, it's a it's a really good one there at the end to help reduce that buildup.
I actually like using SLF 100 a little bit better for that. It seems to work.
I find that Hydrazine works a little bit better as a root stimulator and SLF works a little bit better as a as a salt preventative product or as a salt stripper.
But but I get I can do either one with either one and get very similar results, you know, but but yeah, I like incorporating some sort of enzyme at the end.
And I like to stack my salt leaching solutions. Another product I like to use is that it's a wetting agent called.
Oh, God. XF 70 or something like that.
It's also it's a yucca based surfactant that also helps reduce salt in the root zone.
It's another reason why I like to water with bio supercell is because it again, it helps reduce the salt that is built up over the course of time as a fertilizer is broken down.
It doesn't matter if it's organic or not. It's getting broken down to some sort of some kind of available salt, you know, and, you know, I, you know, that extra stuff.
I want it to flush away with the water, be available to the plant, you know, and that's what those guys help do.
They help prevent that buildup, which helps gives you a little bit crisper taste and a little bit better flavor at the end.
But the big thing that does is it helps you with your burn at the end. You know, I don't know if you guys have noticed, but if you grow a big, beautiful plant in a nice big bed and you don't flush it well at the end, it still burns to a black hole just like you're doing goddamn hydro.
You know, and I hate that. You know, that means I didn't do it right. You know that there are burns to white ash or not.
It means whether I'm successful or not. You know, that's my final test.
You know, either I didn't dry it right or I didn't flush properly or I used so much fertilizer that I wasn't able to flush it out because it couldn't metabolize it.
You know, there's how big a plant can get and there's how big a plant can get and still taste good at the end.
You know, everyone's had that commercial stuff that's hard as a rock and is beautiful to sell and it tastes like that fertilizer smells.
It's in every dispensary in the country, you know, and no one wants, you know, you can buy the dispensary. Don't grow that at home.
You know, there's no point in that.
The cardboard turps.
That's not what we're here for. That's not why we love to grow.
Yep, smells like general hydroponics.
Exactly.
Okay.
So, we got our plant here. I got a two gallon container filled with organic matter soil.
I've got a little bit of mycorrhizae, little bit of beneficial bacteria.
Spoons.
And I've got some fulvic acid, full power.
And I combined the full power and the armory into the liquid that I'm going to be watering with.
And I'm going to use the VAM in the root zone when I transplant.
Now, the difference between this and most other mycorrhizae is that it's a black powder, not a white powder.
That means it's got humic acid in it.
That's going to help it stick to the roots and it's also going to help it feed the microbes once they attach to them.
All right.
And there she is.
She's got one, two, three, four, five, six tops.
And we'll be checking in on this one here in a couple weeks and I'll show you how she goes.
Hell yeah.
Beautiful.
Another trick that I like to do in larger containers that I'm not going to do with this one is what's called a mycorrhizae spike.
And that's where you take your middle finger and you make a hole two inches from the edge of the pot three to four times depending on its size.
I do it with all my five gallon pots.
I do it with all of my sevens and anything bigger than that.
You don't need much more than no matter what the size of the container is, much more than let's say six of these.
And after I make a hole that's as long and as deep as my middle finger, then I put anywhere from one to two tablespoons of mycorrhizae and one tablespoon of bokashi in two of the holes.
So that's only half of the holes get bokashi.
That's important. Too much bokashi will turn you...
Sorry, the mycorrhizae goes in all the holes, the bokashi only goes in two.
Correct, sir.
Okay.
And if you use too much bokashi, it'll turn your soil into compost while your plants are in it and that's no bueno.
You know, a little bit of bokashi helps the world. A lot of bokashi does not help.
Found that on Ask Arte.
Do you ever use bokashi for tea brewing or do you just top dress a little bit of it to get that desired effect?
Oh no, a friend of mine makes fresh lactic acid.
He makes a quart for me every month.
That's awesome.
And again, I'm lazy, I don't have to do it, so I let him do it for me and I pay him for it.
And yeah, but I still like to buy the...
I can't remember the name of the brand, but it comes in that carrier, whatever the brown stuff that they use to soak it in.
And I really like the effect of adding that to my soil.
Is it the... What is it?
Man, who makes this shit?
I don't know. I got this shit right here.
This Kashi Blend?
Kashi Blend.
I haven't tried that one yet.
I can't remember who made this one.
Growing Organic.
But there's a ton of great brands.
There are a lot of them.
Just try them.
There's lots of good stuff out there.
Go out there and try it.
Armory is one of my favorite products to have around because not only is it a great root stimulator,
but it helps fight off powdery mildew like a monster.
And I can mix it with full power and get it to work even better.
In fact, I really wasn't as big of a fan of using it until I discovered, add full power to it, and now it works twice as good.
Just like if I have a root problem and I got to water with that Botaniguard stuff, like for root aphids,
I'm going to add TM7 in with that and it's going to make it work better every time.
And I don't get the stress of watering that stuff on my plants, which tends to piss them off just about every time.
Whatever I smoked, my ability to remember what all of you all said like 5, 10, 20 seconds ago is very low.
Peter, what did you smoke? Don't hold out on us.
Well, I think it was one of the Snowtill.
It was from the jar of mixed nuggets.
I smoked some sour diesel from Soul Spirit this afternoon and I was like, I should not have smoked that.
I went into slow motion.
That good sour diesel is just a damner.
That's pretty right there.
That looks mad fire.
Do we mix the Urkel with the Snowtill from that guy, I think his name was Josh from Friday?
The Revive Organics Urkel.
Primus is super happy.
Those look beautiful.
This one is really, really happy. That's the Spirit Trainer too.
This bud smells like burnt wood, Nag Champa, and chocolate.
It's really, really good.
It's got some cashmere in it. Bodie made it and it's amazing.
This one, these are on Gaga from Guardian of the Lost Church.
Are you guys losing me?
I can hear you.
This is the monkey business from Top Dog across to the Mac.
This is only on day 23 right now.
These are all stacking really well.
This is by far the best grow I've had.
This purple punch is monstrous. I can't wait for this to be done.
This is only on day 23.
It's stacking.
These are all four foot tall plants.
This is the biggest grow I've had so far.
Hell yeah, buddy. It's a hell of a room.
Yeah, it's a really full room.
Looking awesome.
Filled up the 4x8 and then I had to hang another light for the Chamdee and the Purple Kush and the Cherry Pie.
Did you give those three the prime real estate because they're your favorites or were those just the spill overs just by coincidence?
These ones came into flower after.
I had the Sour Diesel, the Primus, the Sour Nasty, the Spirit Train and the Purple Punch have been in here for a little over three weeks.
Then I just put in the Apgu and the Bruce Banner, our share in this pot.
Then these ones and the Lucky Charms, I just flipped them out here last Friday night.
They're just barely getting into flower. They don't quite have buds yet.
They're looking good though.
Yeah, that shit looks great.
I was supposed to have a Gorilla Glue. Originally, the Gorilla Glue 4 was in here next to the Bruce Banner.
When I was trying to put it in the pot, I angled these and I broke the stalk right there and I could not graft it back on. I was kind of bummed.
I have a bunch of clones though so I'm going to run it again.
This Apgu is looking pretty excellent.
The white stuff is not powdery mildew. I think it's hard water buildup.
I gave them a sulfur treatment before I flipped them and I rinsed them off in my shower.
I thought at first it didn't rinse the sulfur off but I'm pretty sure it's just hard water buildup.
Josh, our resident expert.
I bet spraying some Hygrazine would clean it right off.
Yeah, I didn't want to spray anything on it now because I got buds.
Yeah, I can't argue with that.
It doesn't seem to be hurting it. I'm 90% positive it's my hard water.
If I do any of my dishes with my water, dude, I got to rinse them with distilled water or it fills the film on it.
You're on mute, Josh.
Josh, you're on mute but whatever you said was probably amazing.
Let's hear it again.
I'm excited to hear it. I'm excited to hear it.
You're on mute again.
The anticipation builds.
All right.
We all got super high.
All right.
I saw the exact same thing in my garden years ago when I was burning a lot of sulfur in my garden.
It was happening in front of all of my oscillating fans and I couldn't figure out why it was just happening in front of my fans.
I turned my fans off and I wipe them off with a cloth and they're covered in sulfur.
What was happening was the sulfur was building up on the plastic and it was landing on the leaves in a concentrated form.
Then the lights would shut off and there would be a little bit of water condensation as a leaf touched the leaf.
Every place there was water that contacted sulfur, it would do that.
It's like a burn. It's like too much sulfur.
Then when it contacts water that's hard, it does that weird look to your leaves.
Okay.
As soon as I wiped off all my fans, it stopped happening.
You'll notice if you burn sulfur or spray sulfur in your room, it'll build up on anything that's plastic.
Make sure that you cover anything that's electronic or anything that you really care about that's plastic because that sulfur will screw it up.
I didn't know that.
I've been spraying it. I would turn all my fans off when I would spray and I would leave it with no wind for a little while before I turned them back on.
Thank you for letting me know that. I hope I didn't fuck up my LED lights.
No, no. Your LEDs are fine. Those are waterproof.
If you've got something like a CO2 monitor and it's got a sniffer in there, if you've got a...
Once a month or so, you want to take your fans out of their cages and just wipe off the plastic.
I have steel blade fans.
Oh, then you're cool.
Okay.
Just watch out for dust. Where there's dust, there's sulfur.
And sulfur, when it contacts water, will give you those spots. That's beautiful. That's fine.
That's gorgeous.
Hell yeah, dawg.
What is that?
Looks very OG.
And you're muted if you're trying to talk right now.
It's loud in the garden. It's a rock and roll garden. I'm not sure if you guys can hear me.
We can hear you.
Okay.
This one's the NL5 Haze. This is like the pippy one. I think it's the hungriest plant I've ever had in my life.
It's fading real early. And when I do the soil test, I've got to dial it in more, but I love it.
You have the pips, don't you?
I couldn't hear you. What did you say, Josh?
The one with the bigger pot.
Yeah. I've been top dressing, how you were saying before, too. I've been trying to give it a little bit extra food on the top dress.
But she's just a hungry girl.
Dry insect frass. It's a great thing. You can feed it late, and it burns out in about three weeks.
Usually it's a pretty even number.
The other one that I like a lot is this stuff here.
Awesome.
This stuff is fire. It's a micronized compost tea that's made by a small farm in Northern California.
Sensational.
Solutions.
They sell a couple of different top dressings, and then this is their compost tea that you brew.
I use it as a base for my compost teas. Then I add my own castings and other amendments, whether it's grow or bloom.
But this is a great base to make sure I'm not missing nothing.
This and this go in all my teas. I'm never deficient.
Yeah. I love tea of seven.
But it burns out relatively quick. Even if you have to use it in the last five weeks, four weeks until harvest, you're not going to taste it.
If you're adding something that's got guano or bone meal or something like that, that stuff does not go away.
With so much action.
That is beautiful.
We'll cut to our LA correspondent.
Flip that camera sideways.
There it is.
We're running a couple of things. We're running a Fox Seeds Light Saver OG Bar G.
We're running a SkyCubber Cook, which is a pure cook.
A cross with, I believe, SkyWalker OG. Sorry, I'm faded, guys.
I've also got a Chiclets from Masonic, which is Ross X Indiana Bubblegum X Wilson.
I've got a Covert Coffee Bake Chem is right in front of you.
That's a fun one.
There's Banana God Z3.
This is a really interesting one.
This is Jumanji from Garden State Genetics, which is a Frost Donkey cross with Pure Michigan.
I like how that one looks.
That's got a beautiful structure. I love the leaf size on that.
Right? Isn't that cool?
That reminds me of a real old chem dog.
Wow.
And then the tallest one in the tent so far, which is a little thirsty today, but I gave it a little more water, is a Coffee Bake Chem from Covert.
These ones are super crazy tall.
Nice.
These ones are super crazy tall. I'm not sure what the sex is on any of these yet. We haven't tested or anything like that. They're all pretty early in bed.
These are probably about five weeks in.
Like I said, we had a little bit of a stepping issue with the root-bound plants, but overall they've been really happy besides just a few that have had some possible over-watering, I'm thinking.
This guy.
Yeah, I'm getting used to the plastic pots right now.
Yeah, the plastic pots too. I mean, they might outgrow these pretty soon too if I don't train them properly and redress.
Hopefully that pallet of soil is on its way to LA right now.
Yeah, I hope so.
I think a pallet of soil is awesome.
There's another Jumanji right here. This one unfortunately pot going up a little bit at the top, but they've been all really happy besides that.
They're really responsive to some of the inputs that we give them, just like compost teas and some hemp ferments and some of those micronutrients from build the soil and a little bit of fulvic, a couple other things as well.
Trying not to give them too much crazy anaerobes from the ferments while they're this young and also trying not to overdose them with compost teas and such, if that's even possible.
Just trying to err on the side of being cautious because I'm actually a retired hydro grower, I like to say, fully making the conversion to organic.
It's funny because every time I talk to you, you're adding stuff and I'm like, I hope next time he just watered, he just gives them water.
I just gave them water yesterday and I came in this morning and they like, it looked like they'd grown like a couple inches. It was crazy.
They were like, thank you for not overfeeding us.
Yeah, literally, man.
So Josh, wasn't taking cuttings and sexing them out one of the topics you wanted to cover?
Absolutely. Yes. I've actually got a couple other plants to take cuttings from that are some, what was it? Blueberry muffins. And I have not sexed those yet.
So from seed.
From seed. I grew them up about the same time as the AK here. Just one second.
And in the meantime, we'll cut to our main correspondent.
So I was actually prepping for some cuttings as well. As Chad Westpore had mentioned in the chat earlier, I like to do a different dip cup for each plant.
I start with this many and then I'll have backups. I've been going with a different set of scissors for each plant and then I'll bleach them for at least like 90 seconds in between.
And the plants that I was going to take cuttings off are the seedlings in the back, the nerds genetics.
And how do you get back there?
We'll leave some things better unsaid, but I'm pretty nitpicky about it.
One might say I can float around, but we're on max capacity right now with the addition of the nerds and just all the next rounds getting ready.
They're all in various stages, you can see. And we're on all out overflow status where these ones are barely getting light.
But from my experience, they'll be just fine out there.
These are the Guerrero Blaster youngsters. And to Josh's point earlier as well about really training them up.
Like you can see, these are just still Dixie Cup stage.
They've already been cut up very aggressively.
And then when I take a cut, it'll be about right here or here and there'll be barely anything left.
Just these two new shoots, but with like a nice space in between.
And then from there, I'll start my framing.
I really like to aggressively cut them back in the beginning to kind of slow them down for my cycle and just to really be able to shape them for my die.
Yeah, when I'm growing aggressive, the sativas that grow really, really fast, I do it the exact same way.
It's only way you can keep them at bay.
Yeah. You know, they grow too fast.
It's interesting how you said about some plants don't like to be topped as well.
I have a plant that I'm growing right now that's a little bit more aggressive.
Some plants don't like to be topped as well.
I haven't had many in my life, but this NL5 Haze, you can see how it's already starting to create like multi tops on its own.
If you top it, it just goes to Nuka Joe.
So it's you have to just keep bushwhacking up the whole time.
That's funny.
A Northern Lights Haze was like the second plant I ever grew from seed in like 1990s, 1998 in a closet.
Badly.
With miracles.
Yeah.
For the older strains earlier, I'm a man of a similar taste.
I brought a bunch of plants over to one of the dads who drops his kid off at the same bus stop as Gemma, my daughter.
I'm going to grow them out at his house.
I was like, I'll take care of them.
You don't have to do anything.
He just left for two weeks.
I was like, well, do you have like a bucket or a hose or a bucket I can water him with?
He goes away and he comes back with a miracle grow, like an empty miracle grow container.
And I was like, don't ever use this on these plants.
Like, I don't want to come here one day and find out you like sprinkling miracle grow.
Like, like, oh, these are these are gonna fucking love this.
Damn, that looks fire, man.
What are we looking at?
There's a bunch of stuff in this room.
This is that same one in question in a different stage.
I'm about a week behind.
I'm putting the nets up.
I've been so busy, but you can see that this one, the NL5 Hayes has just one main top.
And it's a very strange train where you almost have to train them up instead of train them down.
Like you can see how aggressive I go on most of them.
I want them almost sideways in the net.
But the NL5 Hayes, you almost have to prop up and baby.
So when I put the second net on, I'm going to pretty much, you know, make this one like that and hope to like prop up the rest of the tops to be the same height.
But it's funky right now.
I usually don't have just like ones that are just like cliffhanging, but she got tall with no top.
Fuck yeah, man.
But there's a bunch of stuff in here.
This is some ice cream cake.
This is a peach crescendo from Ethos.
There's a bunch of the NL5 Hayes in here.
Some orange cheese, GMO cookie derivative and a couple power plants.
That's another ancient strain as well.
That was old school when I was in high school.
Oh, yeah.
I'm becoming a huge fan of this one.
It's like Blue Dream from like before my era and like no one remembers it, but it's like pepper.
I remember the power plant.
Yeah, it's groovy.
I had my sample plant that I did just to test it and it didn't even get secure or to like sharing.
Really, I realized how much I liked it after the fact.
It just got ignited immediately.
Yeah, a friend of mine has an old Afghani bull rider strain that he grows for himself.
It's the same deal.
It was the biggest, strongest producer back in the day, but no one grows it anymore.
But man, it's just good to see it every once in a while in a garden.
Heck yeah.
Keep that old stuff going.
But this is the pack of seeds that I popped some from.
It's blueberry muffins from the nice people at Humboldt Seeds.
They were really, really nice at the Emerald Cup last year.
That's right.
Yeah, didn't they sit on the couch with you?
For a little while, yeah.
Yeah, they were nice.
But this is the number six and it's been growing for about a little over 45 days.
That's about the time I usually like to start taking a close look at it and seeing if it's shown me anything.
Or if I need to just take a cutting and root it and flower it to find out what I have here.
Usually, if you're looking, you look closer to the bottom.
If there's any calyxes that have developed or little footballs, this is where they're going to be at.
And if there's any question on whether you got a male or a female, the best way is to look it up in your favorite weed book or just go online and Google male and female marijuana flowers.
This, I believe, is a male.
That's awesome. I'm totally keeping this.
Okay, it's got a couple of little...
It's very hard to see here.
But if you look on the bottom third of the bottom part of the plant right here, where the branches meet, you'll see either a calyx will start to develop or a little football looking pineal, which is where the pollen will come from eventually.
But one of those two is starting to develop and from the looks of this, that is not a little white hair. That is a little football.
So I believe this is a male.
So that will be set aside to get pollen here later on this month when I stick it in my pollen tent.
So that means I need to grab another one and see if I can find one that doesn't tell me or one that's a female.
Give me just one second, guys.
If I can remember my question when he comes back.
Puffed out feeder.
It's been a long day.
My wife and kids are not home right now, so I'm like getting faded.
I have to make up for all the time that they are home.
I wanted to know if he has a male blueberry muffin, is that something he wants to just make more blueberry muffin with or he wants to use it as a male on something else?
So if other people can remember that question for me.
Is anyone in the echo?
Yeah, that was my fault.
Sorry about that.
Yeah. Do you want to use that male blueberry muffin on female blueberry muffins or on other stuff you have?
Yes.
To both?
Yes.
Okay.
I don't plan on buying more blueberry muffin seeds and I'm going to take it and cross it with both my Cherry AK and.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I'm going to take it and cross it with my Cherry AK.
I'm going to take it and cross it with both my Cherry AK and.
Oh, I'm sure I'll find something else fun to cross it with.
I've got a train wreck that I could try crossing with it, but that's about as stable as a fucking top spinning upside down.
So I don't know if crossing anything with that is necessarily good.
But I've also got a friend of mine gave me a cutting from his garden that he didn't end up running this year because it didn't produce enough for his commercial garden.
But it was the fastest thing done outside last year at about the second week of September.
And it's called, I believe, peanut butter blood or peanut butter wreck or something like that.
It's a cross of peanut butter breath and I believe a train wreck or blood wreck.
I don't remember.
I used to run a train wreck cross.
That was really crazy.
Yeah.
You know, the stuff was just super frosty and red haired.
And, you know, I don't really give a crap if it doesn't produce four pounds for me.
You know, half of that's just fine.
You know, I don't need a million pounds per square acre, but I'm not trying to pay my rent with it, you know, just for me.
But that might be a fun thing to cross with that blueberry muffins as well.
You know, but this is a great example of a female out of that batch.
You know, that last same pack of seeds, the male was a solid six inches taller.
And usually I found that when I'm looking for males versus females, one of the first traits of most males is they're usually taller and lankier than their female out of the same pack of seeds.
You know, and this is most likely a female.
In fact, I see a couple of little hairs coming out of the bottom of the thing here, which you guys can't see because I'm a terrible cameraman.
But it's OK.
We trust you.
But I believe this one is going to get a cutting taken from it here today.
And I'm going to throw that in some rock wool.
And as soon as it gets roots here in about six days, it'll go right into a one gallon and right into the flowering tent.
And I'll know within two weeks whether this is really a female or a male or whether it will hern, you know, because it'll show me one of those three things within three weeks of sticking it in the 12-12 cycle.
And you're putting the the plant you took the cutting from into flower, right?
Yes. Yes.
This is keeping the clone, which still needs to get its roots.
Yes. Yes.
So the cutting gets kept and the mom gets put immediately into flower.
You know, that way you get a shorter, smaller version.
But you always want to make sure that it's rooted, you know, before you give up whichever side you want to flower.
You know, but most of the time I find that, you know, if you flower the cutting right away from that into one gallon, it takes a lot longer for it just show you it's a sex.
Whereas if you take the already well-established plant and flower it, it'll show you really, really fast.
So it's just a quicker way of getting there.
But you don't have as much plant material to take cuttings on right then.
So it's, you know, takes you longer.
Sometimes it's worth waiting.
What are your thoughts on flowering the clone initially or even alongside the seedling mother in order to see what the future runs will be like?
If it's something you really plan on keeping, if it's not a one and done, you know, I feel like sometimes the seedlings act a little differently than the cuttings do.
Sometimes drastically different.
Absolutely.
You know, especially with a lot of these really super hybridized, super cross plants.
You know, I find that sometimes the seed is absolute rock, iron, fire, and then the cutting from it is just the wussiest wuss of a remake that's a weak copy at best.
You know, you know, and I don't know what that is.
You know, I've seen it a lot more with multiple hybridized plants.
You know, I see it a lot with cookie crosses.
I see it a lot with these new ice cream, you know, gelato crosses.
Saw it a lot with Skittles crosses.
But I don't see it as much with some of the more steady older stuff.
You know, even, you know, like the Kush stuff, you know, the OG and the, you know, the diesel stuff seems to be a little bit more stable than that.
When you're saying you see it, you're saying you see the idea that the seeds, that plant grows better than the clones.
Yeah, and the clones exponentially, depending on how much stress they're in, fade.
So it's like the difference between having a lantern and having a torch.
You know, a torch is very, very bright and burns very, very short.
That's what those seeds, that's what those cuttings from that seed are.
They just don't last and they don't seem to keep their flavor, vigor or terpene profile like the seed did.
You know, and I don't know what exactly causes that, whether that's a, you know, a failure of being inbred or if it's just a weak, you know, dead end genetic line.
A lot of people work a lot of crappy plants that they should have gave up on years and years ago.
You know, you know, I know I've done it to myself a couple of times, you know, you know, on plants I should have just gave it up on.
Because there's always something new out there. There's always something that's different.
You know, it better is a matter of opinion. You know, you got to decide what you like to grow and what fits in your garden.
And, you know, at the end of the day, what you like to consume, you know, and if you're gardening for other people, you know, whether they want to take.
You know, it's not really, you know, at that point, it's not really up to you whether I like it or whether I don't.
That's then it's up to the masses, you know, what's going to sell, you know, but in my garden, if I don't like it, you know, whether it's the way it grows or, you know, the flower,
what I get when I'm in, I don't really like to grow it. You know, a good example of that is I like GMO.
I don't like it enough to grow it for 12 weeks. You know, you know, you know, I love like amnesia haze and I will totally grow that for 14 weeks.
You know, same with Cali mist. You know, I just love that flavor. I love that high.
You know, you know, I've grown those plants on and off for 15 years and, you know, they're easy to grow.
They're high yielding and, you know, they taste great. You know, another good example is a super silver haze.
You know, you know, it might be different this year than last year or than the seeds that I got in, you know, 2008 as opposed to 2015, but they're all still really good.
You know, and I always like what I get. And, you know, when I when I get the seeds or I smoke it in Amsterdam, it's not all that different than the stuff I try in California or Oregon or Washington.
You know, and if they can keep it that consistent for that long, you know, I think they've been doing a really good job.
But, yeah, sorry, I kind of lost my train of thought there.
I liked it. Whatever train that was or thought it was, it was a good one.
So I would not be upset if some of the stuff you just mentioned that you really like somehow made its way down to L.A.
Oh, yes. I'm sure.
Pretty awesome. I'd be pretty fucking awesome.
Is that where you're at?
Yeah, he's also in L.A., so he would benefit from that magical moment.
I will definitely be in California this summer at the Spare Time Show in Willits.
So maybe plan on coming and see me in August.
Otis, we're sending you up.
Hell yeah, man. That would be fucking awesome. I'd love that.
Yeah, it'll be fun. This is my first year going to that. I'm hoping it's cool.
Have Prius, we'll travel.
Exactly. Exactly.
Get good gas mileage, we'll travel.
Absolutely.
I'll also be at the Growers' Cup in Southern Oregon at the end of November or December. I don't remember.
Awesome.
What was the annual Oregon event?
I believe it's called the Growers' Cup. It's in Southern Oregon. It's a really cool event.
I can't remember the name of the little town that it's in, but it's put on by this great group.
They have one of my favorite cups of anywhere in the world.
Last year's winner is this year's cutting.
Last year, the winner the year before was, I think, Banana Punch.
The six or eight different gardeners got that cutting, and they all grew it.
Then you bring it and you compare it, be it from a greenhouse, outdoor, or indoor.
This was for flower?
This is for flower.
I feel like all the banana type stuff, it wins the next HASH award or whatever.
Everyone's got the same cutting, but who grew it best? That's the contest.
One of the guys who's won the outdoor contest in Oregon several years in a row, he's a vegetable farmer.
He just grows it right with his vegetables, with his vegetable inputs outside.
His stuff's fire. He does great.
Some of the other guys in the greenhouse, they do really well with it, but I love that.
They give out the cuttings sometime, I think, in early spring or late winter.
Everyone gets their cuttings at the same time that wants to participate.
Everyone grows the same strain, and whoever grows it the best wins the contest.
I think that's a great way of doing it.
I was spacing out because it's Cultivation Classic is the other Oregon event I was thinking of.
Yeah, I think that's a different one.
No, it's definitely a different one.
I feel like that hasn't been on in a couple years, probably since pre-COVID.
I think so. There were so many of them that didn't come back after COVID.
I'm hoping that some of them do.
For a while, there was one every two months. I was loving it.
Either in Portland or Salem or Eugene, there was some sort of weed thing going on, but COVID shut all that shit down.
Hopefully, it starts coming back.
The reason I was saying that I was looking that up is because I was spacing out while you were talking.
I don't know if you already answered this, but is the Oregon Growers' Cup determined by everybody who enters smoking everyone's stuff
and being like, that shit is fire?
Yes, there's judges that you can sign up to be a judge online.
Come down, and as long as you're there and you pay a small fee, you can judge.
There's, I think, about a lot of them.
I don't remember exactly how they do it. Last year was my first year.
I really like the way they do it. It really seemed much more honest than most of the cups I've been to.
It didn't seem like anybody was going to be able to buy that cup.
What I want to do is, I've hung out with farmers where everybody naturally brings what they grew.
Every day, everybody lays what they grew out on the communal table.
You can just notice over a two or three day period what everybody gravitates to.
Then at the end of a three day hangout where everybody throws down what they have on the table,
you were like, does everybody agree that that jar over there, that everybody was smelling it,
and then being like, I want to smoke that, and then being like, that was amazing.
People would be like, yeah, that was the winner.
Oh yeah, that would be the way to do it in a perfect world. Absolutely.
Have a weekend camp out. Everyone brings the same stuff.
So that's what I want to put together. That's where I was going with that.
Absolutely.
Because I always hate the content. It'd be cool if we were just more natural.
Everybody just be honest. You could cheat the spirit of it, but don't.
Did you ever go to a Northwest Cannabis Club in Portland? Do you remember that place?
Yes, that was actually down the street from my house for a long time.
Oh, sick. Nice. I've been going to Portland for three months to half the year, every year my whole life.
Because I got family up there, and then I lived up there. I used to frequent the Cannabis Club.
I lived up there for a little over five years.
Nice. You were there about four years.
It was great.
Wait, does it no longer exist?
The Portland that I lived in does not exist now.
Yeah, true.
That scary Portland where crack was going on, it's back.
Yeah.
Dude, the Cannabis Club was so fucking sick.
Yeah.
Was it like a speakeasy smoking club?
Yes, it was a club that you had to join a membership online. This is the catch. This is how Oregon made it legal.
It was the same way they justified those cigar lounges in LA.
It's a private club, so you have to be a member and you have to pay a membership fee every month to join the club.
As long as you do, you're allowed to come in. The doors are locked.
It has to have a specific type of ventilation system and all stuff.
Basically, you can only do it in an old bar because they have those old infiltration systems, just like in Amsterdam.
Away you go. They can't sell anything to you there, but you're totally allowed to come in and smoke anything you want.
Most people were meeting someone there anyway or brought their own just to show.
Totally. It was always a grand meetup. There were always big jars going around the tables.
People would introduce themselves through the smell coming from their pipes more than saying hello.
It's like, what do you got going on over there, man?
The way you're describing it, it's like being in France in a small bar where they were all super long and narrow.
The only ventilation was from the very front door. Literally, every French person in the bar is chain-smoking cigarettes.
You're way in the back being like, your clothes would stink of cigarettes the next day.
It was a little better than that, but that's really funny. I love that picture. I'm seeing it in my head.
The first time I went to Europe, it was minimal to no ventilation.
It was just like that. Everybody smoking, packed in very small, very old, very not ventilated buildings.
Then I went back the second time, they had made tobacco illegal to smoke indoors.
It was legal to smoke weed, but you couldn't smoke tobacco indoors in Holland.
What year was this?
This was 2011. They had just made tobacco illegal to smoke indoors in Amsterdam.
Everyone was pissed because all the locals like to smoke those spliff things, but they couldn't smoke them indoors anymore.
They were all smoking them out on the front porch with the cigarette smokers, but they didn't like it.
Europeans love their spliffs and their hash.
Oh, yeah. Definitely. That was really the best reason to go to Amsterdam.
The weed was okay, but man, the hash. You just don't see that over here. Moroccan and...
I mean, that shit would fuck me. It was the tobacco hash combination that always fucked me.
Oh, yeah. And it would give me a hangover. It would give me a headache a couple hours later.
Especially that really thick black tobacco that looks like it belongs inside of a cigar.
But yeah, I got to say, it was fun. It was real fun.
I had a lot of hash blackout experiences.
Oh, yeah. I feel that.
Yeah.
I feel like the combination of lots of drinking while I was out there combined with the hash and tobacco, it just lead to me spinning.
Just feeling like lying in my hotel, just being like, oh, I need some fresh air.
I remember going to a club with these French guys.
And let's say it's like 11, 11.30 at night. We get there and we park somewhere.
And in the car, they're like, all right, let's do a quick smoke. We'll hit the club.
And we smoke, you know, hash tobacco.
And I'm like, I can't make it.
They're like, what? I'm like, I'm good in the car.
So I remember I for like the six hours that they were in the club to like it's almost getting light out in the morning.
I was just comatose in the car. And then I woke up and I was like, I'm still good right here.
Like, I don't want to move. Like, I'm not going to try to get in that club. I'm just going to chill till they get back.
That's amazing. I know that feeling.
But then if those guys did like a bong rip, like when I would be like, yeah, in the US we just like smoke straight flour.
And they were like, oh, my God, like, how do you do that?
It's still to this day. Like, if you tell them, even, you know, some of my English.
C'est incroyable! It is unbelievable!
At some of the coffee shops in Amsterdam, they'd get kind of pissed.
You know, they'd see me and my buddy coming and they'd automatically open the door, turn on the ozone generator.
Be like, these fucking Americans again, they're going to smoke up the whole fucking place.
And I'm like, I thought this was a hash bar. I thought that's what we're supposed to do here.
You know, not everyone else is smoking spliffs. We're sitting there fucking smoking bongs and smoking, you know, straight joints.
And, you know, and mixing ash in with the joints and they burn for like a half an hour.
Yeah, but the best part was we were staying at this hotel that was right down the street from the Church of Scientology in Amsterdam.
So we're walking down the street.
This is also 2011?
Oh, yeah. And 2009. We stayed in the same spot just because of these guys.
And every time we walked by, they'd walk away when they see us because we'd be like, oh, wait, wait, tell us the story about the volcanoes and the fucking things again.
You know, what are they called? What's my level you're going to check?
I'm sorry, I don't have any money.
I mostly love that the Church of Scientology conquered Amsterdam.
They were like, we have a new outpost in Europe. We're making headway.
And they just stand out front and try to get you to buy their book and, you know, come in and take your whatever levels, phetan levels or something.
Dude, it's crazy in L.A. I live near the gigantic Church of Scientology.
Oh, you know what I'm talking about then.
In Westwood, right?
It's crazy, man.
I met...
Oh, God.
So the head of PR, like the spin master for the Church of Scientology, was one of the dads.
It was Gemma, my oldest daughter's like mommy and me class.
Like one of the other moms was the wife of the head of...
Like he was in that movie kind of exposing the church.
Like he was the spokesperson for the church.
And I was like, holy shit, that's the dude who's host I was at two weeks ago.
That's fucked.
And I was like, this is so trippy.
Nobody's gonna like... trying to be like, that's the person whose house I was just hanging out at.
Oh, yeah.
That's a fucking trip, man.
But yeah, that building is very large.
They own a lot of real estate.
Yes, they do.
Sketchy stuff. Sketchy stuff.
I love when Zappa plays on him, like the Church of Appliantology.
If any of you guys are hip to Joe's Garage.
It's like L. Ron Hoover.
The Church of Appliantology.
It's hilarious.
All right.
So, Josh, do we have any questions from the peanut gallery while we have Josh?
People watching.
People with...
Otis, you look like...
I always say, whenever I see that headset, I'm always like, you're flying like a Cessna 172.
I like to think so.
I fucking love aviation.
I got my whole simulator set up at home.
Flying all kinds of shit.
You're like Bronx, switch.
Exactly.
Right?
Some gamer shit.
Got the gamer headset in the bedroom.
Nice.
We have people.
We have tuning in from Thailand.
And I just saw your...
Awesome.
I just saw your message on Instagram.
I'm reading it right now.
I'd love to go and visit me some Thailand.
I want to go eat some street food in Thailand.
Maybe he'll invite us.
One at a time.
One at a time.
What's that?
Didn't Thailand just legalize cannabis in some way?
So, he was just explaining in his IG message to me.
Only concentrates with 0.2% THC are illegal and all flour is allowed.
Whoa.
So, no concentrates but all flour?
So, what I originally understood was that it was basically like,
we've legalized CBD.
That's what I thought too.
But that's cool that they legalized THC cannabis.
So, tell me if the yeah is to like...
I don't know.
Tell me if the yeah is to like...
Weed that gets you high in flour form is legal.
Because that's not how I understood in the conversations I've had.
But that's awesome.
I saw this one guy who owns like a big commercial cannabis company.
And has operations going in Thailand.
Fuck yeah, man.
That's awesome.
Was that fresh news when you got there?
Or did you like already know that?
Because if you landed and learned that, that's like so cool.
You're like, I was already happy to come anyway.
This is the cherry on top.
But his question was, did you know that before you landed?
Or was that new information once you got there?
That'd be so cool.
Oh, yeah.
Now I know where I'm going as soon as I get my passport renewed.
True that.
Future cannabis project.
We'll send his home address there.
We'll post it for everybody.
Yeah, is he living in Phuket?
Because that's where I'm going.
Yeah, no.
All right, so that's amazing.
So he didn't know that.
He had the same thinking I did, or everyone here did.
That it was just like, that's what I couldn't understand.
It's like they've legalized CBD and every news outlet is covering it.
It's this huge, like the first Asian country.
And it's like to legalize CBD.
Like, yay team.
But that's awesome.
They were one of the ones that was made illegal with Nepal and all the rest of them.
When Reagan, or no, it wasn't Reagan.
It was Nixon, went around and bribed everyone to make marijuana illegal.
It was legal in Asia forever.
And then Nixon went around and I remember, I think he paid the king in Nepal like six million bucks.
And he just went and bought off all the governments.
Like, here's the money, make the hash illegal.
It had been legal for thousands of years.
They had these old hash stands.
I have these old hash books that pictures of these bazaars and hash markets in Asia.
You know, where they have these big coils of hash like this big.
And there's like 10 of them sitting on a table.
One of them's in the shape of a cobra.
It's fucking sweet.
But all that shit was made illegal overnight.
And all of a sudden it was a black market.
And if you're going to grow something and it's black market, probably opium is worth a little bit more than hash and a lot less work.
So that's what it all ended up being after the Vietnam War, unfortunately.
But I'm glad to see it legal now.
Hopefully we'll start to see some of that good Thai again.
That would be fucking sweet.
Yeah, I get depressed because I talk to people about like getting, you know, having them send kind of heirloom land-raised stuff from their regions.
And they're like, can you send back some and they'll give me a list of like modern kind of cuts and crosses.
And I'm like, please don't make me send that back there.
Like if suddenly it'd be like sending an invasive species to like this Asian beetle that eats every plant.
Like you want me to send it to you in America?
Like, OK.
Like I went all the way to the top of this mountain in Nepal and what did I find?
Cookies.
Like, son of a bitch, I could have gotten that in L.A.
Yeah, I was sad when I saw their like announcement.
They're like, we're opening the 51st cookies in the world.
And I was like, oh, is that really what we need?
I think there's a cookies Thailand, which makes me it's kind of like seeing McDonald's getting exported.
Yeah, yeah.
I guess it's, you know, in some ways, you know, go America.
Like Starbucks, McDonald's.
And they're like, and we will bring our cookies crosses to you Thai people who have never known such good weed.
Oh, God, that.
I feel like it's just the start of that, like the baby steps, like even though it seems so monumental now, it's like it's so much more disgusting.
Yes, cookies in Bangkok.
Oh, my God.
It's like at least there's still some street cats for now.
It's like God knows what's next.
It's like having like the cook.
Well, yeah, I won't go there.
Yes, yes.
But we all like we all like the the real exotics.
The term exotic has been thrown around too much.
It means the wrong thing these days.
But exactly the real exotic hunters know what we like.
Well, you know, don't get me wrong.
I like cookies.
You know, the form cuts a good plant.
You know, it just I look at that and I look at like the old OG we used to grow and that goddamn cookies.
It's a dream.
It's so easy to grow.
You get so much and you know that goddamn OG would give so little for so much.
You know, God damn it.
You know, I'm you know, we'd have the sour diesel sitting in the same room and we'd get like four ounces versus like 18, you know, and we'd still have to grow the OG because it's friggin OG.
You know, it was just so much fucking work.
And then all these easy to grow strains come out and you know, the.
Don't get me wrong.
It's awesome.
I love to see it, you know, but but that's not what I think of when I think of exotic.
You know, I think of, you know, flavors and tastes that I just don't see anymore.
You know, you know, that really tastes like black licorice.
You know, that really good weed that, you know, really tastes like mint and really tastes like pine.
You know, I never I never find that shit at the dispensaries anymore.
All I see is fucking, you know, different shades of a cush GMO and a Gorilla Glow.
You know, you know, if I'm lucky, I get some good gelato or some good ice cream cake here or there.
I feel like Oregon got hit with the Gorilla Glue wave really hard in like 2015, 16, 17.
I remember that being like the like it was flooded, man.
It was. There was just too much.
I liked it.
It was a fast grower.
Too much of it, you know, you know, but you know, but everything's kind of cyclical.
It kind of goes away and then comes back.
You know, I never thought Blue Dream would become popular again, you know, and you know, here it is.
I know people that can't grow enough of it.
Can we can we can we expand on that?
Because my mind is absolutely blown by that as well.
Shocked like like I saw a guy go into a fucking dispensary with two pounds of absolute fire.
And he's like, no, I got to go back and get my Blue Dream because he wanted two more pounds that I'm like, what?
What you took in?
Did you take in the same pot that you showed me?
Yeah. Like and I guess you got to sell what sells.
But do you think it's because the new market doesn't want such a heavy buzz or do you think people are actually enjoying it because it's just something different?
Like you're saying, as opposed to like the gelatos and Skittles and stuff like that?
I don't get it. I'm like, it's tripping me out.
I think it's the people that smoke.
I think it's two things.
I think it's the market adjusting for the dispensary crowd, which, yes, likes a milder buzz and a more profound flavor.
They're more likely to like a weaker tangy than a stronger fucking ice cream cake, you know, because that's going to give them panic attacks.
And they like to smoke weed. So they want to smoke a couple of joints that they do that or the ice cream cake.
They're going to wake up on the floor, you know, but if they do that with the tangy, you know, they'll be fine.
You know, so that Blue Dream goes a little further.
It's also those kids that were smoking that in high school are now adults.
Yeah.
And that was that that was that dank weed back in high school.
Like, oh, here's the crap. Here's the crap. Oh, that Blue Dream again.
You know, so the stuff you had in high school, doesn't matter how good it was.
It was the stuff from high school. So it was the best.
Yeah.
That resonates with me totally. That's why I have that NL5 Hayes cut. I'm chasing high school flavor.
You know, that's why I still rock the Cherry AK, you know, because, you know, I love that old AK high.
And it's just so different than anything that you get at the dispensary.
You know, if I, you know, if the AK stops, you know, a buzz stops, give it to me.
I just give it up for a month and go back to the, you know, the GMO crosses and the unicorn and all that other stuff.
And, you know, as soon as I pick it back up a month later, you know, it flattens me again.
You know, but I like that about those different type of strains like that.
You know, same with a nice different Super Silver Hayes or a nice Sativa.
You know, that's the other thing that, you know, sure you can find, you know, sometimes you can find a good Super Silver Hayes or an Amnesia Hayes.
But rarely do you see anything different than that.
You know, if you're lucky, you can find like a good Durban Poison. I love me a good Durban Poison.
You know, that seems to be more around here in Eugene than I see in most places.
I'm running a Durban cross right now. I'm super excited for the Durban cross with chem, Coffee Bay chem.
Oh, nice.
That's going to be sick.
That sounds awesome.
Yeah, from Covert. That one's going to be sick.
Yeah.
That's the thing so far that's been one of the craziest, most vigorous out of all of them.
Maybe it's the Durban in it.
The Durban is a monster plant.
I mean, I, that, you know, I saw that plant go through so much crap, you know, but a friend of mine's doing growing a Malawi right now.
That's a really interesting that he got, you know, one phenotype that basically tastes like nothing.
You know, like stems and herb.
I'm not really a big fan of that one.
And another one that tastes like mangoes.
Holy shit.
But, you know, I'm really looking forward to it.
I'm hoping for a keeper with these.
You know, but, you know, we're talking, you know, 14 and a half, you know, 15 weeks of flowering, you know, but, you know, but luckily it never stopped stretching.
So you can start flowering it when it's, you know, like half this big, you know, and when it's done, it's about as tall as me at about 5'11".
Holy shit.
You know, but it takes a damn near, you know, 14, 15 weeks to get there, you know, and you'll definitely have to adjust your light cycle at the end to get it to finish.
You know, drop it from 12 down to 11 or 10, you know, just to get the right hairs to stop coming.
You know, I find that, that, you know, I don't have to do with all strains, but, you know, anything that takes longer than 13 weeks, I usually do that just to be sure.
You know, even if it does make him a hermit at the very end, at that point, I'd just rather see him finish than white hair at me.
And that way I get more of a solid flower at the end.
Gotcha. Gotcha.
You know, but sativas are a whole nother ball of wax when it comes to, you know, keeping them happy and keeping them on a treadmill.
It's not about, you know, feeding them heavy and getting them that army dark green.
It's about keeping them a consistent happiness the whole time.
And the big thing, having as much root space as humanly possible.
You know, they do not, they are, they absolutely hate being root bound in any and every way.
And if you are growing your normal stuff in sevens, you need a 15 for that sativa.
You know, it's just going to love it.
It'll give you a way more.
You just need to make it light and fluffy so you can water it at the same rate your water and the other guys, you know, that's the difference.
So it's the same amount of soil, same amount of soil, or I'm sorry, a fertilizer that would be in your seven.
You just fluff it up to a 15, you know, and you know, that extra mass allows the roots to not spin or get crazy pissed off when they go hit the sides.
You know, I started doing that in Amsterdam with, with rockwool.
They were actually growing a giant, you know, eight foot tall sativas, you know, hazes in, in, I think they were like 30 gallon or 40 gallon pots full of loose rockwool.
And, you know, they were giant, they were huge, you know, and they had lights.
It was the first time I ever saw a light that was 14 foot in the air.
And I just thought it was the craziest thing.
And, you know, but it grew absolutely beautiful, a Thai plant, you know, and I've imitated it a couple of times.
But when I started doing it with organic soil is really where I got the best results by far.
You know, you know, rockwool is fun, but, you know, that organic soil is what gives you the crazy flavor, especially with those.
Totally, man.
It's not a long, long time.
It's just keeping that soil blend happy.
And the big thing is I found this with Steve is calcium, shit loads of calcium, you know, you know, in just about every form I can get it.
Usually when I'm running something like that, I'll run at least three different forms of micronutrients and calcium, you know, you know, a month or a week, you know, and the further I get into my cycle, the more I got to incorporate because the less is in the soil.
Such as?
Well, such as I like to use a lot of top dressings of rock dusts, you know, like volcanic rock dust, you know, take a combination of oyster shell and basalt and I'll do a couple of those spikes that I was telling you about.
But instead of microassay, I'll put a couple, maybe three or four tablespoons of that combination in it.
So it's slow releasing calcium in my bed, you know, or in my pot, as long as it's bigger than a 30 gallon pot, you know, and it's going to be there for more than 13 weeks.
I found that's a great way to have slow releasing large amounts of calcium.
Another good way is with any sort of liquid organic calcium product.
My favorite these days is amino based ones.
In fact, you got one that's the Calmino right behind you there.
That is, yeah, you know, that is the most readily available form of calcium that I've ever used.
Yeah, I might need one of those, Peter.
This shit is awesome for keeping plants happy in containers when they're old because of the way it's made.
The nitrogen and the calcium in there is already broken down to the point where the plant doesn't have to use any energy to eat it.
You know, so it's already it's already there.
It's already in an already digestible form.
So it just takes it like that, you know, and it's about the consistency of coffee creamer.
So is that so that's a fast release kind of.
Oh, it's very quick. Yeah.
You know, so but it's super gentle.
You can use it at four times the recommended dose and you'll just waste it.
You know, I've never been able to hurt a plant with it, you know, but usually I'm using it somewhere between two to four teaspoons per gallon.
You know, depending on how old the plants are and the effect I'm going for the harder I use it, the less I use it.
So if I'm only watering once every month to two weeks, I'm using, you know, full strength, you know, 20 mils, 30 mils, you know, but usually a little bit all the time is always going to work better.
Especially with sativas and hard to feed plants like those old OGs and like these finicky old cuttings.
You know, your your OGKBs and, you know, a Bubba Cush's and whatnot.
You know, they're just finicky as shit. They're old and they're beat up, you know, and, you know, having a way to give them some available calcium all the time is a great way to make them much, much stronger and more resistant to just about everything, you know, and nothing pisses them off more than putting them in a container that's root bound with not enough calcium in it.
You know, any old cutting is just going to get real pissed on you, real yellow and real angry.
He's looking at you, Otis.
Uh huh, uh huh. Yeah, Peter, you're gonna have to give me a bag of that stuff, man, especially because I'm running that pure Cush cross with Skywalker.
But that's a great way to make dreams come true.
You know, and with your NL5, if you get any early yellowing, that's a great way to remineralize it and get you that green.
It's either the, you know, my first choice would be the Calmino, but a combination of it 50-50 with the Multi-Amino would give you the balance of the micronutrients and the calcium.
But it just depends on which it's missing the most.
You know, you'll find that during some stages, the beginning of flowering, you know, those first four weeks, it's going to be more micronutrients and less calcium.
But after that four weeks, after the calcium has been absorbed and the flowers have already set, the micronutrients needs go down and the calcium and phosphorus needs go up.
And if you can supplement that with sulfur, you can increase your flavor as well.
I love that. I love the approach of using the bigger container as well that you saw in Amsterdam.
I think that's something I'm going to try to implement. That was very interesting to me.
Yeah, you don't need more fertilizer. You just need physically more space for the roots.
And, you know, you get that bigger burly stalk. And really, once I get that stalk size with my sativas, I know I'm good.
You know, as soon as I get that chunker and it looks like I need to chop it down with a freaking axe, you know, that means I'm going to get a good yield out of that plant.
And it's going to be tougher and more resistant. When I get those spindly little things and I got to do that million bits of tie up, I hate that.
You know, I don't like that. That usually means I'm going to have more problems than I want to have.
I forget, what pot size are you maxing out at?
In my little garden, I max out at about a 10 gallon.
Is that what that big black one was?
The big black one was actually a, I believe, a two gallon.
That looks bigger than it.
I felt like you were holding it like that. Maybe I was.
No, that was just a two gallon.
So you're going to go up again from that?
Yes. You know, from that, that's going to go into the 10.
So from that to 10. So from that to the final pot.
Yep.
And that will veg under a little four lamp T5 for the next probably two and a half to three weeks.
Until I get to the size that I want.
And you think we're going to have that conversation in how many weeks from now?
Oh, from when you just went into the two gallon?
Oh, the one that went into the two gallon and anywhere from two to three weeks, that'll be ready to go into a 10 gallon and ready to flower.
Okay.
You know, and it should be at least twice to three times the size of this now.
But we shall see, you know, the, you know, the season is upon us. It's getting hot.
Yeah. As long as I don't forget the water.
And today is June 27th.
All right. So, so sometime late July.
Yep.
Okay.
I like to finish in 10 gallons as well.
Yeah, I find that that anywhere from a five, an actual true five gallon bucket, you know, one cubic foot container to a, to a 15 is my perfect zone.
Most of the time, if I'm hand watering, you know, if I'm hand watering lots of plants, you know, then I obviously prefer a bed because it just makes it way easier.
You know, but, but beds have their own disadvantages.
I find, you know, if I can hand water pots, I can get a higher quality and metabolize all the, get the most out of using the least amount of soil.
You know, but sometimes to finish out at the end, I like to have an automated watering system to get me through that last month.
You know, because sometimes, you know, I like a plant that gets, you know, maybe two light waterings a day instead of one heavy one, you know, and, you know, especially when I get them to that point, those plants are just, you know,
especially when I get them to that point, those are the ones that give me those really good organic yields, you know, where I get an ounce per gallon in a, in a 15 gallon container.
You know, I love pulling that out of a, you know, out of a four by four tent, you know, but I only got space for one, maybe two of those, you know, but I'd rather get the better quality out of two tens, you know, and only get, you know, you know, anywhere from, you know, 10 to, you know, six ounces, you know, but in my organic garden, you know, with the ease of use and me not going for, you know, crazy yields.
You know, if I get an ounce per gallon of soil, I'm happy, you know, if a 10 gives me 10, if a seven gives me seven, that's gravy. I did great. You know, sometimes I'm happy if I get half that, you know, I, if I can get four ounces in a five gallon bucket and I can fit six of those under a, you know, an LED that's 300 watts and, you know, get around three or four ounces a piece, I'm winning the game.
You know, three ounces times four, that's plenty, you know, for a four by four square, you know, and I love these new LEDs and, you know, being able to adjust the frigging stuff on them and, you know, it's made gardening so much easier for so many people, you know, and having gardens in places where you just couldn't have them before.
You know, I started, you know, I ordered my first light out of a catalog, you know, my second light got stolen out of a parking lot by my brother was standing on my hood, you know, but, you know, that wasn't, you know, just after high school.
Wait, your brother stole it or it was stolen while he was watching it?
Well, my brother said, Hey man, we got to run an errand. So we, he goes, Hey, pull into this parking lot. So I pull into this parking lot, he goes, pull up in front of that powerful. I thought we were meeting somebody or something, you know, to, you know, to get some weed. He jumps on the hood of my car and grabs the light off the pole and rips it off and gets back in my car and I'm like, what the fuck are you doing?
And he's like, Oh, I just got us another light. Go. And I'm like, I guess you can't put it back. So let's go. That's sick as fuck. I thought he stole your light and gave it to someone else. No, he stole the light out of a freaking parking lot. But, you know, that was a long, long time ago. That's awesome, man.
Yeah. Then we took it to his apartment and set it up in his extra bedroom. His girlfriend found it two days later and then it came to my house. Classic. Yep. Cause she didn't appreciate having a garden in her, in her apartment that she didn't know about for a couple of days. But Hey, when you're young and dumb.
Yeah. That reminds me the, the wife of the dad at the bus stop, uh, who I brought plants to their house two days ago, the wife was not very happy. She was like chewing her husband out for letting me bring plants to their house. And I was like, hi, nice to meet you.
Yeah. It's nice when your wife lets you grow.
Here's a funny story. So a friend of mine in independence, this was right at the beginning of the medical marijuana program. Uh, so it was like the early, early two thousands. I think I was about 21 or 22 and, uh, I was helping this gentleman with his garden. He was very sick. I think he had a cancer and he was on a pain maintenance program, but he grew his own weed in his garage.
He had just a little setup and, uh, he had, uh, neighbor kids that were little hooligans and they broke into his garage and they stole his weed. And, uh, the police followed the leaves over to their house and, uh, and then arrested them for, for having weed and stealing it. And, uh, we go to the police department and find out, you know, what's going to go on, you know, cause, uh, you know, these were his plants and you have them now.
And, uh, they ended up, uh, having to give it to them, you know, and they made a big deal about it. They didn't like that at all. Uh, that, uh, they had to give us a pot plants that were in 15 gallon containers and we're already, you know, like, you know, three foot tall.
They wanted to chop them all down and, you know, just say, you know, tough luck. But, uh, you know, as soon as a dude came in and, you know, I'm like, Hey, you know, this is, this is who they belong to. And, you know, we ended up leaving like, you know, walking out of the police department with six plants and 15 gallon containers. And, uh, yeah, that was, uh, that was just really, really strange at that time. You know, uh, you know, what, what year was that?
That was in like, uh, 2002 or 2003. Yeah, that was, uh,
so this is kind of like the transition of when it became legal and the police were like, motherfuckers, like we want to nail you, but we can't.
Well, it was one of those things where they love to bust medical, any one growing medical that wasn't truly sick, you know, or was growing for other people. So if I was growing it for my friend who was sick at my house, they would totally come into my house and bust me, you know, but, uh, if the sick guy is growing for himself, they're not going to go, you know, they're not going to make it on the news for arresting a guy in a wheelchair who just got out of chemo, you know, but, uh, but, you know, a 20 year old with tattoos, Hey, you know, he's, he's just doing it for tattoos.
He's just doing it for the drugs, you know, and, uh, you know, that, that was even before they had dispensaries in Oregon, you know, that, that took a long time, you know, before then you were just supposed to grow it yourself. I remember seeing like these little old ladies and these cancer patients walking out of these clinics with like, you know, two little plants in their hands and they're walking with a Walker. And I'm like, what's this, they expect this poor little old lady to go buy a light and set up a garden in her closet.
They give her like printed instructions.
Like, okay, first you grow the plant and then the flowers are what you want and you cut them, but don't cut them too early.
Don't cut them too late.
Then you have to dry and cure them and you have to be very accurate in your drying and curing process.
And then after that, you have to smoke it.
And these women are like trying to follow along.
And it's, yeah, never, never went.
Yeah, never, never went.
But I hope they didn't have grandma hand water and that's no, oh yeah.
Well, back then the, the, the caveat with the law in Oregon was if you bought this jar that I'm selling on Craigslist, I would donate you this jar for 40 bucks.
I would donate an eighth to you.
And that worked for about six months until they started, you know, busting people for that.
Yeah.
I remember the Craigslist days in Oregon.
Yeah.
They were main, main seem very similar where you could buy a sweatshirt for X amount and then just get gifted.
Exactly.
It lasted about the same amount of time.
I'd say maybe a little more, maybe like, yeah.
You know, it went from, uh, you know, would you buy this jar or would you want to buy this coffee mug or anything that could fit a baggie in?
One of, one of the most creative ones I saw was a buddy started a psychic service where if you had lost a bag of cannabis around the Portland main area, the other Portland, then he would locate it for you for a certain fee.
So let's say you lost, you know, that's amazing.
You mouth of X, Y, Z strain him and his crew of psychics would relocate it for the, uh, the appropriate rate.
And that's dope.
It's like, it's just such a weird loophole where I think they're still gone with it.
I haven't checked in with them for a while, but that's probably one of the most creative ones I've ever seen.
That's fucking awesome.
That is hilarious.
And that's legal.
Uh, I don't know.
Or the police can't fit.
The point is the police are like, fuck, like we can't do anything.
I would like to think they're more busy in New York with more serious things.
I would hope I've been on a subway.
I certainly would hope.
I haven't been in New York in a while.
Yeah, it's been a long time.
It's same here.
Same here.
I got to take a trail.
But, uh, all right, well, should we wrap it up?
Let's wrap it up.
Josh, thank you very much.
No problem.
We really appreciate you.
That was so awesome.
Does anyone in the chat have more questions for Josh?
Well, if anybody does, uh, you know, they can always get ahold of me through, uh, uh, uh, the bioag website.
Uh, that, uh, there's a one 800 number there that, uh, you can get ahold of me and, you know, ask me any questions you want.
You can also send a questions to, uh, I believe there's a link on the web, on the website, uh, to ask questions for technical questions to bioag.
That goes to my email.
So, uh, you know, sudden ask me anything I'm, I'm here to help.
So in, I assume a dropdown, it's like, this question is technical.
It goes to you.
Oh, well, I think it's just any question that goes through the website.
Every question for the website goes to you.
I think so.
I think me and like two other guys, it just depends on who answers at first.
Most of the time that's me.
Okay.
So tomorrow I want everybody to ask a question using the bioag website.
Contact us form.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
And, uh, I got a, uh, I'm doing a couple of vendor days here in Oregon.
Uh, if anybody, uh, gets a chance, I'll be in, uh, uh, let me think here.
I'll be in, uh, uh, this Wednesday, I'm going to be in, uh, uh, Eugene, Oregon
at Emerald Valley garden supply.
Uh, I'll be there all day from 11 to five, uh, giving out bioag samples
and, uh, talking about biostimulants.
Uh, I'm also doing a vendor day in, uh, I believe on the eighth in Salem, Oregon
at legacy garden supply, uh, doing the same thing.
Uh, I will also be doing, uh, another one, uh, in, uh, I believe it was, uh,
Oh, I can't remember, but I'll let you guys know I got at least
a three or four going this month.
I'll be out there giving out samples and talking to people, uh, you
know, come on down and say hello.
Uh, it will all be posted on the bioag Instagram website.
So check us out.
It's the place to be.
Oh yeah.
So I have a question.
Do you, do you think there's anyone or anyone who gives out
more bioag samples than I do?
Uh, as I think about how many bioag samples I send out every week, I'm like,
I would challenge someone else to say they send out more samples than I do.
I would think that, uh, you were probably in, uh, the top, uh, two.
Yes.
You know, if there's anyone that I want to know who else sends out more samples
and I'm going to be the shipping lady at bioag.
Okay.
That's my lady.
Karen.
She is, uh, what's her name?
Her name's Karen.
She is the Karen that keeps a bioag together.
I'm going to talk to Karen and I want to get specific numbers of how many
samples she sends it every week, because when I pass her, I'm going to talk shit.
All right.
Peter.
So you have to, you have to introduce me to, is it Karen?
Karen?
Yes.
Okay.
This week I look forward to meeting Karen.
All right.
I'm gonna have to get some of those samples from you, Peter.
I got Sam.
Definitely that Calmino for sure.
Oh yeah.
Give it a try.
The multi, the multi.
That multi too.
Are those organic using like living soil?
And absolutely.
That's where they shine the best.
All my stuff will work in hydro, but it, where is where it shines is organic living
soil, you know, but you can also, if you're going with a two part hydroponic
mix and you will expect better flavor and you want to use less chemicals to get a
better yield, that's the best way of doing it is with different types of, uh,
biostimulants that increase your uptake and reduce your reliance on salt.
You know, so you get the, you know, 1400 or 1800 parts per million yields at, you
know, a thousand parts per million or 800 parts per million using less salt to grow
a bigger, better plant, you know, and that's with amino acids, humic acids,
fulvic acids, you know, different types of silica and lots of mycorrhizae, you
know, and having a good automated watering system that keeps everything
wet when you want it wet and not too wet.
It's funny when I was making, uh, the eggplant parm, I was also at the same
time, put it, so I have all this fish brew fish hydrolysate and that shit smells
like even with like the cap closed on the bottle, you're like, like I definitely
smell it.
So to ship it, I've been like vacuum sealing everything.
I got a bag of that stuff here.
It stinks.
So yeah, so this is like the sample size fish hydrolysate.
And I wrote, so to whoever gets this, actually hydrolysate is not poo, but I
wrote fish poo from Peter.
That's awesome.
I'm going to sign each one.
Nice.
Uh, but yeah, that stuff smells bad.
That's what smells like a punch in the throat.
That stuff smells bad.
And trying to get like liquid samples out.
Like I have, so this is like everybody who has liquid products does not do a
very good job of, um, giving me confidence that if that liquid product ships, the
cap will not come loose.
And like, like imagine a fish hydrolysate or like the, the post, like the, the
mailman is like walking with his box and is like, this smells like some nasty
shit.
Like I know shit.
And this is like, they don't know it's fish hydrolysate.
No, no.
But they're just like, what is this?
The whole truck stinks.
Yeah.
So I thought I was very clever.
Like even the full size ones I put in.
Good call.
Very good call.
No one wants that spilling on their mail.
Is that from the folks that were on a couple of weeks ago?
The fish brew people.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Cool.
So there's fish poo, which actually the poo doesn't smell like I've been smelling
those and I'm like, those smell totally fine.
It's the hydrolysate that just stinks.
Yeah.
That's the ground up fish.
That's yeah.
Yeah.
I got some right here.
Organic ag products, protein up, put a seco pure protein dry.
That's the stuff.
That's just fish hydrolysate pretty much.
I think.
Yeah.
That's what that is.
Like powdered hydrolysate.
Yeah.
I think it's freeze dried.
I just mix it into my water.
Yeah.
Those guys, uh, sensational solutions makes a, a, a lot of money.
Uh, uh, uh, uh, exact same stuff.
Yeah.
There's a, there's a bunch of companies that does the dry.
Does the dry powder stink?
Yeah, it does.
Yeah.
And when you mix it with the water too, it activates it.
Like Gabe and I were mixing it and, uh, were you like, was that you?
He had to put the respirator on.
Yeah.
That's definitely a wise decision to wear a respirator.
Well, I, I, I wear mine pretty much every time I'm mixing any sort of powdered
additive.
Yeah.
It's just, I do it.
I've made myself really sick once with insect frass top dressing.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Dude.
It's, it's never worth it.
Always wear a respirator whenever you're doing any dry amendment per light.
Anything that if it's a powder, where the mask, it ain't worth the fuck.
It's not worth it.
Played with a lot of insect brass and a lot of other stuff without it.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
You had a viral, a viral pneumonia infection.
Oh yeah.
I got a fire mask.
I'll wear that.
You should wear that out sometimes.
Yeah.
I'll wear it out to the next event we do, Peter.
All right, guys, I got to jump.
This was a wonderful conversation and I can't wait for the next one.
Thank you.
Let's wrap it.
So, all right.
With that, uh, what is it?
Monday night.
I know we have stuff going on tomorrow.
I just have no idea what it is.
Anyway.
Thank you, Josh.
Thank you everyone for showing their plans.
Thank you everyone for watching and whatever we have tomorrow.
Uh, I will see you there.
All right, guys.
Thanks again, everyone.
See ya.
