Can you guys hear me?
Awesome.
Well, hopefully I won't have to do much talking, but let me fix that.
Yeah, I'll be right back.
Sometimes that is the case.
... things in, and that's also a neat way to be able to get to the genetic potential of a cultivar.
Like, say that you've never worked something before and it has a THC max around, say, 30% THC-8,
and at, say, week, I don't know, 8 of 10 weeks, that it's only testing at, like, 20% THC,
then obviously you know that you have to increase the feeding, because stereotypically in the past,
you know, what do most of us do?
We grow a plant and we harvest it when we believe that it's ready, send it off to have it tested,
if you are, like, a commercial operator, and then once you get that test back,
then at that point you, you know, go back to the drawing board and say,
you know, do we let this thing go another week, or did we harvest a week, you know, too late,
or, you know, what do we do to potentially dial those things in?
I'm not someone that is advocating that, but I think it's a good tool at the same time, though,
so anything to help make me a better operator and grower, I'm always down for.
I love that you dropped that bomb right off the bat of great knowledge there.
There's so many, like, the uniqueness of cannabis isn't just in, like, its flower,
you know, you don't see this much in the vegetative stage, depending on what type of genetics you're having.
You can see some variability there, but the variability in the dry and the cure time for a plant,
well, specifically more or less the dry time, I find, can vary a lot, depending on the shape, structure,
and how you grow that plant out also, like when you harvest it and how moist the soil is,
how moist the air is around it at that point in time.
I find it pretty crucial, and people don't often talk about the individuality,
the uniqueness of plants in that stage, but I think it's pretty awesome.
Absolutely. Thank you for the opportunity to be able to do this, and glad to be here with everybody.
Anyways, I had thought about something that I had brought to Peter's attention yesterday
when it comes to breeding practices, and I know from our last Breeder Roundtable that we had,
like a week or two ago, that I had brought up the fact that I am not a fan of feminized genetics.
I don't personally work with anything that's feminized.
At the same time, I know that a lot of people like feminized genetics,
but for me, I don't really see the need for feminized genetics because of the simple fact that
there's no such thing as 100% when it comes to cannabis and sex.
In regards to that, I wanted to talk to people about what you guys do in a situation where you have a clone-only cultivar,
and how do you preserve that thing? I also wanted to discuss what I personally do with my genetics
to be able to continue to hold something. Obviously, we all have genetics that we're proud of and stuff that we want to work,
but at the same time, what happens when you get... I'm just going to throw this out there because
it was something that I received in female or clone-only form, which was the forum cut of Girl Scout cookies.
What I personally do is back-cross everything. I'm going to take that cultivar, and I don't use anything to suppress
ethylene production to be able to reverse that plant since I don't do anything feminized.
What I would do is I would just take my cut of Girl Scout cookies, and I would take that,
and I would breed that with another cultivar. Then at that point, I would take that cultivar,
and I would pick something that leans towards the Girl Scout side, and then I would take that,
and I would breed it back into the Girl Scout cookies, and then start selecting from a back-cross standpoint
to be able to get something that represents the receiver initially. Obviously, that takes more work,
but my defense in regards to still running a photo period versus going with an auto... or not an auto,
but a feminized line is that predicated testing is getting more and more cost-effective.
The price is going down year after year, and I think from that standpoint, you don't necessarily need to work a feminized line
to look at a large population of plants, but at the same time, I know that that's a very touchy subject.
For me, it's all about back-crossing and then working a line that way, but it takes me literally years of working a line
before I am comfortable enough to be able to give it to another operator, either a commercial operator or a home grower.
It's more on the commercial side, just because in a commercial setting, obviously, companies rely on your genetics being solid
because that's what's putting the food on the table. That's what's keeping that business afloat.
For me, I want something as stable as possible before I release it to somebody, and it completely baffles me that there's these breeders
that are releasing 30 to 60 cultivars a year, and how do you even find testers for that?
Obviously, a lot of people are in states where they're capped out for either the square footage of the canopy,
so they can only have so much plants and flower, or they're limited on their plant count.
How do you preserve your genetic or your cultivar whenever you have those challenges in front of you?
I wanted to fill out what you guys do and to also get some advice moving forward,
because I am trying to cut some of this work time that I put into my breeding process to be able to make it more efficient,
because the fact of the matter is I can't release stuff as fast as I see other breeders do,
but at the same time, I don't have a lot of opportunities to work other people's minds,
because I'm so involved with what I'm personally doing and the direction that I'm trying to go,
because everything for me is all about selecting for purpose and direction.
I think that it's challenging to not work with feminized gear, but at the same time,
with predicated testing again being more reasonably priced and micro-propagation starting to come into the picture,
where more commercial operations will be utilizing that technology, since that's the gold standard of ag everywhere outside of cannabis.
What tools can we use to be more productive and to be able to go through larger numbers of plants?
Because at the end of the day, we all know that the same problem we're all up against is just how do we go through
all the shit to be able to find those outliers and cultivars that will make it into our forever stable?
Hey, what's up everybody? I could share some of my experience on some of those things.
Basically, if you have a clone that you're starting with and you'd like to create a seed version of that
that is very dominant towards the traits of that clone, like what you did with the Girl Scout, the Forum Cut,
there's three ways to do it, and then we can get into all the details.
You mentioned them all. One is you create hybrids. I first got that Forum Cut in early 2011.
My first outdoor season with it was 2011, and I outcrossed it to about eight different things,
and then tested out all of those hybrids, those outcrosses, and found which ones grew more dominant towards that original clone.
Then from there, you have two different options. One is you can work the line through in-crossing it.
Sometimes you'll grow out an F1 hybrid and be pleasantly surprised with finding that maybe the female that you were hoping to preserve
bred very dominant, and you can find a lot of plants that seem to have mostly those traits in the F1,
and it might be easier to just in-cross. Usually once you get to about the fourth generation,
if you're really putting in the time and attention to detail, you can pretty much have it down to where you want it, F4, F5.
Then also, as you talked about, there's back-crossing, taking that hybrid and the most dominant-looking plants
towards what you were looking for and crossing it back to its mother.
Because all cannabis breeds differently, without applying science technology that's way over my head,
you just don't know what you're going to get until you find it.
For instance, you might take the same clone and work it several generations in-crossing or back-crossing, or both.
What you'll find is some stuff breeds more stable and more true through a back-cross,
and other things will do it through an in-cross.
The way that I do all my breeding is I do open pollinations.
Say that I take out a line, like a headband ogee sour.
I'll grow those seeds, and I'll make the in-cross and the back-cross at the same time.
I'll throw some headband clones in, and I'll also do an open pollination and pollinate the whole female population
of whatever generation it is.
When I test those seeds side-by-side, I'm going to find out whether it was the in-cross or the back-cross
that has more of the traits that I'm looking for.
The other thing is, the purpose of breeding, one is preservation, but the other one is improvement.
Sometimes you want to breed towards something, but you want to make improvements as you go.
Like with the Forum Cut, nobody's going to be growing that these days.
It's not very vigorous. It's inefficient. It's a very light feeder.
It doesn't like a lot of light intensity, but it does breed its traits and its resin and its density
and some of the color very well with other things.
Sometimes you might find a good pairing with the Forum Cut that's going to make it more abundant,
easier to grow, but still have the flavor profiles and the effects and things like that that you're looking for.
Lastly, about the Feminize, I'm now getting experience with some of my lines running the full populations
and the Feminize seeds.
Honestly, it's the opposite of what I thought it was.
I thought that running out S1s was going to be the shortcut to figuring out how to get my stuff stable
in the seed forum, but what I'm really seeing in the S1s is every single representation in all of the lineage.
But from growing out S1s, I'm learning a lot more than I could learn by growing the regular seeds,
male and female ratios.
There's just more that you see everything in the population.
Then again, in Feminize lines, some S1s are going to be more true and more consistent with what you want.
Then I have another line I'm growing out right now.
The phenotype that I was looking for is only in about 2% to 4% of the plant population out of over 2,000 plants.
Those are really the three ways to do it.
Sorry, sorry for jumping in.
There was something else that was great that what you were saying about all the breeders putting out seeds.
To each his own, right?
Cannabis is unique to all of us.
It affects all of us different.
We all have our own relationship with it.
The way that I see breeding and making seeds and offering to the mothers is really about sharing your journey.
For me, my journey is when I find the herb that I think is special or that I want to share with others,
I'm really just sharing my experience.
Sometimes I take something that's incredible and I share it with others and they're blown away.
Other times I found something along the road.
It might not be the best representation or 10 years of breeding work, but somebody might enjoy it.
That's my ride to share.
That's the way that I see that.
It's great to have documentation and lots of testing.
People buying seeds should definitely look into who they're getting their seeds from
because there's a big difference between experience, know-how, and quality versus hype.
If people want to offer seeds, that's their choice.
I think the cream of the crop, it just rises to the top.
In the long run, people who really have a true intuition and a stellar palate are going to be recognized.
It's a lot of fucking work and time commitment if you're going to do it in the long run.
Anyway, thanks for letting me speak and sorry to go on for so long.
Welcome, Elka and Tony.
How are you guys this evening, Doc?
Also, how are you?
I'm good, Chase.
I'll pop in for a minute.
Hope everybody's doing well.
It's full-on harvest time here in Humboldt County.
The weather has shifted, and it's definitely time to be knocking the girls down,
and that's kind of what I'm focusing on today.
Peter pinged me and said, we're talking about breeding.
I was like, all right, I'll pop in for a little bit and help talk about that for a little while, too.
This is where you find stuff that you're working with.
Dan takes the same approach that I take.
Chase, it sounds like we all kind of do the same thing.
We find something that we like, and we start working our way through it.
How do you preserve a cut?
That's really what Peter pinged me.
I said, all right, what's the topic?
How do you work with a single-line cut?
How do you save that thing?
That's everybody's perception of what they think.
Nowadays, we have the genetics, so we kind of have a pretty good idea of what the parentage is.
So, you go by, if you can find original parentage, you can probably replicate the plant pretty close to what you have with.
That one you're working with, little select male breeding, pollen breeding, as Dan was talking about,
and what you were talking about, Chase, we find that male that we want to replicate from.
Coming back in to get that seed that we're looking for, that's a hard thing to do to get it to where,
can we get that seed to be that clone again?
That's not as easy as it sounds, and as you alluded to, it takes years and years and years to do it.
As Dan was talking about, it takes a decade to do it.
It does take that long a lot of times.
We're not always getting 100% there.
I'm looking at tissue culture right now as something I'm looking at as a way to get good, clean stock,
and then take that clean stock, and now can I come back and take that and breed it with what I think is the correct male-pollen combination
to get close to what I'm looking for?
That's kind of an approach I've started looking at in the last couple of years.
I see the methodology getting more refined.
Labs that are doing it are getting much better at it, and they have been doing tissue culture for a long time,
and other agricultural applications, but in cannabis, over the last six, seven, eight years, it's coming around now.
We see where more people are really getting involved in it.
This is how I'm looking at trying to get some of this old stuff.
Can we get some of this old stuff, get a good, clean copy of it, now can I take it and replicate it with select-pollen breeding?
Can I do it select-pollen breeding?
Can I accomplish that?
That's the hard part of it, ladies and gentlemen.
Again, it takes a long time to do that, and a really keen eye.
Even to combine this panel up here, we've got a couple of hundred years of doing this between all of us.
We're all just using our best guess every time we get out there.
The science is above me.
I'm just out doing it.
I'm an old-school pollen breeder.
I've been doing it for 50 years now.
What I see, what I smell, what I taste, touch, look at.
Now, the little bit of data that I understand, as I look at that a little bit closer, I can look at the different cannabinoid makeup of the plants.
The COA worked with it, worked with it, R&D worked with it.
It helps me to find, to get a little bit closer to getting even closer to what the original stock is.
I just assume over the years, it's going to keep getting involved more and more, ladies and gentlemen.
It's going to get more refined the farther we go down this path with it.
I'm where these guys are.
I don't really do a lot of feminized breeding myself.
I'm not saying there's not an application for it.
I just truly believe with superior trait selection and just a little know-how and understanding of how the plant works, I can get it into a very comfortable, seven-year-old plant.
I can get it into a comfortable 70 to 80 and even 90% female-to-male ratio where I can look at a grower of my seeds or a consumer or a purchaser of that seed.
Look, this genetics, because it's where it's at this point, I feel very confident that you're going to get eight out of ten seeds.
You're going to get a female seed out of it.
If you're going to do what we do, then you do want a boy, at least a boy to have some work with.
I found myself kind of work myself into this hole a little bit with some of this stuff.
I don't think I have enough boys available with a lot of the genetics that I'm working with.
A lot of this stuff now just in regular seeds is coming in.
I'm getting 80, 90% females.
Anyway, I kind of got our point there.
Appreciate everybody's time.
Doc and Humboldt, I'm shutting the hell up.
Somebody else take it.
Yo!
What's up, boys?
What's up, Kevin?
Good, man.
You got preserving a line from a single cut.
The bottom line is you find something that's unique.
You have no idea what it is, where it came from.
You just know that it's phenomenal.
What you want to do is you want to preserve it, which I think that really what you want to do is preserve it in two ways.
I have a huge collect.
I probably have over 90 plants put away in TC.
I banked an incredible amount of stuff in TC, so this way I have it preserved.
But that's only one method.
I think that what you end up having to really do is first you have to self the plant.
You got to open up the population just so you can see what's in the plant you're looking at.
When you open it up to 1,000, it helps.
If you open up GMO to 2,000, it comes out almost to like 50-50 green and purple.
You can see the chem and the cookie separate clearly.
It lets you now understand really where your parental traits are coming from.
Once you have that idea of what it is you're actually looking at, then I would always say use a male that you know that imparts specific traits.
Because you can take that male, and then now you know what it does to a plant.
You're able to take a look at the plant you're pollinating with that male.
If you want to do a regular sexual propagation versus a selfing, you'll be able to start steering the direction from your information.
I think that when it comes to preservation, you're trying to grab what you can because the main point is to put the genes away in something.
Even if it's only in a 50% derivative, we can steer it into the 90s over a multi-generational period.
I think that's really the only way to go about it.
You have no idea what half the shit is you find. People pass me stuff all the time. I have no clue what it is.
I know that I brought up the point that with predicate of testing getting more and more reasonable and being more price effective,
you have the ability to—personally, I'm still trying to work through our conversation that we had because I'm still on the fence in regards to feminized lines.
I think it was before you jumped in, Kevin, that what I do is I always will back cross something.
I'll take whatever it is that I have, just the cut of, and then I will breed that into something, select something that's steered towards the original cut.
Then open up my population that way.
It takes so much time. I found that even working lines for years, that sometimes I almost get to a point where I don't even feel like I'm improving.
It's actually potentially sometimes going the wrong way where I just end up scrapping the whole breeding project or I go back a step because I feel that I've made some type of a mistake in my selecting.
It just is all about the numbers in regards to doing that.
I know that I talked to Kevin Brooks from Conception, and I was talking to him in regards to how many cultivars do well under micropropagation
because that's the gold standard when it comes to all the rest of ag, and why hasn't cannabis adopted that?
What can we do to be able to make that the norm moving forward?
Because I'm the same way as you. I have about 32, 33 cultivars that I have in tissue culture form, but at the same time, just being able to lug around plants,
especially if you move around like I do, then it's such a task to be able to keep those.
I'm just trying to find any way to be able to do these, and I appreciate you guys' insight.
Happy 420 on the West Coast, gentlemen. By the way, I know, Kevin, you're at Humboldt where I am. Anybody on the West Coast, happy 420, everybody.
Salute to that, man. I've been a lot of long nights. It's nice. It's a nice time.
It was cold this morning, man. I was surprised when I got up. It was a little wet outside and just cold as all get out this morning.
Went out and started flanking around in plants, and everything's just as purple as it can be and shiny.
It's like, man, it's real close. We've been whacking stuff down for a week or so here where we're at.
Got another place, outdoor stuff's already down. It's been down for about two weeks, man.
It's like the season's kind of winding up pretty fast. I think we'll all be done here at least by Halloween, maybe a little bit sooner than that.
I hope everybody's having a successful this time of the year wherever you're at. It's all coming down good for you.
Is the rest of the panel, are all of you guys selfing plants and working your lines that way?
With myself, that's how I started with my original Space Kush line back in 2004 and 2005.
I reversed all the females and the male from the line before I started using it in my breeding projects that I wanted to release to folks.
That's how I learned about my line. I agree 100% with what Kevin said.
The best way to dive into a plant that you've only got a single copy of without any brothers or sisters to pair it to is to self that plant so that you can understand what is actually in its parentage.
What it's representing from the genes that it was given because when plants breed, they only give half of their genetics.
You're not even sure what half of the genetics were passed to it.
With the GMO and breaking down to where it has the cookies and the chem in it, you can definitely see which side shows up in the plant in your environment.
Where I'm at, like Doc said, it's getting cold.
The GMO out here is starting to turn really purple on the ends of the plants because of the coldness here.
If I was down in Southern California, I wouldn't get that expression from the plant.
If I go by the only information that I have as it being a purple cultivar because of the coldness where I'm at, then I kind of trick myself into believing misinformation.
By selfing that plant and running multiple phenotypes in the same environment, you can start to see expressions that might pop out in other areas from that original plant.
That's going to give you an idea of what possibly might have an allele frequency that's higher for one trait than for another trait.
When you start seeing purples pop out of 70% of the line that you just selfed, or if you only see a small percentage of that line that you thought was a purple showing purple in the selfed lines,
it's going to give you an idea which way you might be able to take that line and start to breed it in a specific direction.
If you only get 10% purple out of a line that you were fighting to make purple, you might be wasting years of work trying to cross that thing to other plants.
It's not carrying two pairs of the alleles for that purple coloring that you're after or whatever specific trait it is.
You can find that out by diving into that S1 population and then taking the S1s that are similar and a set of them that are dissimilar and breeding them again, like Kevin said, to a male that you know.
I had my male for 14 years. He was the male I used on any new cultivar I brought into the house.
It let me know what that plant was homogenous for based on the fact that I had bred my male to over 200 different plants to find out specifically what he was homogenous for.
That allowed me to do this on a scale that was not easy to replicate.
Once you get into a pinched position with space and stuff, you start getting into the area where you're just breeding stuff based on the name that you were given for it.
And that's where a lot of people start messing up. Instead of trying to dive into what the plant actually is, they just dive into what someone told them.
Like Kevin said, most people don't even know what the hell they have.
It's good to hear your voice, Bone.
For preservation, I'm involved in that land-raise project with all the Afghani stock.
That's the opposite. What I'm doing is I'm only using the 10 seeds they've sent me per pack, right?
And so I only have a limited population. So what I do is I open-pollinate all of it.
And that gives me a big population because I don't really know what's in anything.
And what I want to do is gather as much as possible for what we call preservation because we're only working on limited populations.
And so the strategy just really applies to what are you trying to do?
I don't think there is any one way with what we do.
You use the different tools of breeding to reach an objective.
And what matters is that you're coming out with progeny, hopefully better than the P1, better than the parental stock.
Or otherwise, why did you do the breed?
Yeah. And getting back to what Chase asked about how to speed up back-cross breeding potentially, or if there are other methods.
One thing to do with back-cross breeding is to select males that are as similar to the lineage of the plant that you're breeding with.
So whatever your recurrent parent is, the female clone only that you're using as the mother that you'll continue back-crossing to,
you should pick something that's genetically very similar to that plant.
You should also pick something that's as inbred as possible.
Because this is going to reduce the overall variation in that first out-cross population.
It's going to increase the amount of the recurrent parent's genetics in the actual male that you're selecting.
Because 50% will come from the clone only that you're selecting for and are using in the back-cross project.
If you also select a male that's very similar in lineage, like Mycotech, he did the Gorilla Glue 4 back-cross project.
And he did a three chems was the male that he selected.
The overall genetic profile of that is overwhelmingly skewed to the chem family lineage.
The chems from JJ Top Dog is something that's been back-crossed for multiple generations and kept within the in-cross to other chem family relatives.
So that breeding project and that strategy of selecting a male that's very similar and also inbred is a way of making it so that you're going to get a lot more genetic gain towards your end goal,
which is reproducing the recurrent parent in seed form.
So that could help speed the process up.
Like if you were doing triangle cush, for instance, you would want to select something that is inbred and far along the line in the seed for male form for the triangle cush to help inbreed those traits.
Another thing you would mention, what's the point of fems or the value of fems, considering there's no guarantee in the sexual outcome of the offspring?
And that's certainly true.
There's going to be male offspring that will pop up or phenotypically male offspring that can pop up in populations of feminized, quote unquote, feminized seeds.
But the real reason for selping in particular is the genetic gain that you get through the inbreeding coefficient when you're selping.
It's the most rapid way of increasing the overall heterozygous or homozygosity in the population.
And that's really, that's why it's so useful.
You have a segregated population.
You're able to break it up like Kevin, Tony, and other people have mentioned, see the different variation in the population, and then select in those different subpopulations for homozygous breeding material.
And you'll get those to be much more homozygous much more rapidly if you use selping than if you use full sib male-female breeding.
So that's really the primary reason for doing it.
If you look at stuff that's like commercial corn crops, by the time they get into selection, there was millions and millions of plants that were run through the process to get into creating your true P1 that you can use for reproduction.
And so, so much I think of people's opinions of what stability is, is based off a seed that come from populations like that.
You know, cannabis has always been variable.
And when I was talking to the Afghanis, you know, they're only weaving in a certain portion of the stuff they really, really like into the system because they understand that the survivability genes from all the plants together ensure a harvest.
And so it was interesting because their survivability needs outweigh premium quality.
Premium quality can go one notch below that.
So when you know in their in their operations, it's what their desire is, you know, and I think that's what people have to understand that you're gonna, you know, what are you doing?
Everybody wants to breed, but I don't think any, I don't, not everybody, but you have to have a clear intent so that you want, you're trying to reach a goal.
I was just gonna, thanks for inviting me on dudes.
I was just gonna say, Chase, you know, last time I was on, I kind of was talking, we were talking about the feminization thing.
And, you know, so right now I mentioned I have a room full of males that I'm probably gonna spray them next week with fem powder or fem spray.
And the goal, the intention is that they're gonna start, you know, their female flowering.
And as they do, I'm gonna, I have the same copies of the males in male form flowering in another room and I'll collect pollen and put it on those males.
So in one swoop, I get to see what those males look like as females.
And then I get to put them on top of each other and then look at that progeny.
And in my mind, that's going to really help me speed up the process.
For instance, in this room I have two ATF BX males, right?
So I've held an ATF cut for over 15 years.
I really don't know what it is other than when it was given to me, it was ATF.
And when we sold it, we sold it for four grand a pound.
It's really cool.
And I've been growing a long time.
I know the characteristics.
I haven't seen too many plants that are really like it ever that are called ATF or like a period.
So it's a cool plant.
And I outcrossed it into a TKG 13 hash plant and pulled two males that did just bit more.
So I pulled on morphology, leaf morphology straight up.
The one that I have is, you know, when it's stressed out even slightly, it throws three fingers all the way up the plant.
And it wasn't actually until I got to be quite a bit better grower that I realized that wasn't just how it grew, that it was just, you know what I mean?
Earlier on when I wasn't so good, it was always stressed out.
I thought that's the way it always grew.
But anyway, so I pulled these two males that had that three-finger thing.
And I actually did the second cross BX and my buddy did it for me and it didn't really work out.
So I'm going to have to go back into the project.
But I have these males in here and I'm going to do what I just saw.
So hopefully I'll get to find one and be like, that one looks like the female.
And then at the same time, you know, I'll get to run that progeny next and, you know, see what it puts out and then be like, all right, it's really doing what I want it to do or it does this or whatever.
And speed up my process in my males, you know, my male selection and knowing what I can do with my males.
A little bit off the topic of preservation, but, you know, connects to the fact that I'm preserving this ATF and that's going to be the tool that I get to use in the process.
That's really neat.
I actually, my mom used to work for Exxon Mobil.
So we were up in Alaska during the Exxon Valdez oil spill.
And my mom was able to source some genetics from that part of the world.
And I know that I have some things from there that I've just never gotten around to popping those.
But anyways, Kevin brought up something really interesting since he's doing that preservation project that I wanted to kind of talk a little bit more about.
I look at with what's going on in Afghanistan right now, that the area is extremely volatile, just like it's always been.
But right now with a new government taking place, it's kind of like an arms race, in my opinion, as far as being able to source genetics from that part of the world.
And, you know, once I started seeing stuff happening, I started trying to contact anybody that is outside of the U.S.
You might get a little bit weird, bro, if you can get a little bit closer.
Oh, okay. Sorry about that.
But anyways, I wanted to just see what Kevin's working because I know that I just sourced some gear from, and I'm going to mangle this word, Tajikistan.
I've also sourced something that's, I guess, North Central Afghanistan called.
So anyways, I wanted to see what Kevin was doing because that's really interesting, what's going on in the Middle East, especially when it comes to cannabis.
This is a part of that Duran project.
And so the Duran line is the line that separated Pakistan and Afghanistan.
And so I was able to contact the crew and I got the whole set of seeds in from them.
And what I'm doing is I'm just open pollinate each batch individually so I can get a large population and then I can spread them out.
Because really, I mean, I have a killer Afghani collection from partners that rolled in Afghanistan for years and stuff.
And so this is more of they went from farm to farm and looked for the things that survived that terrible frost and the drought.
And right now with the change in politics in Afghanistan, I know you're going to see a population decrease.
But the main point is that, you know, I just I love that type of cannabis because I love smoking ash.
And if there's anything you can do, you know, if you could preserve anything and pass it on, it's a positive thing to do.
And so that's just kind of how I see that one.
I don't have any economic desire in it.
I don't do it at my business.
It's not done through the lab.
I don't have it done at work.
I'm doing it at my house in a tent and then outdoors where I'm running the females so I can see them.
And I flip the males outside and took them almost till they started to open so I could get an idea of trigger time and floral formation and stuff.
But it's it's I think I have probably, you know, 20, maybe 25, 30 different farms that they access seed from.
So it's going to take me a couple of years to go through this shit crop after crop.
But if you don't do it, it won't be.
And I think that's really, you know, it's just what I'm doing.
I got old enough to know that if we could hold on to some stuff before you lose it, you're going to you're going to get rid of too much rainforest.
So you're going to start losing Brazilian or you're going to start losing stuff that was, you know, all that equatorial pot.
Well, we don't really understand what we're losing.
So for me, if I could capture things that people smoked and used for 300 years, I would be I would be happy that that was something I got to be part of.
Kevin, that is so interesting.
Peter and I literally talked about that exact same conversation yesterday.
And this was from a global standpoint, by bringing US genetics to these remote areas to be cut down on flowering time so you can make it work.
Your mic's really bent now, Chase.
That might be Doc. Is that you going in that static?
Doc, I think you're coming through a little bit static there. I'm going to just put a mute on you. I'm sorry.
Yeah. Well, yeah. Well, while people are getting their connection going, I would second what Trevor was saying.
If you are looking to preserve, you know, a specific, you know, female individual and you're looking for seed to make your initial outcrosses to, you know, it's going to be an obvious good decision to find something that's already been worked.
He referenced like TK. So it's like, you know, if if multiple other people have already done some of the work, you might as well start with some TK hybrids.
And if there's something that's been a work TK, I mean, if that's what you're looking to accomplish, you know, you're going to you're going to find the results you're looking for a lot quicker than making a bunch of outcrosses with hybrids that don't have any TK.
Then, I mean, if you want to do the whole process yourself, you know, and not use something that already has what you're starting with, you can take, you know, really anything that you have lying around and, you know, make hybrids together and see see where, you know, the progeny ends up.
And sometimes you'll take something that's completely unlike something else. And, you know, maybe in the F1, you'll find a lot of dominance towards the female.
But then be careful with that because, you know, you might not see a lot of dominant traits from, you know, the male that you use in the F1, but it'll definitely be popping out in the F2 or F3.
And something that somebody else mentioned earlier about working a line, you know, multiple generations in and realizing that it's not as good as it used to be.
I mean, that's just a part of it. You know, it's like when you're combining genetics together, sometimes you have a great combination and the results are beautiful.
And sometimes you can easily make a mistake, you know.
One example would be, you know, I whittled down some things to different males and I chose the one that had a more robust, sturdy structure.
But only to find out several generations down the line, I ended up with a sturdy structure, but a darker color and different flavor profiles than I wanted.
Whereas if I had gone with the stretchier, lankier one, you know, I would have gotten what I achieved.
But that's just part of it. You know, it's not about getting there quicker. It's about having the experience.
And it's just like a skill like anything else. You know, it's like if you want to be good at something or if you're into something or passionate about it, you'd like to do it.
Great. You should do it. And it's all about enjoying the moment and what you personally gain from it.
But like anything else, it's going to come with time because if you're observant and you have good intuition, you're just taking in all this information, you know.
And so the more time you put in, the more in tune that you're able to be with not just your choices, but also your results.
And sometimes, you know, you make a wrong choice. That's why I mentioned before, whenever I do open pollination projects, I try to back cross and in cross in the same place. Right?
And sometimes I'll try to back cross to both the parents, you know. So using, you know, an OG sour as an example, you know, because I like to smoke that weed.
If I have an OG sour hybrid and in the same tent or a little hoopty or something, I'm going to open pollinate, you know, that generation.
I'd like to throw some sour diesel clones and some OG clones so I can make the in cross, back cross to both parents and hopefully make some hybrids at the same time.
So then when I grow out, you know, both back crosses and the in cross, if I don't like what I found in that selection, I can just go back to previous generation, start again, but select different males, you know.
Anyway, you know, it's just sharing some thoughts.
The work you did on your cookie line, though, I mean, I honestly think that that's by far the best representation of cookie, period.
You know, it's...
You fucking nailed that one.
Thanks, Kev. You know, it's so funny. I was talking about earlier. I made, you know, a bunch of out crosses in 2011 and I worked the wrong one for a few different years, you know, until I tested out more of them and found something that was more dominant.
But you know where I really blew it is I was trying to prove to myself as a breeder that I could accomplish what this panel is about.
I wanted to make Girl Scout cookie from seed. Right. And here it happened was I had these Girl Scout OG sour hybrids that grew these cylinders like Pringles cans of fucking white resinous frosty weed.
That's the type of stuff that was really, really marketable. I was trying to breed it towards these like super not that vigorous like shade loving plants.
And I realized I should have just kept it going in the direction of the hybrids where I had these massive yielding fucking mold resistant, you know, combination of like the cookie resin gland, but with the gassiness to it.
So that was a mistake that I made where like I saw a lot of the GMO popping and I'm like, oh man, I had it finishing in, you know, 65 days.
That was, you know, a beast like that. So now I'm bringing back the hybrids from it without going too deep.
Who wants to spell cookie?
I'm going to jump in here if you guys don't mind.
Excuse my voice. I'm a little sick. My name is Ryan late. Some of you guys might know me as Chimera. I've been breeding cannabis for quite a while.
I got a background in genetics and a little bit of understanding some of this stuff.
But I just kind of wanted to point like maybe a little bit of a different perspective on preservation of a single cut versus creating a line from that cut.
And those are really two different goals. You know, Kevin was talking about goals earlier. Every breeding event that we do is really you have to have a goal in mind.
It's not just crossing a couple of plants and seeing what happens. That's a breeding experiment. And that's definitely part of, you know, working at working at your goals.
So I really I like what Dan was saying about, you know, knocking out multiple hybrids. Whenever you're flying pollen, it's always good to do, you know, a Cib cross and a back cross to either parent if you can.
And then also the self at the same time, because that pollen's flying. You may as well get a bunch of things done at the same time. So you don't have to go back and create that pollen again at the opportunity cost, but doing something else.
But I think it's really important to understand that, like the breeding nature of cannabis is such that, you know, it's not like tomatoes or strawberries or some other like plant that's a natural sulfur.
When when you take a female and you cross it to another plant, you're actually introducing a whole new set of genetics. Or in fact, you're introducing two new genomes into the mix.
You got to remember that every plant has when we talk about the genome of a cannabis plant, there's actually two genomes in that plant. One genome that was inherited from the mom and one that was inherited from the dad.
And it's kind of a natural state that that cannabis, most cannabis plants exists, exist in this heterozygous nature where, like I said, they've got one chromosome from mom and usually a different one from dad, you know, times all 10 chromosomes.
So there's a lot of genetic variation that's already built into any any one individual. And so tools like selfing is about.
Creating a population using only the genetics of that one individual. So when you solve a plant, any plant, any any chromosome or any set of alleles that are already fixed are already homozygous in that plant, they're going to breed true.
But any any locus or any section of the genome where you actually have different alleles, those things are just going to segregate kind of like an F2 population.
So I think it's really important to to to understand that, like, you know, when when we're creating these self populations, we're really seeing what's buried in the genomes of that one individual plant.
You're not going to like. So when when you're when we talk about preservation, you're preserving the genetics that exist in that plant, but you're not preserving the phenotype. Right. And very often you're not preserving the phenotype.
So preserving the phenotype is really best done.
Right now, through tissue culture. But I think what we're going to start seeing happen is, is as we do more selfing, really, when you create a population, you're creating the building blocks to rebuild that hybrid.
And so that's something we call in plant breeding, we call recapitulating the hybrid. Right. So you can you might think of it like we're going to talk like let's say phenotype, but I don't mean phenotype like in in in like flower color or leaf color, anything like that.
But if you imagine like a heterozygous plant.
We can consider that it's purple, but to get that purple, you had to blend. You had to blend together blue and red. Right. And so without having those blue and red types in your population, you actually can't get back to the purple.
Because if you if you breed the purple and the blue, you get some kind of intermediate phenotype between purple and blue. And if you breed the red and the purple, you get some kind of more reddish pinkish hue in between the red and the purple. Right.
And neither of those things recapitulates the purple, which is really what we're trying to do when we're when we're when we're trying to preserve or recreate that type in a seed line. Right.
So I just I think it's good for people to be aware that like when you then take like a fourth or a third or a fourth genome and you add those into the mix, you're really just complicating things.
And so in the plant breeding world and like the legit plant breeding world, like corn or whatever wheat, you know, backcrossing isn't used on heterozygous plants because every time you backcross to a heterozygous plant, you're just reshuffling the genes.
You're actually not making any genetic gains. Backcrossing is really reserved for a situation where you have a true breeding line and you're trying to introgress a new trait. You're trying to add a new trait to that population, say mold resistance or powdery mildew resistance or something like that.
And we do have all these different methods, like, you know, for example, reverse breeding. But essentially what you're doing, you want to take that hybrid state that you have, bust it apart and create true breeding lines from that hybrid.
And then once you isolated those two true breeding lines, when you cross them back together, then you get back the hybrid. Right. And that hybrid is only good for one generation because, again, it's a hybrid plant. It's an F1 seed.
And when you try to read, when you try to if people try to breed that F1 seed inter se or amongst itself, it falls apart. It just becomes an F2 and you get that wide range of variation again.
So, you know, I know that like the feminized breeding thing that gets a little bit of crap in the industry and there are some definite weaknesses to doing that. But, you know, even when we started really seriously breeding corn and wheat like 50, 60 years ago, those species were also kind of in the same state.
The cannabis is in now. Right. Which has been just repeated hybridization over many, many, many, serious generations to the point where everything is pretty much heterozygous. And you've got to remember as well, cannabis is natural state is to be heterozygous.
So when those when those species entered like real domestication or real serious plant breeding.
The first step was to create true breeding lines out of that or what we call recombinant inbred lines.
And and it's the creation of those recombinant inbreds or those tight homozygous lines that is going to then sometime in the future allow us to put them back together to create the hybrid.
But right now, what we've got is these complex states that are built from many building blocks and just and re and rebreeding those complex states together is not going to get us to the goal.
What we need to do is breed backwards to create those inbred lines. And once we've got those inbred lines, then we can figure out putting them back together to create the things that we have now as clones, just in seed form.
Have you, Brian, have you walked through that process with anything specific? I mean, I'm kind of aware that you've been doing a lot of stuff.
Yeah, well, I mean, so something is always kind of well, there's two first steps like Kevin said, the real preservation step, which is to take as much of the population as you have and let it open pollinate.
And that steps, that step is about capturing the genes. Right. That's your step where you're making sure that we don't lose everything going forward. Because, you know, as we all know, like, you know, not every cross is successful. Right. Like we may, we might make a cross and we say, yeah, we improve the flavor, the yield or potency or whatever.
But maybe we lose powdery mildew susceptibility. So the, sorry, powdery mildew resistance. So the important thing is always to capture everything so that we can go back when we fuck up, because we got to recognize, you know, none of us can see into the future.
These every time we do a breeding, it is a breeding experiment. Right. Every time we make a cross, it's a breeding experiment. And we don't know how, we don't know what the outcome is until we grow the seeds. And so sometimes we make mistakes. So you want to have that population or that preservation population to go back for.
Once you've done that step, you know, you can, you know, as you're growing out these say, say, say Kevin saying, you know, you got 10, 20 or whatever, you open pollinate them all at the same time. But you can also select those plants. You can take a cut.
And keep it alive as a clone. You harvest the seeds. They all go in the freezer or fridge or wherever, however you're storing it. And now you can go and look at those individual plants that you selected in the process and you can self them. Right. And so selfing to me is, is it serves multiple traits or serves multiple purposes.
One, you're investigating how heterozygous that is. Right. If I self cookies or I self sourdough, and what's the frequency in which that, that phenotype comes back again. Right. And so you can actually learn about looking at any given trait.
You can learn about the heterozygous or homozygous state of your, of your parental cut, right? The single cut that we're all talking about. So if, if the important traits from that.
So that, that, that trait breeds true, but if it doesn't, what you want to do is not only look at that one type. You also want to look at the off types and try to like put together in your head. Like, are we seeing like a, you know, is this a 25%, 50%, 25%?
You're patient path, you know, definitely a heterozygous plant. And so you can actually get a lot of information by just doing the self, not only on the plant as a whole, but looking at specific traits.
So, you know, for example, we saw, you know, I'm sure a lot of people have done this, but if you sell the train wreck cut, you get like about 25% of the plants come out, limonene dominant as opposed to terpene dominant. Right. And so that's a pretty good indication that.
For one, to peneline dominance is, is, or to peneline is dominant to limonene predominance in the terpene profile. And if you actually take that limonene plant and then self, and you actually see that all the plants come out.
For any given breeding program, because like I said, like looking at any character or set of characters, you can kind of get an idea of one, the state of heterozygosity for that one trade.
Right.
Because again, it's all about.
It.
This idea is all about recapitulating behind a seed line that has all the characteristics of the cut. We're trying to, we're trying to put cam dog, the cam D into a seed form, for example. Right.
And sometimes you have to breed away from your ideal type to get off types, which you then stabilize and bring back together to get your, you know, the ideal type. So I don't know if that's, if that was a little bit, uh, rambling or incoherent, but that's, that's something to think about.
No, that was great. That was great information.
Yeah.
Good stuff.
Thank you for coming on. Right. I really appreciate you jumping on and diving deep.
Into the.
Is it possible that you could talk about some of the like, we always speak in terms of homo and heterozygous and in terms of.
Basically Mendelian traits, but could you speak to quantitative traits and the way that really doing the importance of applying statistics to these populations to understand variation for these continuous traits and how that's, you know, that's really where the majority of selection and breeding goes on is, you know, doing advanced mathematics.
Yeah, that's where it gets really complicated because quantitative traits.
Are you, you know, you might've heard the term QTLs or what we refer to as quantitative trait loci.
And that just means that.
Controlling the phenotype of a given trait. It's an additive.
Effect of many, many genes scattered throughout the chromosome. Right. And so you really have to kind of treat every single QTL.
At or every locus in a QTL as a different trait.
And it's kind of like, you know, it's kind of like more of like a polyhybrid.
Punnett square where you're looking at rather than just, you know, a four square punnett square, it becomes like a 16 or a 32 square punnett square.
Right. Because you're following all these different traits that together have an additive effect.
And, you know, cannabinoid profile or sorry, cannabinoid quantification is a good example of that because it's a result of not only, you know, the THC or the CBD locus.
It's all of these additive little traits.
Having to do with like the precursors, right. Or the level of precursors that exist in a plant.
And we have to optimize all of those traits together.
It's really hard to do that on a small scale.
And without statistics and really.
The.
Type of games that that's that, like, think that we really need to be looking at partnering with universities or.
Organizations where you know you can actually take an acre and grow a seedling, which is tough today.
I mean, like, when we just got an acre to grow, most people are going to plant clones, right?
Or they're going to they're going to plant a seed line that is going to be representative.
You don't want to take an F2 and plant an F2 in an acre when you're trying to actually harvest the flowers.
It's not that you don't want to do it.
It's just that it's a competing interest for the guy that needs to sell the pot.
Right. Because if you're trying to sell the flowers, you really want those flowers to be consistent.
We're just growing for extractor for THC or CBD or whatever compound you're chasing.
It's not as a big deal to take that whole field because the extraction process homogenizes everything.
But if you're trying to make like, you know.
Like a varietal hash, like something like, you know, you want like a pure train wreck hash.
You don't want to have all these different off types in there.
You don't want to have all these different flavor profiles because they essentially contaminate the mix.
So, yeah, it's hard. It's that's a complicated one.
And I think again, you know, the trait doesn't come back all the same.
One, you know that it's not hetero or it's not homozygous.
But if you also can't figure out that ratio of like the one to two to one that you expect to see from, you know, what we call a monohybrid cross of a.
Telling you that like this, maybe this trait that we're looking at or this phenotype that we're looking at is controlled by multiple.
And it's a little easier to figure out, but if it's like 20 genes, that's really something difficult to figure out.
And and like, you know, the way that we've been doing it in small grouse.
I don't think that it really is going to allow us to elucidate that kind of that kind of gene interaction, which is unfortunate.
But it's, you know, that's that's where, you know, a real consultant from an ag, you know, an ag company might be a path to explore as a partnership or just hiring them in.
Because it's hard to it's hard to pin these things down when there's so many genes.
Out of the room, just to also say thanks everybody for joining. Can you guys hear me better now?
Yeah.
Yeah, you clear.
What when you guys are doing your breeding projects like when you do open pollination.
Taking is like the whatever amount of males that are coming up from your seed and then using it that way or.
How many are you guys actually plants are you using whenever you're doing your breeding projects?
Well, it means like for the preservation I'm doing, I only have a limited population to play with.
But, you know, on some of the projects I'm involved with as the selector where there's, you know, teams of breeders that are that's what they know, that's that's their profession for the last 20 years is is professional plant breeding.
I just come in to help them choose the agronomic traits and then do the evaluation on the impact to the buyer, you know, the end result.
And in those populations, those are fucking massive.
So, I mean, it can go from a three by three tent where you're you're flowering 10 seeds to where you're working in massive numbers.
And it just depends on what the purpose and goal is.
You know, for me on that, the Afghani stuff is just really to get the seeds locked into a bigger container so I can push them into the public and let people have access to stuff that.
Is directly sourced from a specific farm for a specific type of hash, specific latitudes, specific altitudes, specific water needs, you know, there's there's there's all these things that are in that genetic material that that information.
And so the ability to grab that. But I think it varies on on your access to your resources.
Like Ryan was saying, where how many people have an acre?
Now I get I get to travel around the world and see people who have way more than an acre.
And because they have the time and they have the people coming in, I just kind of get to learn from them about how they are approaching it.
And then they bring me in to do what I do, which is select.
Can I say something?
Jump in.
All right.
I do.
I was a big fan of the dude from Brothers Grimm who, you know, told us about cubing.
And then I took cubing and using an IBL and my understanding of genotypical expression, physical expression traits.
And I re-bred doing the outcross, but then always having a 50 of the Kauai electric.
And it was often of a different genotypical expression.
And then I knew that, you know, typical expression because the trade expressed.
In three generations, like in the outcross with the same night blooming jasmine.
Smell situation.
And.
I was able to make it so that so it's cross.
It's got the DMT.
You know, of the Kauai electric.
And then I have the rock, you know, of the Kauai electric.
And then the outcross is a Molokai frost.
And.
The DMT is so.
Strong.
And the, you know, typical expression that.
On Chang high, which is like.
Two or three crosses down with this.
It really expressed amazingly.
And I got.
To the rock Fino and.
And then to the Kauai electric breeders cut.
Like.
It really expressed amazingly.
And I got.
It really expressed amazingly.
And I got a Geno expression or a Fino that was very close to the winner,
the cut of Kauai electric that everybody wants,
but nobody really knows what they're hunting for.
And I feel like doing the, if you're working within a land race,
to do that out cross while keeping a different genotypical expression
really makes the genetics heartier.
You know, it's like out breeding to like a cousin and then crossing back
or something like that and really keeping the bloodline strong.
But then it has these other really strong traits from the 50% of the others
that gets dulled down, you know?
And I just really think that it's helped to stabilize the strain in
like this whole other vigorous way.
And I don't know that anybody else has been doing that with their inbred
land races, just having different crosses across the different Geno expressions
and then re-crossing those back in.
But going for like the high expression, like for me, like the looks and smell
are awesome, but I'm hunting highs.
And like to get that here and now clear or like somewhere that's very close to that,
but it has enough of the fog or something like that so that the person doesn't tell me
like, oh, I didn't smoke anything.
I don't feel like I'm high or anything like that, you know?
But because I want a little bit of that, but I don't really like that.
And I like certain winter cuts, like Jordan of the Islands,
Winter Cut of Dutch Treat, The Duchess.
Like I love that high of being here and now and in control of myself,
like my best days when I was young and sober.
And it's really hard for me to get that.
And then all these people will smoke that and they'll hate on it instead of like
embracing it as like one of the most amazing experiences.
You know, to be able to always hit and get that effect experiences is so special.
But then 90 percent of the population, if they were to hit it, would be like,
I didn't smoke anything.
I'm like, have you ever done real quality anything?
I'm like, probably not.
So you like you're hunting within the zone of cut stuff.
And if you don't know, like Kevin has this amazing like he's smoked all the real cuts
and like when they express like in that, you know, like, you know, that whatever
temperature and stuff, those dudes had it to make it express and express properly.
And then it got because like one like several degrees off on either way.
And it's not the same Dutch food experience.
And I just wasted six months of my life, you know, to have a quarter pound of stuff
that I don't even want to smoke.
But. If if you you have all of the genotypical traits and then, you know, the
Fino that goes with that, then the dude on the other side who gets the the the seed
can. Really get that high that they're going for, instead of being
disappointed. And then not everybody is going to like I I got a high.
I was disappointed with and I cut it and I regrew it.
And the next season it was a champion, you know.
And so that's that's scary.
And that that happened to the Fino, you know, like the genotypical traits were where the
consistent the leaf formation, you know, for my growing medium.
And it just it made me think a lot because there's all of these dudes and like I don't
know that they ever really smoke real 91 chem or like a real skunk one, you know, and
then maybe they did.
And it was the winner cut because I've gotten that a lot where people just yell on at
me like it's the cut. It's the cut.
And it's like, but it's not the Fino of the cut, you know.
And it's gigantic.
Like when you're say you were like a broker and you're looking for certain things and
all of your customers only want a certain high and this guy's got the strain, but he
didn't have the Fino, you know, and this guy's yelling at you with like a bad look in
his eyes and stuff like you're the one who's who's often wrong.
And it's just like, dude, like it may be Dutch treat, but it's not hitting the Dutch
treat that makes it Dutch treat.
So you've got to give that Fino like a different name on the Fino.
Otherwise, you're just like brand stealing or something, you know.
Yeah, I think like Dan said, you know, it's one of those things where everybody's on
their own journey and you can really you can make your own selections and it's like
the high, the expression, all of those things are very particular to people's growing
skills, their environments, their personal cannabinoid receptors and how they, you
know, metabolize these different chemicals.
So it's it's one of those where something that one person really, really likes, another
person doesn't necessarily like.
I know I certainly had that issue with the cookies for years and years.
Like everything.
Yeah, but it's one of those things where I think it's all got its place and we've all,
you know, like I went from being a hater and having very particular and specific, you
know, perspective on a lot of different things from feminized breeding to particular
cultivars or genetics.
And as I've.
As I've grown up and just kind of like gotten to appreciate what other people appreciate
in cannabis, that it's something that like, you know, I give everybody their space to
enjoy on their own level, and I think that really diving in and breeding for your own
specific purposes and goals is really the thing that people should be doing.
And to the extent that we can help and discuss these things and give people the tools to
actually go and breed and figure these things out, like, you know, chimera, Ryan.
Jumping in, giving all of his insights on the science, a lot of those things that he's
talking about, like pure line theory, essentially like breeding, selfing and taking each
of the individual types that come out of a line and breeding those down to a homozygous
state and then recombining those and developing the hybrids that way.
And that's really good information.
Yeah, there's really good information on all of that in terms of like, you know, the
science and where it started in terms of Wilhelm Johansen, who was a Dutch.
He was a pharmacist, actually, who did the first experiments on that.
He's the guy who coined the term genotype and phenotype.
He did really extensive studies on that issue.
There was also, I think, a Swedish...
Could you type that in chat, please?
What's up?
Could you type that guy's name in chat, please?
Yeah, I'll try and figure out how to do that.
But I'll also post some stuff about this.
But he's a very interesting breeder who helped to really establish the science of
breeding after Mendel, of course.
Then another person is Nilsson L.
I'm probably mispronouncing his name and Ryan could probably jump on and correct me.
But he was a Swedish breeder and there was a Swedish breeding facility that did really
extensive breeding experiments.
And they have a very cool graph, like he was saying, where you see the Punnett square of
like a 16 by 16 different phenotype breakdown or genotype breakdown based on the
phenotypic expression of essentially three factors controlling or three genes
controlling the expression of color and wheat.
And you can actually see how the statistics break down.
You can see visual graphics of it if you search his name as well.
And it's just really important to have these tools, the scientific breeding tools that
somebody like Tamera can bring up.
You know, Google is a great resource and I'll throw some up in the chat and over on my
IG. But combining those tools with individual breeding and kind of like people's own
experience really lets us go down this rabbit hole that lets us explore this genome
that is so variable and really incredible.
Because there's one thing I wanted to point out is.
We with cannabis and for better or for worse, you know, there's definitely been some
drawbacks and some negative consequences associated with the way that breeding has
happened and sort of the genetic drift that has happened over the last 40, 50 years with
modern hybrid breeding.
But it's pretty incredible that people through just.
The heritability of the THC cannabinoid biosynthase pathway and heavy selection
pressure really is incredible.
The way that people were able to select for that particular QTL and amplify THC
production to such incredible levels over the last 30 years.
And it's come at consequences.
You know, there's been gene diversity loss.
There's been other cannabinoids that were probably lost or have been downright
impaired. But that's something that's pretty interesting.
The degradation of the genome in the synthetics, but there's that whole issue of
Skunk VA now and Skunk VA has kept 91 Chem alive and then less DNA and all these
dudes who grow organic got that cut from him like a long time ago and hiked it back
like he's somehow keeping it in that zone.
You know, it hasn't been out and the genome pool has changed because of the feeds or
anything like that. It's still like 91 Chem has a specific headspace.
And if you hit 91 Chem, you're always in this like amazing high if you love 91 Chem.
And then. Anything else that tries to say that it's 91 Chem, like it's not, but it
can have the expressions of the high, but they can cut it down to like 10 or 15
minutes if they know what they're doing.
And that's usually like nasty salt synthetics.
That was the cookies.
I got cookies from this one dude and it had the flavor of cookies.
It had the high of cookies for 10 minutes and then it dropped off into that.
Funky depression.
I need to fricking smoke.
Rah.
Feeling and then I smoke cookies from somebody else and it had the same high and
everything like that, but it didn't drop off in.
In like 10, 15 minutes, like I want to fricking smoke and.
It kept the flavor and it kept the base high experience, which is usually like the
beginning is like a really functional clear in here.
And then it narcs off into like some kind of a foggy stupid after a certain amount of
time. And most of that I have to assume is.
Is like their feeding regimen and their medium choice.
But then there's all of these like weird anomalies, and I know that the dude's
growing organic, but he's not getting anything, you know, like smoking blue dream
smells like blue dream and you hit it and it's not blue dream.
And this dude is like a flawless organic individual and it looks and it smells like
it, but it doesn't have any of the effect.
Of a real blue tree.
So it's like, oh, Hey, I just, I think that what you're ultimately getting at is
that, you know, people can have a certain cut, they can have the same cut, but you
have 10 people grow in the exact same plant.
You're going to have 10 different outcomes.
And even though you like that cultivar, you know, it could just all boil down to how
it was grown, what it was grown in and all those variables that distinguish, you know,
your, your, your growers.
So, but anyways, I also wanted to just take a moment to to let everyone know if they
will find the time to be able to update their bio and to put like their Instagram
handle on there.
So that way people in the audience that that doesn't know any of the members to be
able to follow them.
So I know that that's really important and clubhouse.
But anyways, that's why I wanted to say.
And I was going to say, I was going to say, sorry, Jeff, you should mute yourself when
you're not talking.
That's kind of like the way the way that it's supposed to be done.
So if you're not speaking, put your yourself on mute.
Are we were just jumping into that thing, didn't taste like blue dream.
And what I know is that because I've scrubbed so many plants, what I know is half the
shit we smoked, we really didn't know what we were smoking.
The difference in some of the plants after we get rid of some of the viral contamination
is so dramatic that it almost I feel like I've never touched her.
And so I think that a lot of times, you know, when we're working with plants and we
have expectations of what things were, it's is the plant that you're working with able to
actually create those secondary metabolites and give you that experience?
Because if it's occluded, if the vascular bundles are occluded, it's not going to stack
the tissue. It's just not going to transport the sugars and it's not going to develop the
complexity. And so, I mean, that's what I realized is that, you know, I'm looking at
stuff that I've known for a long time and when we cleaned it, holy shit.
It is not the same plant.
You know, I think, you know, cannabis breeding with all the shit that's going on and, you
know, Ryan comes in and, you know, really eloquently breaks down very complex things in a
way that's easy, you know, to understand, you know, layman's wise, as much as the science
aspect is cool.
You know, it's like I look at it like it's an arms race, you know what I mean?
Like there's so much incredible technology that's going to be, you know, put into
cannabis breeding, you know, based off of analytics and, you know, adjusting chromosomes
and creating tricloids and all types of fascinating things that can be done.
But, you know, me personally, it's like my mind, I feel like I'm in a school setting or
something. I feel like I'm sitting still in a room, you know, and me personally, I like to be
outside and I like to smoke weed while I'm around the plants.
And, you know, my style is most mostly on my intuition.
But then again, I get really intrigued and fascinated listening to someone like Ryan and
also Trevor, who really vocalize well on a level that's over my head.
It's really not over your head, though, because, I mean, you're doing the same thing.
And, you know, I don't want to create this impression that it's only science that's going to
bring us to the future.
That's not true at all.
Look at where we've come in the last 30 years.
And none of that was done really through science.
So you can make genetic gains, you know, it's like playing pool or like maybe golf is a
better analogy, you know, and that's kind of what I'm trying to talk about.
Like, you know, when I say don't do an outcross or, you know, this situation is not good for
that. It's really what's in your bag of tricks.
Right. And so as a plant breeder, it's like it's like putting together a golf game.
You're not just going to take a driver and go out on the course and smack the driver
every time. Right.
It's that you want to choose the club or the tool that's going to get you the result that
you need. And that's why learning the tools or the different types of crosses and what
they will do and what they won't do.
That's that's the important thing, because it's about it's about building your bag of
tricks. Right.
Sometimes a back cross is useful.
Sometimes an outcross is useful.
Sometimes selfing is useful.
And, you know, and I think that as people go about building their breeding career.
You know, again, falling back to Dan, what you said about doing those multiple crosses when
you're when you're flying pollen of one type, do a bunch of crosses, grow them all out side
by side, and then you can see what each cross did to your program.
Right. And you're all you're doing is gaining experience for the future so that next time
when you see a particular problem in your breeding program or you're trying to achieve a
particular goal, you might know that, like, hey, you know, pulling this club out versus
that club is is going to get you to where you want to be or where you need to be.
And also keeping in mind that, again, every cross is an experiment.
Right. Like some work and some don't work.
And like a grown up seed where the crosses didn't work and the results are less than
average or, you know, you actually went back.
That's not necessarily a failure.
Right. It's just teaching me that you got to go down a different path.
So that's that's why I like to share these different ideas with people and encourage them
to try. You know, don't just fall on my cubing or whatever, you know, try these different
things and learn from them and and see what you're going to do in the future.
I also want to comment on what Jolly was talking about with the different highs and the
different effects. For sure, there is like the variation that we induce from growers.
But you also got to remember, like, you know, you might create a set of plants and they
just they're not for everybody.
Right. And I think we kind of learned this also with DJ's Blue family.
I mean, when I was working down the Cali, we brought a bunch of that stuff down and
grew it up through the lab.
And, you know, a lot of these these introspective and kind of certain head spaces that
people were were purchasing out of that population, they really landed in like the eight
to 12 percent THC range.
Right. And like you said, like you might throw that in front of a group of heads and
everybody's like, oh, I don't feel anything on that.
Because, you know, maybe their tolerances are way up or whatever, but that that
cannabinoid profile or that level of THC, it puts you in a certain head space.
And, you know, the effect of THC is by phasic.
Like if you look at medical patients that are taking like dronabinol or these synthetic
THC pills, you see the same thing, like they kind of ramp up and they get a little bit
spacey and enjoy it.
But then as the thing sets in, you know, you get into that kind of whacked down, like
stone, really kind of stupid feeling.
And and part of that comes with.
With turning THC way up in your bloodstream and a lot of the younger generation, I mean,
that's all they knew.
Right. Like so they were kind of weaned on like cookies and chems and all these really
powerful varieties.
And so they don't know how to recognize that intermediate class of cannabinoid
expression where it provides a different head space and they might not even feel high.
Right. And then layer on top of that, you know, now we're starting to learn all these
other things, too, where it's like, you know, the enzymes in your body and your liver
that actually clear cannabinoids from your bloodstream, they're different than
everybody. Right.
Everybody's it's like just like, you know, plants have all this variation.
Humans also have all this genetic variation as well.
We're also obligated crossers, right?
We're not true breeding lines that are all uniform.
So we've got all this genetic variation built into our own genomes that are responsible
for everything, you know, our neurochemistry, but also like the liver enzymes that clear
these compounds. And we're starting to learn that, like the way that our bodies react,
like we all might take the same dose.
We all might smoke the same thing, but we have different reactions because of the way
our bodies are, our individual neurochemistry and the way our bodies clear those drugs.
Right. And you just you can't control for that as a plant breeder.
Right. So I can't remember who it was.
I think it might have been Trevor. But he said, you know, like, explore the explore the
differences. You know, we all don't need to do the same thing.
Right. If we all chase cookies or OG, then we all end up with this big mess in the
middle where we're all doing the same thing.
Whereas like if you find a line that you like and it hits you the right way.
And really, this is what DJ did without him knowing is that he found these plants that
like hit himself the right way.
And he kind of liked the way that they interacted with with, you know, his his love for
LSD. And and he bred those things that made it work.
Those things aren't for everybody.
Right. But for what you're doing is you're creating a new market for other people that
have similar neurochemistry to yours.
And, you know, it it's not all about serving the masses.
I know everybody wants to win the cups and do all that kind of stuff.
Be huge and popular.
But it's like, man, there's there's tons of honor in creating a rare type that benefits a
whole bunch of people or a certain subset of people.
Right. And that was one of the things we did with one of the CBD beta carophaly line that
we created. It was like, you know, there's no fun potential in there at all.
Ninety nine percent of the cannabis community is not going to be interested in that plant.
But. You know, we created the medicine type that is for this small subset of people is
really useful. Right.
And I don't know.
I really love the diversity of the plants.
We said it earlier. The diversity in cannabis is really, really remarkable.
I mean, it's fucking incredible.
And I think we're still kind of at the tip of the iceberg.
So don't be afraid to do your own thing.
Right. If you if you find something that you like and even if you're not getting feedback
from from that's that's too positive from the majority of people.
Don't worry about it. You know, they'll give you build it.
They will come kind of thing. You just do do what you like.
Make the things that you like.
And, you know.
I'm not saying do that for your whole business model, because that obviously doesn't work for a
business model. But, you know, don't be afraid to to to make the crosses you like and not
worry about what anybody else thinks about it.
Hey, that was all great analogies with the with the golf, Ryan.
Real real quick, I just want to say, speaking of the old blueberry lines, you know, I was
running some lines that have distant, you know, F-13 genetics.
And if you refresh your screen, you'll see this one individual that pops up every several
hundred plants or so.
And just like what you were talking about, you know, this thing probably can't have more
than 12 or 14 percent, you know, cannabinoids and low THC, you know, but it's pretty.
And I'm looking forward to smoking it.
Beautiful purple, man.
That's that is a rare expression in the F-13.
I was part of that thing with the original selection on those.
And yeah, that's a beautiful plant.
Can I just add that like blueberry, the one from the 70s that DJ Shortbread like only
exists within true blueberry.
And that's kind of like a gold looking bud usually.
And then all of the other he has like five or so or more different blueberries and it's
the cat piss in a nutshell that the James Loud episode of cat piss.
And everybody's like, oh, I've had cat piss, but I haven't had cat piss, but I've had cat
piss. And it all may be the same turf profile, but it's not the same headspace.
And that's why I'm saying that turps and the current industry industry accepted view on
turps is wrong.
And it misleads people.
And I think that a strain based knowledge, like if you know the real skunk one or, you
know, the real UK cheese headspace.
I mean, that's one of the best ways to go for descriptions, because I had chem for
phenol of nine pound hammer and it was not an awesome alpha beta pioneering experience.
You know, like all of my other favorite alpha beta pioneering plants, it was like an
erratic, you know, it really hurts people if you tell them that you got cat piss and it's
not the cut from the clubs, you know, from the biker club, that one club in specific that
used to have that one.
And it was a trippy experience and it was super functional.
I'm not trying to be rude, buddy, but let's try to keep it to what we're actually
discussing as a topic.
And unless you're going a certain direction or have a question, if you can respect the
time, because this is being recorded on the future canvas project on YouTube.
So we will be doing that.
But we will be doing that.
So we want to make sure that we are giving respect to the audience because we haven't
even taken questions or anything like that.
So just be respectful of the time, please.
Yes, I was preserving the line of a single cut.
And I'm saying that you can't tell me somebody who has brokerage experience with all of
these dudes who you guys respect because of the fear.
And you can't tell me somebody who has a brokerage experience with all of these dudes
and you can't tell me that 91 chem is different because you may have a cut and it's a
different one because it's always 91 chem and cookies was always cookies.
It was just a turn down one.
And you either have the genotype expression in the cut or you don't.
And if you don't, then please say that it's a variation or give it a different name with
a tag under it so that I don't go thinking I'm getting SFB OG and I'm getting some
other wack OG and I'm trying to make a cross off of it and it's not getting me to the
headspace that I want.
Yeah, but that's just, you know, how markets work.
You're always going to have people who are going to try and make money off of things
that have name value.
I mean, there are knockoffs of every major brand and every successful anything in the
world, in every industry.
But this one's one of those things where it's gotten gnarly, bro.
Certainly, you know, times are hard out there.
You know, it's definitely not the same as it was, at least here on the West Coast.
And so with the changing in regulations and laws and the flooding of the market with just
crazy overproduction.
Yeah, and a lot of unhonest operators make it so that it's difficult to find and access
legit cuts. But if you have them or, you know, people with them, it's important to get
them and to hold them down and to secure them.
Any cut that's important to anybody listening is something that needs to be secured.
I think, you know, that's the point of this whole discussion.
And, you know, there's going to be fakes that are passed around.
There's going to be disagreements, as we've seen with pretty much every major cut.
There's multiple variations floating around.
But, you know, being discerning, tracing down the lineage, finding the true expressions,
preserving those true expressions is really what it's all about.
And I think, you know, what Ryan pointed out earlier and a number of other people have
mentioned is that tissue culture preservation is really one of the best ways to preserve
an individual plant expression.
Cleaning those genetics when they become infected with different viroids is definitely
something that's become necessary with the ever-present, you know, just ubiquitous nature
of HPLV nowadays.
So that's something that everybody's got to really be diligent about and really cognizant
of is maintaining mother room health, maintaining plant stock health, backing things up in
tissue culture, doing meristem tissue, tissue culture and cleaning all those things that
Ryan and Kevin are much more versed in.
And other than that, going down those the rabbit hole of breeding.
Doing the back crossing, doing the selfing, growing out these populations and the people
who have this knowledge about those phenotypes and those expressions and how, you know, a
blue dream or a chem or different varieties may have expressed in the past, which aren't
expressing that way now with the different degeneration that a lot of the mother stock
has gone through.
That's valuable in, you know, selecting and being able to discern and differentiate between
both asexually reproduced plants that one may get or selecting within a population in
seed reproduction.
And yeah, so it's one of those things.
Buyer beware is definitely the name of the game.
For me, this brings up the point of just transparency moving forward.
And, you know, I don't know what kind of options everybody has available to them, but
I think that being able to genetically map something that you actually hold dear or you
think that is special and unique is important.
So that way you can actually find out where that plant really lies or you're at least
putting that indicator into the galaxy.
So that way, you know, you can kind of trace what it is that you're working with, because
I think that one thing that we can all agree on that there hasn't been a very good
explanation of the backstory of a lot of genetics as far as, you know, when, say, multiple
people release the exact same cultivar.
I'll, for example, we'll use blue dream since we've talked about it.
Literally just taking a blueberry and any haze and crossing those together.
I mean, technically you could call that blue dream, but that's not blue dream.
That's why it's being knocked off.
So I think that moving forward, the best way that I see is to definitely have stuff
genetically mapped, have it backed up in as many different options as possible, get it
into as many people's hands that are holding the wherewithal to be able to help preserve
those lines or potentially work those lines.
Because if we don't, you know, it only takes one natural disaster.
It only takes, you know, one tornado and you potentially lose all the work that you've
put in for how many years and potential future work that you were, you know, you're
potential future work that you were storing there and seed format.
So that's all I have to say.
Yeah.
Go ahead, Ryan.
I was just going to say, we need a better system, but we're still having all these
problems in the industry because I call them echoes of prohibition, but you know, the
industry has never been able to move forward like every other industry and we're still
being tied down.
You guys are still being tied down in the States as well, especially with the, you
know, the incongruence between federal law and state law.
And it just fucks with our ability to set up systems.
But, you know, we really need to have a system like the rest of the plant breeding
world works where, you know, if you're breeding and and making stuff that's unique
and you're finding special plants, you should be able to have you should be able to
maintain the rights for that plant.
Or at least get some of the royalties from other people's use of that plant, right?
If we were 20 years in the future and there was no barriers between shipping from state
to state, we'd have one or two organizations that essentially oversaw the production of
these plants. And this is pretty typical in like, you know, in regular horticulture.
If you're a breeder, like you're not growing acres and acres of tomatoes, right?
Like you're taking your space, you're using it all for R&D and you're finding or
breeding new lines.
And, you know, how we compare that to cannabis would be like Kevin was talking about
being a selector, right?
Like you're selecting these plants that are ideal for cultivation or headspace or
whatever, whatever characteristics we deem important.
And and then that plant could be like, for example, Kevin finds, you know, plants with
one of his Vietnamese lines or something that's really heady and really special.
He should be able to give that to a propagator that is honorable and pays Kevin a
royalty when they sell the when they sell the plants.
And then they could reproduce those plants using tissue culture and monitoring for
HVLD or whatever other byroids or viruses are going around and make sure that those
plants are being distributed in a healthy, careful way.
And we're starting to see up in Canada and some of these other markets in the
international where we're moving seeds around the world.
There is some indication that it might be the HVLD or the hemp latent virus is actually
passed on through the seed.
Right. And so.
It's kind of like covid, I mean, it's kind of like the coronavirus, it's like this
thing is spreading all over the world and it's just going to keep getting passed back
and forth and unless like we take this unified approach where everybody gets on
board and vows to make sure that we have proper practices to stop the spread, this
thing is going to keep kicking us in the teeth over the next 20, 30 years.
So, you know, we kind of need to fix this problem that we got going on.
And, you know, it might be that like seed makers and breeders, they start having to
use certified tissue culture, clean stock before you make seeds.
You're not actually just, you know, you're passing this problem on to your customers.
So I think, you know, as far as we've come with with breeding, we got some ways to go
in terms of systems that are going to help build this into a robust industry where the
breeders and the people that are doing the work are getting, you know, a modest but fair
royalty for their work.
And we're also protecting the industry and we're protecting all the growers, right?
Yeah, I agree. I think that this is really one of those, one of those areas where
prohibition has really screwed us, the inability to address and control pests and
pathogens. You know, for years here in Northern California, we made many, many efforts
to interface with UC Davis and try and get academics to help us with pest
identification and prevention.
And there was I can't remember his name, but there was an older mite specialist at UC
Davis who was incredibly helpful and basically just gave zero fucks and would let
people bring in specimens of plants with, you know, russet mites and broad mites and help
people understand what they were dealing with.
After he retired, there was just no engagement with the university.
And that's something that is definitely needs to be addressed.
And on a within the industry, yes, long term, there really needs to be gene banks.
There needs to be comprehensive study and analysis of the germplasm that's available to
us. And on a that's a much more macro level preservation discussion.
And, you know, we've we've gone back and forth with that, with some of the discussion
about Kev's work with land race preservation.
And I think that that's something that we really need to do.
There needs to be comprehensive survey of what available germplasm is out there, both in
terms of the academic sort of research space.
There's you know, there's definitely some academic literature that reviews some of that
germplasm that's out there.
More and more is coming online and more detailed analysis of the germplasm that's
available in academic institutions is coming online.
But there's this huge black box, which is what we've been playing with over the last 50,
60 years and what exists out there in the traditional places of cultivation and origin
that really needs to be, you know, highest priority needs to be put in terms of
preservation. And that's why what you're doing, Kev, is really important.
And also, you know, Erisingus and all the people who are doing land race preservation
collection, it's really important work.
That brings me to my next point, that that's actually going to be a future episode that
we're actually going to talk about genetics and U.S.
and Dutch influence on the world population.
So just kind of throwing a selfless plug for a future conversation here.
So I had a question for mainly geared at Kevin, but open for the whole table, as Trevor,
you've mentioned it as well.
And Ryan, you have some genetic experience as well.
So, I mean, totally open for everybody.
But Kevin was the one that kind of noted the most.
On resetting genetics or a genetic line, Kevin, you kind of noticed that the cultivar had
completely changed or just changed, which in my head kind of makes sense.
I mean, seeing that a lot of these things are environmental stressors that the plant or, you know, like the plant's not
creating these terpenes, you know, for the human to come by and just get high.
It's creating it to defend itself and stay alive.
That being said, on the resets on these lines, I guess there's two questions I guess I should
ask, how often would you guys even recommend resetting these lines?
And in that being said, when you're resetting lines, because some of these learned traits or learned terpenes or learned defense mechanisms, if you will, are environment specific, are you guys seeing almost a relearning curve?
Like say you grow it in like Northern California and it grows, you know, terpene to defend itself from, you know, like sap suckers.
And then you reset it and it doesn't, you know, say it doesn't have that or something else.
You know, like are you seeing maybe like a relearning curve where it has to relearn like defense things or like maybe it catches like an old attack that it might have?
Or is this just like just kind of like a far out there idea?
No, no, I understand what you're trying to say.
But what happens when you reset is that, and you don't have to, we'll go to the practical part first, just get them tested.
When I run a plant through the lab, if I don't have any viral contamination, I don't need to scrub it because scrubbing is money and time.
But if there's any contamination, clean it up and you'd be amazed at how many plants we play with that are contaminated.
So once I clean up a contaminated plant, what I get back to on a lot of them is what I remember when I met her.
I'm like, whoa, there you are.
Because a lot of times you think somehow you've lost your skills.
Like I always take it personal that somehow I'm fucking up and that there must be something I'm doing wrong.
And you chase that because that's the one thing you can control.
And what I found is that you just get a far more intense version of what you've been playing with it.
If you didn't play with it early, you don't have a memory of it in the change.
But the bottom line is anything we've cleaned is just a better, better plant in every aspect.
You get incredible branching.
You get beautiful secondary metabolite production.
It's just a healthy and more resistant.
I mean, if there's anything you could do, you know, it'd be like if you had HIV and someone said, hey, we're going to get rid of it.
You would do a lot better.
And I think it's that simple.
And so when it comes to regional specificity, that comes down to like data logging and trying to find out where does the plant express best.
So I used to have lists of this because I had so many people we worked with that I could figure out where the cultivar shined.
You know, was it a coastal?
Was it altitude?
Did it like cold nights?
Did it like certain humidity level?
Where was perfection with that plant reached?
And perfection in terms of quality of experience first for me, and then, well, agronomic traits second.
And once you have that information and that's what really should be put into information from nurseries is what are you growing?
Where does it do well?
Where does it not do well?
And then you'd be able to say, OK, we know that the best expression of this is from here.
And then you would grow those things in the regions where they shined and in regions where they didn't, you wouldn't.
But what we do is we take trendy shit and try to shoehorn it into every hole we can find because we're all desperate to get paid.
And the problem is that what you're doing is you're not recreating the experience that the customer experience that drove them to buy it.
You're doing a knockoff shoddy job.
So you end up screwing yourself and you actually fuck up the downstream value of the plant because it starts to put a bad name on it.
And if you didn't do that and you were kind of cautious, you could ride a plant for 20 years as a valuable plant, meaning that you could utilize it and benefit from the fact that it's that it's traits, the headspace and the agronomic ability of it mesh.
And you can you can run that for time.
So I think a lot of it is, you know, when people have a bad experience with something that's supposed to be good, you have to kind of go source out where was the good experience found?
And then with nowadays, you know, a lot of the stuff is hype.
And what you have to do is you have to have a third party evaluate to come in and say, look, I have no connection to the sale of this plant.
I don't benefit from marketing it.
What I do is I evaluate it.
I give it a grade and that's just what it is.
And then you have some honesty.
I appreciate that. I, I see where I was kind of like looking at it from a very like not jaded perspective, but narrow minded.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Yeah, important to remember on these viruses and viruses, I mean, the way viruses live is they come in and they're they're they're essentially little pieces of DNA or RNA that are packaged without a cell.
And so they can't replicate on their own.
And so they come in and they take over a cell and they use the cells components to build more copies of themselves.
Right. So anytime that's going on inside a plant, that's that's a drain on the plant.
Right. I mean, the plant being it's essentially feeding this new master rather than executing its own genetic program.
So, yeah, like byroids and even intercellular bacteria or whatever else is in the plant, that stuff is like a real drain on the plant.
So when you get it cleaned up, you allow it to express in its own way.
There is also this thing called epigenetics or what we know as DNA methylation.
And that's these that ends up being these little tags that are put on the DNA that tell the machinery that reads the DNA to transcribe those genes in a slightly different way, either upregulated or downregulated or sometimes even shut them off.
And those things are actually inherited or heritable, which really sucks.
But there's some evidence that you can like drag that you can rip the methylation off the DNA through like, you know, putting plants outside and let them grow throughout the increasing intense summer sun.
So don't don't underestimate the power of putting some plants in the sun and letting them really hit that stride rather than keeping your moms in a, you know, an enclosed like a grow room.
That's not really, you know, it's really not a natural environment.
There's something to be said for that practice, and I've seen it actually do wonders.
It's it's it's pretty remarkable.
We use that to wipe out when that when when the hop latent came out, it wasn't dark hearted, discovered that shit, man.
Really, it was Rick Crumb, Rick Crumb and a team of virologists said, hey, we see something.
We don't know what it is, but we can identify issue.
And so I got to mess with these guys and they said, hey, we just want to see if maybe you could play with the plant.
And so I said, look, let's see if we can put it into a biologically friendly bottom end.
Let's put it into some natural sunlight.
Let's see if we can return it to homestasis first.
And the plant sat still for like a good month, month and a half.
And then all of a sudden you started to see new new cambium form.
It started to actually break free and you started to see it shed the old leaf and then numerous stem material form.
And then from that sample, I was able to take clones and then we were able to get back into production numbers.
COAs were fine, clone levels were fine.
But the issue is, is that it doesn't get rid of the viroid.
It just it just reduces the tendency for it to express.
And so what I what I see a lot is the word elite clone used and we use the word elite to mean like high end.
But in in in plant sales, elite means two years of stress testing because the problem with the viroid, like what Ryan was saying, is the shit hides.
And so you have to stress the plant to see will it emerge?
And then if it emerges, now we can say, OK, we've identify it.
Let's separate the cell and let's move forward.
And so, you know, the the the biological reset, I used it for years for friends of mine that ran indoor clone ops.
And I would take the moms and I would greenhouse them for him and then I would return them with healthy mom stock and allowed him to have, you know, a good another year of running every year.
Because something about the indoor model just seemed to take away some of the I guess information is the best way to put it.
So, you know, there's so many ways to skin the cat.
And I think especially myself, I barely know what the fuck I'm doing.
I'm glad I can get out of bed in the morning.
So, you know, you you just muddle your way through so much of it because the complexity is so incredible.
And even if we're doing genomic breeding, we have linkage drag.
So we're grabbing a trait, but we don't know how much of another trait it pulls left or right on that location on the chromosome.
So, you know, it's just really an educational process.
And I think without forums like this, you don't have the ability for everybody to kind of like say, hey, how do we do this together so we can have a successful cannabis industry?
But also the ability for all of us to preserve the things that we've spent our whole lives in.
I mean, that's my deal is that if you took away, I don't know who I'd be.
Ryan, you really piqued my interest when you started talking about the methylation pathways.
My brother in law, his his mother and his brother is schizophrenic and his mother has kind of like totally tapped into this stuff on an extreme level
for his him and basically what she was able to fight on.
I'll try to get to the point as soon as I can, but like she was able to supplement with with vitamins, different vitamins and find find the pathways that were blocked through looking at his DNA sequencing
and supplement the areas where he wasn't metabolizing certain vitamins and over supplement that and has has pretty much near reversed his psychosis.
It's it's crazy.
He was at a very extreme case of, you know, of it.
And we are the same age, me and him.
We grew up together. We are the same the exact same age.
I've known him since we were 12 years old.
And it just kind of piqued my interest when when you were talking about that and kind of an area where we probably will get to in about 10, 15 years where we're like, oh, yeah, this variety has picked up this thing.
But if we juice it up with with this, you know, nutrient that it can it can blast right through it and we can see a new thing.
Yeah, I think collectively we're coming through this kind of Dunning-Kruger effect, I don't know if you guys know what that is, but it's essentially like, you know, when when you're new to something and you learn a bunch about it, you think you know everything.
And then the more you learn, you realize you don't know anything.
Right. And then and then from that position, then you can actually really rebuild your knowledge set.
And I think that, like as an industry, we're kind of in that position where we've got all this information that we learned from the past and now we got all these new tools like genomics to tell us about how late viroid or, you know, tissue culture things or whatever genomic things or chemical analysis and even like deep chemical analysis.
I mean, I don't know if you guys know David Meary.
He's a medical doctor out of research out of Israel.
And they were looking at CBD.
They really wanted to tease apart the CBD and epilepsy thing and kids.
And so they had a whole population of kids that were receiving type three CBD meds and they were doing these really deep analytical dives on the plant, like looking at all these really minor components.
And they realized through actually that, you know, they were getting they had these CBD plants that they they started isolating and saying, OK, look, the type three CBD dominant plant from this supplier.
Always provides an effect in the kids, but these other suppliers doesn't seem to work.
And so they narrowed it down and they're like, we're going to use this one supplier for our experimental trials.
And they started, you know, they made their standardized extracts and they give them to the kids and all of a sudden half the kids stopped responding to the to the CBD or to the extract that they were making.
And they went back to the supplier and were like, what's going on?
Like, the the the meds are not now not having the same effect that they were.
And it turned out that there are some little minor blip of a cannabinoid that was like a really minor component that you really couldn't even see on a standard HPLC.
You know, when you're doing these high throughput labs through like I see labs or workshop or whatever down there, you know, that stuff, those guys got to run like hundreds of samples a day.
So it's kind of like, you know, they're going so fast that you can see the big waves, but you kind of miss like the little ripple.
And it takes slowing down and looking really carefully at the little ripples to really be finding these causes of these causes of things.
Right, because, again, our assumption is that, like, we know that it's CBD that is doing this because it's something that we've noticed.
But it might be that it's like CBD in the combination with this other little minor cannabinoid blip that really is the thing that that makes the difference.
So, you know, I think that like collectively, we all got to realize as far as we've come, we still don't know everything.
And that has to be like incorporated into our like our ethos and the way that we go about, you know, living in this cannabis world is that like.
Again, I'm going to blame it on prohibition. You know, prohibition has kept us in the dark for so long, man, and we've got this new light that's shining on and we're all able to start seeing our way through the darkness.
But the room's not fully lit. Right. And we need to incorporate all of this new data and experience that that we're learning about the plant, you know, the world over now.
And and just always be open to bringing that into our methods. Right. Because, again, we're like, I can tell the passion in everybody's voice in this room. We're all just trying to make this thing better.
Like, we all love the plants and, you know, that's why we're here sharing information. And, you know, we're it's not just about one business or one company or one guy trying to make money.
Like, we're literally building an airplane here that's going to carry humanity through the future. And we're doing that as we're flying the plane. Right. So.
Working together and maintaining that sense of community and sharing knowledge and being open to new knowledge, like that's really what's going to get us to the future, because we've all made these assumptions through our collective experience.
About the way things work and and as we learn more and more about the plant, I think that we're starting to tear down some of those assumptions and say, huh, maybe these things that we thought were 100 percent true aren't necessarily the way that we thought that they are.
Sorry, that has nothing to do with preservation.
You're dropping it, man.
But you brought up something, though, like when it when it came to the assessment of varieties, I had a friend that was involved in a big hemp project. So they had an incredible lab power and what they had two identical profiles where literally there was, you know, they looked at it over like 150 different turps.
And an essay and the two were identical, but as radical in perception as possible apart. And they identified the only difference was this was like a single terpene that was in parts per billion.
And the difference between something it can be so tiny that, you know, the labs don't analyze correctly because we can't get the essays.
It makes it hard. You know, we're I always say it's like looking through a keyhole at the Louvre. So, you know, you think you see the Louvre, but really you're looking in the closet.
You don't really understand that it goes on for another hundred years. And that's kind of how I feel with a lot of the stuff we're doing is that we're just working through it the best we can.
And, you know, hopefully as this goes forward, we can use the technology. But I think that the part that that you have to do is when you're preserving a line from a single cut, it's also sharing the cut with many people so that you're not the only one preserving it.
Like that was something that I tried to do for a really long time, which was drive really high level genes into the system so that if I got hit, we wouldn't lose all of them.
And it wasn't even so that I could get them back. It was just really just get them out and keep them alive.
What is the timeline that you guys are seeing micro propagation having to go through because every cultivar in essence has to have its own recipe for long term preservation?
Well, if it's a meristem where you're having to do a scrub, you know, you're talking really about six months from inception of plant to release to nursery.
And then you got a bulk.
You know, yeah, then you're going to start doing the replication. But it's a process. And if it's like I said, if it doesn't have any issues that need to be cleansed from a meristem cleansing, then it can just be conventionally, you know, in vitro propagation, which is just test tube propagation.
So the main point is to get your plants tested so you know what you have in front of you.
And if you do have any of these issues, be really careful because like Ryan was saying, you know, and I've heard the same thing from other scientists that they believe it's moving through, you know, seed form.
So what you're doing is you're sending this into the world at a level that's it's just causing problems, whether, you know, ethics or not. It's a lot of times it's ignorance. You just don't know.
But we have the test kits. We can start to look at it. And when I have a clean plant, then and if you know, if you know me, I'm like, here, here's a clean plant. We know this thing is scrubbed.
And what it does, it allows you to play with something that's perfect. So you get a chance to see what it looks like of a legendary plant that is like brand new. And it helps kind of recalibrate your understanding of the line.
Yeah, they're starting to develop cryo preservation protocols to write for for tissue culture. So essentially, like they do with Corvallis in Oregon, they've got this method now for actually freezing cannabis shoot tips, which can, you know, bigger than a Maristam, but not much bigger.
And they freeze these things on liquid nitrogen and you can preserve that stuff indefinitely. Right. With like no degradation at all. And so, man, we get a service provider that can get up and is going to act honorably and be trusted by the community. You know, there's no reason you can't use those services. Right.
No, they're safe, too, because they don't require electricity. All you're doing is locking it into a into a cylinder. So it's a stable form. We're looking into it right now for Humboldt County because they're trying to put together, you know, the ability to hold things. And so we're going to try to research how can we get into some, some simple stuff like the cryo because it's complicated in the fact that you're working with liquid nitrogen.
But it's not complicated in what takes place because I have dog sperm shipped all over the world. So, you know, I pick it up in Holland and then they ship it across in a cylinder and they drop it at the depository in central California. They do a look at it when we try to find out the viability of the sperm and it lets us hold things for time. And so, you know, we just have to be able to create a common bank where it's not so much a vendor who does it, but maybe, you know, a little loophole.
So it's a little bit more producer controlled, but more group control. So the growers have the keys to the chest, so to speak, because you have to preserve this shit. One fire, one robbery, one death and it's gone.
Listen, it's not just like catastrophic events. I mean, you know, it's something we saw in Phylos work. You remember on the galaxy, we'd have these clone groups and everybody was like, well, what's with the clone groups? It's obviously something fucked up about the Phylos method. That's like detecting this variation that doesn't exist. Well, man, we went, we didn't do it, but I just read a paper in the last month.
There was a group that they did a bunch of research on. They essentially sequenced different shoots from the same mother plant and they're showing pretty conclusively that through sequencing that we're, you know, as plants grow and cells divide, and this is not like different than any other species as cells divide, there's a natural rate of mutation that happens.
And so, you know, Kevin was talking about linkage and, and, uh, you know, traits that are close to each other on the chromosome. What I like to do as a way to demonstrate it is like, imagine like a big wide chalkboard at a university that's like, you know, five chalkboards long and you take it and you draw, you take a line and you draw all the way across those five chalkboards. That's like kind of representative of a chromosome.
And so if you go to the back of the classroom with a big piece of chalk and you throw it at the line, it'll hit somewhere randomly on the line. Right. And that's kind of like analogous to a DNA mutation. It happens and we don't know where it happens. It might be in a junk DNA component, but it might also hit smack dab in the middle of a terpene synthase or a cannabinoid synthase.
Um, and so the, my, my point, my long meandering way to get to the point is to say that like, as plants grow and the cells divide, there's a natural rate of mutation that happens. And so it might even be in the future. That's like, you know, we take plants and like relatively early on in their life cycle. Once we, you know, once the person identifies that, that it's a valuable plant or a novel plant or a unique plant that, that plant then becomes a plant.
And then that plant goes into cryo preservation that right. Because over the next five, 10 years, as it gets passed around and it's infected by HVLD or, you know, exposed to bugs or whatever we have, or people are spraying chemicals on it. Even PGRs like, you know, plant growth regulators that we use for tissue culture, Thiazoron, TDZ, that, that thing increases the rate of mutation in plants. And that's been shown in many, many different species. Right.
So anyway, point being plants change over time. And the only way to stop that change is to, is to freeze them and cryo preservation. It's, it induces a state that we call, what's it called? Vitrification. And essentially, you know, think of it like, you know, I don't know if you guys ever seen like water freeze under a microscope. You can see these like crystals kind of grow. Right. And they look like little swords.
Well, man, if that crystal is growing in a plant cell and that sword pierces through the cell wall of the plant, that cell's toast. It's not going to come back. So when you're inducing cryo preservation, you have to do it under this protocol that essentially freezes the cells so quickly that the cells, rather than growing through life, ice crystals, it becomes this like vitrified glass state. You can kind of think of it like volcanic glass. Right.
And so the cell and all the life in the cell, it just stops. And if you do that, then the plant will live. Or when you bring the plant back from cryo preservation, it'll, it'll live. Right. It doesn't get destroyed by the process. So, yeah, man, dude, if you could, if you could have a community based and owned situation where you could do cryo preservation, I think that's like a major, major win.
And, you know, it makes real sense to put it in those cultivation hotspots like, like, you know, Northern California.
What do you guys believe is the way to be able to incentivize people for being able to trust a banking service? Because I look at it from the standpoint that if we were to bank somewhere, for one, if it's a prized cultivar and, you know, they're having to grow those plants out to be able to meet
nursery requirements, what happens if that farm doesn't take all those plants? What do you do with them? Are you going to grow them out? Are you going to turn them into an extract? Are you going to put them through a production business model? So, you know, how do you get people to trust leaving their genetics with you?
Outside of like just putting a number on it. So that way, as a bank, you don't have any earthly idea what someone's giving to you. And then obviously, you know, what are you charging for per month to be able to do that? Is it like a subscription model? And then they say, hey, once they have the need for 1000 clones, they call you up and say, hey, I need 1000 clones by this date. And you let your, your micro propagation department start the process of being able to build those kind of plant.
But at the same time, I think that there are individuals that would look at it as hold of someone's going to potentially steal these genetics that I'm giving to them to be able to do something shady and, you know, breed with that. So what is a way to be able to get businesses or individuals to trust you? Just because of the business model, if you can just survive by charging, you know, just to bank there.
Yeah, well, these things cost money, right? All these systems cost money. So it has to be on a it has to be at least be a co op. Right? Anytime you introduce a business, listen, it's possible to do as a business, ethically, ethically through contracts. Co op models are a little I think that they feel a little bit safer, because they're owned by groups of people. But co ops also get taken over by boards and shit, right? Stuff happens. I think that you got to, I think a co op
model or a business with like serious, serious contracts. I mean, it's doable. You know, all of these plants that we have, remember, look, you can't take if you got chem D in your in your library, you can't take chem D to the thing and say, Hey, this is my name, right? Like, these things have been shared and put into the public domain for so long, that like their true ownership is kind of like lost to the wind. And I call these things community clones, really,
community owned assets that nobody owns. But if you have something that and that can be demonstrated through molecular biology or genomics, right, we can put a genetic fingerprint on that plant and say, this plant is this plant, it's owned by the community. One of the things that phyllis, you know, had promised to do, and really anybody through genomics really could do is offer the service where you're put your DNA fingerprint printing plants, and proving that that it that it is yours, or at least
you can kind of put like a stake in the ground and say, Hey, this is my intellectual property. And that just stops people from, from pilfering it from taking it and multiplying it right. Again, like whoever invented the thing or did the work to create the thing, in my opinion, they should be entitled to a royalty for a given period of time. And, you know, there's systems around the world, like for example, the Union for the protection of plant varieties, or you pause, kind of operates like a global version of the USDA, right?
And they regulate who they regulate the ownership and the registration of plants. And cannabis has largely been collected, kept outside of that system, again, because of prohibition. So I think that all of these things are good models to look at, as we go about building these systems for cannabis. And eventually, you know, like, they're going to start regionally, like Kevin's talking about having a cryo bank or a tissue bank for
for NorCal, but eventually, that's going to want to make a union with with the other states, right? As as these different islands of legalization that you have all over the United States, they start becoming unified. One of the things we're seeing, we were talking about it earlier, one of the things we're seeing here in Canada now, I mean, in British Columbia, anybody can take their plant and collect samples and send it into the British Columbia plant pathology lab.
Right, and they'll ID your pest or virus or whatever it is and tell you what's going on. And that's a way for the the the BC plant pathology lab to essentially monitor what's going on in the state or in the province, right?
But we need to rebuild all these systems or or newly build all these systems, so that cannabis and the cannabis growers and breeders and propagators,
they start to get all the same types of rights and protections that any other plant person gets all over the world. Right. And there are sets of laws. It's kind of a funny thing, because it's like,
you know, I know in the cannabis industry, and it's partly because of necessity, we have to build these systems from scratch and create new ways of doing things. But the truth is, all these ways of doing things exist. There's systems that do all of these things that we're talking about. And really, cannabis just needs to be integrated into those things. And until that can happen, I think building these networks.
Yeah, maybe using, you know, co-op models or whatever, but building these networks to facilitate this kind of stuff is, you know, it's only going to benefit us as the people that work in the industry in the long run. Right. And so I think forever, we've been afraid of businesses, you know, partly because, you know, you risk losing your shit, but also, it's been a it's been a risk to your security. I mean,
you know, we're all just trying to work and get shit done. You get the threat of the feds coming in kicking down your door and stealing all your shit or ruining all your work. I mean, it's a major, major hurdle to getting anything real making any progress for the species, right?
Yeah, no, it's definitely something where these days, we're at a point where we're having to reinvent the wheel, but all of the structures, institutions all exist and have been done. And we really need to just, you know, learn from what other, you know, be it UPOV or other plant preservation societies, the seed collectors, things like that.
That's something that the more we do that now, we really do build some degree of protection for ourselves as a community. And also, we build value within the community, because the more that we get these resources, these genetic resources, you know, cataloged, understood and protected in some fashion, be that cryogenic freezing in the Arctic,
in particular regions, in gene banks, or, you know, pursuing different forms of intellectual property protections through UPOV. There's also things with like the Origins Appalachians group up in Mendo and Humboldt, where, and across the state in California, all of these are different ways that while it's duplicative, and it's, you know, it's geographically isolated, unfortunately,
because of global prohibition and different incongruence in the laws, it's definitely something that the more we put effort and energy into building these institutions now, the more we'll have a say over what happens once everything does change long term.
I wanted to say something earlier that I forgot to chime in on. When, you know, just in terms of analysis and what we're looking at, to just kind of make a point, when, you know, Dave Watson and David Watson and Rob Clark were doing the Horta Farm thing over in Holland.
You know, that was mid early 80s, or sorry, early 90s, and to kind of the 2010 area. But during the early cannabis cups of the time, they used to get samples sent over to the Horta Farm lab from the cannabis cup winners.
And I can't remember what year it was, but it was early 90s or early to mid 90s. And they got the cannabinoid profiles back from the Horta Farm lab. And the winner from the sativa category and the winner from the cannabinoid category, they had the exact same chemical profile. And back then, nobody was looking at terps or any other volatiles in the plant. And so the question became, if these things have the same cannabinoid, right?
Back then, everybody assumed that it was different cannabinoid ratios and profiles that determine the difference in cannabis experiences. And when they got those results back, and they came back that these two plants that had very divergent effects had the exact same cannabinoid profile. The question became, what is it that is the difference between these plants?
And that was really, I think it was like 1988 that Ross and Mishulam did a first kind of characterization of some cannabis at U-MISS and started looking at all the volatiles and terpenes that were in the plant. And Dave and Rob found this article and they thought, well, maybe there's differences in the terpenes that are leading to the differences in the cannabis experience.
And that's really what started the whole looking into terpenes and this kind of reaching the pinnacle of where we've come to today. Right. But we went through the same thing when I was working down in California in April. We had found plants that had the identical cannabinoid profile, the identical terpene profile, because again, we were only looking at like, I think, 38 terpenes at the time. And they had the same, more or less terpene profile. Sure, there were slight differences.
But the scent and the effect of the two plants was totally different. And so, again, the question became, what is it that's different about these plants if it's not the terps and the cannabinoids? And that led to another deep dive where we slowed down the analysis time and started looking at those little blips and trying to figure out what other molecules are involved.
And it turned out, you know, obviously there's all these aldehydes and other things that are in the plant that have a real impact on smell or on scent. Sorry.
So, again, just kind of making the point that like, just because we're doing it today and we think we know that it's terps or whatever that gives a smell, there's always more to the story.
And we should always like, you know, don't be afraid to slow down and say, hey, if these things are the same, what is it that's different?
Because when we're trying to tease apart these experiences, like these differences, like Jolly was talking about these experiences in terms of effect.
There's way more to the story than we're even aware. And we need to slow down and not just make assumptions that all the things that we're looking at today are going to be the factors that are involved in the answer.
Like, there's always going to be more to the story. Again, nothing to do with preservation. Sorry.
What kind of options do you guys have in Canada for genetic preservation? I mean, is there somewhere that you can take it as just an average citizen or do you have to be at a professional capacity when you do that?
It's so stupid right now, man. Unfortunately, all the systems that are being built, you have to have a license to be able to interact with other license holders.
So that's, we're having a reiteration of the system or at least a feedback period for, you know, stakeholders in the system coming up in October.
But it's, unfortunately, as just a guy, no, you can't interact with those systems. You can't take plants into a tissue culture company and have them stored.
If you're a license holder and you've got a company, yeah, your company can engage with any other company in the space. And then all that stuff can be enforced through contracts.
So there's, you know, for example, there's a tissue culture company called Segra and they do genetic banking and meristem cleanup for LPs.
HVLD has run rampant through the legal system here in Canada and people are passing around this viroid like, it's really crazy.
And so some of these tissue culture companies are becoming more important because you have to be able to submit to them and have them do a cleanup.
Look, everybody can't do everything. I mean, we talked about analysis and tissue culture and I see people all the time, I want to get into tissue culture.
For most people, it's not worth it, man. It's like a lot of work and it's like you're already juggling all these balls and somebody just adds a whole nother ball to your juggling act, right?
Like that's not really an efficient way to do business. It's kind of like free trade. It's like, let's do what you, you know, execute your core competency and then contract out the things that are extra for you.
Right. Because there's going to be people that are already like, you know, tissue culture is not only a process to learn how to do.
It's like, yeah, you might learn how to be able to get a couple of plants in the tissue culture, but to really be able to multiply tissue culture plants and do effective cleanup or scrubbing like Kevin's talking about, man, those are like years of experience.
And so what's the point of like starting a race two years late when there's all these people that are already going down that path and doing it properly?
In a lot of cases, it's just better to pay them a service fee, right? As long as it's a reasonable service fee, you're going to spend less money than building your own tissue culture lab.
And sure, you won't have the control of it being under your own, you know, your own roof.
But for most people that I know in the cannabis space, they got enough thing going on, they got enough stuff going on under their own roof that you don't need to add another thing, right?
It's just, it's going to distract you from the things that you do well.
So, yeah, unfortunately, regular people, you can't do that stuff. You have to be licensed to interact with other licensed companies.
See, for me, I kind of look at it almost the opposite because that's for me how the Anheuser-Busch of the cannabis industry will be born.
By being able to hold genetics internally, by being able to control the whole logistical pipeline.
So therefore, they have the ability to, you know, outside of third party testing that has to go to a separate entity.
But I mean, you might as well have the capabilities to do in-house testing so you can gain as much of the data points as possible that you're not getting from Tom, Dick and Harry that's messing with your plans that you're having to sub the work out for.
So, it's interesting that you say that.
But I think that, you know, moving forward, how do we structure ourselves where we will be viable is another thing to do with preservation from the standpoint that, you know, I'm seeing small pockets of universities using the farm bill to be able to source hemp seeds.
But they're actually purchasing genetic stock with some of these funds.
So therefore, you know, once that federal veil gets lifted, they have the ability to occupy that space off of all of our backs that are making seeds because now they have the ability to work these lines.
Yes, I understand it turns into a race to the starting line.
But at the same time, you know, these will be the companies that can operate at a loss for five, ten, fifteen, you know, twenty years potentially before, you know, they turn a profit.
So, they're looking at it from a long game perspective and they can just flood the market with really cheap products and ultimately just beat up everyone to the point where you just can't compete.
Yeah, I'll counter that with saying good fences make good neighbors, right?
If you're a business, if you're a corporation, the worst thing that can happen, especially if you're a public traded, one of the worst things can happen is you get sued, right?
Because it can drive down your stock.
And so, I think, you know, for example, I'm going to use Phylos as an example of that.
We kind of went through that with them and a lot of people feel screwed and I think that I got inside with them.
I don't think those guys acted very honorably in the whole way that they explain their business model to the community.
But, you know, these things can be kept in check with good contracts.
And, you know, say a new entity pops up in NorCal that's doing the cryo preservation, for example, and Kevin's going to interact with them and, you know, Dan's going to interact with them or Mingine or whoever's going to interact with them.
We'd be better off if we got together as a community and developed a set of protocols in the contract that we then negotiated with the company and we do that as a group or a kind of like pseudo union, right?
Because in numbers, there's power.
When they split the herd and they get you off on their own, you're kind of like, you know, especially when you're facing a big corporation and they're powerful lawyers, none of us lawyers, or at least I'm not.
You know, it's like I think that we'd be better off to negotiate all those things.
And all of this kind of stuff can be controlled through contracts.
Because if they violate the contract, we're going to sue their asses, right?
And, you know, I think that these models can exist.
And if they can't exist, then you do it under a co-op model.
But, you know, like I said earlier, co-ops are run by boards of people and boards can change and allegiances can change and all that kind of stuff.
So, you know, I think that we just have to have our eyes really open going into those things.
We can't feel that we need them more than they need us.
It has to be a symbiotic relationship.
And any corporation that's offering a service provider, they're a service provider.
They're entitled to a small profit.
But, you know, I don't think that they should be able to crush people just because you're doing business with them.
And so having people like Kevin and Trevor or Dan or whoever sitting on these advisory boards and, you know, using our power as a community to create fair contracts, I don't think it just necessarily means that we're all going to get fucked up the ass in the long run.
Excuse my language.
Hey, what's up, guys?
Yeah, you know, that gets me thinking, Ryan, you know, all the information.
I mean, first, there needs to be established some type of value to protect.
And that's the challenging thing with so many people making a lot of seed, making a lot of hybrids and, you know, competing in the marketplace.
Right. Because if you don't have something that is, you know, of proven value for medicinal purposes or in demand, you know, and popular in the market, you can protect all you want.
But, you know, it may not have a demand.
And so that's that's a challenging thing where you're where you're talking in the future is, you know, it's fascinating.
But first to get there, you know, people need to be established to the point where where they're at that level.
I agree 100 percent with you, man.
And, you know, I'm I'm in no position to be defending myself against any of these big companies.
Don't get me wrong. And that's kind of why I suggest the model of like kind of, you know, you know, I don't use the word unionizing, but I think it's a good way to like that, you know, at least to consider banding together.
Because there is a certain strength in numbers.
And, you know, we talk about value.
I think there's no question that.
Collectively, as the seed business or the, you know, the the custodians of the cannabis seed, we do have a lot of power together because we've got we've got we hold the genome.
Right. When the U.N. and the U.S. government run around the world trying to like crush cannabis everywhere globally.
I mean, it was the U.N.'s mission to make at one point in time, it was the U.N. Office of Drug Consult Policy.
It was their their mission at one point in time to make cannabis go extinct, which is fucking crazy.
Like, what else are we talking? I mean, COVID aside, like, what else do we want to make go extinct? Right.
We we have value.
And if we if we work together to develop systems that are fair.
And listen, it's fair for business to make money if you're offering a service, I think it is fair for any any business to make a reasonable profit.
It's not fair to steal shit from the people that you're providing a service for.
Right. And I think that those business models can't exist.
Are there going to be assholes always? And we got to be careful.
Not that you just.
Oh, my bad. No, no.
All good. All good, man. I was done.
No, I was just saying, you know, I love the idea of bringing people together and organizing people who are genetic leaders or people who have something and creating a business.
And I love the idea of bringing people together and organizing people who are genetic leaders or people who have something and creating some type of standards for that.
Because, you know, I know on on my level, which is, you know, not not quite as established as people who are operating in Canada.
It's like once you get into that territory of starting to negotiate that type of a contract, whether it's for licensing of genetics, whether it's for use for, you know, production for a certain specific reason or for a brand.
There's there's no standard, like you just said.
And everybody's kind of trying to figure out their own best way to do it based off the advice of what different advisors, attorneys, you know, business partners.
And, you know, it's complicated. So it would be interesting to get people together.
But that's the thing about the cannabis industry, you know, due to prohibition.
And a lot of people are stoners and have so much going on just to, like, you know, maintain survival of their livelihood and their licensing.
You know, the complexity of how volatile it is, you know, it's hard to get people together.
But, man, I would I would love it if someone did want to provide that type of leadership and make something happen.
But it's tough, I mean, because you actually have to hold those genetics and and, you know, if you're actually pursuing plant breeders, right, because, you know, a lot of people I'm sure in here know.
And I'm sure Ryan knows a lot more about it than me. But, you know, you have to find that, identify that special thing and then pursue these regional plant breeders rights that have different various rules.
And during that whole time, that plant can't get out.
And if it does, you run the risk of losing control in those contractual agreements.
People who do hold these genotypes in these legal landscapes are sort of faced with these issues of, you know, how do I monetize this responsibly without losing control of it?
And whether that's through a licensing or a royalty deal or a termed agreement, like, you know, I completely agree with Ryan.
We're not banding together and going, okay, well, this is how we're going to do it. And this is how we're moving forward.
Because these giants are, you know, pinning us in corners and then sort of talking to us, you know, quietly.
And I think that as a whole, we have a lot bigger of a voice.
But, you know, just like Dan says, like, I mean, the culture of this plant and, you know, how we were raised and the real true OGs who are holding all these things.
I mean, secrecy and, you know, keeping things to yourself was sort of part of this culture.
So, you know, really, you know, stepping out and coming out into the light, even, you know, I know coming onto Clubhouse is a big deal for some guys.
So, you know, I think that that's where we have issues with kind of bringing everyone together.
And, you know, people are, it's the passion around the plants different than, you know, like there are guys who love the consumer packaged goods industry.
And they've worked in, you know, laundry detergents all their life.
And they're really passionate about it. But like, I don't believe that that passion comes to the same level that, you know, people who work and live in cannabis, you know, get to.
And so when you get that many passionate people in a room, you get a lot of strong opinions.
And then, you know, it's really hard to move forward as one cohesive mind.
So I think there are a lot of challenges, but, you know, getting these minds in the rooms and talking about this is kind of how we move forward.
Yeah, you know, my experience, unfortunately, is that when creating, you know, any type of representation, trade organizations, lobbying, politics, my true experience is that anybody outside of growing fucking plants and selling plants becomes opportunistic.
And it forces this fucking like greed in this rat race that it has done, where instead of people just like this is their lifestyle to cannabis lifestyle, they hustle up and do the weed, they grow the weed, they work with dispensaries.
It's like what they do. So much of the time and effort has to come into this like protecting yourself, you know, because so many people just want into it.
And so, you know, I just, I'm ready.
It's a different mindset. It's different people like, you know, like the way, you know, you probably live your life, Dan, is on a handshake and your word.
And, you know, if, you know, things don't need to be fully spelt out and understood, but, you know, in the business world and with publicly traded companies, like, if it's not fully laid out in that contract, they're going to do it.
There's no, there's no moral. There's no like, I wonder what he, can we do it?
Did it say we couldn't do it in the contract? No, it did not specifically say we couldn't do it. Okay, we're going to fucking do it.
And we're going to have no problem doing it. We're not going to lose any sleep at night.
And then, you know, kind of having, you know, the guys who are so focused on the plant just get so disheartened and just in the disingenuousness of how these large corporations move that, you know, it's just like you say that greed kind of, well, they fucked me and I got to watch out and everybody's trying to fuck me now.
And so it's, you know, it's hard to know who to trust in these industries that are, you know, like cannabis that has been, you know, illegal and now regulated in Canada.
You have a lot of people who were maybe misfits in other industries who are, you know, struggle to make a name for themselves there who are, you know, trying out here.
And so, you know, there's a lot more bullshit to wade through than other more established industries. And so, you know, a lot of people get burned, a lot of money gets wasted and, you know, a lot of people get, you know, kind of throw up their hands.
That's what I'm saying is the unfortunate to the average person who's trying to have a go on it on their own, who's going to review that contract for them? What type of a budget do they have for legal expenses?
How are they going to maintain their operations of their small, maybe organic farm that requires a lot of, you know, attention to detail if they have to be doing all this administrative work?
You know what I mean? That's all I'm getting at is that, you know, the weed and the money from it, it brings out either the best or the worst in people.
It inspires, it creates all these amazing things, but it also brings in all these, you know, people who are just trying to get something that might be too late.
And they're trying to go about it the wrong way or they don't have the right influences showing them how to do it.
And so, you know, like I said, I love everything that Ryan has said, you know, on this panel.
And, you know, I'm drinking scotch and smoking joints, so I'm rambling a bit, but I'm just saying that the people who touch the plant and grow the plants, the people who sell the plants and interact with that community, outside of that, my experience has been difficult because it's burdensome and expensive.
And it's hard for people who aren't down with weed to get on the level and understand us.
I'm curious if I could throw in another question.
Sweet. So, on the topic of genetic storage, which you guys are totally hitting around just at like a deep level, come back out a little bit.
Just curiously, so I got into like a rabbit hole of grafting a while back. I'm huge into like fruit trees and stuff like that.
And a lot of the stuff I read from like the original stuff from Bach shows that DNA doesn't essentially transfer long term past like the grafting sites.
So, I guess my question is, what is the plausibility of using grafting to store like multiple genetic lines for like long term?
It doesn't change the fact that you're still holding living material. So, I mean, I see graphs, I see micro grafting, and it's fascinating.
And I've actually got to experience some herb that it was OG grafted onto Blue Dream rootstock.
And it was funny because the Blue Dream influenced the OG and changed the profile completely.
So, they may not share genes, but they're definitely transferring sap.
And so, that's how it's cool.
So, you're still having impact. And that's the thing is the truth, my man, is at the poor level, which is where we all started, share the plants with your friends that you hang out with.
Put it into hands of people that you know that are about collecting where what they really want is they want to hold your plant because they want to grow it and smoke it.
They're not trying to sell it on the side and make, you know, I mean, I pass plants up to people that were fucking priceless.
And I watch them hustle these businesses from it. And I tell them, that's not the approach you should take.
Because what's going to happen is you're not going to be able to access anything from anyone else because you're putting 10,000 on a fucking clone that you got for free from me.
So, it comes down to really having people that really like what you're working with.
And they're willing to hold copies. And you all kind of stay in some loose level of communication so you can make sure there's a backup.
So, before I get rid of something, I make sure that I'm like, hey, we still holding the backup.
And it's been a really loose system, but Christ, you know, it's very effective for holding and storing.
And it also allows people to be able to be custodians of the time and that privilege of holding things that are rare.
Every plant you hold doesn't need to be held.
I mean, I have a criteria where it's basically the billion dollar club.
If this shit generated that many sales, I know there's something about it that had to been unique.
There has to be something in the chemotype. There has to be something agronomic about it that worked.
So, I hold those because I know that when we can go study them, we'll be able to better understand.
And then I hold things that I love. And that has no criteria. That's just me.
And so, what you can do is you can use your friend network and it's very effective.
It's how we function for a really long time.
Can I just like add or ask something like that? I'm not really sure what the phrasing is.
But I was trying to get people, some of my friends to do a clone library on a grass plant because they could keep like hundreds and thousands of plants on one plant.
And I was telling them, yeah, that the genome expression wouldn't flip.
But I was just wondering if you did take a clone or like graft off of one of the branches or air layer off one of the branches and you stuck it in,
do you think that the next, you'd have to wait three months for the thing to hike back and express in its usual phenogenome pool?
You mean, are you asking if you took a scion, if you took a cut from the donor material that's what we would call the top of the graft?
No, once you cut that plant, you're fine. You're no longer getting the influence from the Blue Dream root ball.
Oh, that's awesome.
It's just that, you know, the bottom line is no matter how you go about it, you have to have replication.
You can't be the only one to hold it. The amount of material that I've lost in the course of my life and the shit that I lost makes fucking anything I'm holding today look weak,
which kills me because I had dreamt that maybe in the future we'd find things that were as good.
And I'm like, wow, those were really unique and they've never come back.
So that's why to me, you know, like, I mean, I open sourced basically my entire library.
I put it all into public domain so that anyone who had touched anything I touched would never have to worry about someone else jacking them for that plant because it's already in prior use.
You can say, look, it's already been in prior use. You can't take it and patent it and control it because it's in public domain.
It's the only way that you can really allow people to enjoy cannabis for time is to allow them the ability to hold it, work with it and benefit from it.
But for me, the benefit for the librarian should be they enjoy custodial work and they enjoy the cannabis as consumption.
So they grow some of it for smoke and then they keep a mom for hold.
I mean, hi, guys. Can I just jump in?
I just wanted to throw another point towards what you're saying, Kevin.
I just love what it is, you know, like if you look at the wine industry as a point of example and San Giovese or Money, like these are individual monocrop versions of grapes that are spread throughout a region.
And you can't you can't take a plant and get a crappy cultivator and then try and create a billion dollar business out of a great genetic.
They're just not going to be able to do what they are with. We all know it. It takes a certain amount of craftsmanship.
And that I feel like when you have this open source of material and all sorts of people have access to it, A, you don't lose it.
But B, you create a craft, you create an artisanship because there's so much access and there's so much knowledge and there's so much sharing of information.
There's a relativeness. You go, oh, you know what? This this this guy is growing it like this and it's this much better.
Or it's grown like this and I get this out of it. You know, it really creates a whole area of artisanship and craftsmanship that that open up to such a beautiful zone, too.
Because now all of a sudden, if we break down these walls and stop going, OK, well, I got to hide this and hide that and share them.
Now, all of a sudden, we can all get better together. You know, raising a high tide raises all ships, as it were.
We can we can come up together and share the knowledge that we share together and be able to develop the methodology for these particular cultivars to get the best outcome possible.
So I really like the idea of sharing out the knowledge. And I've bounced back and forth with some of the things that I truly love and have found.
And I've debated, like, do I just give it out to friends or do I keep it? You know, this is something really, really special to me.
And I think it's really, really special to share that. And I think that when we share these things, they really come about again.
And I've seen some people do some amazing stuff with it, but I've also seen some really terrible stuff.
But I think it's about the journey and I think it creates this shared communion of craft.
And I'm London, I'm done speaking. I just I just had to share that point in there, Kevin.
Well, I just. Awesome. Thank you.
All of these home gardeners, I got a 10 plant limit, you know, I want to keep all of my library and then I have all these friends who have epigenetics and want to keep a library.
And nobody will listen to me about grafting. And it's been over five years or more.
And I'm just like, look, you can keep an amazing graph library.
You never have to have the anxiety of being over plant count again, you know, because it's still oppressive times for some of us.
We don't have gigantic licenses and they consider a vegging plant a regular plant, man.
And I've seen dudes lose entire collections of stuff that will never be seen again.
You know, Kevin's like an amazing dude and he goes way back and knows like everybody.
And he just told everybody that the genotype expression won't change.
What's the prize over there? And so please, you know, check it out.
Check it out. Grafting is a mother. If you have, you know, kind genetics or anybody and you just throw it on an amazing rootstock and then you get to keep a thousand plants or more on one plant.
And so long as you're good at labeling, it goes. But yeah, thank you.
Modern era, though, I just got to say, like, we're pretty fucking blessed with the IG world, man.
Motherfuckers, myself included, are hucking clones.
You know, a couple hundred bucks, you can get pretty much most whatever cultivar you want, you know, except for some highly, highly exclusive shit.
You know, there's dudes. And I see that as a kind of a cool thing.
You know, it gives access to the everyday man, everyday grower, and it puts the stuff out in the population.
I guess I'll do a quick reset on the room. Peter, this thing's been going on for a while.
Do you have a specific time frame that this or you open this thing going on still?
This is still your show.
Well, I think Peter has maybe something going on with their future cannabis project. I actually saw something pop up on that.
What's for dinner, Peter?
Sounds lovely.
I think it's Indigenous Peoples Day down in the States today. Let's give a shout out to all the Indigenous folks who have helped move this plant along.
NL's got some roots. Northern White's got some roots associated with the Indigenous community in Seattle.
Much love. Thanks for all your work.
So who has Romney Lindo's cut?
I'm not sure that thing's still alive. I mean, you always hear people pop up and say that it's still around.
But it might be one of the ones that was lost to lack of preservation.
How about some Federation seed crosses with it?
I've got the old Federation stock still in the library. That's going to get pulled out and bought pretty soon.
It's actually already in with an LP, so I'm just waiting for the right opportunity to bring it out.
But again, in terms of preserving a clone into a seed line, that one was outcrossed right off the beginning.
We polluted it with genetics from another type before the preservation started.
So that's one of the complicating factors of doing it that way, which I think at least speaks to the power of selfing.
When that technique was introduced to us in the late 90s, early 2000s,
I think that was a really valuable tool that we added to the cannabis toolbox.
And while it doesn't, like I said before, it doesn't preserve the phenotype, it preserves the genetics that make up that phenotype
so that they can later be reassembled or into what we call recapitulating the hybrid.
What are you going to pop from those old Federation seeds?
When I was younger, an older grower gave me some cuts he had selected from some of the Hawaiian sativa crosses
and some cotton candy crosses. He said, this is probably the best tasting weed in the whole state.
He'd been growing for like 14 years, and I was the last person that had this cut.
And to this day, those Romulan hybrids, I'd love to smoke those again.
Yeah, unfortunately, the Hawaiian sativa was the one that I didn't get out of that whole bunch.
I dealt with their distributor. Their distributor in Canada was a friend of mine,
and she told me when they were going out of business.
And so when she was reloading one day, I essentially just traded her a bunch of stock for all the rest of their stuff
and took it out of her hands and put it into my vault.
So I've got the Romulan and the Makato and the cotton candy and I think Big Mac and a couple other ones, I'm not sure.
I don't know, Sweet Skunk, I'd have to go and look at the vault ticket.
But yeah, we'll see what we find.
They've been in 4 degrees Celsius since, so I'm keeping my fingers crossed for good germination rates.
And we'll do the same thing. I mean, everything will come out and get open pollinated
and we'll select females from the lot and then look at itself and Sim Crossing those females
and see what comes out of it.
You can cube those, you can match the grow median and the density as much as possible
and then hunt for the real pictures of the Romulan Joe Cut and cross-reference that with your G-pop
and then go from there and out and back and out and back.
I recreated an amazing Kawaii Electric Female that's really hard to get and it's very close.
Like the high is pretty much there.
So I wasn't in BC when the original Romulan came out.
I was living back on the other side of the country, so I actually never saw the original cut.
But a very good friend of mine, he used to go by Red from Legend Seed Companies.
He's actually been working with Joe and watching the Romulan.
Not the last few years, but the previous eight years.
And so he's just one step away.
So anything that we select and find that's good, I'll just consult them and get their nose in the mix
and let the experience folks kind of guide that selection.
And yeah, fingers crossed, but I can't promise anything.
C-99, dude was honest about it and he lost one of the things.
He didn't lose Princess.
He lost the P-94 and then he just dropped the freebie like a week or two ago.
That was the P-94 crossed with Princess, which is C-99.
And then the P-94, if it's a freebie, it's a freebie.
And then the P-94, if it's not that one genome expression, it's not going to be C-99.
And C-99 is this really special high if you're an artist and stuff.
Sorry to change the subject, but back to the Canadian genetics, Ryan.
I always really liked Canadian genetics because there was information that I could read about
some of the stories of the breeders.
And I grew up in the Northeast and my first year in Humboldt, or really my second fall,
we had all these genetics from Vancouver Island.
We had a bunch of Mikado Crosses and a bunch of Vancouver Island Purples
and all these special Vancouver and a bunch of grapefruit hybrids that were crossed into train wrecks.
But aside from that, I haven't seen a lot of NorCal growers embrace like 90s Canadian genetics.
So yeah, I would like to see how it would perform out here.
Oh, pal, I'm all about Canadian genetics.
Like Jordan of the Islands is an amazing company and they've really held it down for a long time.
And if you're a Dutch treat lover, you're not getting Dutch treat unless it's the Jordan of the Islands Dutch treat.
And I've bought and worked with a lot of Canadian companies.
I mean, I consider over two a lot, but they're really amazing dudes.
This one guy was like the basis of how I always wanted a bank to be,
where he had a forum that had all of these pictures of this stuff, of the real cuts and what you're looking for.
And he posted all of that there along with the seeds and you could buy it and do whatever.
And it was amazing, man.
So Dan, if we can just jump back to that Romulan that you were talking about there.
I was flashing my mic a little bit there because you got me excited because you've said Vancouver a whole bunch of times.
And I'm right here in North Vancouver, BC and I'm sitting on the North Shore by Deep Cove.
And if you've ever, if you've been to the area like Honeyd Stonehead, it's like a very famous little place.
But I grew up with Romulan.
I think, what year did it come out again?
I've totally forgotten.
But I remember growing up in high school in my early 20s that it was very popular and it was very commonly around here.
So can you tell me about like the flavor profile that you remember and that you dictate over to that?
Well, from what I remember, I had Romulan hybrids, right?
So I had a Hawaiian sativa that was crossed with it.
I remember the structure, kind of that typical, really cool sativa structure and light orange hairs.
But I remember like a sweet, kind of almost like an old school Durban.
But I think a lot of the influence came from the Hawaiian sativa.
A lot of the sativa stuff that's on the market nowadays is really heavy interpenylene, which I'm not a big fan of.
This was like an old classic haze kind of sativa influence.
I wasn't super experienced at growing back then.
It was one of my first multi-light grow houses.
But yeah, just sweet, candied, delicious flavor.
But I'm sure Ryan knows a lot more about it than I do.
Well, like I said, I never saw the original, but I've done a lot of digging into it.
I had friends, you know, I moved out here not long after and I had a bunch of friends that were really integrated in the scene.
And they all tell me Pine was the original.
But when the guys from Fed, Mike and it was actually Mike and Jay.
Jay went on to form Next Generation Seeds.
But Next Generation kind of started from seed lines.
I don't think he kind of kept the cuts that were the original ones that they were working with.
And I think that they hit a lot of that stuff with like White Widow.
So for example, Sweet Skunk was crossed over to White Widow and that became the Island Sweet Skunk.
And it's a much, much bigger plant than the original Sweet Skunk clone, which is really like a haze variant.
That's like Limonene and Neuralidol dominant.
The Romulan that I heard was, you know, the one that everybody was really wanted was the word that kept coming up was Pine.
So I don't know if that's like a Terpenylene dominant plant or a Pining dominant plant.
Usually the Pining dominant plants don't actually smell very much like Pine.
I find a lot of people confused Terpenylene with Pine.
It was to me, it kind of smells more like that Pine Saw cleaner kind of smell.
That's really quite astringent.
And then as you know, as because that one dropped off, speaking of preservation, that one fell out of the scene pretty, pretty early.
I think it was the Federation guys, you know, they started growing since.
And when the Romulan, you know, they bring it down to the block or Emory shop and everybody would kind of lose their shit.
And I think when they started, you know, when they started becoming popular for the flowers, that's really when they created the seed business.
And so when the seed business, when their seed started coming out, everybody started referring to the Romulan as the Grape Romulan,
which really didn't smell anything, as far as I understand, didn't smell anything like the original.
So it's one of those cases where, you know, trying to preserve something, we actually destroyed it, right, by outcrossing it to something else.
Again, going back to that same thing, like you're introducing, when you outcross, you're introducing new genes.
And then from there, you know, you have to go through and kind of try and find your way back home, right, which can be complicated now that you've got this whole extra couple of sets of genomes in the mix.
Next generation seeds, like you mentioned, they had all the Time Warp crosses.
They had the Romulan, they actually, they had a Grape Romulan and a bunch of Time Warp and Island Sweet Skunk crosses.
That's some of the kind of earlier outdoor stuff I grew way back.
Well, if you cube it right, like you do this outcross like I'm doing, and you're hunting based on established known traits of the things that you really like,
then you can do the outcross and then cross back in with the similar genome expression on the 50.
And then it really makes it a nicer, more stable strain for those things that have been really inbred.
But you have to know your highs and you got to know your outcross high in that effect, because if you don't match the outcross properly,
then you're going to mud the cross that you're going for.
And it's not going to be fun.
It's not the cross that you're going for and it alters the terpene profiles and ratios out of the zone that you want that gold zone to make the cross back.
I can speak to the Romulan.
First of all, I'd like to thank you, thank everybody for the knowledge today.
You've kind of sold me on using Feminized as a tool that I've kind of shied away from for
ever since I learned about it, because it's it scared me for various reasons, mainly not knowing
what I'm going to. And I just like to stick with something that I know, as opposed to going and switching more things than I already am.
As Ryan keeps alluding to, we're already making gene combinations and adding more gene combinations, adds more complication and it drives your goal further away from you in a lot of cases.
So I'm really digging that there's a simplicity aspect to Feminized seeds beyond just the convenience that most people
are attracted to it in the first place for, because it is a lot nicer to just be selecting through FemBeans if you're just a home grower with plant count.
So I've always understood that and accepted Feminized, the concept for that reason.
And I followed your work for quite a while, Ryan. I used to be a lurker on Ice E-Mag back in the day.
I've seen the evolution of Feminized seeds over time, but I've still maintained that fear of the unknown.
So you guys, with all of your detailed descriptions today, have kind of alleviated a lot of that fear and I am intrigued by the simplicity aspect of it.
Now, as far as the Romulan goes, I second the pine. I had one of my mentors traveled across the country to get a cut of that Romulan through the Ice E-Mag connections.
And he told me that you had, in order for, in the circle that he was running with on there, that you had to be a vet to be able to get that pure cut.
You had to show some sort of proof that you were a vet to the other guys or, I guess, speak the right way. Who knows how they did it?
But this guy was really, he was a unique cat. He was in the first Iraq conflict. So yeah, he traveled out west and got that cut.
And also through that connection later on, he got the cut of the train wreck for his wife. His wife had MS.
So there was a lot of people saying that that train wreck helped people with the MS back then. And this was like in the early days of medical.
So yeah, second the pine on that Romulan cut because I remember that stuff really well.
It was really interesting. The effect was very unique. Like I said, I remember it really well.
I remember it was really narrow leaf, faded yellow, but had like sort of an indica structure to it. It was a beautiful plant.
It was one of the things that he coveted. And also that train wreck, also all the trouble he went through getting it, first of all.
And then there's the medicinal aspect of his wife because she did, it really did help her. You could see her when she would start to have one of her episodes.
She'd just go in the other room, puff on some of that. I never got to try that stuff because that was all her. I've never hit train wreck. I've smelled it.
I know what it smells like. But yeah, I'll shut up now. Thank you guys. This has been very informative to me. I've been a sponge. Thank you guys.
Yeah, I myself use that Romulan, my space, because it's the mother to it. It's a line that I tracked back to 96, the cut that I held.
I couldn't track it any earlier than that because the guy that I got it from, when we went to go talk back to the guy he got it from, the old dude had passed away.
And we couldn't track it any sooner than that. But yeah, I'd go with the pine also.
Highly medicinal. It's one of the reasons why I use it as the mother in my line. It worked very well for my mother's arthritis and other ailments that she was dealing with at the time period.
So it was the reason that it was added to my breeding projects. It was a killer line. I held it until about two years ago and ended up letting her go finally. My partner might still have her though.
Elk. Oh, sorry, Matt. I saw you trying to talk earlier. You want to say something? I just want to ask Elk if he can relay through other strain experiences that he had the effect that he got when he smoked the real Romulan.
You know, like it reminded him of bits of 91 chem or a little bit of the winter kind of Jordan of the Islands Dutch treat, but with like that full nerve death.
So if you had a broken foot, you could put weight on it like you just did opiates.
And it also like to highlight another section of the strains that you were, the chemo bars that you were talking about from BC. It's like the grapefruit chemo bars. They're absolutely incredible.
I grew up in between central Washington and Oregon, kind of bouncing back and forth. And it kind of like, interestingly, you know, like on the Romulan note, Elka, this guy that I worked on his car, get a get a grown was actually like one of the one of the like first people to like really get a grip on it.
And he was able to get me like hands on when I was like, like, like 15 and like a like a like an indoor grill. And he had a Romulan cut and he had said something similar to the fact that he was a veteran that he got it through some veteran friends in that.
Chemical like pine saw no Ryan, you were noting is like something that I've chased since then. And the way that I've always explained it is smells like a janitors like closet.
When when you're at like school, you like walk by and always like smell like the like a pine saw like cleaner. It's like that's what I smell. And it's like a lot of time. It's kind of interesting, but he was actually the one that because he used to go like up and down to like BC.
And he was the one that turned me on to a lot of the grapefruit lines and there was one that that kind of like stuck with me was a one called heavy grapefruit just put like Pringle can stacks I still have seed of it and I buy it anytime I see it.
I haven't seen it in a while, but it just there was like two really two
Two phenotypes in it, that it seemed, but both of them were just the most intense grapefruit. It was like somebody took a fresh like grapefruit right in front of you twisted it and like jammed it in your face.
And there was like nothing else but grapefruit. It was, it was so interesting. And there was a lot of other like seeds that he sorted through from up there that were all these crazy grapefruit like spicy grapefruit sweet and a lot of like what you're noting is like that like that sweet candy notes.
But a lot of like short flowering times to like great and I never and I've always wondered why like a lot of the BC strains never got more light because they are pretty unique have like you noted
Like chem four. It has that chem four from pine saw can you kind of smell.
Like chem four has like a pine solid kind of chemi smell to it. And then so does this one Fino or Geno type of the nine pound hammer and several other like Dutch treat occasionally has it.
That's just if that's the that's really interesting because it either hits like just amazing Hindu Kush here in clear zone or it's like erratic paranoia and stuff for me with those trips, and I've had it were smelled exactly like the other strain.
And it was not that pleasant experience. It was like two or more hours of I don't want to be here.
I mean, if you guys are vets and you're looking for a strain that really that that Duchess cut the Jordan of the Islands Dutch treat is like a vets best friend.
And just raging on the adrenaline and endorphins that are probably coursing through your veins like 24 hours a day.
Yeah, the grape was an interesting plant. I mean, when, when it came on the market, it was actually known as the only thing worth growing.
I mean, in some regards, if you if you grow plants bigger than like two and a half, three feet, I wouldn't bother with grapefruit.
At least grapefruit purse up here. Some of the hybrids are a little bit bigger than that.
It grows like a classic kind of indica without the rigidity of the stems, but it's got big flowers and it's got a lot of leaves.
And it's got a lot of leaves. It's got a lot of leaves. It's got a lot of leaves. It's got a lot of leaves. It's got a lot of leaves.
And it's got that really intense grapefruit. He knows to it. Yield yields are good. It tends to auto flower when you, if you don't take your time.
And it's got a lot of leaves. It's got a lot of leaves. It's got a lot of leaves. It's got a lot of leaves. It's got a lot of leaves.
And it's got that really intense grapefruit. He knows to it. Yield yields are good. It tends to auto flower when you, if you don't take care of the root system, or if you grow it in a small pot and the roots hit the side of the pot and get bound that forces the plant to flower, even when it's in vegetative light cycle.
of light cycle. So that can be a real pain in the ass because it's just it can be a pain in the ass
to keep it in veg if you don't know about either root pruning or you're not keeping in like uh
you know those bubbling bucket systems and I always did really well in that from other plants.
Um but it's like mid you know it's unfortunately in today's Canadian market it wouldn't sell because
it's in that like 15, 16, 17 percent range and the liquor distribution boards across the country
they just won't buy anything with a COA under 20. So it's uh unfortunately kind of been kept
out of the system which is too bad because it's a it's a pretty nice plant otherwise.
That's incredible to me too because I grew uh I pulled some seed out of my library for
a patient of mine back in 2019 I want to say it was and I grew it out for her and she absolutely
loved it to the point where like she didn't want anything else and uh I uh yeah I
I uh you know gave it out for like samples and like everybody that I gave it to just like
just absolutely loved it and I'm sure like you were saying because I didn't um there was like
one small like test batch that I didn't um like uh like I guess like test or anything it was
it literally just to see like if she had wanted it um and so I never like actually I see the
strength of it a long story with what happened next but yeah a lot of people liked it that
you know tested it and even the patient that it was designed for like she absolutely loved it.
Yeah if you're not running labs on it it's a great plant I mean it's one of those ones that's
a super friendly super accessible experience I mean I can I can take it to a family gathering and
you know pass it to like you know my mom or like my uncle or someone like that and they won't wig
out because it's it's kind of in that sweet spot like you know I pass around an OG or cam or
something with a lot of power it just kind of you know everybody ends up staring at the walls
um but in this new market where everybody's looking at numbers rather than the flower or
the experience from the flower it unfortunately doesn't quite do as well but um I like it as a
plant like I said it's you know it's got like you know that name really applies the only thing
worth growing I mean it's it's not stinking out your neighborhood even though it's got a
a relatively robust smell it doesn't have those like stinky aldehydes that kind of give you away
um but and there's a lot of there's a lot of good stuff about it. Is it Cinderella 99?
No grapefruit.
Yo guys I'm gonna I gotta run but um just wanted to say Peter thanks for uh for reaching out and
inviting me and uh it's great talking with everyone. Ryan I really enjoyed listening to you
speak and and and talking with you and hope everybody has a a great night. Really nice to
see you man I'll I'll stop by again if I make it down to the cup this year but uh always nice
to run into you. Absolutely all right peace everyone. Do well man.
I think that we've uh had an opportunity to kind of get away from what our original topic was and
I just finished cooking dinner so um I don't know if you guys want to continue this on but I'm also
going to uh to bounce off of here as well. Chase can I wrap up? I'm gonna wrap up.
Chase can I wrap Ryan's thing about the grapefruit and root pruning back around
to the original topic? Thanks guys I'm gonna get out of here.
Right on man. Ryan if you could do a video on root pruning I would love to watch that.
Root pruning is like a huge um probably underutilized tip for keeping a cut and line
going and going really strong because um I've ruined so many plants trying to root prune and
I've watched all these videos and I've tried it so many times and it never really works out
and I don't know what I'm doing wrong um but I know that that's the the key to keeping gigantic
graft mothers and then also to keeping clones in the their most prime state is the root prune and
and the repot but I just uh I guess I could keep on experimenting but I mean
if you could share with us um your root pruning successes because that's one of the like I said
one of the most crucial small things that keeps a plant going uh just giving it that
ability to sprout those new roots in that pot without choking itself out and stuff you know
like that's super clutch and that that you were able to bring that around um and like I just caught
it like when you talk about the grapefruit and you're like oh root pruning I was like oh man
like don't forget that you know like watching that because that's it's amazing man that's how
they keep those bonsai trees going so well and uh grafting or regrowing like I love regrowing
and if I could just reprune properly like right now we'd be smoking the real kawaii electric cut
instead of me having to do all of this back crossing cubie stuff to get it back to something
that's like it it's it's got the citrusy pull and everything but it has the hint of the night
blooming jasmine which doesn't make it that the the original kawaii electric cut but it puts it
in a very very close effect experience
yeah right so to me root pruning is kind of like re-vegging it's about the balance between
what is underneath the soil with what is above the soil right like you know when you re-veg your
plant if you cut a plant if you cut a flowering plant back and it's got a big ass root system on it
but there's only like a little bit of vegetative material up top you get this imbalance between
you know roots essentially scale themselves to match the size of the plant right
um so if you cut off the whole bunch of the top of the plant like we're talking say like 95%
of the plant but you leave the whole root system that root system can't move that amount of water
because the top of the plant isn't transpiring that much water so you end up with like root
rot or whatever else is going on in the system or in the in the uh in the root zone um so rather
rather than like really get into root pruning as like a way of doing things i would just more try
to upscale the pot to match the size of the plant and then when you're when you're you know rather
than really severely cut back a mom or cut back the roots on a mom i'd be more prone to take
cutting off the plant while it's in good shape and then just start a new mom right because again
it's about keeping those root systems going i mean i don't know if you ever grown autos but if you grow
autos and you trap the roots or you restrict the roots early on or you don't give them big enough
pot they don't do well at all right they're really really sensitive to root yeah so um
otherwise don't wait till the plant gets sick right you want to do this kind of stuff on on a
like on a healthy plant right i find a lot of people trying to treat plants when they get
when they're you know it's like let's save it when it's already gone or when it's already
suffering and at that point in time that's just to me that's not good plant maintenance
right i'd rather take uh make sure you have an extra copy while the plant's healthy and then
start that cycle again um so it's just a different way of looking at it maybe
but like root pruning is so clutch and do you think that i was just clipping the that main
taproot like too close or i shocked it with too much sun after the root prune
because a lot of guys they want to keep their clones in like a one gallon or a three gallon you
know and that's their mom and they just keep it in that um and i see there's a lot of root bound
a lot of root bound even in air pots and stuff and you could just find like can i treat if i have
a huge 35 gallon can i trim that thing down to a one gallon and then stick it in a low lighting
situation and give it a little bit of pgr and some uh why wouldn't you just clone like take
a clone and start over like because it's like a different sort of um every time that you cut it
you know it's like a not as strong as it was you know unless you really know how to keep a clone
and most people i don't think know how to keep a clone i know i sure don't know how to keep a clone
i lost hp 13 and lavender and candy pine
yeah i mean to me like listen to me you gotta remember cannabis natural state is to be an
annual right so it really from an evolutionary context it wants to reset itself every year and
go back to seed um so when we keep mother plants we're doing something that's really not very
natural and you know my personal belief is that like the longer a plant is in a production system
the more opportunity it has for pests and vectors right pests as vectors or viral diseases
so i think that cycling mothers is actually a really important part of
maintaining a production system and it's not the easiest thing to do when you try to keep a library
but i think for the overall health of the plant again the plant is kind of happiest when it's
not i don't know like i've kept moms for a long time in some pretty rough conditions and i think
you know it's not necessarily only the size of the container and everything in the age of the
plant it's like you know you're feeling if you're feeding chemical salts there's only so much cation
i don't know if you know about cec but there's a concept called cec which stands for cation
exchange capacity and it essentially has to do with like the ability of the soil to accept the
ions that are exchanged through roots picking up nutrients out of the soil and you need to have a
certain amount of organic matter in the soil to like essentially maintain that cec and so if you
got a small plant in a small pot you're constantly feeding chemical salts in it you strip you you
kind of you use up the the cation exchange capacity of that given soil and at that point in time
kind of like shit starts going wrong really quick you know your ph crashes and magnesium and
um magnesium calcium get locked out pretty quick right so i don't know what you use for a soil
medium but i mean i like i don't really like having moms in a given soil for really much
longer than three four months like and that's four months to me would be pushing it unless you're up
potting right if you're up potting again you're giving more soil so you're you're kind of re
establishing or refreshing that cec but and you know at a given point in time again even with a
big mom like you know i'll take some branches and the healthiest branches preferably preferably from
lower on the plant or they're not the cells aren't dividing as quickly and they're less likely to be
you know have mutations and um just start new moms select the healthiest ones and keep those as your
mother plants and then again just make that part of your your process so ryan you're always cutting
from the bottom of the plant when i start new moms i try to prefer to take the new cuts that
are going to become new moms from the top from the bottom of the plant yeah
for cut for production it doesn't matter because that plant is not destined to
you know again like a plant that's going into production it doesn't matter as much if it has a
couple of point mutations if you're trying to preserve the line you want to minimize those
point mutations right is that because there's the higher amount of uh hormones responsible for
rooting in the base of the plant and just increasing that by taking cuttings from that
number you just increase that is that would that be the theory or methodology behind that right
no no uh plants like i said before cells as cells divide like so when cells divide you know the
chromosomes the dna doubles the chromosomes split apart and they they form daughter cells right and
so during that dna replication period you have there's something called like these d these dna
checkpoints and they essentially monitor the the state of the dna for mistakes right and that's a
natural thing that's evolved in all eukaryotes but they make mistakes right they they're not
100 they don't have 100 finality so there is a natural mutation rate in any eukaryotic cell
then you can go and google that and you'll see pretty clearly that like every you know as cells
divide stakes occur and those mistakes that are then incorporated into the line they get passed
on to all future generations right and so this is really about going back and just trying to
choose the cells that have the slowest rate of of reproduction because with a slower rate of
reproduction they're going to have also a slower rate of mutation right and that's kind of what i
was talking about earlier when i said you know we might want to take younger plants and cryopreserve
plants say in their first six months to year of life rather than waiting 10 years down the road
where all these plants have accumulated mutations right because again anytime there's a mutation
there is the opportunity that that mutation is going to happen in a crucial gene or a gene that
is important to you know it doesn't have to be crucial for life but it might be in a gene for
like thc production or or pest resistance or susceptibility or you know terpene production
right mutations are a fact of life so we just want to minimize that
and so wouldn't that be like minimal pgrs and then if you're a salter like low salt like
just minimal everything the and uh root pruning and uh repotting with repruning into fresh median
but like it just it it doesn't account for like there's these two different realms of
realms of protected cuts and that's the organic world like living soil and stuff and then there's
the salter dudes and like i'm just noticing that the salter guys like they have this very consistent
phenol on their stuff because everything's kept in these climate controlled zones
and it's you know fed pro amounts of their synthetics and then it's harder to mimic that
with the living soils and stuff because um we don't have a way because sometimes sometimes a
microbe is responsible for the phenol and why it's so awesome and that was why people were all like
oh man you can't grow weed from hawaii in the mainland and it's like that's great and i'm like
yeah no you probably can you know but there is something to be said about the the influence of a
microbe on the expression of a plant and i'm sure that sometimes like certain microbes can just boost
the plant like insanely and once that leaves like it might have the flavor and the experience but
it doesn't have that third wall break and effects of certain legendary strains that like you smoke
and you really feel like you're tripping or something like that
like right now
pgrs
go ahead oh just want to say real quick pgrs plant growth regulators
uh are known to be associated with increases in mutation rates so
like i think again try to think back in terms of what's natural for the plant
how can i encourage that natural environment as much as possible
and and that natural pgrs to like kelp or like aloe or whatever
uh i don't know like actually i don't know i don't know if there's been any real studies done on that
but i know like for example my experience is coming from using pgrs for tissue culture and
you look at like metatopolen or you know bap or kinitin or even
thiazorone like all these things are known to be associated with inducing somatic mutations
i had a question about hlv urine and and you know your experience with it like
you know my understanding is that you know certain parts of a plant can test positive
and certain parts of a plant can test negative and i wanted to know if that a is that true and
and b can you clone your way out of that problem and then kind of like c is a meristem scrub a cure
all for it or like i've heard people who you know say you know you can't you can't always tissue
culture your way out of the problem either so i just you know i know there's a guy who does a lot
of experience in this field i'd be really interested to hear what you had to say the l in hvld stands
for latent right and that just means that the little like okay a viroid is a virus without a
cell envelope so essentially it's just this little piece of mr rna that somehow gets into your plant
and then hijacks the machinery from within the plant for its own evil purposes right and like i
said l in hlvd stands for latent and that just means that the expression is not always on and
so for sure you can have false negatives right like you can test something that actually has the
virus and it comes back negative if that level of expression is so low that the dna test or the
nucleic acid test sorry can't detect the rna right so you for sure false negatives are a real thing
so it's just like laying like a time bomb dormant until the next stress event and then you know it
rears up yeah whatever it is like i don't know what it is that causes it to express but yeah
it goes through these periods or sectors in the plant even where it's not really expressing uh but
it can come back and so the one of the ways that they deal with it is through meristem culture
meristems you know the meristem is on a plant but it's essentially the origin of cell division in
the cell in the in the shoot tip or also in the root tip but we're let's focus on the shoot tip
and so there's actually a tiny little organ if you fold that you can't see it it's so small
but if you were to go back into the very tip of the plant you fold back all the fan leaves
you'll see in there that there's a little well you won't see it but in the center where all
the cells are dividing from that's the meristem okay and so when new cells are born or they're
created through through mitosis those cells can often be born without like uninfected right um
so i talked about i did an episode on shaping fire with shango los about tissue culture but
i talked about this a little bit there you know when you get infected by a virus like when your
body gets infected with a virus you get a fever and the reason that you get a fever is that our
bodies have learned through evolution that viruses don't do as well in a heat raised environment so
by raising your core temperature the virus is now at like um a replicative disadvantage
and that gives your immune system a leg up and an opportunity to kind of squash the virus right
and so they do something similar with um heat treatment and i'm not sure if this is what they
do for hvld or not connor maybe can um chip in if he's got some experience with this but there is
something they do in tissue culture called heat shock or heat treatment and essentially you raise
the temperature of the tissue cultures and that again creates a disadvantage where the viroid is
not able to replicate as easily therefore the cells that you get growing out of that meristem
or you you might be you might get like a whole cell clump or a meristem clump that is free from
the viroid if that then gets sectioned out at that point in time and planted on new media yeah you've
actually you've now isolated your genotype from the viroid and if those cells can be coaxed to
grow into a new plant that's how you get like a virus free or a viroid free tip right that can
then be used to start a whole new population so i don't know that if that answers your question or
not no absolutely so it it can be solved through meristem
yeah i'm not saying that every problem can be solved through meristem culture but it seems to
be the case that if you take you know if you if you take that meristem practice and combine it with
some type of monitoring through microbiology or not microbiology through molecular genetics where
you're actually using a nucleic acid assay to look for the rna signal from the viroid right if
you can you can kind of combine those two technologies together and say hey look we've
got a clump of cells now that are free from the viroid let's grow those into a full plant and
start the process over again so pgrs can cause mutations but if you know how to use them and then
how to apply the different stuff in the organic sector it'll help your plants to have a way better
mitosis or the eating thing and the mitochondria where it comes out and becomes the the new chain
of of growth that is the dna or rna or whatever they called it and um no it's like it's like
radiation do you think of it like radiation right if you have radiation if you're using radiation
you're increasing your mutation rate like less mutation less radiation means you're going to have
less of a you're going to slow your mutation rate so it's i don't think it's an issue of like i know
how to use pgrs they're not going to induce mutations i just don't think that that's the
case i think like i said you know mutation is a natural part of cell division and using pgrs
increases that natural radio mutation that's all i mean that's i wouldn't try to draw any more
um i wouldn't try to draw anything more than that um i'm not a fan i mean they're necessary
in terms of of tissue culture but i think that like the practice of using pgrs
counting and i'm not talking about like you know adding alfalfa or kemp or kelp meal to your soil
i'm talking about like getting coconut water yeah like you know you're sourcing chemical
pgrs and that can be even stuff like you know like anything that's got pachylbutyrosol in it
or whatever right like there's a whole bunch of these products that end up on the market that
that the manufacturers have put in pgrs into the thing they don't even declare it on the
on the label right so be wary of using those things i'm wary of using those things
and try to rely on natural synthetic and organic they're similar and different and the thing with
the nice thing about synthetics is that you have the the chart that you can reference to get the
right amount whereas with organics it's kind of a crapshoot unless the the source already does
the testing and the thing over time to find out the knockoff rate i make a thing that i call the
dirty danglers enzyme and you pour the powder over your root base and then water it and it'll make
your plant like foxtail and go crazy with all the pgrs in it right but if i were to just knock that
down to like a more manageable feed i thought that the pgrs help during the cell repetition
so that you have the like the newest freshest cells and you don't get the same degenerated
rna structure or dna structure i mean i haven't taken biology since ninth grade or whatever but
that was my understanding of the the play on pgrs was if you use it in the right amount
um that it allows the cell to do its repetition thing but like operating at max at its proper
capacity which it probably knocks off over time and that's how i assume certain dudes who are
keeping legendary cuts organic are keeping it going and they're just masters of the pgr you know
because a little bit too much and you get the australian bastard you know or um that freak
berry but i guess those are like probably way different and not stressed and mutated to pgrs
those are mutations that are phenotype mutations and by looking at a phenotype you can't determine
whether the genetic mutation came from a natural or a non-natural source you just can't do it
right so again mutations are a part of life that's evolution mutations are the material
upon which mother nature selects evolution right like they are the raw material for evolution and
so it's a natural part of life but again like i think we're talking about like people that are
masters of pgrs or you know like the companies that are making these things do you really think
that they did the experiments necessary to say that this product is that this is the best thing
for the plant you know like i don't i just don't buy that like especially in the cannabis space like
it's people mixing stuff in a bottle with a little bit of scientific knowledge thinking that they can
use it to make money and they do right and the truth of the matter is cannabis has done five
fine on its own for 30 million years it's like it doesn't need we don't need to add anything to
optimize mitosis she's doing fine on her own just let her do her thing but we're inbreeding the 12
strains that we like and then the main land races and influencing with our hand instead of it working
within the rhizome sphere and talking with each other doing its natural crossings and you know
like that's different all the inbreeding and things like that and with the inbreeding you need
to fortify your mitochondria and the stuff that is putting out the genetics sorry dude that's not
true mitochondria are have their own dna and they reproduce essentially through cloning they don't
reproduce through sexual recombination when we're inbreeding we're we're we're doing all we're doing
is playing with the shuffling of genes right and um it's that has nothing to do with mitochondria
well skunk va has kept 91 chem from phenoling and stuff for over 20 years and uh it's still
dynamite right and he likes to salt and he was probably like a pro makes one salter
from the old days and dudes archive seeds are are just amazing i heard and uh i don't know that he
uses pgrs or anything like that but my understanding of pgrs was like straight
out of like a science book and the eating of like the plant taking it in and using what it takes in
hey connor may i do sorry i don't mean to interrupt there jolly did you have a question
or a comment that you wanted to bring up i'm happy to have you up on stage brother it's always good
to see you i thought it would be interesting and privy to bring you up about this discussion we had
an awesome chat earlier last week about uh pgrs specifically and i think it's like it's a really
well used word in the industry and i think it's also a very interesting word because like the
base five hormones right that are used to grow a plant you you need them in general i mean i would
you know i don't know where i'm going with that without exactly but how are you doing connor's
see i'm doing great thank you for bringing me up man no this has been a great discussion and
uh ryan especially man i you're speaking my language everything that you said i've definitely
agreed with um and in fact i if you could see my ptr um this is from some of the research that i did
with cytokinins i did ba2ip and tdz at three different rates one micromole five and ten um
and just you kind of nailed it on the head the tdz causes a lot of hyperhidrosity
in all of my stock i actually refuse to use any hormones or any antibiotics because
i didn't want to influence any mutations or also um really just kind of have any residual activity
you know when i carry on my experiments so um everything that you've been saying is on point
the thermotherapy and all that stuff totally agree with it
yeah my man i think london you hit on a really important part right now like there's probably
some good reading for jolly if you you know if you haven't opened up a biology textbook since grade
nine i would go back and look at the five there's there's five main hormones that the plant produces
okay um forget one of them as we're going we have a fun adjective is all call girls are easy
auctions kydokins it's it's a great we we learned it from ashley one of our dank members shows and
it's i think i have it right okay so but the point is is we got these five i mean humans have hundreds
of hormones right we got it's a really complicated system but plants is really five major hormones
um and so auxin for example is the horror is the the hormone or okay we got natural hormones and
then we've got plant growth regulators which is what people are talking about when we say pgrs
pgrs are molecules that have activity that is similar to the natural hormones right so iba for
example or endobutyric acid or iaa which is uh endoacetic acid these are the compounds that you
see on listed on the guaranteed minimum analysis on like rooting gel or rooting powder okay and
those are molecules that are not auxin they don't even necessarily look chemically like auxin but
they have activity in cells when those chemicals are put onto cells that is similar to auxin okay
same goes for cytokine and same goes for gibberellins or you know whatever
that doesn't mean that those molecules are natural hormones and so because they have
activity that is similar to those hormones it doesn't mean that they're also not doing other
things that's why a lot of guys don't like to do coconut water and when you tell them about
coconut water and they've tried it before they get kind of pissed off at you because they associate
it with a certain gray mold or something like that you know something that looks like mold you
know it's gray and that's this the cytokine the stuff that i assume because i've associated it
with when i didn't do stuff properly and that's what we grew on it and you can get them into
natural forms like alloy and stuff and then pgrs is the term which is i'm just kind of getting used
to is probably more referring towards the synthetic versions of gibberellics and stuff which
is easier for a lot of growers to use but i'm all organic and i like to make my own stuff from
plants and whatnot microbes and i like house and gardens and i know that house and gardens is
probably some dude who's like a really amazing ethno botanist who just knew the different things
from different seeds and stuff and put together this amazing product that boosted and i know that
there's a lot of products out there that suck man but do research i mean you can check out
dog.garden and i'm looking at that stuff and i know that it's amazing because it's like
that's what i wanted to do with these nice little packets that are like one feed
you know so that dudes don't overdo it and if you don't overdo it like it keeps the the structure
just a little bit more fortified from stresses and stuff and it doesn't cause crazy mutations
until you overdo it but yeah. Ryan as a follow-up question too is as a Canadian grower and there's
always this you know you always see these postcode pjrs and stuff like that which drive me nuts but
in Canada like getting a hold of these synthetic pjrs can you like are they in a lot of those
bottle products that you find in your average hydroponic shop or are like they a little bit
harder to get a hold of like is because can it my understanding is Canada puts a lot of restrictions
on uh on its products so i would just love to know a little bit more about that because you
have the expertise in that region. Yeah we do have laws about the stuff but unfortunately it
gets snuck into bottles and i can't tell you from brand to brand what is and what isn't but
i know they've done a lot of testing not only in Canada but also in Oregon and they found that like
yeah like there was something called i can't remember it was like dragon butt or something
like that and it was full of Paclobutrazol which is kind of why i shy away from those things right
like you know listen the nutrient companies are designed their whole job is to like remove
your money from your pocket right and in my opinion salt is salt is salt it's all the same
stuff just mixed in different ratios and you hear all this talk about chelates and you know
one advanced is different from remo or whatever dude it's all the same shit um and so i try to
not get like too caught up in that whole thing i mean why do you think they're having you change
your nutrient tank you know they're recommending to hydroponic growers to to dump your nutrients
down the down the toilet every month and make a new batch the only people that benefit is the
nutrient company right and when you consider that they're selling this stuff is essentially powder
added with water like when i think about that shit and how they they ship it all over the country
i mean dude a liter of water it weighs a kilogram right so we're needlessly shipping kilograms of
water all over the planet at what cost right it's like there's a huge environmental impact that goes
along with that and so i kind of see the nutrient companies not saying they're all like this but like
i see those guys as like a bit of a predatory
thing that's grown like a kind of cancer that's grown on the side of the cannabis industry
because you know again like i operate in the science world as well so when i you know when you go to buy
something from a science catalog dude the prices for shit is ridiculous right but they're usually
selling to people that are like pi doctors and universities that have like a five million dollar
grant and so those guys don't want to chase down rubbermaid containers or like you know stirrers
from all these different suppliers they want to order it from one place and when you do that you
pay a big extra fee from the science companies because they take these products and they sell
them for a hell of a lot more than they are in the same uh than they would be if you bought them from
a regular supplier the cannabis industry grow shop industry is no different right like there's a reason
that there's all these specific brands that are catering specifically to cannabis growers
that shit's no different than the guys that are so into the agricultural companies
and the the agricultural companies are the growers that are doing real ag
see they're not paying like eight hundred dollars for like five bottles of nutrients right and
they're buying the exact same shit it's because this stuff has been repackaged and sold off
to growers who they think have a lot of money right and there's a whole bunch of marketing and
like you know there's i mean there's these like you know the magazines that they give away at uh
at the hydro stores those aren't magazines they're not information it's fucking advertising the only
purpose of those things is so that they can put their ads on them they're like what do we call
them like magalogs right they're they're catalogs it's they're just pushing products so i anyway i
try to stay away from that stuff if i'm using salts i buy big bags of salt from ag suppliers
and it's every bit as good as advanced or remo or whatever the company is
that's my that's my i love that i i work with a human in a full of a company and i can't say any
of the any of the like there's all nds and stuff so i can't say exactly who but the the company's
called quad neutral maybe you've heard of them ryan um but we've been doing some trials at some
of the larger larger facilities and stuff like that and not a single one of the large facilities
like of the major major places are they're not buying bottle nutrients or pre-mixed water nutrients
they're they're buying the salts straight it's just like economic economical so i mean because
of the problem with this kind of sphere of thing like when you go to as as a home grower a person
that wants to grow their own medicine you like you want to walk up to the shop and that's the
first introduction we get i mean that's going to be our easiest route of entry of information so
how would like someone like me in canada get a hold of these nutrients straight up because it's not
like it's not like you can't just look it up in in your local hydroponic grow shop book and they
just have it all there laid out nice and neat and tidy you know what would be where would you
point somebody in the right direction to get started in this process if they were in a home position
every every town has an agricultural supplier every town that they do
um around which they do farming so i mean if you're in you're kind of backed into a corner
in deep cove but i mean like you know down the valley there's got to be some nutrient suppliers
and i don't i don't really know who is the supplier for there but there's one in victoria
that i use um i can't even remember they changed the name so i'm having a a brain fart on what the
name of the company is but if you if you you know ask go to a like a greenhouse grower and just ask
them where they get their salt um or call the companies themselves like plant you know plant
products or any of these big these big nutrient suppliers just call them up and say hey who's
the rapper who's the salesperson in in whatever town you know and you can literally buy like a
year's worth of salt for less than you would spend for like a cycle of cannabis right um
i i when i was working in salinas i met these folks down in uh in salinas california near
monterey and they had a company i just met them happened as they were sitting beside me at a
restaurant we started chatting then one of them was canadian the wife was canadian and you know
they built this company called reforestation reforestation technologies inc and they made
they had a special process for making my core is a they had a they had a patent out of europe for
for producing mass scales of my corse and they sold they had one product line they sold to the
ag companies and their son started the new company and he would take the same products and re-bag
them in small scale in in bags under the brand extreme gardening and sold them at like a 20 times
markup to the hydro stores same product i i love it i i gotta love hate relationship because it's
it's you know it's the beauty of of of entrepreneurial ship and people like trying to
make a dive but at the same time it's it's kind of this screwed up structure of things that we built
like you said we're we're shipping things across the world like i used to work for a um a high-end
pastry company and we would take high-end pastries and ship them from france to canada and sell them
to hotels and it's just like as a chef and as as someone who believes in like local food and stuff
like that it was always just a meaning working that job because you know it just goes against
every part of what a properly working food system is and you know it relates all back to cannabis
and i just think it's awesome to chat about so i appreciate being on stage with you thank you
very much for answering my questions i hope i haven't drilled at you too hard there right
no not at all and thanks you know i gotta thank the the moderators and peter and everybody involved
in hosting this uh for for having me on i appreciate the uh the time i've got like this
so where where do you think it's going ryan is it is it you know are we heading for a
a total collision you know catastrophe in you know these byroids and and different issues and
then having to you know really start all over or do you think that these guys are going to
be able to sort of clone and clean their way out of it specifically in canada
well we're in the thick of it already i mean
dude i've in the last two weeks i've had four new facilities contact me and identify
hvld and i've traced it back to some of the nurseries one of the nurseries
they didn't know that they had it and we informed them and i don't know what what steps they're
going to take but one of the other nurseries i contacted them and i also contacted some people
that were working with them and turns out they knew that they had the hvld and they were selling
because their business was hurting so bad they needed the sales and so they were passing on
they were knowingly passing on contaminated plants and so you know like for example say
you got a big lp or a small lp so you got a whatever a license even a micro has got like
two or three rooms when you reintroduce a new room that's clean that has to be completely
segregated from everything else right otherwise it's just going to get reinfected so it's not
just that we have to clean up which as kevin said earlier i mean it's like six to eight months before
you can actually scrub out the virus and then you have to rebuild your your stock that stock also
has to be kept completely isolated from everything else so it's not like you can just do one line
you have to monitor that line and monitor every other plant in your facility to make sure that
they're also clean right anything that's not clean has to be segregated or cut back or eliminated and
put into tc and if they you know so that again when you're going from plant to plant if you're
not sterilizing your instruments you're just you're just moving it all over the place
um and you can kind of apply that logic across the whole industry right like if one if if nurseries
are moving plant material around or taking plant material in and they're not monitoring it's just
like i mean dude it's the perfect time to be having this conversation because everybody's aware of
what's going around with covid this is the covid of the plant world right so if you're bringing new
stuff in and you're not monitoring it through these dna or these nucleic acid detection technologies
like pcr yeah you're just spreading it around because again like i said before the l in hvld
stands for latent that means it's not always expressed you might have it not even know
right and so that's like the asymptomatic carrier that's spreading around the virus without anybody
knowing this is a big deal right like and we're not taking it seriously and um
it it really needs to be a coordinated thing and this whole thing you know i did some early reading
right on i found a couple of papers in hop and they were like oh no hops it's not transferred
by seed and then i looked into it a little deeper it's like oh maybe it is transferred by seed
right we had a we did an expert facility over in new zealand they brought in the
virgin facility never grown in no plants they brought in seeds that were from california
they had it right so it's like until we take a coordinated yeah yeah so yeah it's a 10 percent
so if you've got you know c and i'm not blaming california but california is kind of a
the center of this thing if we got seed breeders that are using infected plants too they're
passing that all over the fucking world right so it's like at some point in time if we really
want to address this everybody's got to get on board and we need to do like a coordinated effort
in unison across the industry right and breeders are going to start having to use
verified tissue culture clean mother plants to make their seeds because otherwise we just
keep reinfecting everybody and the thing just goes around and around in circles
right it's a big problem and i'm i mean you know it's known but i don't think kind of the
i don't think industry is paying attention to how bad the problem really is i have a question
um do you believe that there is a higher rate of transmission to the progeny to the seed
if the mother is infected with hop slaton or any other virus or viroid
like at this point in time all i can go by is the data that we've got and i'm not even really ready
to say for sure it's passed on through seed but the evidence definitely seems to be building up
and i don't think anybody's done the proper experiments to show anything either way
so like i'm even hesitant to say you know one way or the other but i think that like
we need to start doing some experiments to show right because this is it truly is
catastrophic it can be catastrophic to the industry yeah no that that is completely true
yeah there's still a lot of research that needs to be done and i agree with the statement earlier
that a lot of it starts with nursery operations and and there's a lot of careless activity going
on right now and people don't have good sops in place to uh be cleaning up their equipment because
it's you know it's mechanically transferred and you got to clean those tools those shears definitely
yeah nurseries are a new market segment here in canada didn't even exist till what like 18 24
months ago so it's like these are growing pains but man you know and again like
kind of one of these common themes it's like in the business right now we've got the people that
love it and they're passionate about it even if they're informed there's always the people that
are just in it for money right and they're making decisions based on money and you know
again this is i i think as a service provider if you're destroying the business of the people
that you're serving that's a real problem like in what other industry would that be acceptable right
yeah i do the fact that they admitted that it's pretty bad it's not good at all well they didn't
admit it i just happened to know because i spoke to someone else that was working with them and
they said oh yeah they've had hvld for you know for six months or eight months or whatever
and uh you know i know that my friend bought cuttings from the last week and he or two weeks
ago and last week we found out that he's got hvld right the plants are all infected
yeah that's what i always worry about with you know running a nursery is that's a huge liability
because they could come back and sue you if if there's you know reason to believe that you
reason to believe that you were aware of it or not taking proper precautions
i'm tired of the damage oh my god sorry i got a little bad mad baby i'll come back
i'd like to take it back to what ryan was saying earlier about the uh assaults is he he got me
thinking about some history that again that i learned on ic mag and uh something else recently
yes it was a year or two ago somebody released ray cogo's affidavit i don't know if you know
who that is but essentially the reason that neville got popped was because his distributor ray
decided to flip on him because of uh basically his salt company wasn't worth anything because
of what ryan was explaining is just he instead of getting a he did he he was originally
getting a certain amount per seed and then he decided to switch over and just get uh neville
he thought that neville's uh feeding regimen is what won the cups that's how much this dude knew
so neville of course he took a good deal and just gave him the the recipe and he tried to start a uh
c assault company that failed and anyway it's a long complicated story but the the salt companies
have been a problem for cannabis for quite a while since the 80s so it's you know and i'm not against
so that i used to grow with salt do i still do and to a certain extent with sea salt and epsom
and stuff like that but that's a different thing but i just thought it got me thinking about that
little piece of history there is how this it seems like that the the people that are trying
to repackage salts always end up causing problems for us so i thought that that just gave me a little
chuckle yeah well they're feeding on our own ignorance i mean let's be honest when the growers
willingly fall into it because they're you know it's it's it's like this it's like the people who
who make money off gambling it's like are the gamblers really like victims no they're willing
participants because you know it's their greed that's being exploited it's no different than the
the cannabis seed where the sorry the cannabis nutrient industry i just i think the important
part to to really prove that it's the way it is it's like why are there cannabis specific
nutrients when the nutrients aren't different between any other crop i mean it's all the same
materials there's nothing really that special in the mix that is makes it cannabis unique and
makes it work right so why do we have these companies that exist and it's not i mean
if you think about the millions of dollars that the empires that have been built i used to know
like the dudes from canna over in europe guys they were doing like 27 million euros in sales
every year right we're not talking about small amounts of money i mean larry brooks what did
he sell uh general hydroponics for it was like 140 million or 240 million or something like that
to hawthorne i mean these are big big dollars right these guys a lot of money um
and you know advanced nutrients you know i think remo is a good guy but he's no different i mean he
saw he saw the business model that was working you can buy chemical salts from china for not very
much money you mix it with a little bit of water and put it in a plastic bottle with a fancy label
and all of a sudden it's like 800 bucks right for what like three dollars worth of of salts i mean
that's a significant fucking margin better than cannabis i always found that to be interesting
with the salts and even if you talk to like a lot of the companies they're all using the same
product they don't even disclose or be shy away away from it but and when you and when you look
at it the way that you've put it it's really just a it's a brand play you're making a sales
system and you're selling a brand and a concept it's just like you know like a t-shirts from
walmart and t-shirts from winners you know like it's not really that different um i i find it
very interesting in that way and people don't get the get their head a shake when they get to when
they walk into these hydroponic shops because you start getting brainwashed like the moment you
stop online go if you search home growing it's like oh the advertisements and stuff that come
up is just intense debris welcome to the stage did you have anything you'd like to ask or bring up
oh thank you um i'm just right now i'm just listening i was really interested to learn more
about uh tissue cultures and i'm a breeder myself i got a company called in gas we trust and in gas
we trust genetics so ryan like and this is one of the things jameson and we've spoken about a few
other rooms i guess he's popped off now is that a lot of the industry and like a lot of the things
is that like in canada you're getting requests for cookies in these california strains and what's
popular and what's hot and what's hot right now and it just kind of it makes it really hard for us
to develop our own kind of cuisine our own culture of cannabis if you will and and it and there's this
whole disconnect with the industry and and actually like what is possible because i mean like if we
start growing nothing but california genetics because that's all that's asked for and then we
have these hop latent byroid issues and i know you said you can't confirm or deny whether or not it's
seed passing but that's a terrifying thought you know one plant of of transmissive late hops
latent viroid can like absolutely destroy a setup so if you're bringing in genetics even if there's
one that's often done that i mean it's really quite terrifying and but it's also like you don't
want to be like zygost about your garden right you want to share and and grow the culture in
the community so it kind of puts you at an impasse as a home grower we are the vector
we are the vector any what what is the best way to get your plants tested
qpcr reaction yeah that's the test is called pcr it depends on your market really um you have to
work with a lab in your state or whatever country that won't be able to identify it
thank you i'm in i'm in california currently
yeah there's a there's a whole bunch of labs though that can help you do it down there um
maybe one of the cali locals that's i i kind of know like you know the guys from um
the the guys from sc labs are good friends of mine i've known them for a long time and they
were at one point in time they were setting up dna i don't know if they still are i know um
was at the workshop who do they combine with the guys from steve hill labs they'll be able to do it
um but yeah you can call them or dark heart or whatever and ask um even sc just call them up
i'm sure they'll direct you someone if they can't do it all right thanks for the info
so anybody have any anything to say based on the preservation any questions or anything
based on preservation we want to get back to the original topic what do you think about uh
synthetic seeds ryan and doing because i see a lot of labs doing the synthetic seed route
curious to see what you think it's a cute cute trick i was really onto it like
quite early on i started playing with it in like 2003 or 2004 um i thought back then it was like
we're going to be the greatest thing in the world for shipping germplasm around the world during
prohibition i think honestly in a legalized market it's a trick it's a it's a cute trick
it's halfway between it's not even halfway between it's kind of you know it's a good way to do
non-prior preservation storage because they they last about six months you can you can get pretty
good significant germination rates out of them say 50 still after like six months of storage
uh at like you know 25 degrees celsius or 20 degrees celsius so it's a good way to not have
to be doing subculturing um but i think we're net like it's they're just not useful enough as
propagules to be using those for commercial plantings um and and even in you know if
you're shipping clones around the world to countries that require rootless or soilless
shipping of cuttings which is like one way to do tissue culture is one way to do that
there's no benefit like why would you do a synthetic seed versus a stage three or three
and a half plant right like it's better for the customer to have a plant that's farther along
um so i don't really know i don't i don't in a legal market i don't see the commercial advantage
of them put it that way you nailed it on the head it's a cute trick man it looks great on instagram
hey man i've got a few of them on my ig i'm not taking jams i'm not taking chance
i don't know it's true but i mean like let's call it what it is right like it's it's a neat thing
but it's is it gonna be the commercial solution no i don't think it solves any problems right
so preserving a line from a single cut like i'm taking it and my understanding is the best
thing to do is to grow uh organics and use ptrs properly and uh you know to be sure that you got
the cut to begin with and the root pruning like that was so key uh when ryan said that about the
grapefruit and that he did like a root pruning thing and then repotting and you know fresh soil
like that all of that just goes towards preserving these epic cuts so that you know 20 years from now
we can still experience real bubble gum yeah and that's really about the hormones in the plant like
you gotta remember that someone that's into plant physiology more than i maybe connor you might be a
better person to talk about this but i you know i've i from my reading is i'm definitely not an
expert in this area but there is some level of hormone transmission that goes on like between
the soil and the tips of the plant right so my understanding is that there's some of the regulation
that happens on auxin in the plant actually happens in the root system and so it's probably
more likely that what we're seeing is some kind of hormonal imbalance created through root restriction
right and if you know you don't you don't see this in california when they're growing these like
300 gallon smart pods right because the the roots are they can really kind of roam free and do
whatever they want my experience tells me that as long as the roots are growing happily underneath
that the plant is usually going to be grown happily above barring any other problems right
um but i have noticed with the grapefruit and the grapefruit was the plant that taught me that
that story right um i you know i got i got some cuttings from a guy named vick hi used to run the
british columbia growers association he's now passed as far as i know but he brought me the
grapefruit cutting in like early 2000s i met him in montreal and he showed up and i wasn't expecting
it was just a gift he showed up with a rubber top of weight he tossed at me when we met
and uh one of the plants in there was a grapefruit and i brought it home there's a couple of cuts and
one of them i put into a deep water culture bucket and the other one went into soil and
the one that i kept in soil in a one gal as soon as you know i didn't realize it at the time but
what i know now after years of experience during the plant that that's what it was
was that the the root systems got the roots got bound and the pistol started coming out of the of
the tips and you couldn't stop it right even and even transplanting it into a bigger plant at that
point in time wasn't good enough right like once that process started it continued on and if you
tried to flower those plants that were flowering under vegetative light they were they didn't yield
anything compared to the ones that were in a healthy state when they went into flowering
so again i i think try to fix a healthy plant or try to fix a sad plant is less ideal than
keeping plants healthy all the way through
the whole reason i started this whole uh episode i actually spoke to to peter in regards to this
is because um as a breeder i'm still kind of on the fence in regards to feminized um i i look at
it you know and obviously the conversation that we had has kind of opened my eyes to
the the potential of looking at stuff from the standpoint that it literally takes me years of
working something and then do you work yourself into a a bad choice or a a box because of one of
the selecting uh choices that you made throughout um your your progress um so that that's where all
of this really started with um and then obviously it kind of blossomed from there so ryan you've
been a a great contributor to uh this whole conversation as a whole um so and and everybody
else that has joined in it's been a a pleasure for sure um i i didn't think this thing was going to
go on this long i think we're in like four and a half hours um i think it's still going on on uh
peter's future canvas project on youtube as well so good information ryan i gotta ask a quick
question because i'm snooping your your facebook page and i'm sorry elka if you want to go first
go ahead um you've been trying to get to talk for a few minutes so i i give the floor to you
no that's okay you go ahead mine's going to be really quick after you all right i just had to
ask because i'm looking looking at you create those like you were just talking about the
artificial seeds and like i'm i'm a modernist chain trained chef i did my training in michelin
star restaurants in europe and i jumped into the whole elbulli like high-end molecular gastronomy
thing and it straight up looks like you've done spherification with calcium lactate and sodium
alginate is that like anywhere relatively close am i in the guessing zone yeah absolutely it's
sodium alginate hardened with calcium chloride i feel so cool right now guys yeah it's it's
funnily enough it is the exact same technique that they use in that molecular gastronomy thing
interestingly enough i think it was originally designed for creating um uh pills uh in in some
form that were easier to take in i think was the original idea but i forget exactly what it is and
now i feel like i'm talking about my ass but yeah no i i just thought that i'm like it's either got
to be something way above my head or it's that exact thing so i'm really excited to find out
thank you nice talking to you guys cheers go ahead okay the floor is yours
okay uh since you you've kind of made me a little bit more comfortable with the idea of
feminization i was uh wondering i'll tell you what my fears i didn't explain what my
fears were in the in the past and it's uh basically you touched on it throughout the
this conversation is the uh the uh mistakes during methylation that uh hormones can uh
produce and that that's what that's what kept me from flipping plants in the past is because
i would ask a question and somebody would say oh just flip it i was like well i'd rather not do
that because it's it's gonna complicate things for me potentially through uh mutations and
stuff like that i mean you might already be enough of a mystery in my question to hear
another quote if you'll want to hear when i uh attempt this you know what could be some ways to
avoid uh out of your face and you'll want it what i'm fearing because i've said i don't want to get
i've got way more give it i'm saying yeah again just sorry for the plug it just might be an easier
way for people to go back and get some uh information later on i also did an episode
of shango elosis shaping fire on feminized seeds and we talked about this on there as well um i'm
not there's been some suggestion that maybe the silver in this uh silver thiosulfate complex that
we use for inhibiting ethylene and therefore encouraging male flowers to form on genetically
female plants there's been some suggestion that maybe that actually increases mutation rate but
that hasn't been demonstrated at all i don't think in any species um so it's kind of like a
worry without evidence and you know i'm i come from like a trained science background and
i try to like really keep to um beliefs that are based on evidence not faith um
so i i don't think that there's any good evidence currently that shows that there's negative impacts
associated with silver or silver thiosulfate somehow interacting with the dna um and increasing
mutations you got to remember when i don't know if you were around back then or in the cannabis
space back then but when the first fit like what we will call feminized seeds were put on the market
by dutch passion they were actually pretty shitty and one of the reasons i think the real reason was
at the time rather than using silver thiosulfate to induce male flowers on genetically female plants
what dutch passion was doing was using plants that would become intersex or throw male flowers
when you left them say a week or two past their typical ripening period right and it kind of
makes sense from a plant if a plant point of view or a plant physiology point of view
in the cut flower industry you know they're growing cut plants down in costa rica and they
want to ship them and sell them on the california market they actually spray them with silver
thiosulfate or silver nitrate and the reason is that silver nitrate blocks the ethylene receptor
and ethylene is the hormone that is involved in ripening of flowers but also some fruits you
might have seen before like if you take an avocado for example or a banana and you you put it in a
paper bag on your counter it'll ripen faster one that's faster than one that is not in the paper
bag and the reason is that paper bag actually traps the ethylene gas and so you're increasing
the amount of ethylene that the plant is beer those plant parts are being exposed to and so
that causes ripening in flowers and some fruits if you can spray ethylene on the plant or sorry
if you spray silver thiosulfate on the plant that actually the silver ion blocks the ethylene
receptor stopping that signal transduction and therefore the plant actually doesn't ripen as
quickly and so these cut flower guys they spray sts on the flowers or they dip them or whatever
they do and that buys them an extra week or two for shipping because the bulbs will stay closed
and not open right which is what you want if you're a manufacturer and you're shipping these
plant parts around the world you don't want them to ripen before they get to their destination
and so it gives you a little bit of a longer window to do that
um we also and so what happened when these things would when dutch passion put these
seeds on the market the the offspring seemed to be more likely to be intersex or what we call
hermaphrodites and the assumption was that it was because of the method of making the seed
but the truth was is that dutch passion was actually actively selecting for intersect traits
by looking for parents that would produce pollen two weeks after they were right right and so you
know as plant breeders know we have this tenant and plant breeding like begets like so if you
choose plants that have a specific set of traits you're more as as parents those traits are more
likely to be over represented in the offspring and so i think that dutch passion what they were doing
is they're actually selecting for intersex plants and therefore the offspring were intersex well
the community said there the community decided this has to be something that is a result of the
feminized seeds not the parental selections where in reality it was the parental selections
right and so you can definitely make wrong conclusions when when you're deciding
um the reason that something happened the other thing to keep in mind alka is that when
when you self a plant you know like we said i can't but i think it was trevor that said it
when you self a plant you're actually increasing homozygosity by 50 every pop every generation
and you can just do like uh you know take a take like a big t little t big t little t plant or you
know and draw yourself a punnett square and that proves that right like you end up with 50 with
the two 25 classes come together to be 50 and so you've in each of those 25 classes you've
increased homozygosity in the genome right or in the offspring and that also might have an effect
and sometimes that has a deleterious effect right because cannabis because it's an obligate
outcrosser like humans we don't put any selective pressure against what we call deleterious alleles
or like lethal genes or suboptimal genes for example okay because we're always crossing to
another and usually that rare usually rare um dysfunctional allele gets covered or masked by
the homologous chromosome that's inherited from the other parent whereas when we're selfing plants
we actually expose those deleterious alleles in 25 of the popular of the offspring right so when
you self a plant you actually might see that in 25 of the given traits on any given plant
that they're actually subpar or they're they're less performers right and they might even be
missing from the population like it might even be a what we call a lethal allele whereas that
that genetic combination of two copies of the deleterious gene actually leads to death in the
offspring like the a seed is never even made right like the embryo aborts so you might not
see it in your in your population um so i would just be careful i just be cognizant when you're
looking at the offspring from a self-cross don't necessarily decide that the results that are
negative are from the process those results that are negative could well be
because of the um just because you're you're you know you're you're getting through recombination
that you're pairing up two copies of a hidden negative trait that is actually buried in your
plant right so that's one thing to consider the other thing to consider if you know if you're
going through the thought process of what's the difference between males and female plants
you know we all know that male plants are it's a little more complicated than this but but across
the population as a whole male plants are the result of one x chromosome and one y chromosome
so cannabis has 10 chromosome pairs one pair one of those pairs number 10 is an x and a y in
males or xx in females the other nine sets of chromosomes are shared by both males and females
and those are called autosomes and so if you look at it from that perspective the only thing that
males have different than female plants is that they have a y chromosome and an x chromosome as
opposed to two x chromosomes if you then think to yourself what's the effect of a y chromosome
on a drug on a drug cannabis plant it's zero because we don't use male plants for drug cannabis
the only thing that we use are females right and so that y chromosome actually never ends up in any
of the plants that we're smoking right and so if you consider that fact what are we really losing
when we cross xx plants to xx plants in terms of drug breeding nothing right i wish we had a
knowledge bomb button like to do like a little explosion there because that was that was epic ryan
it's just you know i went through this thought process a long time ago when when hybrid exe
used to i don't know if you guys know exe's on instagram he sells one of these sprays
but he was really the guy that introduced it on on a large scale to the community and he's actually
quite an accomplished plant breeder himself and super knowledgeable and he challenged me on this
like 98 and i had to go back and kind of really think to myself and and and think through the
process of like what are the males actually contributing right and truthfully males are in
it's a it's a slightly different thing in hemp because you know part of hemp is like we have
wind pollination and you know sds plant treated plants they don't dehis pollen in the same way
that true males do and so if you're creating like crops from seed for hemp
like males are probably better right or at least having males are an important thing
because you need that pollination to get the seed of course right but when you actually get down and
you start looking at the nitty-gritty from a drug breeding perspective i'm actually not sure that
males contribute anything from a genetic punch a genetic contributor point of view that females do
like and so if you can coach these females to produce pollen which we do through the process
of applying something like exe or sds you know really there's only benefits and then when i
started actually doing female female breeding and analyzing the progeny with a lab with a lab and
actually seeing the results in terms of the ability to create can have specific cannabinoid
profiles or even specific terpene profiles when you mate two plants together that have the same
terpene profile or don't sorry i should say known terpene profiles the results in the progeny are
staggeringly farther ahead than if you were taking a random male or even a male that you're basing
you're choosing based on you know phenotypic characteristic leaf shape morphology whatever
size stature all that kind of stuff the genetic gains are bigger when you're able to use females
to females than if you're using females to males um and i you know i encourage you to like do the
result do the crosses yourself and see if you can prove that to yourself but i suspect that you will
i think if you take whatever given line that you're breeding with and you select your best
female so you say you select your best female your top two females and then your best male
if you cross your best male to your best female and you cross your best female separately to your
second best female and you grow up those two populations that are created like side by side
i bet you'll see that the female female breeding is not only more consistent it's it's like
it's better than the males because you know i use this analogy and people don't like when i say it
but it's kind of like you know if you're breeding humans for breast size it's pretty easy to choose
the females right but how would you choose the males because the males you know breasts are a
sex-linked trait like males don't really express breasts in the same way that females do and so
you're kind of choosing blind when you're choosing your males yeah you can look for males
that have sisters with big breasts or mothers with big breasts or even offspring with big breasts and
that would be the best way to do it but that is not as good as choosing two big breast females
if you could theoretically breed them together right so excuse the crass analogy but that's uh
i think that's like a good way to kind of think of it because the truth is is that the traits that
are important for drug cannabis females the male plants don't express those traits
so it's harder to evaluate those traits on males
you're absolutely right because i've always looked for males that have female traits for that very
reason if i can't smoke him i don't use him well i could smoke anything but if he doesn't get me
high you know what i mean yeah i do know what so what you're trying to do is you're trying to
approximate your selection based on an inference rather than know your selection based on the
traits that you're evaluating right so when i when i started thinking about it i actually put those
two pieces together of logic together and then i couldn't find anything definitive that said sts
negatively impacts dna or increases mutation rate that kind of just hit home that like hey
maybe this is actually a better way to go and or at least we can make more genetic gain and then
like i said when i started doing those types of crosses with full laboratory analysis of the
offspring it was like it just proved it to me 100 to the point that like honestly i don't use males
anymore like i do that if someone gives me a new population that i want to preserve i'll open
pollinate the males against the females and capture that y chromosome and then that goes
in the bank and then any further downline selection is done with females because like
when you're growing 100 plants out or even 200 plants out of a given cross times like 10 lines
or 15 lines or 20 lines shit dude that's a lot of males to have to go and rogue through and and up
pot and then after i find that i've potted them up or planted them in the field that they're just a
male plant that's like a whole bunch of waste of time and resources right whereas when i'm breeding
females to females in most lines all the plants come up as completely female and in some lines
you have a small subset of plants that are kind of in between or like some weird intersex that
they might even look males but they don't have any micromethans it's a pain in the ass to deal
with those but at least it's not 50 of the population so anyway if you're resistant like
i always say is just try it right and see try it and see for yourself what would you suggest would
be the the the best way to go i've been playing like i've been hunting for the last little while
to kind of narrow down two genetics that i really want to cross and so i've been trying to find two
stabilized i've finally found the two i've been working them for the last little bit now i've
been using colloidal silver as a as my main method but i've been trying to get st to make sts now
the problem is getting hold of the silver nitrate in canada it's not like very available would you
have any recommendations on how to get a hold of such thing or is that not an appropriate question
to ask here on a public forum well i know it's fine you can get it from chemical suppliers if
they want you to have usually they want you to have a business um you know you're ordering like
we're talking about ordering a gram of silver nitrate so you're not like you're ordering a gram
that might be but you're not blowing anything up with the gram yeah um and if you're just
playing around with it you know reach me offline and you know you can you can send me a few bucks
and i'll send you something or a bottle or whatever um but yeah you can get it you can get it and i
don't think it really puts you on any watch list if you're if you're ordering a gram
yeah that's that's what i was kind of thinking it's just it's one of those weird
weird things in canada is like you just don't know and then it's like oh yeah order it from
ebay and then you'll never see a package yeah it's unfortunately like i think that they use
one of the components in the production of in one of the recipes for cooking meth too so
it can be on a watch list but i think that it's it's you know they used to say if you're developing
film like old school developing film like they use silver nitrate so you can get it
tony any thoughts on what ryan if tony's not around i can jump on i'm done with dinner uh
i'm pretty stoked to hear hyde's name come up in this conversation and really that this has
been an issue that's kind of divided the cannabis community since the inception of the like online
internet community and forums and stuff that emerged in the late 90s which also happened
to happen right around the same time that dutch passions was dropping their first uh commercial
quote unquote feminized seeds and it really if you go back and read old forum posts and go back
to that time period it was like it was the cold war in the cannabis world and it was very
very intense fights around the issue of feminized breeding and uh back cross breeding as two
different methods and it's nice that now you know 20-25 years later a lot of the like polemic sort of
partisan divide within the community sort of simmered down in people who used to be very
anti-feminized breeding are now starting to use sts and you know people who perhaps were
dogmatic about sts are now talking about how like okay yeah back crossing is an option or there may
be value in the y chromosome and it seems like the discussions like simmered down and we've really
kind of gotten to get down into the nitty-gritty and the science of it without so much of the
the postulation and the hypotheses about you know all sorts of different mechanisms and all sorts of
different chromosomal abnormalities and things like this and now it's really it's kind of a
discussion that's rooted much more in the science and i feel like people like chimera and other
folks hibe they really shine the light on the value of feminized breeding or ganotious breeding
as i've heard ryan refer to it and so yeah it's really interesting to dig into that entire
sort of development and the debate and discourse within the community over the last 25 years
hibe gets all the credit man for bringing it to the community i mean he wasn't the first to show
it but he independently showed that silver work you know like i said hibe's a real plant breeder
and he works with other plants and he he found a paper i was doing work with cucumbers and this is
the method that they use for making um ganoscious cucumber lives because again you don't want to
plant a field of cucumbers and have a percentage of the plants come up as male and not producing
cucumbers that's not efficient for production so they make um ganoscious seed lots or feminine like
air quote feminized seeds for for um cucumbers you'll never see them advertised as that but
um yeah that's you know that's just kind of the way it is so hi you know i definitely do not
deserve any of the credit for that he turned me on to it and even when he was you know he was selling
exe um he privately sent me his recipe for sts and also for uh the ethylfon trick for reversing males
so um don't let's not give me any credit for that i've got all the credit for sure
he's a smart dude
that's awesome to hear uh directly from you just uh having gone back and read some of those threads
you know 25 30 years later it's uh it's good to hear you know what was going on back then
and sort of the internal the progenitors of the ideas yeah well like i said he kind of discovered
it like simultaneously the guys you know mohan ram just was really the guy that did the work
um and he was just a plant physiologist in india that was you know he's got all these papers on
silver nitrate and ethylfon and all these things on a whole bunch of different plants and so he was
just trying it on cannabis and it never really caught on at least in the community back then
you know we didn't have easy access to scientific journals um and there was no there was certainly
no search databases of scientific journals um but um at candemire who was the plant breeder that
david had hired at hortifarm and later went on to work with gw pharmaceuticals he was really the one
that you know they gave him all the papers and he was the one that ran the experiments and kind of
figured out the the process and and they published on it in that uh you know genetics paper in 2003
on the on the cbd acid synthase and or the inheritance of chemical phenotype um because
that's how they did it they also used sts but hibe you know discovered it independently
and really was the one that that kind of made it known in the community
yeah i was going to say the same thing that that's where uh the reversal stuff that i share came from
from high but i was early um posts on uh some of the old forums and stuff and all the old uh mohan
ram information that was shared i also shared that um cucumber reversal was when we did the
reversal show i had a lot of people asking why would anyone want to reverse a uh cucumber and
i had to show them the reasoning behind that and the actual recipe used on it since there's different
uh ratios of the sts that can be sprayed on different cultivars to get specific results
hey tony i love your instagram feed man you're always sharing great information
and i hope your leg is doing well hey man i appreciate that ryan 100 man 100 i'm doing a
lot better i go in for some more x-ray uh updates on the 13th here and i'm pretty sure i'm healed
all the way up right on good to hear definitely keep sharing the info man it's like uh always a
pleasure to see the stuff that you're posting up man i tried man because in the early days you
couldn't get information from anyone anywhere you weren't talking about weed with anybody
let alone trying to dive into the deep side of it unless you wanted to get your ass busted again so
with the days that we have now where we can just give the information out there and people can dig
for what they want and then go deeper from there these are the golden ages that we're in so
everything we're sharing out there and everything that people ask this is the stuff that i wish i
had access to 20 and 30 years ago man i'd be able to be so much a breeder and understander of a
plant than i am now i wouldn't have to be fighting for every last bit of information because we'd be
so much farther ahead which is something i just wish we could get to a lot sooner
yeah that is something that's crazy that the way that the mohan ram papers were done in the 70s and
80s and how it took 20 to 30 years for all of that information to percolate into you know
america canada you know the the quote-unquote west um it's interesting how a lot of like
hardy weinberger the heidi weinberger equilibrium was for years just called or weinberg excuse me
was just called the hardy equilibrium because everybody in the anglophonic world had read
or knew about hardy's work but nobody knew about weinberg's work over in germany even though it
was more detailed and it'd come out slightly beforehand and then 30 years later the like
both sides sort of find out about what the other side was doing and now we've changed the name and
it's the hardy weinberg equation and everybody gives credit where it's due but like you know
the way that knowledge kind of builds on itself and you know doesn't always necessarily have just a
clear easy linear progression there's these very stupid complications be they prohibition
for cannabis or just language and geographic barriers that make it so that
takes 20 to 30 years for people to catch up or 40 to 50 years in some cases and it's cool to
see that it's all happening now and everything you share tony is really really great no man i
appreciate that from you also brother um i we're gonna be more it's it's more interesting to see
information that you can learn from than a shiny picture on instagram and a lot of people are seeing
that stuff and every day more people are trying to post something based in science
instead of bro science which really doesn't get you anywhere except for more troubles
yeah but the bro science gets more likes
yeah but i i was never uh good likes anyway so i guess that's why i stick to all the information
i'd rather uh find out that i'm wrong and learn from it than find out i'm wrong because i don't
have the correct filter on my half my post so that's just where i'm leaning
that's amazing how the internet has allowed us to share that information and really like
kind of move the species forward without it like i don't know where we'd be without it the last 20
years it's kind of funny i heard a story once i don't know how true it is but one of my genetics
pros told me that um darwin apparently had mendel's paper or or the the book or the the
journal that it was published in and it got loaned to one of his colleagues and he actually never read
the paper but if he had he would have understood that that was the genetic basis for all of his
theories right but he he kind of did that were really based on more phenotype than genetic studies
um so it's kind of funny that like you know the way the information comes together and we we see
these advances so the internet has really been an incredible tool for you know the crowd-sourced
knowledge sharing and breeding of cannabis i don't know like any other species it's been
adapted or has been impacted to the same degree that cannabis has through the internet it's it's
pretty crazy like even if you look like we're talking kind of that simile of of like us being
able to connect like it taking 20 years it's just like that's how long it took to sort through
information previously we have so much access to everything right now and it's like it's like for
example we have like three doctors on the show tomorrow night on the day car that we're doing
on here on the future cannabis project as well shameless plug but i'm gonna say it and it's like
we're getting experts in rooms with doctors that are writing papers on the on the subjects and
stuff like that and these interactions like this are happening and we're able to spread this
information and knowledge like a lot faster and a lot quicker and learn and develop i mean like
even two three years ago if you looked at what was believed and what was talked about in the way of
the cannabis space it evolved it's evolved so much quicker than it has over the last 15 years or 20
years and it just seems to be at this explosive rate especially as legalization starts to sweep
through the world you know it's it's been a very interesting thing and i i love like this is a
perfect example of people being able to have an awesome conversation and i invite anybody on stage
to come by tomorrow at the day coward to come for conversation with them as well and continue this
type of thing too because i think it's just it's really incredible i just wanted to point that out
well i think i gotta wind it down here folks it's nine o'clock on the west coast and i gotta grab
something to eat before bed so i'm gonna say a jet to y'all but um thanks for having me and uh
look forward to running into y'all again thanks for coming on thanks for your insight man you uh
were a great uh contribution to this conversation this evening pleasure was all mine it was nice
meeting and chatting with y'all and uh looking forward to chatting soon take care
uh so yeah well i i gotta put uh actually that may be a good time to break i gotta put
uh my three-year-old down to bed at nine o'clock
you guys all want to wrap it up sounds good sounds good sounds wonderful
for sure y'all have a good one well i appreciate it everyone
thanks for sharing space guys thanks for uh allowing this to happen peter
thanks everybody and i'm glad uh people got to multitask and eat dinner cook dinner eat dinner
be a part of the conversation jump in jump out so uh
and we'll uh see you guys tomorrow right on have a good night peter
all right so let me figure out how to kill this room and then on youtube
i'll kill that i don't want to leave the room
how do you think that i have to since i was the first one yeah yeah you kill yeah well
kill the room and i'll kill the youtube okay see you guys take it easy
whoops
oh well that's fine all right we got the mic there we go oh my god the radio the radio voice
with the bass the bass we got the red socks one today let me hear a
hot boston
why as a song i had uh actually all right let's see pick all right this was
give me one second hold on
