What's up FCP community? LobsterFam Farms here. Today I'm going to show you my
process of how I run through a pack of seeds. Let's get busy. To start I like to
soak seeds for about 18 to 24 hours. You can use hydrogen peroxide or any number
of mixes. I like a drop of humic and a few drops of some mellow enzyme into
filtered water. pH to about 6.0. A paper towel soak will work as well, just be
cautious that your paper towel doesn't dry out and ruin your seeds. You can also
put your seeds right into a cube or right into soil. Most techniques work
well. When your seeds have sprouted it's time to carefully get them into your
media. Whatever media you're going to be running for the long term. This is also a
good opportunity to start labeling your seeds so you can keep track through the
process. Now I like to wait about six to eight weeks before taking cuts. That way
the hormones are really set. My approach is I like to take two of each
mother plant. At this point keeping the labeling is very very important. You
want to make sure you correlate your cuttings with your mother plant
accurately. Now I'll take one of each plant and put them into the bedroom to
have genetic backups. Then I'll take one of each of them and put them into
the flower room. Now I like to put them in my room that's almost done. That way
just in case there is any rogue pollen that it's not really going to harm the
flowers. Now that I've put my cuttings into the flower room I should see
results in about 7 to 14 days. Now you can see from these pictures how clearly
and concisely I can tell that this is a male plant as opposed to the mother
plant that's just showing minimal pre-flowers. Then from there I should
have enough data to know if I'm going to want to run any of the cuttings further.
Typically on a 10 pack of seeds I'd say it takes me probably about 30 seeds to
find one that I actually keep. So there's not a huge likelihood that there'll be a
super winner for me at least for my criteria. These ones are interesting from
Nerds Genetics because they were bred for a solventless production which I
think is a very interesting because it's kind of new and it still seems like a
crap shoe even if people are really breeding in that direction. It still
seems like a low likelihood that you'll get there. So not only am I going to be
monitoring them for as I would harvesting flower or just growing for
flower, it's also going to have to be the next step once it gets hit in the resin
dial and gets tested to see if it actually washes well. So this is kind of
a new style of testing for me but I'm very excited to see to see the results.
There's so many ways to run through seed packs. I find mine is very different as
where I don't expect any real production of flower from the plant that came from
the actual seed. Typically I like to not devote too much room to unknown genetics
so I'll just flower the Dixie Cups as I was talking about and usually I'll give
the seed plant once I've identified them as females usually I'll just give it away
to someone else or as a gift or just throw them wherever. And to me the real
value in the future is having the genetics and having it in clone form and
getting data from the clone form since that's going to be the future. And since
these were testing strains I wouldn't feel right giving them away so we're
gonna bring them up to an outdoor location and that will help nerds get
more data so not only can we see how they do inside this year we can also see
how they react to the Sun and it will be a little bit skewed because they're
plants from seed but I think they'll appreciate the sunshine. So a couple
interesting side notes as I've been running through these nerds genetics
packs. The Strawnana, Papaya, Dr. Hoffman cross out of the nine plants that made
it out of the twelve to this point only one male so I have eight females to run
through which is a blessing and a curse because I have a very good chance of
finding something something special but I also have a lot more data to go
through. And another interesting side note was that even though I was very
accurate with my labeling I labeled the two genetics very differently all the
ones that I had labeled WZ were actually the Strawnana, Papaya and vice
versa. So mistakes happen and it's all a process but now that I have identified
it I'll be able to reverse them and I still have everything correlated
accurately so if I see anything interesting I'll be able to keep it for
the future but I just thought it was interesting that it's always a process
and I had been thinking it I had been finding it curious that everyone else's
WZs were the tall ones and the fast growers and mine were the only ones that
were the SPs that were that were faster growing. So now it makes perfect sense it
was an environment it wasn't anything besides my mistake. All right then I hope
you guys enjoyed the process of how I run through seeds as the nerds genetics
start showing more character and flower I'll be sure to try to share with
everyone and whoever's interested. Keep in tune Lobster Fam Farms out back to
you a future cannabis project!
