Hello everybody, I hope you are doing well. We have the show getting started in the other
space so we'll let everything get going. I hope you're doing good. I'm doing well. I'm
excited. So a couple things before the show gets started. So we do have Daga.academy and
we're going to be, there's a couple neat things going on. So keep your eyes on the screen
because we'll have some fun announcements going on during the show. So don't miss out
on any of that. There's a lot of fun stuff happening here. Here, let me give you guys
a little bit of a preview here. Sorry, I'm doing both at the same time as I set up the
YouTube here. As I have everybody come into the room and everybody populate. So make sure
to check out the description, check out things going on because there are potential to get
yourself some free beans because we're trying to really push out the Daga.academy and showing
a lot of stuff there. So if you are going to start a breeding project, get on there,
join that breeding group right away so that you can take part and share and grow with
us because I'm looking forward to it. But without any further ado, we'll get the show
started and we'll talk a little bit more maybe after the show.
Hey, Cory. Hi, Johnny. Good evening. Hello. Hello. Hey, everybody. Greetings, y'all. Hello.
Hi, Ryan. How are you, Anna? Nice to see you. How are you, London, Anita, Johnny?
Hi, Ryan. Awesome. We are live and we are running and we have most of our team here and ready to go.
Audience coming in. So those that are in the audience, don't forget to share and do that
thing where you bring more people into the room. Those that are out there in the big old world of
YouTube, make sure to get out there and share the content so that we get more community and
more outreach there. So I'm going to get this show rolling really, really quick because we've got a
lot to cover because essentially the idea and bearings of this show, as we've talked about,
Ryan, might be stepping into a little bit of a new surprise here. But the concept is that we're
going to do like monthly touch-ins and we're going to do this side by side with the breeding project.
I'm actually going to start a breeding project through this tonight. And I invite anybody else
that's been really interested in kind of taking these first steps to do so as well and go along
this process with us throughout because it's going to be a lot of fun. You can also sign up to
Daga.academy, which is where we'll be able to post and you'll be able to share all of your breeders
updates and stuff like that on what you're working on and what your goals are and what's
everything going on there. So I invite you to check it out on there too. And if you do go on to there
and make a post and add something into the chat, you will have the potential for getting free
beans and we'll be doing giveaways for active users in that conversation. I will put that link
at the top so that you can all get in on that.academy. So all you have to do is sign up and
do some posts or share something on the, sorry, Daga.academy, and share it on
the site and you'll be entered and have a chance to get the free beans but also get to share and
grow along with each and every one of us, which is very exciting and very fun. I'm excited for it.
So this should work there. So if you go in there and want to do a post and do the breed along
with us, you can go in there and go into the breeders group and join that one and become a
member of that one. If you're on YouTube, you can check the description for that. So the plan here
is to do this kind of as a side by side. So every, I think it's eight weeks or nine weeks, we're
going to do another breeder round table, invite previous breeders back and invite new breeders
to come in and join us for the conversation and kind of go step by step. So today we really want
to kind of preface and look at starting a breeding project. Hey, I want to do this,
maybe have a smaller space or larger space. How do I go about doing this correctly and in a response
as a responsible manner as possible. So we brought in our special guest Ryan Lee to join us today.
I'm very excited to have you on board. We're going to do the usual round of introduction so everybody
can say hello. Maybe give us a question, ask if they were going to breed for anything, what would
be the item that the person would breed for? So that's your question and a quick introduction.
And we'll just roll through the space. I'm sure Ryan's got a really bad ass answer for this one.
Starting with Anita and then Dr. Anubis and Corrine, everybody will go through that and
then we'll get the conversation rolling right off to them. Hi everyone. I'm Anita. I work in
Ontario, Canada in the marketing sales part of the industry. I grow medicinally my own.
It started off with CBD. I've grown CBD for about four years now. It's the same strain that I've
grown but I'm really excited. I'm already making plans to grow different ones this year. So
I'm excited to learn more with Ryan and hear what he has to say. But yeah, that's about
all that's relevant for this. Next? I don't know. I don't have my screen up so I'm not sure who's next.
Oh it's me. It's me. Hi everybody. I'm Anna Schwalbe. Let's see. Well, I have a background
in plant population genetics and I did a PhD a few years ago looking at variation in cannabis and
sort of trying to figure out how genetics and phenotypes shake out in that sort of
arena. I'm really excited to have Ryan on the show. Ryan and I have chatted quite a bit and
breeding is super fun. I teach modern cannabis science at CU Boulder which is a really super
fun class. It's continuing education if anyone's ever interested in that. I'll be rolling out some
more educational type classes here pretty soon. I'm really excited to do the show though. And Johnny?
Howdy everybody. My name is Johnny. I'm a commercial cultivator at a one acre dry farm
and a homegrower and overall cannabis enthusiast. I'm also really excited about this.
Ryan is just filled with a bunch of knowledge and he really goes out of his way to educate people.
I'm really excited to sit and listen to him go over this for everybody and myself
included. It can seem like a daunting task and I'm sure Ryan's going to kind of lay it out
in a way that's digestible for everybody. Corey, you're up buddy. Hey everybody. My name is Corey
Russell. I'm a cultivator, a caregiver, and a cannabis patient. This is my 18th year cultivating
cannabis medicine for real. I am currently working at one of the largest cannabis facilities
in the world at Pure Sun Farms just over here in Delta, British Columbia. I am extremely excited
as well to have Ryan here. Ryan, I've seen you at many a conference and put people in their
place and have some real strong opinions about things. I can definitely relate to that my friend.
So I'm really excited to have the ability to communicate with you today. As always,
it's a pleasure to see everybody here on the Dank Hour, everybody at the Future Cannabis Project,
and everybody who's listening on Resonate Radio Live on the YouTubes. I believe Ashley is next.
Hey guys. Good evening everybody. My name is Ashley Hubbard. I am the Director of Cultivation
out here in Michigan. We're unique because we grow fully aeroponically. So I'm really excited
to actually get into this topic because I myself, even though I come from a plant population
genetics lab, I have not done any breeding myself. So really excited to learn. But yeah,
looking forward to the conversation. Thanks for joining us guys. Let's all see what we can
learn today. Josh? Thanks Ashley. Hi everyone. I'm Josh Virk. I've been working with cannabis,
well, working with it for several years. I've been growing it for about 15. I've worked on
breeding projects in the past in the industry and done some small scale selection stuff at home.
But yeah, I'm excited to chop things up here with everybody.
Right on. I'm Ryan. It's nice to meet you all. Thank you guys for the very kind, warm welcome.
I am a weed head, like probably most of you. I love the plant. I've had a relationship with
the plant for almost 40 years at this point in time. I've been growing and breeding for most of
that time. I'm making cross at least at the beginning. Through that process, I did some
schooling and studied the endocannabinoid receptor system and plant breeding and biotechnology at a
post-grad level. So along that journey of collecting and making seeds and being an
international seed breeder, or at least a seed breeder that was sold internationally,
I've got a little bit of a perspective over those 30 plus years of really doing it. Also,
I've worked for research organizations and the International Hepatocreation on various projects.
I've got a pretty good scientific understanding of the plant and how to apply classical plant
breeding techniques and even modern plant breeding techniques. But really, I think the focus for this
is on the basics of how do we build a breeding program? How do people design breeding programs
for whatever the project is? So yeah, thanks for having me. Thanks, London.
Awesome. Thanks. I'm super excited. Hopefully you're not too drained from last night's
conversation because we're excited to ask you a few questions. That is for sure.
I'm going to ask Josh to get it rolling though. So we won't bounce right to you right off the
bat. Because I think the first thing we need to do is if we're going to do a breeding project
in this kind of format as a share group in a way, and we're going to use these discussions
as a way to move that forward. I think there's some things that we should discuss that are
necessary to set the ground understanding and rules of the community so that everybody
knows what's going on and stuff like that. So first things first, if I wanted to start
a breeding project, what's the first questions I need to ask myself, Josh?
Well, the first thing I personally ask myself is, what's the goal of the breeding project? Do I
just want to learn about the process? Do I want to learn about making cannabis seeds? Or do I have
a specific goal in mind because I've smoked this sour diesel and it's amazing, and I've smoked this
cherry pie. I personally think that for whatever reason, traits from those two pies and
from having grown those plants have complementary traits. You can say, I want the different highs
from this one, but I want the growth structure from this one. Make it really simple. So you would
know, go about getting those plants, assuming that for the sake of doing a whole breeding project,
let's say you don't have those kinds of cuttings available. So you're going to have to start
from seed. So you're going to have to decide on traits that you're looking for initially,
and then do some research on seeds that would have the traits that you're looking for.
And from there, you can go on quite a little bit of a ways, but I'll let you lead that on from there.
Can I jump in with a quick prop? I mean, that was the right answer, Josh. As far as I'm concerned,
the question was, what is the first step? And you said, define a goal.
Right. And that really, I think, is such an important part of a breeding program. And I
think to date, that has never really been a major part of most people's decisions when breeding
cannabis plants. A lot of people kind of want to, they go from being a grower, and then they think,
oh, the next step of being a grower is I want to be a breeder. And it's really not. It's a totally
separate set of skills. You do have to have some growth skills and understanding of the plant to
be able to recognize all the different traits and everything. But I think it's important to
recognize that if you were to buy a hundred cannabis seeds, like regular seeds, and plant
them in the garden, and just left them and walk away, the plant would produce seeds absolutely
fine on its own. It's actually more work. You have to identify the males to go in and kill the males
so that the plant doesn't make seeds. So it's actually more work to not have them make seeds.
Right. And so I find it like a little bit like, you know, we've done it to death in the cannabis
industry and just like crossing plants together for fun. And, you know, people think, well, I'm
going to create my own type or my own variety, right. Or my own cultivar. And they just randomly
cross stuff and kind of see what comes up. To me, that's not cannabis breeding, right. Like that's
just exploring what the plant does on its own when you mate it or when you let it mate with
itself, right. Or you restrict a few individuals to mating or whatever. Breeding is actually
something else. It's either you have an ideal type that you're trying to replicate, or you have a
plant that has traits that you want and you want to blend those traits with other traits from other
plants and hopefully come up with like an outcome that is kind of predetermined like you have in
your mind. Right. So I think any breeding program, it's really important that people think about
like, what is it that I'm trying to do? Or at least think to yourself, what is it that I'm
trying to do? Because if it's just make some more seeds to plant next year, that's not hard. Anybody
can do that. If it's a little more in-depth of a breeding program, like, for example, if Anita had
a CBD plant that she liked growing, but maybe it was a little bit too late and a little bit like
powdery mildew susceptible or mold susceptible, for example,
those are traits that she might want to identify in another plant. And with a goal to cross those
things in, and then in the coming years, develop a plant or in coming generations, I should say,
develop a new plant that she can grow that is both high in CBD and earlier and more mold
resistant. Right. So anyway, just to point out, like, I really think that's a good
thing for people to think of as a first step.
And yeah, Ryan, totally. I want to jump in here too, because I want to say that I don't know why
it is that it's so hard to visualize like plant breeding is so different from the way we breed
other things like dogs, for example. So when you're, you can cross, you know, like your dog can,
you can have two months and they can have puppies and you really don't know what you're going to get.
And it's sort of, there's not really a goal other than to have puppies. And it doesn't matter what
they come out as, they're all real cute and whatever. Which is kind of like when you cross
two things or you just make seeds, like you said, for the next season, they're going to be great,
potentially. But you really don't have that goal in mind when you're breeding for like
a new breed of dog, like you want a, you know, a hunter or a pointer or,
you know, any one of the working dogs that are out there. When you're breeding dogs,
you cross two things that have traits that are desirable and you start picking and choosing
puppies that have those traits. And you, I mean, you don't kill the ones that don't, you just don't
use them in the next breeding, in the next cross. So you're picking and selecting traits that are
desirable and that's what you're putting into your breeding line. And eventually you'll end up with
dogs that when they breed together, they produce puppies that are exactly the same as the parents.
And then you can go to the AKC and say, I've got this new breed, this is what it does,
this is what it looks like, these are the traits. And potentially register that new
breed with the AKC. And I feel like it's pretty similar. And Ryan, you might have something
different to say, but I feel like that's pretty similar. And how we do it with plants.
You know, breeding is to a goal, making seed is just having puppies.
Yeah, they both serve a purpose, right? But I mean, even with puppies, you know,
everybody's heard the term or a lot of people probably have heard the term puppy mill,
right? And that's just people that get dogs and they just, you know, they know that certain types
of dogs or hybrids of dogs can sell for, you know, upwards of a thousand dollars a puppy kind
of thing. And so they get greedy and they just start crossing any dog together. Typically when
you buy from a specialized breeder, like Ashley was talking about, you know, the dog that you're
buying is his not chosen plant, right? Like those are typically the puppies that they sell are the
ones that they're not keeping for their own breeding programs. And what you see often is that
other people will come in and buy those things and then start a puppy mill where they're stopped.
They're start crossing them, you know, Hey, I've got a Rottweiler, you've got a Rottweiler,
let's cross them together. And, you know, when we can make $5,000 a month, five puppies kind of
thing. And it's a really bad practice because breeding is really about either maintaining
an average measure of some series of traits in a population or making the organism better.
Right. And a lot of amateur, when you make these, when you make bad choices in plants and
animal breeding, you can do stuff like reinforce, you know, things like cancer in dog lines. And
it's really actually quite common in a lot of breeds now that, you know, these purebred dogs,
they're more cancer prone because they've gone through bad breeding. And so the point is like,
you know, I know I get kind of bent out of shape about this, talking about this stuff.
It's not bad for people to do home breeding. It's just to understand that like,
just taking any plant from a population, you know, when we look at plants, it's kind of hard for
people to understand if you're growing five seeds or three seeds or even 10 seeds, you don't really
see a population, but when you grow a hundred plants or even a thousand plants, you really
start to see all the different types that exist within, within a type, within a seed line. Right.
And breeding is about at least selecting the plants that are in the top 500,
you know, the top half of performance rather than the bottom half of performance, right? Like you
don't want to be breeding the worst plants. You want to be breeding the best ones. And often it's
like, you know, you might want to breed within the top 50 or even the top 20 plants out of a thousand.
Right. So there's consequences to just randomly choosing plants and breeding them and passing it
off as the same name as the seed line that you got it from. Right. Because when you're making those
choices from small populations, you really are,
you're not necessarily selecting what the cultivar or what the variety is known as. Right.
I mean, and I think that kind of reinforces the idea of,
or the parallel to dog breeding, like you can cross two Dobermans, but it doesn't mean you're
going to have a good offspring, you know, because you don't have, you don't know what,
what the population looks like. You know, there's AKC breeders that have been registered, you know,
they registered and they have a good track record of breeding good stock, but then you've got the
puppy mills. Yeah. It's a dog's end, but is it one that's going to have a, you know, you know,
bad back in a couple of years or whatever the case may be. So there are breeders and, and then,
and it's a very specialized art, I think. And you need certain, a certain amount of resources and
space to be able to do that well. Well, and the perfect example of, you know, selection gone wrong.
And fortunately it hasn't really been pushed into breeding yet, but you know, the Canadian market,
the first, I mean, maybe currently, but at least we'll say for the first couple of years you had,
you know, companies that were popping seeds and making selections based on yield and THC numbers
and saying that they have, you know, ghost strain haze or OG push or strawberry banana. And, you
know, they were not selecting those strains based on a terpene profiles that people were accustomed
to, you know, knowing that strain. I, you know, when I got OG push from, you know, the guy down
the street, whether he got it from BC or whether he got it from Ontario or whether, you know,
no matter where it came from, you know, it all had that OG push taste to it. And, you know,
people could only pass off and not that it was always, you know, the legit stuff. It was, you
know, people passed it off based on the terpene profile. Whereas, you know, in the legal industry,
you know, initially there was a lot of selection made based on the name without any idea or
understanding of what that cultivar was actually supposed to exhibit. And unfortunately, you know,
now we have, you know, an industry where we have to kind of backpedal and try and, you know, kind
of fix all those errors and try and provide them, you know, an entire country with cannabis that
isn't. You're totally not wrong on that. And I think that, you know, early on, the people that
got licenses was typically not from the cannabis industry and they had to start with, start
somewhere, right. But, you know, I got to put it in a different way. Whose fault is it that they're
selecting stuff that doesn't look like the original parents? I mean, the breeder put it in the seed
line in a package with a name on the seed line. I think it's probably reasonable for most people
that even say you've never grown cannabis before and you're only used to growing tomato seeds. I
mean, when you grow tomato seeds, if you buy tomato seeds with a name on the bag and you plant the
seeds, they all come up looking the same and true to that type. Right. And that's just not the case
in cannabis. So whose fault is it? The guy that bought the seeds or the guy that told them that
they were all a name, you know. Right. So anyway, it's just a little bit different way of looking
at it. I definitely don't disagree with the point that you're making, but it's like, you know, I think
the expectations that people, the reality is that the expectations that people have when they're
buying cannabis seeds and even looking at what we call, you know, I'm going to use the S word,
what we call a strain is like, it's kind of a meaningless word because a strain really means
a type that is the same when it reproduces. Right. And so if you're buying ghost train haze and
there's 15 phenotypes within the seed line, it's not, it doesn't make up a type. Like it's like,
you can't really call that a strain, right. You can call it a family, but really it's a family of
plants that all have the same name, but they're all different. Right. They don't,
they don't conform to a type. And I think because of the quality and the uniformity of seeds that
exist in every other aspect of horticulture, when you buy seeds, it's not an unreasonable
expectation to think when you buy something with a name, especially when they, you know,
they're talking about like terpene profiles and cannabinoid content on everything on the seed
package. It's not unreasonable to think that that's what you're going to get. Right. So,
yeah, this is another way of looking at it. Maybe. Okay. So we see kind of some of these problems,
but we know what our goals will be and what exactly, you know, we need to set and have in
mind and the responsible ways for doing so. Now, a big question that always comes at,
comes out and is always thought about is what about feminized seeds? And I thought I would
just kind of throw this towards you, Ryan, and ask you like, what's the stability on feminized
seeds? And is this a viable way for someone in a small environment to produce, you know, some
quality seeds for themselves or would it be safer to use male to female, you know, crossing?
Like what's your thoughts on this? And. Yeah, so we've really been debating this for 20 years at
this point in time. I think at the beginning of those debates were rather academic and theoretical,
but we now have 20 years of experience, 20 plus years of experience doing this stuff. And I think
that the truth is, and this is my opinion, some people are going to not agree with this. I think
the truth is, is that whether you're breeding males or female plants, it doesn't matter.
Any contributor is as good as its genetic contribution. Right. And we can, we can examine
that. You don't have a lab. We can examine that through looking at like phenotype, right? So
we can evaluate any given plant based on its characteristics. Now, the characteristics that
are important for drug cannabis consumers are only present on the female plant. Like the male plant
doesn't really reliably show, demonstrate those traits. And so it's like, you're kind of selecting
blind when you're selecting males. If you, if you did have the ability and we do have the ability
to take a female plant and, and spray it with a chemical that alters the
phenotypic expression of the sex traits, which means essentially means you can make a female
plant, produce male flowers. The genes in that plant are still female, right? And so when you
cross two female plants together, sorry, when you select two female plants to be mated together,
if you're like a semi-knowledgeable cultivator and you are a cannabis consumer, you can line up
15 or 20 plants and kind of rank them in order of quality, right? Or even similarities, for example,
and so when you mate two plants together of the same quality or the highest quality or
the highest degree of similarity, we're creating a situation where the offspring are more likely to
be uniform. Like we were talking about in that last conversation, you know, the cannabis won't
come back normally or they won't come back in a type of representing a type. So when you breed
this way, you are more likely to create uniform offspring of a type. So anyway, the bottom line
is I think that for home growers, actually using females is probably better than trying to use
males because again, when you're selecting male plants, you're picking one out of, you know,
call it one out of a hundred. And if you rank those again, in terms of like one to a hundred,
in terms of quality, a hundred being the highest, one being the lowest, anything below 50 is below
average, right? And you don't want to use below average plants. You want to use above average
plants as your parents, because we have this saying in plant breeding, which is like begets
like. And it just means that like, if you choose plants that are similar to some type and mate
them together, it's more likely that that type is going to come back. And that might be high
potency, but it also might be, you know, mold resistance or flavor. Awesome. I think that's
like, oh, I'm going to get an echo. Well, while you're fixing that, hey, I have a question,
Ryan. So for the home breeder, like if they're looking to, like if they're just looking to
create more seeds for the next generation, like doing a self-fertilization process where they
create male pollen structures and then gather that pollen and fertilize that female could be a good
option. But if they want to like create something new, they could potentially do the reverse sexing,
you know, spray the stuff on and make pollen structures and then cross with something else
that they like and kind of see what happens. Most people don't have a lot of room to grow up a bunch
of plants, but you could make some seeds and then grow those up and I mean, basically see what
happens. Right. Yeah. So that's what I call a breeding experiment. And there's tons of reasons
why you would do that. I think the more serious you get into breeding, you don't have time to do
those things anymore. But yeah, if someone's just starting out and they just want to make some seed,
there's kind of like three real main philosophies on that. Look, if you're buying five seeds,
I would just take your best plant and take a clone of it and spray that with like silver
phytosulfate or silver nitrate or, you know, even colloidal silver. I think people are selling that
still. You can get a female that will coax a female plant to produce male flowers. And so
you can take the pollen from that clone and either fertilize it on a copy of the same clone.
And that's called a self-cross. That's most likely to get you your type back. OK.
There's another philosophy, which is essentially say you buy like 20 seeds and they were maybe
regular seeds, they weren't all feminized. Some people might take all 20 plants and
pollinate them together. Right. And so that's one way of making
seeds for the next year that it's I mean, even with 20 plants, it's not great. But,
you know, if you did it with 100 plants, that's called an open pollination. And essentially what
you're doing is preserving all the genes. Right. So kind of think about that as like one end of
the spectrum. The other end of the spectrum being making self seeds from any given plant.
And then what Anna's talking about, which is where you take two plants that you've selected
already from seeds and you like them and maybe you want to cross those together. That's like
another good way to do it as well. But again, I would say that those are those are really
just making seeds for the home grower to have seeds. I got a question. Is there a like
place that people can like pollen shop or they're like sperm banks for pollen for growers?
Yeah. We've tried to set them up various times. It's just a little bit of a different,
difficult business model. I think the way that people have run it hasn't been
done properly, but that's not that's it's actually a really good question. Buying pollen.
It's one way to do it.
Like how long is pollen viable? Is there if somebody want to do like capture some
pollen and save it for later? Is that something that's like viable? What is the storage?
If you do it right, what you want to do is remove the pollen from the plant material
and remove all the any contaminant like this typically leaf material or stuff from like
the answers that can be, you know, if you dry the plant material too quickly,
it becomes brittle and then you have like think of it like pollen sized pieces of leaf material.
That is not what you want. Like you want it to be really straight pollen. You separate
the pollen with like a sieve or like, you know, even screens that people use for hash making,
like a say a 45 screen or 50 screen. That'll that'll let pollen through and not much else.
And then you want to put that on like something that's going to dry it. So like cardboard,
you could use like, you know, cardstock or something like that. And if you dry it out
and have it in like a humidity controlled, like low humidity environment, the pollen will actually
dry out relatively quickly. And if you do this over a period of days, you can scoop it up and
put it in a like either like bindles, like kind of coke bindles or or like, you know, jars,
or or like, you know, jars, satchels, like jars with different satchels or even just jars full
of pollen. And they'll last like, you know, we've done experiments where you're pulling
them out 20 years later and you can essentially open a jar in front of a fan in a room and get
like incredible seed set. Right. So it is doable, but nobody's you know, I don't think anybody's
doing that yet. The problem with doing that is if everybody starts going to the same type of pollen,
it's you know, we're kind of reducing genetic variability. So that's the only thing we have
left yet. So do you have to store it in a particular way or can you kind of leave it
at room temp or? No, absolutely not. It's got to be frozen. It was at room temperature for maybe
like maybe a week. Interesting. Like pollen is way, it's pretty fragile, right, Ryan? Like
if you store it in the perfect conditions, dry, sterile, cool. I mean, maybe you'll get three
months out of it, maybe a little bit more. But like in nature, I feel like pollen only lasts like
72 hours or so. I feel like I've read that before, but correct me if I'm wrong.
It's a pollen. People maybe not realize this, but what when pollen lands on like the stigma of a
cannabis plant, the stigma has these little kind of they're like little papillae that stick up and
it's like they look like little fingers. Imagine the little fingers catching a ball. But like,
you know, pollen grains are like we're talking 30 microns. They're really, really small.
So. Like when they land on the pollen, when they land on the surface of the stigma,
there's a chemical recognition of species that's partially chemical and partially physical. But
when the pollen, when the cannabis plant realizes that that pollen grain is cannabis,
the stigma releases water into the pollen grain and the pollen actually
swells up and germinates like a seed. And you can think of the taproot that comes out of the
pollen grain, kind of like the radical that comes out of a seed. You know, when we crack cannabis,
these little white tail comes out. Think of it like that. But that seed rather than that tail,
rather than penetrating into the grow medium, it actually buries into the stigma of the of the
female plant and creates a little tube that goes down to the ovule. And it's like a little slide
for the genetic material to come out of the pollen grain and get down into the like the center of the
cannabis fraction where the ovules are so that a seed can be made. So anyway, by definition,
pollen is kind of designed to suck up water. So if it's humid or it rains, it's toast. It's done.
Once it's germinated off the plant, it has no chance. So yeah, it is quite fragile.
Right. So my question was, if it is stored correctly without moisture at the right
temperature and stuff, it does have the potential to have more longevity. But if you just take it
off the plant and then stick it in a jar, it's not going to last very long. And I feel like
pollen in nature, and I'm not talking about, I mean, I'm just talking about pollen in general,
any plant, I think if it's in the air floating, floating and doesn't land anywhere, I feel like
it only has like hours. It's not days or months. You know?
Yeah, it's funny because, you know, I have people talking all the time. They're like,
you produce seeds in that greenhouse like last year. Like, you think it'll be seeded if you
grow in there this year? You know? It's like people are so paranoid about a little bit of
pollen contaminating their stuff. You know, I don't think it's really that difficult. If you
keep stuff under negative air pressure, you're usually okay. Because like you say, it doesn't
stick around. And you do have to take certain procedures, like I said, to dry it and clean it
before you freeze it. Otherwise, it's not going to live. Yeah, no, I mean, doing stuff at home,
I've pollinated branches here and there and branches like that were, you know, with a pile
of other plants and I just spray them with water. You know, you sprinkle the pollen on and spray it
with water and still get tons and tons of seeds, but nothing else gets, you know, pollinated
accidentally. Like, you know, maybe a branch blow up. But like, there's really no accidental pollen
spread. But yeah, that germ tube pops out exceptionally quickly. So you can...
So I was talking about like having a pollen bank, like Ashley was talking about. Like,
how do you collect and store pollen? Is there a thing to do that? Like, you can store it.
Like, it is possible, right? That's what I was talking about.
Yeah, absolutely. And like I was saying, like we've frozen pollen and pulled that 20 years
later and it's still good. It's still viable. Typically, what you want to do is wrap the pollen
in like we use like use an origami folded paper. We use like parchment paper. It's a nice, light,
breathable parchment paper. And say you'll roll up like five grams or two grams of pollen,
depending on how big, you know, how you have to anticipate what you're going to be using in the
future, right? So you need like, you know, you want enough for a tent, like a gram is probably
enough. But you essentially create like, you know, say you make a jar and you put 10, one gram
little origami paper folded up things with pollen inside and that goes in the freezer.
And then when you want to access that pollen, you just crack the jar, take the thing and put it back
in immediately, right? It becomes a little more difficult. It's like, you know, if you take it out,
if you put like pollen in just a whole jar and you take it out and want to think you're going
to take a scoop out, like that's not going to happen. By the time you get it out and you open
the jar, it's getting, you know, condensation is going to happen on the frozen pollen and you're
stuck. You're going to start germinating and you're going to have issues, right? So you want to make
it accessible in like what we call aliquots, really are like little, you know, subdivisions of your
total. Think about like ice cubes, right? Like you want to have like a tray of them. You can go in
and just pick one out and use it rather than disturbing the rest of them.
Oh, sorry, Josh. I was just going to ask, do you mix it with anything? Like I know people,
some people mix their pollen with like flour or something to keep it moisture free. Do you do
that? Do you recommend that? Do you not recommend that? And Josh, that question is also directed at
you. I've tried it. I didn't like it. I found it just led to contamination. Some people say that
it's easier to see the pollen. Like it's really not that deep, but you can see it. It sticks really
well to your fingers, the oils in your finger too. Mel Franks showed me that. He says, you know,
rather than using a paintbrush, just dip your finger in it and the oil on your finger kind of
sticks up, sticks to the pollen and you can kind of just go and wipe it right on the pistils that
you want. And it works quite well. Josh? Yeah, no, I've used talcum powder. I've never used
flour before. And I just more did it just to spread the pollen outside a small amount of it
and figured if I mixed it up, I could, you know, spread it quicker. It wasn't really to keep it,
to keep the moisture out of it. And like Brian was saying, like, yeah, when you take it out of
the freezer there, like I like using little epi tubes. They're pretty cheap on Amazon and I've
used them in the lab and found them to be very effective. And I find, you know, you can take
them out of the freezer and just, you know, let that thing come to room temp. So that when you do
open the jar, you don't have, you know, all the condensation going in there and killing all the
pollen, which I have also learned the hard way that that's what happens if you open it when you
pull it out of the freezer. But yeah, so yeah, you're gonna have to do that. Could somebody use
like a micro pipette to just like suck out a little bit that they wanted and like be able to
pollinate which branch they want? Like, is that or is that risk spreading it like too much because
you want to be more thorough with how you're releasing it? What are your thoughts?
Brian Taylor
If you're talking like a true micro pipette, like a P100 or something like that, I don't know.
Nicole Stangelo
Or just like a little like one mil like people would do for like a small home grow,
you could use like a pH pipette.
Brian Taylor
Yeah, I know. That might work a little bit better. Again, you want to be really careful.
That actually might not work too badly. But you know, you'd have to again,
ensure that it is pretty dry. Because if you suck up the pollen, it would just,
it might have a tendency to stick on the inside. Try it out. I mean, pollen, you know,
it's not that hard to collect pollen, right? And you can do it safely. Like even if you've
got to grow inside, you can put a male plant in your backyard and just let it grow some big
branches and cut it down before it starts dropping. And then you let it, you know,
you put it in an area where there's no droughts. And just keep the, you know, even if you just
dip the stem, you know, they even take Christmas trees and they put them in water. That just that
hydrating keeps the plant alive, right? So you can totally do that with male plants and just take the
leaves off. And when they look like they're going to open up, what I do is I put a piece of cardboard
down and then we lay a screen on top of it, usually on a frame and you leave the male plants.
And then they just kind of drop pollen as they open through the screen. We kind of just, you
know, tap, tap, tap, and you can turn them over and tap, tap, tap. Try not to be too, too rough
with them, but you get like a fair amount of coverage. And then you leave it on the cardboard
for a little bit of time. And if it's cool and the humidity is low, you can just kind of come
in with a card and scoop it up and slam that in the freezer and like a cryo vial or even like a
good, you know, mason jar or something like that.
What is the recommended humidity to like let that plant dry to capture that pollen?
Absolutely as low as you can do it, right? I would think of that as the wet, the method.
It's tough in some areas. That means, you know, even in California, we always have a hard time
even drying flower, right? If you're too close to the coast.
In Colorado, it's apparently the opposite, right? Everything just dries out real quick.
I'm many months from Colorado, but it's crazy up there for drying.
So it just depends on where you are. You got to do what you got to do, right? Dehumidifier or
even reducing the temperature, reducing the temperature naturally reduces humidity anyway.
So if you do that and use humidifier, you know, or dehumidifier, sorry, that would help.
And I think that's why a lot of people mix, like Josh said, talcum powder or flour
with their pollen, like not only just to kind of dilute it because there are so many, like if you
can see the pollen grains, there are, you know, hundreds of thousands. They're so tiny
and it's such a fine grain that if you can dilute it basically with another powder that's
not going to do anything to the plant. So you can do like dilute it with talcum or flour,
but it also functions as a desiccant so it can keep the pollen grains dry.
And I don't know if you're, I don't know if, how many of you did this silly thing in, you know,
high school or college where you, we had bees on sticks and we would take the bee to collect the
pollen and then we would take the bee on the stick and touch it to the female flower, not on
cannabis, on a different plant, but that was how we would pollinate, you know, something to make
a seed and it was funny, but I can't get that out of my head. But yeah.
So I'd like to touch on something while we're on the subject of pollen and we also touched on
reversing there is like, cause we're talking about like colloidal silver was mentioned and
STS spray was mentioned. I just, I would love to know kind of a heads up on safety of the use of
these chemicals. Like, are you able to smoke the weed afterwards? Like what, what, what should we
give people as a heads up or cautionary tale at this point? Go ahead. No, you definitely don't
want to smoke the weed after you've sprayed silver sulfate on there. Colloidal silver,
I would imagine be the same, but I don't know that it's nearly as high in its parts per million,
but anything with metal on it, I wouldn't smoke. But yeah, that's yeah, my two cents.
So what, sorry. No, no, go ahead.
You can jump in and answer that. I was actually going to ask, ask the next question. So you can
jump in and, Oh, okay. Sorry. I was just going to say, yeah, definitely agree. Definitely do not
smoke what you sprayed on silver on cannabis. Anything. I think that's a good practice. If
you're like spraying experimental chemicals, change the plant, even like growth hormones
and stuff like that. I'm not talking organic like extractions from plants, but I'm talking like
you're buying PGRs and stuff like that. Do not be smoking the plants that come from it.
It's just not necessary. Yeah. Don't do that for sure.
So what is the ideal week in flower that you want to pollinate?
It actually doesn't matter. So the question that you're asking is, what you're really asking is,
okay, well, here's the explanation. At week, like as soon as you start seeing tufts of pistils
appearing or like stigmas appearing, the white hairs, it can be pollinated. The longer you wait
before they start turning like rust color or they start withering, you're just going to get more
pistils. So the later that you hit it into flower, you'll get more seeds if there's sufficient
pollen. Put it that way. So if you pollinate a plant early in your flower week, are those seeds
safe to stay with the plant until you can harvest it at the end?
Yeah, absolutely.
Is there an advantage? Have you ever done studies where you've looked at
doing it during different weeks to see if you get any changes in that?
What we noticed is that you definitely get changes in yield. I don't think you get genetic
changes because that's not really what causes genetic changes.
Look, for example, there's some plants that produce pistils in veg. If you have those plants
that are females vegetatively and they just have like one set of pistils at every node,
if there's pollen that flies during that veg period for those plants,
they'll get pollinated even in vegetative state as long as there's a pistil there.
You can flower those plants and they'll produce buds and at the base of every bud there'll be
one seed. So as long as you don't have the humidity too high and the seeds start getting
essentially attacked by some kind of mold problem, they're totally fine to be in the plant.
But you also want to get like, you want enough time for those seeds to mature
because if you pollinate too late, right, like you're going to get immature seeds and
potentially they're not going to germinate because they're not ready.
Yeah, so seeds need four weeks to mature. Like in almost all varieties, like four weeks is usually
enough. So, you know, when we talk about when a plant is done, like in terms of like a drug harvest,
that really doesn't have anything to do with like how long you can keep a plant alive from.
If you push a drug harvest well into the plant weathering, you can actually start to get into
senescence, but it's usually like two or three weeks after the plant is truly ripe, right? So
for example, call it the 10-week cultivar. If you pollinate it at week eight and the plant hasn't,
you know, maybe it's only just starting to wither like 5% of the pistil, you can still
pollinate it at week eight and then stretch that normally 10-week cultivar out to 12 weeks.
The seeds are going to be mature, right? So, you know, I would think of like what we consider
proper harvest time is not really equivalent to life cycle, right? You got to remember in nature,
these plants would get fertilized and then they die when winter would come, right? They kind of
just kind of stay alive as long as they could, right? Or until some biotic force took them down,
right? But it's not unheard of for cannabis to just be standing in the field dropping seeds.
I mean, that's an interesting point when you talk about, you know, in nature. So that
definitely puts it in perspective that you could essentially have it happen at any time,
but probably just good practice. If you say accidentally pollinated your plants
or something happened, you're like, well, shit, I might as well get seeds out of them.
Do you just add four weeks onto that event essentially and somebody would have viable
seeds? Yeah. I mean, it depends on the pollen, right? If that pollen came from an intersex plant,
I probably would just kill the crop rather than try to mature the seeds. And then the seeds are
going to be problematic. So, but yeah, if it was like, say you had a self-intent
where you were doing a small experiment and somehow the pollen from your reverse
female pollinated your two lighter, yeah, you may as well just give it, like you said,
give it four weeks and then the seeds should be mature by that time. And you can tell,
like it's not actually that hard to tell. You go in and you squeeze the seed. If they're really
flimsy, like they're not ready, but you'll see even mostly what happens is
as the seeds mature, they'll split the bract and you can actually see a line.
The bract is actually just a modified leaf, right? And so it's actually not even split.
It's pulled over so that it looks like it's 360 degrees, like one complete piece of leaf plant
material, but it's not. It's really like more like a cup that's kind of folded in on itself.
And so when the seed grows inside, it pushes that opening of the cup open and you can see
the seed within. Yeah, I had a great photo of it. Actually, I put it in Jorge Cervantes' book that I
wrote a breeding chapter for him in like early 2000. And there's a great image of that seed
because the seed isn't quite mature yet, but it split open the bract and it really looks like a
baby's head breaching out of a woman giving birth. But the seed's all green and you can see
all the modeling in it and everything. It's really quite a neat thing. But you didn't think that was
coming up? No, but I've been enjoying the conversation so far. We are at about the hour
point and it does go by quickly. So I think we'll try and go for an hour and a half here. Everybody's
good with that. We do try and do a hard stop at that point in time. I think the conversation's
moving along very well, so I don't see why not cut it too much shorter. I wanted to say, I wanted
to ask about classification. What we're going to do now is because we're at the hour point, we have
the last half an hour left. If you have questions, now is your opportunity to do so. We would happily
have you come join us on Clubhouse and ask your question live in person. And you can come up on
stage and ask your question or if you like, you can ask it over in the chat. But I do encourage
you to come over and say hello and come up and join the conversation over here. It's always a
great time. And don't forget to check if you want to join us for this breeding
project that we're starting today. Don't forget to click the link and check out the description,
all that stuff there. But beside that, now my question and what we're kind of leaning on while
we wait for people to come up and say hello and ask their questions, classifications of breeders.
We've kind of had mentioned before in one of the breeders round tables and stuff like that about
how there's people that do different variant breeding styles. There are feminized breeders
and there are people that only do, that are very restrict about only doing female male breeding.
Do you have any specific, what would you classify as the groups of breeders that would be most
reasonably to follow, Ryan? The groups of breeders? I'm sorry?
So like, I've noticed that there's people that like just do feminized lines and there are people
that like, there's like kind of almost schools and groups of people. There are people that call
themselves Paul and Chuckers and stuff like that. Is there like different separate sex and communities
of breeding styles as it were? Like would one breeding style not be preferred over the other?
Am I coming across with this making sense at all? Yeah, I think it has more to do with like
personal philosophy. I mean, there's a lot of like, you know, I've got some hippie ideas. There's a lot
of like, you know, I'm also a scientist. There's a lot of hippie folks that are like, no, you got
to do it the regular way with regular males and females because that's closest to nature and fine.
You know, that's your personal philosophy. Rock it. Do it that way. I think those kinds of
decisions really come down to like, you know, how personal, what kind of personal choice people are
putting into their plan. There's no right or wrong way to do it, is the truth. You know, and you were
talking about like the registration authority that registers dogs before. I mean, like a good example
is this cat called the American Curl. And it's like it's this weird little cat that has, they
found it in a barn somewhere, somewhere in the States. And it has rounded ears rather than pointy
ears. And it's just a weird little genetic mutation. Right. And so somebody decided they
wanted to make that into a cat breed. And so, you know, for a period of years, that cat, you know,
that cat had kittens and then they bred the kittens from those generations together and
crossed them out to other different cats as well that they wanted to add traits in. And they
eventually they said, you know, after so many years, we're going to close this population. And
then after, you know, so many breeding events, it'll only be bred after they've established
enough genetic diversity in population. You know, Dr. Annie, you understand all this stuff.
They essentially built in enough genetic variations to start an inline closed population.
And they bred only plants that are only sorry, only cats that have that rounded ear type.
Right. So there's tons of ways to do it. Like there's no right way to breed animals.
But there's things that you have to consider when you're doing type inbreeding on plants that are
not used to inbreeding like cannabis, like stuff can get wacky. You know, you do too much breeding.
Yep, I agree. I agree. 100%.
Oh, I had another thought, but I lost. I'm going to hang up.
Okay, so Ian has been very patient. He asked me this question, I believe at the start of the show
and he was nice enough to retype it here. So before I get to you, Cheddar Bob, I'm going to
ask Ian's question. Ian asked, my question is, if I found a plant with unique trichome shape,
color, how would I go about preserving that trait into future lines?
Okay, so traits like that, for sure, the best way to do it is to self it, right? Because that
trait might be a recessive trait. And when you cross it to any other type,
you lose it in the first generation. And it may be challenging to find in future generations. So
the best thing to do is to at least capture that trait. And by selfing it, you've been in 25% of
the plants, you're going to reinforce that genetic trait. And so it can actually come back stronger
in the next generation. Potentially, we don't know until you do the cross is kind of the way
it works out. But for any, so for any weird traits like that, I will always self it. The thing about
selfing plants, when you reverse the clone copy of that same genetic type, and you spray it with
this chemical to make it produce male flowers, you don't only have to pollinate the self, the plant
that is being selfed, you can also make a hybrid cross at the same time, or perhaps cross it back
to one of the parents, right? So there's more than one thing that you can do when you're doing that
type of project. And that way you've got, as you're embarking on your next project to figure out like,
okay, is this trait that I noticed heritable? Now you have two families, one of them the self
population, and one of them like either a bat cross or, you know, some type of other sibling
cross, maybe you've got two families within which to explore and potentially cross each other to
each other hoping to recover that trait, right? And more and more plants. I don't know if that
answered it or not. But hopefully it did.
Side question there, Ryan. I've had a little bit of experience, but it's very limited with
breeding populations in self plants. And in the populations that I did go through,
and like there were around 400 plants per seed line, we found that around, you know, 10%-ish
were around as good as or better than the initial clone mom that was used in the selfing project.
I was just kind of curious that you've had, I'm assuming considerably more experience with,
you know, going through fem lines. I was just kind of curious if you kind of,
you know, what kind of percentages you've kind of found on, you know, stuff that are, you know,
kind of equal to or greater than the parental used in the selfing.
Well, again, remember any plant is just a collection of traits, right? So
you can, it's pretty easy to recover a given type for any given trait. It's like, how do you stack
that type with all the other versions of the other traits that you also want, right? So,
you know, like you said, you know, depending on the genotype, 10% of like truly exceptional plants
that even may exceed the clone that you started with, like that's not unreasonable.
Yeah. So it just depends on like, unfortunately, all that stuff depends on like,
how heterozygous the starting plant is, right? Is it, does it already breed true for some of
these traits or not? If it breeds, if it's homozygous and it therefore breeds true for
those traits, when you self it, those traits are all going to come back, right? If they're
heterozygous, you get, you know, you might get two new phenotypes, for example, that you have to
cross back together to get the hybrid type. So it really depends on the individual. You can,
unfortunately, in plant breeding, we don't get to make, you know, we get to understand like patterns
that happen over one generation, but there's no laws or rules to plant breeding, right? Like
there's tons of different ways to do anything. And no way is the right way.
So before, I think we could get a quick, quick question, answer on this one before I get to
Cheddar Buckley. I just want to get this one because I did promise, absolutely promised to
get this one in. Miranda, family of arts, do you, I'm sorry, Cheddar, you, you can be patient. You
love me enough, right? I just claim, I know, I know. Miranda family farms asked, do you think
dates should be put on all seed packets? I find this as an interesting one because it's not
something that you commonly see noted or dictated anywhere in any market I've ever seen.
Yeah. So technically, I mean, in Canada, their product should be dated
on the package date, but that doesn't have anything to do with the date of harvest of the
right. And to a degree, I mean, does it really matter? Like if they germinate,
then it shouldn't matter if they're 10 years old or they're like two years old.
So I think it's a little bit of a logistically hard thing to do to transfer all that kind of
information. At least it has been, you know, throughout like all the different types of
packaging that gets used. I think it's like not easy in one market. You might be able to do it.
You know what? It might be the norm in the future. But like I said, seeds do last way longer than,
you know, they're stored properly. They can easily last 20, 25 years. So, yeah.
Great answer. And Cheddar, Bob, you're up. Thank you for your patience.
I forgot. No, I'm just kidding. So I've been growing cannabis for a long time, but I've never
jumped into any sort of keeping males alive or growing them just to see how they grow out. So
as far as any sort of making seeds or breeding or however you use it. Can you still hear me?
Did I cut out? Wonderful.
Okay. You know, like what are the traits? What are the things you're looking for in a male? You
know, we know like the smell and maybe all the pollen sacks, but is there something that is
like an equilibrium, you know, where you have many pollen sacks and smell, does that come together?
Or are you looking for length of the male? Like what are those sort of things that someone like
me who always calls the males and doesn't grow them out, doesn't know what to look for necessarily.
What would that be in like layman's terms?
Sorry, first I was going to say when I personally am looking for a male,
generally I have gone through the females of that line several times, so that cultivar strain,
whatever. And once I've kind of made selections from that of the females, you know, generally if
you've gone through them a couple of times, you'll start noticing traits, you know, in veg,
generally we'll say, you know, this trait generally turns into that phenotype in flower.
And, you know, once you've gone through it a few times, if you, you know, you can say,
if you start picking out a trait in veg that does translate to, you know, the phenotypes in flower
that you like in the females, if you, you know, grow out a bunch of the males and you start
looking through them in veg and you start looking for that same trait, you know, I would kind of
collect those males and, you know, when you're flowering them out, I would kind of isolate those
ones and look, you know, at the traits from that point. And then, you know, you're looking at again,
like, you know, when they say the same, you know, features and traits as the female, they, you know,
branching, the, you know, the amount of clusters, you know, the amount of, like when you flip it
into flower, how many nodes does it, you know, pack on as it's stretching, different things like
that. And like, even like the, the floral clusters, you know, how many nodes does each floral cluster
have? Like the amount of florets, like the amount of flowers that are on it are not always necessarily,
you know, indicative of what's going to come on the female version of it, like when you make seed
with it, but it, you know, you can definitely look at the different, you know, features of that plant
and, you know, see similarities with the female and look for ones that, you know, have the similar
traits that you're looking for in the female version of that plant. So then you, you could,
you could call the males in veg that don't necessarily have the similar structure
that the female that you, you really enjoy came from, is that?
I wouldn't necessarily call all of them. I would just kind of identify the ones that have the
feature that, you know, the female that I like did have, because like, unless you're really,
like, unless it's a very pinpoint, like trait and it happens to go through every single time,
you know, it's kind of a guiding light for me. It's like, so there's like 20 males and four of
them have that, you know, that, that trait, they'll kind of be the ones that look at initially,
but they're, you know, unless there's, you know, a trait that, you know, in veg tells you that the
female is going to be undesirable. Then I mean, sure, call those males, but I mean,
growing them out, you will definitely get a chance to see what they do and how they perform. And,
you know, sometimes even, I mean, you're not going to end up smoking the plant to be able to say,
oh, you know, that, that one really surprised me. Like you can do that with females and, you know,
you generally already gotten rid of that clone, unfortunately, but yeah, with the males you can,
I know that that's how I've found, gone through males myself. Anyway, I don't know,
Ryan, you've probably got some good advice as well. Yeah. I mean, I've done a lot of
regular breeding with males and then switching to females and I kind of think of them as different
things like at this point in time, look, if you're using males, the likelihood and we're,
you know, we're probably talking on pretty small populations here. I imagine
like, it doesn't sound like you're talking like hundreds, like thousands of plants. So.
Yeah. And, and, and, and, and forgo like, you know, the S1, F2, like discussion. I'm just talking
from purely like a visual, not even caring about what the genetic portion of it does. I just like,
very base, Hey, this male, like, am I looking at? Yeah. So I get it. So let me just,
let me give you an answer. If you're trying to be intentional with your crosses, don't use males.
If you're trying to select for traits that are important to you as a flower that you're trying
to identify in flowers of the plant, definitely do not use males. If you're, if you want to use males,
don't choose males, like keep them all right. Take your male. So you say you're growing like
20 seeds, take your 10 males, isolate them, cut them back, put them in a little chamber,
flower them all together, keep them all and collect the pollen and mix it together and use
that pollen. And then let the females guide the journey, like in, in terms of phenotypic selection,
but at every generation, just keep all the males and mix them together. That's what I would do.
Right. If you're using males, you're not being accurate enough because there's no way,
like it's all inferential. The traits that the males have don't associate with the females.
Like there's something in genetics called one of the laws of inheritance, essentially independent
assortment of traits, which means that like, you know, and I know this is not a thousand percent
true because there is linkage, but essentially traits don't come tied to each other in some
rare cases they do, but generally all traits like independently, you know, they call it assortment.
It's like when you get, when they get distributed to what becomes pollen or sperm or eggs, you know,
it's, it's a random how that happens. So it's like genetic Plinko. Yeah. That's a good way to
describe it. But so, so my philosophy is if you're using males and you want to use males, don't do
selections or select down to like maybe half of the population, but keep that genetic variation
because you're probably, like I said, it's 50, 50, whether you're either above average, whether the
plant you select is above or below average, right? Like it's essentially a 50, 50 shot, you're flipping
a coin. And so if you're choosing one plant, you have 50% chance that you've selected a plant that
is essentially dragging down the quality of your population. Right. And so the way to avoid doing
that is to at least within the population of pollen is include multiple pollen donors.
And, and hopefully the average of those pollinated, those pollen donors is above that. Right.
Cool. Thank you. I think that, I mean, that, that answers, I could come up with more,
but that answers everything I asked. So thank you for your time.
My pleasure, man. Sorry for rambling a bit.
Ramble on man, ramble on.
I thought that was epic and I clipped it a couple of times, but yes. So next up is on the,
on the list is Taylor. What question or comment do you have for the panel today?
Hey, hey. I just have a question about inbreeding depression with cannabis.
Basically, how are some ways that we could avoid it? Is it just a matter of using more
pollen donors when you're inbreeding a population? And I'm also kind of curious of
how that relates to like more advanced breeding programs. Like when you read about breeding
programs for like wheat or corn or something like that.
Some of the more extreme ones, like maybe like S1, S2 method or like single seed descent,
would these things be viable with cannabis being so intense with its inbreeding depression?
Man, I love a lot of little questions. That's such a good question.
And obviously reading other journals too. So good for you, man. Cannabis has got a good future. I'm
excited. Yeah. So essentially inbreeding depression happens as you probably know,
when we increase, we get rid of genetic diversity. And sometimes we're doing that
on the line intentionally because we're trying to refine one trait or another.
Right. And so there there's times in a breeding program.
Maybe we should ask the simple thing first. Like, okay, so what creates inbreeding depression?
Selfing one plant over generations, like you're talking about, kind of akin to single seed descent.
Single seed descent doesn't really have selection in it, but it's kind of the same philosophy.
You know, with every S1 generation, we remove, we reduce genetic diversity by 50%.
And so multiple generations of that in a row without an outcross leads to inbreeding depression
often, not always, but very often it does. Even keeping like a regular seed line, like, you know,
like something like blueberry or skunk that were bred, not using feminized seeds. If you take one
male and one female and breed them together over a period of like, say, four or five, six generations,
you also see inbreeding depression. Right. So that's kind of the philosophy behind it.
You also see inbreeding depression, right? Because again, cannabis is not, that's not cannabis's
natural state. Cannabis's natural state is to grow in populations, at least of who knows how many
individuals when they started, but typically you'd have, you know, dozens, if not hundreds of
individuals in a family, like a stand that was growing somewhere. And it's essentially like a
big, you know, excuse the expression. It's like a big orgy, right? It's like all the males are
pollinating all the females. So there's just all this, everybody, there's just this massive
mix of genetic material that's going around and being, you know, just kind of reshuffled, right?
That's very at the other end of the spectrum of like what the two of like either one-to-one
selfing or crosses over, sim crosses over generations or selfing. Like those are way
up the inbreeding side of the thing, right? The scale. So yeah, like it's, when you're doing those
kinds of mating schemes, you have to understand that this is inbreeding. The things that you're
talking about, you know, sterility and, you know, the problems that are associated with
tight inbreeding schemes are going to rear their head. And so if you are doing like a step in a
breeding program where you're chasing one goal, like, so you have to go down to selfing, say for
two or three generations to like really make one trait homozygous. You do that with the understanding
that you're either going to keep parallel lines of that individual, or you're going to take that
line and create multiple parallel lines that you can breed back into a full population that is at
least stable for that trait. And it's like, we were talking about the American curl, like
when they did that cat breed, they kept the population open for so long because they realized
that like, you can't just take a breeding program and create like a new variety or breed of animal
from like three individuals. It's like, there's not enough genetic diversity to maintain a healthy
population. And so you have to build in that genetic diversity while maintaining the trait
that's important to you. Right. So yeah, there is no only inbreeding. It's like, as part of a
breed program, there might be a breeding inbreeding step, but it's usually with the
goal to outcross later on. Cool. Cool. Thanks, my man. I could, I could ask a lot more questions,
but I'm going to step down now. Thanks for everything. All right, Polly, you're next.
Did you hear the big open pollination where you mix up a whole bunch of males and females in a
greenhouse to open up a big pheno hunt to make seed batches? People aren't doing that enough,
I don't think. But how would you go about breeding or finding strains that spider mites don't like
without, you know, that's a challenge. Yeah, so all resistance traits, unfortunately,
resistance breeding is done in the presence of the pest or pathogen. That's how you do it.
You might, you might have some chemical cue or understanding that, hey, plants higher in
this chemical are maybe more resistant to mite. Like, I don't know that information, but if you
did have that kind of information, you might like let that guide your breeding program, right? Say,
hey, we pump up this chemical, maybe choosing plants that are high in this chemical will help
us get resistant. Unfortunately, the way that you do it is you apply the, what's called a
selection pressure, which is your pest or pathogen. And then you look for plants that are resistant to
the, to that pressure. So it's kind of a tough thing to do for people that are trying to grow,
grow their own herb or even grow herb for, you know, for the market, right? Like it's kind of
not, it's that stuff is really gets done in other crops in like research institutes.
I don't know if, Pauly, are you coming through or am I just the only one with you?
You could see an open mic, but I don't.
Yeah, I was like off and on it, it like dropped out like two or three times, but
thank you for that answer on that question. It'd be hard to do a huge pheno hunt on a big acreage
scale and just contaminate every plant and see which plant that spider mites don't like, but
I've seen it in a small room before where you have a small contamination and then you have one
plant right in the middle where they're steered away from it. I don't know if it was a terpene
in the plant or something, but that's interesting. Thank you. That's why we need research.
People who are actually willing to contaminate their plants or like,
you know, put a bunch of spider mites or something and find out which
strains are going to be resistant, but we can't do that with people who are actually growing because,
well, they're actually growing. Well, spider mites are a hard one. Like, I've done it with powdery
mildew and I've found that over, you know, generation after generation, powdery mildew
will infect, you know, the same phenotype the same way over and over again in the same
environment. But I've also been in, you know, gray market grows, black market grows where,
you know, there's a spider mite infestation and, you know, in a room, a monocrop room with,
you know, 400 plants in it, there is, you know, a cluster of spider mites in one space of the room.
It's all the same plant, but, you know, the spider mites were, you know, over here and not
anywhere else, which, I mean, obviously had to do with environmental and, you know, the
microclimate in that space was obviously hospitable for them. But... Do you think it's the
microclimate or do you think it's the plant? Because I've had plants growing next to each other.
Well, it was hemp type plants and then THC type plants. The freaking aphids attacked,
like it was an infestation, but they only went after the hemp type plant. There were not,
no aphids on my THC type plants. And I was like, cool, I'll just move these hemp plants outside
and let the aphids go to town. Yeah. Well, and see the thing is in the one room that I was talking
about, like it was all rockstar in the room. Like every plant in the room was rockstar,
but there's only a couple of plants. I mean, there was spider mites throughout the room,
but there's only like not like there's plants on the other side of the room that like, you'd have
to really look for it to find a spider mite. Whereas, you know, there's other ones where,
you know, we sprayed it down with regain, put a bag over it and, you know, chopped it out at
the bottom. And, you know, it was, you know, a sad little story, but yeah, I don't know if,
like if it was a microclimate or if that, you know, those plants in that space, you know, maybe
were, you know, getting too little water or something like that. I'm not too sure.
It's a great question.
Awesome. Well, Polly, I hope that answered everything you're looking for.
Fish, you're up next. I think it might be our last question of the evening.
Thanks, Lennon. Great conversation, by the way. Everything has been fascinating,
Ryan. Everything you're talking about in terms of fertilization and stuffing. I'm currently a
licensed operator, producer, processor in Washington State, and we're trying to aspire to
the idea of everything coming from seed is maybe from a general sense. And this be photo strains
and auto strains. In terms of an F level, where do you think we need to get to? What has to
happen to kind of make that doable within the commercial realm?
Yeah, it's tough. I mean, look, for me, self seeds are not a commercial, like you can sell
them commercially, but that's not really where the industry is going to end up. Selfing is about
creating known, known true breeding genotypes, right? So really, like those things probably
are going to get crossed to something else in order to make what's going to be the production
release of seeds, right? Usually, like typically seeds that are sold in the marketplace for
production plants, you know, like tomato, for example, they're hybrids. They're like F1 hybrid
seed usually. And they do that for wheat and corn as well. And there's a couple of reasons that you
do that, but it's mostly about uniformity and the highest level of, it's the opposite of
inbreeding pressure, right? Hybrid vigor. So yeah, like I don't think the industry ends up like S2 or
S3 in terms of breeding, like those aren't complete breeding projects. Those are like when we've got
down to say maybe, you know, whatever, third generation of cells, maybe with a little bit of
outcrossing and then more selfing, you know, within sibling families or whatever to really get
uniformity. When you get down to that level of multi-generational breeding, those plants are
then going to be the building blocks of what becomes re-bred, right? So we're like, I'd say
at least 10 years away from true hybrid seed if we do it like the classical breeding approach.
Nicole Johnson 1 I think, you know, just fish on a,
even just a phenotype, you know, as a commercial grower, even a pheno hunt,
it takes up a lot of space. You know, you got to consider how much, you know, I did one that was
way too fucking big for the space that I had and was hating myself, but you know, you got to carry
it out. You dedicated time to it, but you can definitely be selective, I think early on and
kind of eliminate those from your stock just to kind of save yourself space. Like I had two mom's
rooms just for this pheno hunt. So commercially it's definitely challenging. So I think to be
able to do it well, it's going to take some time to be able to be profitable at it, you know? So
I think that's always a challenge for commercial. It's a specific business model. I mean,
look, when we scaled up the cannabis, everybody, when we scaled up cannabis, everybody kind of
thought, well, not everybody, but there's a large amount of people that thought, I'm just going to
take what I do at a small level and scale it up. And that's not the way you scale businesses,
right? So like in the growing, in the legal industry, growers are going to be growers.
They're going to be producing flower. It's going to be a specific business model to be screening
seeds and looking for new individuals. And even, and that is even different from breeding, right?
Like you were talking about before, like doing these massive selections, punts, these pheno hunt
with people column, you know, that's, that's a lot of work. It's like you said, it's a very
specific business model. You have to keep backup cuttings of all the plants that you're screening
through. So really you need two copies of every plant and you have to keep them, you know, like
you said, you can make some early physical selections early on when the plants are young,
but when you're chasing the chemistry of the plant, you really can't do it that way. You have
to wait until the lab comes in and weighs in on things until you can really truly evaluate a plant.
Right. So it's, it's a specific set of skills that I don't think like every cultivator is going to
have their own in-house genetics. That's just not the way any other aspect of horticulture or
agriculture works. So I just don't know why it would be that way in cannabis.
I'm going to second what Ashley and Ryan are saying as well, just because I feel like,
I do feel like seeds have a certain place in large scale production, and that is more for extraction
at you know, especially with like with auto flowers and quicks and things that can be
produced at scale with like a hemp production model, but for, you know, traditional type one
plants, then it can work. But as Ashley will say, it was saying, I mean, I feel the same way. It's
like, I don't generally ever run selection as, or as I know Ryan doesn't like pheno hunt. So
I personally like to call it pheno disco. So I won't ever run that for production. It's unless
it's at every, if I do have enough out of some sort of selection process, then all of that will
go to processing. So I just feel like it's not a consistent model to have seed plants. The stability
and the variation is just not, we're just not there yet. And so, and it's even really not viable
unless you're doing production at like acres and acres for some sort of processing. It doesn't
really make sense to breed those seeds yourself. But if you were that it does for sure. So it's an
interesting question. I like that. I like that, Ashley, that you brought it around to that,
because it really, I think a lot of, I talked to a ton of commercial growers that just think they're
going to become breeders or that's their goal. And everybody wants to be in the genetics and breeding
space. But I think that there are certain things that are maybe better left to people who really
know what they're doing, I think, and just focusing on production. Yeah, it's a specific business model.
It's kind of what I was saying when I met, you know, hey, I'm pleased to see you. Hey, guys.
Well, and a lot of this was like supposed to be, like a lot of people in this on the stage
are cultivators in larger scale production areas. But for the home cultivator,
cultivator, like how if they want to do some breeding, small scale production breeding,
like I think that's where this question, that's the origin of this question and why we put this
show on. I don't know. London, chime in here. No, I think we, I think you nailed it. I think we
discussed it at that point with everything when it comes down. Essentially, I wanted this show to be
kind of get a flat understanding of why certain things are maybe not the best choices and why
some things are better choices and also clear a little bit of the air about feminization.
I'm also a little bit of safety points with like, you know, whether or not to smoke that stuff
afterwards. I think it's super important to go through all these things and get kind of a ground
laid out because we're going to be back in like eight weeks. If I look it up right now in our
Google calendar team, we are looking at our next breeders table for the dank hour is going to be on
May the 10th, which will start getting into plant type selecting and that type of conversation at
that point in time. And then next week we have bugs, bugs, bugs, but we are at the hour and a
half point now. I think we've had an amazing conversation for the evening. I'm going to close
it up and leave the room open for a couple of minutes so that everybody in the audience can
make sure to follow everybody that's in the room and follow them around to their, whatever they
have going on. Also follow the club, put the little bell so that you hear what's going on with these
people. So you can go check out the conversations. Evian, Ryan, they all do some fantastic stuff
and really share a lot for the community. Everybody on this panel does. Dr. Anubis, Corey, Johnny,
Ryan, Ashley, Josh, Evian, and Anita. Thank you all so much for coming and joining me today. And
I look forward to having you all back on again and to see all the, don't forget to check out the link
at the top and sign in there and join the breeders group. So you can post some more questions, maybe
show us what you're going to be working on for your breeders project and show us what you're
trying, what you want to do at home and also get a potential chance to get some free, you know,
beans in the process. So go ahead and check that out and enjoy that. And thanks everybody again
for coming up on stage and being part of this awesome community. Thank you all.
That was great. Thanks everyone. Bye.
Can you hear me? Can I be heard? I can be heard. Awesome.
In the room, in the room. I am heard and you guys can, and y'all can see me. Can you hear me?
Can you hear me? It's going to be niche like heirloom seed companies, unfortunately,
definitely should know how to make them. I agree with you strong stuff. It's going to be a very
interesting aspect. Like when you look at heirloom seeds in veg, in like vegetable seed sales,
they're like kind of a unique thing to find. And they're actually a little bit harder to dig into.
I think it's going to be really cool to check it out. So I hope you all enjoyed the show. I hope
to see you again for that show next week. We are getting into bugs and talking about kind of what
you should do for prep. We have an amazing guest coming in Claude. And we're going to talk about
bugs and getting ready for the spring season and what bugs to repair. We got a lot of awesome
content coming up. So please, you can smell me. Thanks Oz. You should, it reeks in here and in a
good way because there's a flower tent next to me on my left and I'm surrounded by weed. So
c'est la vie. But we're looking forward, there's a cheddar mansion. There is a show coming up
shortly in just a few moments. So don't miss out on that one. I believe that is on this channel or
the other one, but also go check that out because there's a chance to get free beans. You go sign
up on Daga.academy and join the community, do a post, show us what your breeding project is going
to be because I'm going to have something up there soon for what my breeding project is. And make sure
to follow me on there and say hello. There's lots of opportunities, do a lot of cool stuff.
I'm looking forward to growing with each and every one of you every single day.
Happy growing and the future of cannabis is on this channel.
