We might have Craig coming on. Yep. And we're live. Yes. We are live today, guys.
We got a special garden and harvest tour for you with our man Pedro there with
the awesome t-shirt. What the heck is that? You got a zombie bushes out there.
I wanted to be able to show some things that I do myself to improve the quality
of my soil and overall improve the quality of my flower, creating good hash
so you can have it available for the rest of the year. So any questions anybody has,
please go ahead and shoot them on the screen and if I can answer them.
Yeah, definitely guys. Put your questions up. I'm gonna be watching chat as Pedro
takes you around. And real quick, Pedro, the phone, are you able to turn it to the
long way instead of up and down? Let me see if that works. There we go. So we get
a nice bigger picture. We could take in so much more beauty there. All right. But
yeah, I'll let you just go ahead and start us off. Give us a tour and I'll
keep our eyes open for questions and I know I'll be shooting some at you too
because it's pretty. Absolutely. So Living Soil has been the name of the game here for us,
backyard, since the beginning of outdoor growing for me. I did the first episode
with Peter Sveri. We kind of went in depth about how we did this Living Soil Garden.
Basically we extended the bed and this is the second year this bed has been
inoculated with microbiology and all of the organic material. So we did a bunch of stuff.
Just a little quick recession what we did with this Living Soil bed here. We
lifted it up about 20 inches from the floor. We tilled it three feet down and
we add horse manure. We added rice hull. We added sand and we added a bunch of
microbiology. And basically we tilled it as we did and we added all that organic material into the actual bed.
Microbiology went to work. Fungal network went to work. We inoculated it with worms.
Worms went to work. It was great the first season. We kept beautiful big plants. The worms went to work and
they don't stop working for literally 24 hours a day. So I had an over-extent
amount of humic acid from all the organic material that I put in there and it got to a point where I needed some
aeration for my soil. So this is where the good old hand auger comes in place.
The first time that we appeared on Future Canada Project I opened up about this tool and I use it. I use it all the time.
And what we did this season is I bored as far as I can go with this hand auger.
Basically it's just a huge drill bit. You can make a five inch bore all the way down to the butt of this handle.
And if you have more extensions you can literally add more extensions to it.
So with all the massive amount of humic acid that I had because of these worms going to work and literally pooping out all
the organic material out, I started to get extremely high amounts of greasiness in my soil.
Which is a good thing. Don't get me wrong. I love all the humic acid. I love it.
It's the reason why the worms are there. But I started to lose a little bit of aeration.
So what I did this season that I haven't exposed out to anybody else,
I went ahead and used hummus.
Hummus stone.
Perfect.
And another very key ingredient that I like to use is biochar.
Okay.
Biochar.
We buy this stuff here local. It's coconut biochar.
And a lot of hay.
So basically what I did is I bored holes in the grid two feet apart.
And I went to town and I filled them up with biochar.
I filled them up with hummus and hay.
I alternated stacks all the way to the top.
It was a labor intensive work.
But once we got the grid in, it added a bunch of aeration.
Number one. It added a bunch of carbon.
Number two, which is extremely important.
I mean, I don't know if people...
You guys notice that like the secret soil of the Amazon.
I don't know if I'm explaining it right.
But there's a bunch of indigenous people in the Amazon
who used to make huge amounts of biochar.
And that soil that's left behind, it's like this huge beautiful black soil.
It's extremely high in carbon.
And I went with it.
I just put a bunch of freaking biochar all up and down.
Put about 200 pounds of biochar.
Including with a plumbed stone.
It was a whole bunch of material.
And look what we have.
I mean, look what we have.
This plant up here.
This plant up here.
This handle.
I mean, this is...
Holy cow.
I mean, that's how big these buds turned out to be this year.
And basically what it turns out is that the structure of the plant
below the soil is almost the same density as the top of the plant.
So that root system was able to go down
and penetrate the previous roots that we had in the past.
And be able to find that network and continue down and penetrate even further down.
That's why I saw it in the park.
Always look for that root system.
Not only in mines, a little calcium up, because calcium is heavy
and it tends to fall like gold.
It mines all the calcium up and brings it up to the surface.
So it's available for the next plant.
So yeah, that's what we did.
Also, we had a bunch of black pepper.
For all the salt people that don't believe me, this is done by soil.
I just want to say that.
For all the salt people that don't believe me, this is done by soil.
Ha ha!
Just playing.
So what is the black pepper do for you?
I'm just playing.
Oh, OK.
I'm like, oh, that's a new one.
But you know what?
With plants like that, I'm not going to question it.
I'm going to be like, tell me more.
There's a bunch of people that don't...
Well, I don't want to...
People are skeptical of soil.
And soil, basically, it's the basics.
It's nature, how it's intended to be.
The reason why I don't have any tests or any idea of questions on these plants
is because I have a communal network, a fungal network down there.
These plants are using each other underneath the soil
in order to create strength and unity amongst the plants themselves.
I run tests here with all the pots, 25-gallon pots.
I'm going to use this as my wand, my guru wand.
Ha ha!
The pointer.
These are 25-gallon pots that I cut on purpose.
We put living soil in these things.
We got worms and everything, but we run tests.
We stress plants in these pots
without the communal network of the soil in the ground,
and we find big differences.
Big differences not only in health,
big differences on the signature that these plants put up to pests.
Plant exudates.
I keep stressing that to people.
Plant exudates.
Not only they're in the roots of the plant,
but there also is a signature that a bug sees or feels or perceives of a certain plant.
And that's when they decide to attack a certain plant.
I have these...
I call these unhealthy plants.
The reason why is because they are in root prisons.
Root prison is...
Literally, that root has nowhere to go,
and that's the reason why the plant is unhealthy.
But watch.
Let me show you guys.
Just so I can give you a side-by-side of what's going on here with the living soil.
I have plants that are literally sitting two feet away from a form of part,
and some of them are in pots or in planters that are not actually connected to the ground.
And those plants completely got thrashed by worms this season
compared to these plants that were next to it.
And they had absolutely no signature for these moths to be able to come and land on
because they're just healthy plants.
But come on, follow me.
We've got chat room chiming in.
Amazon just had a rush on black pepper.
Yeah, right?
No, no.
That's just for all the salty people out there that don't believe me.
So check this out, guys.
This planter, you see it?
Yeah, yeah.
It's basically a shipping crate.
Somebody shipped an engine on them, and I utilized them, put some living soil.
It's the exact same identical living soil that I have in that big, huge planter.
However, it is not part of the communal network with those plants.
It's sitting on top of this concrete slab.
So if you can see, come here, come in a little closer.
These got hit by worms or triters.
You can tell how ugly these plants are.
All bud rot and a little dying from the inside.
Look at those.
Let me go out a little bit.
Look at these right there.
And they're two feet away from each other, including those papaya gods.
You see this one is rotted right there, and that one's right there,
but there's nothing on it.
Wow.
It's because the plant signature of these plants,
it's an unhealthy plant signature.
Elaine Ingham is my idol.
This is what I got.
One time, she said something like that, and it fucking blew up in my head.
And I ran with the idea, and that's the reason why these pots are here,
so I can prove how a simple environment and where the pot is.
I can have this particular stand in that bed and here
in that completely different environment.
It will grow because of the soil alone.
And I'm a huge A and B person.
I love to see those.
And in this, I mean, this is a great A and B experiment
because there really isn't much variable to it other than the container.
And I love it when you can easily see results.
You don't have to wonder if it made a difference.
And here, it looks like it definitely does.
I'm a show-me kind of type of guy.
You know, you actually speak so loud, I can't hear a thing kind of type of deal.
You know what I mean?
And I like to show it.
You know what I mean?
Like it is.
Here, I'm going to try to get this camera real quick.
Let me show you what's going on up on the canopy.
Put this ladder here for a reason.
Oh, yeah.
Zero botrytis, zero bug pests.
I mean, it's a sea of green.
See that top of my house?
Holy cow, yeah.
That's amazing.
My neighbors, they grow squash PM everywhere.
Ooh, yeah.
But these plants do not get affected.
Now, I know one thing that a lot of people talk about,
you know, it's obviously bricks as something as a form of pest management.
But more to what you're saying is, you know,
a healthy plant isn't going to have the same pest pressures as the unhealthy plants.
Absolutely.
It looked like it went to, you know, like you said,
it went for the one in the container and not the one two feet away
just because of the signature that it's putting out.
And like I keep saying, people, I'm not a PhD.
Shit, I didn't even graduate college in this country.
I graduated high school in this country.
I graduated high school in Mexico.
So all the knowledge that I have, it's knowledge that I just literally went
through books and I researched and I stopped and I observed plants
and I went back to the basics.
You know, I have a big, huge compost bin in the back with worms.
I have another compost bin that I make sure everything is up to a 130,
90 degree composted before I feed it to my worms.
I have fish hydrolysate if I do need it.
I haven't had the need to use it because I have a shitload of nitrogen in these beds.
However, these pots out here do need a little bit of nitrogen.
But all the amendments that I use are natural and the plants show it.
Yeah.
How did you go about mixing all of that soil?
Because that's a lot and especially for the pots, you know,
that's not something you could just plop into the bed and mix around and call it good.
Well, I tried to go get two guys from Home Depot.
But once they saw that job that I had ahead of me, they said, hell no.
Anyways, literally done.
I used a rotor hammer with a chisel spade on it, a big boss rotor hammer
because we had clay and sand,
but it was a really thick clay that is literally water perched on top of it.
That's how thick it was.
And we were able to spade it in.
Once we dug out like the side of the bed, we dug about two, three feet deep.
We shoveled that dirt out.
And as we went by, we spaded the dirt into the hole.
And with a rotor tiller, I literally add the rice hull, the horse shit,
the sand, all those amendments to create all that extra organic material in there.
And we did put a bunch of, I mean, the silicone mounts that they got from the rice hull,
unheard of.
I mean, seriously, these plants are going.
We had, I added a bone meal, I added a kelp meal.
And literally with a rotor tiller in the hole, we mixed the soil.
And once the soil was mixed, we chiseled another area,
turned it on top of that soil and continue on with the same recipe.
We did the entire bed.
And this bed was ground level to here, as you can see.
And we raised from all the material that we put on here about 20 inches.
And there's videos out there of the root penetration, but I can grab a steel rod.
I have these big, huge stainless steel rods.
I'm a driller.
I do environmental drilling for a living.
So I have a bunch of tools, like a hand-doubler comes from big soil samples
for a living.
So that's the kind of tools that we go to places where we cannot bring a big,
huge drill rig and we can be able to take a soil sample up to 20 feet.
It depends how the soil looks like where you're actually drilling by hand.
But I'm able to, I have access to tools in that push rod that I'm speaking about.
It's basically like a geotechnical tool to figure out the contraction rate
of the soil.
And I'm able to take that thing down all the way to four feet.
And I mean, it bottoms out.
And that's the reason why these plants, and these are all clones, by the way.
Did I mention that?
These are all clones.
These are all clones.
These are clones.
That is amazing.
How long ago did you start them indoors or when did they go outside?
Negative ghost writer.
What we did with these plants, we literally, I put the clones in two-gallon
pots.
I put them outside end of April.
And I put them outside and I put a little bit of light, additional light to keep
them under veg because they were clones, obviously.
And around June 1st, when our solstice allowed us to be able to take the light
off, I took the lights off and there they are.
I mean, check it out, guys.
Yeah.
That's heavy there.
Yeah, you've got your hands full for a while.
Yeah.
So I also want to take advantage that I see the spider web, guys.
Oh, yeah.
Use your benefits, guys.
I have praying mantis in there.
All the spiders that hang around here, I let them go because they are my number
one helper.
They're ninjas.
They're out there.
They're predators.
They're taking care of business.
Beneficial insects, super important.
If you're not using your tools, I'm looking for some kind of pheromones right
now to attract moths away from my property.
I can go put them on my neighbor's doors and she saw I have a bunch of moths in my
neighbor's door, backyard.
You know?
I'm trying to utilize those tools.
I haven't figured out those tools, but I just realized that they make, there's
people, there's companies in the area that create these agricultural pheromones
that you can stick them somewhere and they're sticky traps.
The moth will come, female moths will come and they're thinking there's a male
and boom, they die.
So that's something that I have not utilized yet, but I'm definitely running
with it, 100%.
Just because I want to save these other experimental plants that we have out here.
You know what I mean?
These are hot.
It's like the old helicopters, bro.
You know?
Coming out with...
Coming down.
...and finding the grow ops and the heat signatures and stuff was what, infrared?
That's what the bugs see with all these plants, basically.
These are cool.
These are nice and cold.
There's nothing going on.
But check out how beautiful these plants are.
You see the purple hues?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Definitely on the undersides of the leaves and starting to come in through the buds.
It is beautiful, man.
And it's Southern California.
There's no cold temperatures here yet, you know?
Yeah, that's a good point.
It's bringing out in the genetics.
Exactly.
Antonines, got to love that purple water.
It's going to...
This is strawberries and cream, too.
This is a keeper cut that I got from last year's pheno hunt.
The big one up there, I'm sorry, I'm having a brain fart.
Stupid Fruits from the Humble Seed Company.
Beautiful pheno.
Obviously, you can tell that plant is just solid.
It's resin production.
We crossed it with the strawberries and cream at two mil that I found.
We made some beautiful seeds.
And now I'm testing all those seeds.
And you'd be amazed of the stuff that's coming out of this cross that I did this year.
We did a seed giveaway with Masonic for the people who put the work.
I can pop some good seeds.
And if anybody does, please give me some feedback because I can only grow so much in my backyard.
Two, three hundred, four hundred phenos, but...
Pheno hunts, but I would like some feedback.
So, basically...
Huge.
A huge part, too.
And a lot of times in this community, it's not too hard to find willing participants
to help you along with the journey.
And you make a lot of great hash.
Is that kind of what you're looking for when you select a cultivar?
Or how do you approach your selections of what's going to grow this year?
You know, so the transition of priorities have changed in the past 20 years.
I remember back in the early 2000s, I would breed for the stone.
I would breed for the hash production.
I wanted someone with some good, thick, nice, dense glands that produce a lot of hash.
And not only that, I was looking for something to smack me.
Something that put me to sleep on the couch with a bowl of pudding and my kids are happy
faces.
That's the kind of stuff that I was looking for.
That's what I bred for at the beginning.
And then, you know, we were getting all the pine terpenes, we were getting the skunk terpenes.
Or skunk is actually a flavonoid, but we were getting the skunks, we were getting the diesels,
we were getting that stuff, you know.
And, you know, I went up to Humble Seed Company.
Plus, I've been breeding for a long time.
Most of the stuff that I bred for was hash production and for stone.
And priority has changed, you know.
We love flavor and adversity.
And, you know, we take other people's work and we bring it onto our garden with that
gene pool and you're able to play in our backyard and put something together and find
something that really works with you.
Not only it smells good, it tastes good, it produces good hash, but it works with your
chemical composition of your body.
You know, something that you can handle.
These terpenes, some people get, you know, anxiety, panic attacks.
Exactly. So it's important that you find a strand that works for you as a person.
It makes you smile.
It does what's supposed to.
Yeah, that's a taste like this right here.
This is mimosa.
So this mimosa I crossed back in.
I forgot one, but it's mimosa 88D13 hash plant and I crossed it with the strawberries and
cream F2. And this particular plant is literally sweet, candy orange.
Yes. Yeah, that's.
Citrus is super sticky.
It's so late.
It was one of those plants that the stem rubbed.
They give me nothing. So I kind of didn't clone this plant.
You know, it's so important that, you know, clone your plants, even though you don't know
because of room and space.
I skipped a couple on the stem rub and I didn't clone this baby.
So once you start to show what really was, I ended up turning on a light on the other side
in that shed and the backside of it start to revenge.
And I was able to clone it and we have it.
So this basically sort of.
Very nice to mimosa is right now, mimosa has a really distinct smell and flavor to it.
I really enjoy it.
I've got a sour tangy times mimosa going right now, and I'm hoping to pull that kind of that
same orange flavor.
Just there's no mistaking it when it's done right.
You either love it or you hate it.
And I'm in the category of love in the mimosa.
Absolutely. And the problem that I had with the first cross with the 88 G13 hash brown
cross and the mimosa, I did that.
The orange, the orange flavor did pass through to the next generation.
However, the space in between the nodes was extremely far.
We were getting these little quarter size nugs about four to five, six inches apart from
each other, which is not really feasible.
So I really was really leery about it.
But once I saw the structure of the strawberries and cream, too.
Yeah, like peanut butter, all these plants and truly all the pictures that I've seen, the
people that have been popping them and what I popped here in my backyard, they won.
Uh, the sister of that plant, number one, the one that had on that pot, it yield.
Let me show you. OK, let's see here.
Yeah, all I know is I wouldn't want to be the sole person having to trim everything.
See this mimosa?
Yep. Oh, there you go.
That's a big, no, huge, heavy hitter there.
And it looks like we got a we got a good IPM question here real quick, says I know Pedro
uses Bavaria, Baciana and BT spores, not the spray.
Did the plants with Botrytis get the same BB and BT treatments as the bed did?
Yes, yes, everything got soaked.
This this season, I really did not have the need to use Bavaria Baciana on my plants,
only on certain ones out here in the pots.
But the beds didn't get hit.
And the reason why is because I also do have a lot of beneficial.
And that was a good question.
I'm glad you brought that up.
Bavaria Baciana, Bacillus subtilis, Trichoderma, BT.
I personally like to work with the spores alone.
I don't like to go to Home Depot and buy the BT already premixed containers because
they have the one point something percent that they don't tell you what it is.
And I just don't trust what that one point percent is.
So I go with the suppliers that I know are providing the spores and I create my own
little concoctions. These right here are spores that came from China, unfortunately.
But this this company, Effective Microorganisms in China, Tintin over there is doing an
outstanding job segregating, duplicating and selling this biology.
Russ Brandon is a distributor up in Oklahoma.
His supply is running low.
He can't keep up with the orders.
But these are just straight spores.
And I do use them.
I didn't have to need to spray this particular bed with any Bavaria Baciana.
I did, however, spray with Bacilis Atilis, an early veg up to two weeks into flower.
I also did spray my bed with Trichoderma.
And I did use BT spores up to two weeks into flower.
So important. I mean, it's another tool that you have in your arsenal.
Why not utilize it?
But the point is that I was able to use them on all my plants.
And even though I was able to use them on some of these, but I mean, I don't know if
anybody had the same pressure with worms as here in Southern California.
But all the growers that I know here in my area got hit extremely hard.
Yeah. A lot of a lot of growers last year, this year to returned.
Last year, you know, I've been lucky.
I'm also the kind of a grower that's out there constantly.
Let me put these spores away.
Give me one second. I just want to bring them out.
But yeah, these are spores.
Strength spores.
Rust brand has them.
Earth Bopastu, whatever his website is.
And I was going to ask, too, is there anything that you have to do as far as special, as far as storage, certain temperature out of the light?
How long do they last?
I keep them in a shoebox in my closet.
OK. Just like all the most valuable positions that I own.
They're right there.
Yeah. Another important thing is it's to have a magnifying glass.
Super important. Not only I have a stereo microscope, you know, where I can grab a leaf, put it on the stereo microscope and look at it in the comfort of my table.
But I also have a 30 times a hand tool that I can come and check out my plants constantly to see if I'm getting any kind of pressure.
And if I am getting some kind of pressure, how to how to react properly.
Yeah, good, good scoping is so important.
You know, a lot of times once you see a problem, it's already a problem.
But if you're proactive and you're out there and you're scoping, you might be able to catch it sooner, especially with a garden your size and with the under canopy that you have.
There's a lot of places for pests to be.
Exactly. So a lot of people ask me, how in the hell are you able to hold the canopy like this thick without any mold issues?
And I keep I remind people that I live in Southern California, Garden Grove.
It's extremely dry conditions.
We don't get the marine layers as heavy as they do up north.
As you can see, I've been noticed that my plants been moving the entire time.
We have a constant airflow that comes in through the ocean.
We got great airflow going through these plants.
I don't have the need to put any fans.
However, I do spray my neighbor's yards.
OK, with their permission.
With Jadam sulfur.
OK, at the beginning, I'm that crazy neighbor that gets my sprayer at, you know, eight o'clock at night or nine o'clock.
People start going to sleep and I spray my neighbor's yard and I create a perimeter.
My front yard, all my everything, all my sides, including my, you know, roses, my avocado trees, my guava trees, my fig tree.
Everything gets sprayed with Jadam sulfur at the beginning of the season.
I personally don't like to spray my plants as much with Jadam, only unless I have some really heavy issues because I make cash.
And, you know, every small little particular of sulfur is going to show up in the turkey flavor.
So I strictly don't try to use this on plants unless I have to.
I do use it on, you know, vegetative stage up to, you know, one week before flower.
But that's if I have a pressure.
But this is strictly perimeter.
Jadam sulfur. Another thing, extremely important tool that I like to use is soapanants.
It soaks. And I use Jadam JWA.
It's a wetting agent. But this particular soap is also a nice little pesticide that I kind of put together.
Anybody in the chat is familiar with how JWA is made?
Anybody? Are you familiar with it?
No, that would be great. I actually had a guest on yesterday, Green Goblin, and he showed me how to make the Jadam sulfur as well as some labs as well.
But we didn't get into the JWA.
So JWA is basically using the same caustic soda to make soap.
And you're using canola oil.
And you whip it up really fast and make the paste, add the water and then make soap, basically.
But what I do when I make my JWA, people should be taking notes on this because there's bottles out there that go for 60 bucks.
The base are ingredients.
You know, JWA, I add essential oils to my oil before I mix it with my caustic soda.
And I use a lot of oregano oil.
I use a lot of peppermint oil.
I use a lot of cinnamon oil.
In the actual canola oil, I mix it together, all the oils together.
And then I use I use the same recipe as JWA.
And the soap that comes out is scented JWA, which is magnificent.
You know, like the roses, the roses get a lot of aphids.
So we take care of all the aphids with all the JWA, all the tomatoes and stuff that we have.
But essential oils are super important.
You know, and it's natural.
Is there is there much of a risk of burning the plants with something like cinnamon or peppermint in there?
If you go extremely crazy amounts?
Yes. But I just brought that up to make a, you know, foam just to make bubbles.
As long as you're reasonable, right?
As long as you're reasonable and don't dump the whole bottle, then.
OK.
The whole bottle, even with Dawn soap, you're going to burn the shit out of your plants.
It's true.
That's that's so, you know, it has lavender oil.
It has all the good stuff.
And it works for me.
Not only I don't spray my plants that much, but I spray the bottom.
See, I have a lavender, lavender here.
I have a bunch of grass and stuff, you know, you know, all of them, nothing on it.
It's healthy and it's, you know, it seems living there and symbiotic relationship with these plants.
I don't have any nitrogen fixers in there because I don't need any nitrogen fixers at this point.
But I do run cover crops and I chop them down all the time just to add, you know, extra organic material and food for the worms in cover.
But after we did the amendments with all the hummus and the
after we did the amendments of all the
the biochar.
There you go, spider.
Set them free, set them back to eat.
It's a war. I mean, I don't like to kill stuff like that.
It's it's against my karma.
It's against my, you know, my bugs, especially in my backyard.
The right bugs. I'm the kind of guy that's out there putting bird feed for my birds to come around, hang around.
We have I mean, Murphy's my wife who's holding the camera here.
My lovely wife, Leah, loves hummingbirds.
We have hummingbirds.
Yeah, me too.
I got I've got my my neighborhood crows that come and they get their peanuts every morning.
They know when I come out, they all come down, they swoop down and the hummingbirds are great.
And we actually we got a question here from Peter.
Looks like he's chiming in.
He says, what sprayer does he use?
So I use a very, very old sprayer.
Let me go get it. I don't have it here.
I have it tucked away because I don't use it very much, but it's one of those old sprayers that you plug in and then hold on one second.
Yeah, no problem. We'll just keep chatting away here.
I'm keeping my eye on chat as well.
And guys, this is a pretty dang awesome, isn't it?
I would love to have a garden like this.
I would not love to trim it, though.
OK, here we go. We've got. Yeah.
Oh, man, it almost looks like the fog machines from my rave days back in the day.
Exactly. It's the same one.
When I got rated back in the day, a long time ago, you're done.
You know, downstairs.
This is the thing that I ran with. It wasn't even mine.
It's trusty, built good and trusty, man.
Does the job.
And it still works.
I use it.
Yeah. And you're putting everything in there that you do.
So do you clean it out with bleach or what do you do in between different treatments there?
I just rinse it out with water and let it dry.
I run water through it.
You know, I run water through it, rinse it out.
I'm the kind of guy that don't like to complicate my life.
I keep it simple. Stupid.
I don't like to overthink stuff.
You know, if something simple is working for me, it works fine.
We'll keep it that way.
You know, I just make sure it's dry before I store it.
Mm hmm.
California, I mean, we have the sun that it will it will dehydrate
that container and the inside of it in two hours if I leave it in the sun.
Not only the UV sanitizes the thing, but dries it out.
Good point.
Do you do you have any like trap crops in your garden?
You mentioned a bunch of other ones that you have in the yard, the roses and not.
But is there anything that you kind of put there to detect
your insect pressure other than the sticky cards?
I use the sticky cards.
It's people, you know.
Yeah. I use the sticky cards to be able to see anything that's in there.
But however, I use the sticky cards in a limited amount,
because if I'm releasing beneficials that I'm sticking with the beneficials.
You know, but I only stick the sticky cards if if I think I have.
Two or three more pests, but but most likely.
This little magnifying glass in me going out every day or every other day,
dedicating two hours after work instead of me sitting around.
I come to check out the plants.
I crawl on the bottom like a GI Joe.
I look from the bottom up.
It's so important to look at your plants from the bottom up
because you start to see a lot of the problems starting from the bottom up.
Sometimes I take naps down there, man.
That's a huge that's a huge nugget of information right there.
I know on this channel we love saying golden nuggets, but that's a golden nugget.
Man, you can't just look at the surface.
No, no, no, no.
I mean, I got a little peeping Tom here, you know, like the mirrors they use
when I go to. Yeah.
And of course, yeah, the check the bombs.
Yeah, that applies whatever tools you can, man.
And for the places that you cannot get to.
Unfortunately, because, you know, some of these places are not
that boy friendly and I have to get in there.
The beer really, really helps out a lot.
Oh, does what I know you.
You had a little bit of the caterpillar in there to get your butter out
on on one of those container plants.
What seems to be the, you know, the frequent flyer?
What's showing up for you?
Is and is it the same year over year or does it change by season for you?
I truly believe that the mods come back.
I like once again, I keep saying I'm not a PhD.
I'm not I'm not a doctor.
I'm not a bugs expert.
But I do believe that bugs come back to the to their place at birth.
For whatever reason, they like it.
And I believe that these moths, if they hatch in your backyard,
for some reason, the moth or descendant of the month
is going to end up coming back in your backyard.
But I mean, another thing that I like to utilize is those little,
you know, bug zapper.
OK, yeah, yeah.
Put them on the side of your house with two or three of them.
They have them a harbor freight and blue lights.
Zap those fuckers all night.
Excuse my language, but why not?
If your plants are in veg, why not?
You know.
So this year I had people that follow me.
I had a beetle problem.
Like a ground ground beetle or a flying beetle bug beetle problem.
For some reason, they've decided to have orgies in my plants
and email will come and land on one of my plants.
And I will have an army, an Air Force Army or Air Force Brigade of of
June bugs landing on one plant.
And the bugs were sticking out their little hinds trying to
and they were leaving, leaving bodily fluids on my plants
and that bodily fluid of the beetle itself.
The males, the ones that are sticking out their stuff
was burning my plants, the tip of my plants.
So it was war against the June beetles, June bugs.
I never looked at those without.
And now I notice I notice the organic material that I added to my to my to my bed.
The beetle must have been in some of the horse poop.
Then it didn't get, you know, a compost at the proper temperature.
And I do find those big ass larvas or or or or June bug larvas in the soil.
Sometimes, like especially when I was hand-downing the holes,
I was able to find some of those between two and four feet.
So, jeez, they're probably coming from, like I said, they're born here and they're coming back to do their
in my plants, which I'm going to have to look out for that.
You know, I was reading something about milky spores.
It's a bacillus strand of a fungi that you can use to combat Japanese beetle larva.
So I haven't deployed it yet.
I want to do a little bit more research about it.
But that might be something that I mean, might be looking forward in the future to try to get rid of those
those big, huge white larva bug grubs that you mean if you go fishing, you probably catch a bunch of fish
with those things, but they're juicy.
And I'm sure it's those green beetles because I find those holes, those holes that come out.
And I'm sure they're eating some of these roots.
But I mean, the root network on these plants is so tremendously big that it really does not affect them.
That much. Makes sense.
It does. It does.
I'm just curious, too, you know, they're coming up through down through the soil system.
You would do some sort of soil drench to to kind of combat that.
But that also made me think, too, of how are you watering these things and how frequently are you watering them,
especially in that sun?
It's got to be a pretty busy job.
So no, no. Surprisingly not.
These beds hold a lot of water.
They have a lot of organic material in it.
These beds don't get water at least once a month, every month and a half.
Oh, nothing.
Yeah. So I mean, when I when I soak them, I soak them and they stay cool for a very long time.
They have a lot of top dressing, hay on the top for all.
And I literally when I go and dig in there, it's wet two to three inches below, you know, right after you break.
I mean, I had 18 inches of hay on top when I started the season.
If people follow me, they'll remember all that brand new hay, about four bundles or big bales of hay spreaded everywhere just to create a shadow for the soil to take the UV exposure to it.
Microorganisms to be there.
And that's the reason why I haven't made the movie yet, is because I have so much biology, so much living organisms in the soil that I don't know what the milky spores are going to do to the biology.
And to me, that's more important than having these beetles.
I kind of like to hunt to be honest with you, but I don't want to have the problem.
Yeah. You know, it gives me something to do.
I'm not here to mess with the beetles.
Yeah. Got to protect the crop.
Got to protect the crop. Keep your eye on them.
Now, you said it's just kind of burning the leaves.
Is it something that they actually get into the buds or is it kind of affecting your yield in any way that you can recognize?
They were burning the entire top end of the growth.
So for some reason, the female likes to land on the top end of the growth of the buds.
OK.
And the tip and the males were coming and congregating on the top end with the female and they were secreting juice and that juice when the plants were about this high.
It happened a little bit ago.
It must be a seasonal thing when they go in the heat or not in the heat, but when they start to mate and they burned all my tips.
I even reached out to Alvin Grove Creek.
That was a puzzle.
I didn't know what was causing that.
All my tips, most of all my tips were getting burnt.
I wouldn't spray anything in particular.
I did do some sulfur spraying with the neighbors.
I was thinking they may be some over spray because I grew a little heavy with the neighbors.
Right. It is what it is.
I thought that maybe I had some over spray, but no.
After I sat there and once again, I approached the old Japanese way that don't do nothing method and I just observed Masanobu Fukuoka's approach.
Masanobu Fukuoka's was the don't do nothing kind of approach.
And I sat back and didn't do nothing.
I didn't react to it that fast, making any amendments or spraying anything.
I just sat back and observed and I watched what was happening.
And I started to notice the fucking Junebugs, excuse my language again, Junebugs coming around and having the little orgies.
They must have been like Junebug porn playing around here because they were coming around my backyard extremely often and a lot.
And I noticed that in the afternoons is when they were really congregating all over the top.
And, you know, I grabbed my little bait net that I use for I fish a lot.
So I use that bait tank, a 55 gallon bait tank.
I use my bait net and I start scooping the fuckers.
Wow. My little red rider.
Yeah. Boom.
Excuse me. I was shooting, you know, the BB gun in the backyard, getting them on the one hand reach.
That was great. The bug assault.
Anybody know what the bug assault is?
Not that I.
The bug assault is basically a salt gun.
OK, scatter, just scatter it in the air and.
Yeah, you load the hopper with salt, rock salt, and you pull it in a shoot salt that bugs you kill flies.
What kinds of critters? If there's a bug, a worm that you can't reach on those bugs, we have to use the bug assault.
Boom. You just shoot salt at them.
That's awesome, man.
You know.
So kind of play sniper and stuff like that with your IPM.
That brings new brings new new meaning to it.
But if you can snipe a fly in the sky, you're doing pretty good.
It's like it's like a shotgun assault.
Boom. It's spreads a bunch of salt in the shot.
So it's it works.
And it doesn't damage the foliage, which is pretty cool.
Does so in the area you're at, I know a lot of northern California is on fire.
Do you have to deal with a lot of fire or smoke or just residuals falling from the sky into your garden?
Good question. I normally rinse.
Last year we had we were really affected by last year's fires.
The air and the wind turned this way.
We had a lot of ash rains or ash drop here in Southern California, which it was the first time that ever happened to me during the flower.
We I decided to to rinse rinse the buds with the three three bucket method system.
I use heavy ices at heavy ice RX recipe lemon lab grade sodium bicarbonate, two cups of each other in a 32 gallon container and the three bucket rinsing.
One in the solution to rinse this.
And I was drying out the buds in my little dry room before we chopped them down for fresh frozen.
But this particular year, lucky, lucky we have not had any ash come over here.
And the most important thing that we have not had the Santa Ana wind episodes yet in our area.
If anybody is tuned in here from Southern California, you know what the Santa Ana winds do to the buds.
They dry them out. I mean, it gets really dry.
Not only that, the dust conditions, extremely air quality gets really bad here in Southern California.
And last year we had all that ash on the floor at the same time the Santa Ana winds were picking up.
So it's just a shitty, ashy situation literally everywhere in Southern California.
So we were forced to have to wash these buds before we process them into hash.
However, this year I put some of the flowers under the stereo microscope to see what the what the damage was.
And not only I make sure that you did properly, like you notice my backyard is still wet.
Wet water. We rinsed the whole backyard here to make sure that we settle all dust every morning.
All the exposed soil has cardboard on top of it.
We extremely try to take our dust control extremely importantly or seriously here.
Not only because we're trying to have the cleanest hash possible, but we just don't want to smoke dust.
Basically, you know, the small little things like that make a big difference at the end.
And it's something that you're doing up front, too, which is awesome.
That kind of that, you know, that gives the experience the depth of experience there, because a lot of people will, you know, focus on the end game or, you know, how much percentage does it wash?
What are my heads looking like?
But you're starting from the very beginning to ensure you get the highest quality in the end.
I mean, you're OK.
So when you start a football game, I don't follow sports.
When you follow, when you get into it, when you when you start playing a game, you don't start pulling your moves at the end of the game.
You start putting your moves at the beginning of the game and you continue doing all your moves throughout the whole season to win.
You don't just at the beginning of the game and say, oh, we're going to pick it up during flowering.
We'll be all right. And then you start seeing the problems and then you panic and then you start playing the shit.
You know, I'm not talking about the stuff that you really never wanted.
And yeah, you know, very true, you know, and that's the number one mistake people do.
Sometimes like I've had people, you know, send me a DM, bro, the best, you know, the best advice you ever gave me is to tell me leave my plants alone.
I left my plants alone and they fucking thrive.
But yeah, you're doing too much.
You're reacting, you know, you're reacting too fast.
You're not even allowing three or four days to see what you did is even working when you're throwing something else at it, you know, which is another common mistake.
Yeah. When you did the washing the other year, were you surprised at how dirty or lack of dirt there was in there?
It was filthy. I mean, I took under my stereo microscope of those flowers and I took pictures.
I should have been more prepared.
I just been I've been so busy with harvest, with family.
I've been busy. I was up in Hummingbird visiting.
Hummingbird.
Oh, yeah, I got that.
I see him. He's going back for more.
Go back. All right.
Her name is Tangie.
It goes by the name of Tangie.
Tangie.
Yeah. Tangie the Hummingbird.
Anyways, where was I?
It was pretty dirty.
The what you were finding in there and you were scoping it.
We took pictures on the stereo microscope of that flower last year and we did rinse it.
And holy crap, you should see the amount of stuff that came out of that flower.
I mean, it was horrible.
It was it was pretty bad.
The water, the first wash, the first wash bucket.
I did it in 55 gallon drums.
So I scaled up the recipe from a 32 gallon recipe to a 55 gallon recipe just because I have a bunch of 55 gallon drums laying around.
I washed my cash.
Now I do all this stuff.
I use them for a lot of things, but I scaled it up and I did one with the with the lemon
soda bicarbonate mix and two with clean water.
Then we dipped the first, you know, the buds in the first one and the second and the third one.
And then the buds went inside the shed where I had a dehumidifier running on constant
dehumidifier. You know, what was it, 20 percent relative humidity.
I was trying to be at and I had two air conditioners and within four hours I was able to take all that moisture off that plant, going from a dunk to being dry, to being able to chop it down and put it in the freezer and be ready for cash washing.
I was done with the season.
So, so, you know, if done right, it's amazing.
I highly recommend it.
This year we were blessed that we didn't have all the dust.
I'm the kind of guy I'm very, very friendly.
So I even went in and talked to the gardeners, you know, the next door gardeners.
They come over here and do their blower.
So I'm like, hey, listen, I got this in the backyard.
I'm sure you know about it because you can see them from you.
You know, when you go and all this dust, I had a piece of bud and I showed him how it is.
All that dust gets out there and then my medicine that I need gets contaminated by lead and all kinds of metals that fall down from cars.
And so I kind of basically sold them on taking it easy on the blower.
And they do, you know, they help.
You look at the neighbor here next door.
He's got these tarps on the top.
You see those black tarps?
Yep.
Or nets.
And what is that?
That's just covering his garden?
Yeah, just covering his garden and, you know, keeping dust off his garden and.
So every dust away from my garden.
So, I mean, it's important to talk to your neighbors.
They already know what you're doing.
Yeah, that's that's so, so key.
It's better to be, you know, in good with your neighbors instead of causing the problems, because you do get those little concessions like, yeah, I won't blow my dust over there.
And that was kind of a leading to a question I was curious about is, you know, if somebody doesn't wash their buds in these situations, are they going to fail like a state test or are people going to just slide under the radar and not have.
I mean, you never know what the dust particulates were in the beginning.
You know, it could be you just never know what they're testing for.
You just don't know what the standards are for that particular test or testing for.
I obviously haven't been in the legal market since day one.
I just grow for myself because I see the need to grow clean medicine, me and for my family, because the stuff that I was I was working, tending to these farms, indoor facilities, they were running sulfur burners, 24 seven, running chemicals that I couldn't pronounce and that I read that they cause all kinds of stuff that, you know, and even the
growers would smoke the stuff that we were growing.
I worked at a commercial facility.
Nobody there smokes it.
And that's why I grow for myself, too.
So, yeah, I know exactly what you're saying right there.
So that's where the necessity came out to grow good medicine.
And we have it.
That's awesome.
Well, speaking of good medicine, you know, it all starts early on.
But one thing that, you know, we're really curious about is harvesting.
You're breaking up really bad.
OK, hopefully you can hear me now.
I see that you're frozen on the screen, so it might be dropping out.
We're having issues, technical difficulties, unfortunately.
OK, I can't hear you.
OK, I got you.
I got you again.
Can you hear me?
Yes, sir.
Yep.
Yep.
I can hear you.
Not quite sure that you can hear me.
Perception.
Good question here.
Well, I will say that you're frozen in a good pose on the screen.
You're not making a funny face.
So at least we've got that going for us with the frozen screen.
So we're good?
Yep.
OK, there we go.
Now we're back.
We got you back.
One thing I was kind of asking or I was curious about, you know, with quality
hash, a lot of it is about harvest time and harvest window.
With big plants like that, I imagine you're going to get a range of trichome
colors.
So how do you go about harvesting?
Is it in stages?
Is it off of colors?
What kind of window are you looking at there when you're harvesting?
So basically I'm looking, I always like to look at one certain specific area,
like say half a centimeter under my stereo microscope.
And I look for the trichome heads.
If I start seeing that 30 to 40 percent of the striker hens start to produce
amber colors, then I know my plants are ready.
And then I've started harvesting.
I know my plants are ready.
And then I start taking those, prioritizing the plants that finish sooner, like this
year. We were blessed that a lot of these plants finish soon.
Most of these plants are all done.
I've been harvesting obviously these first, but by the end of this week, all
these, basically all these plants are going to be chopped.
They're done. So I like to make sure that my resonance is right.
I'm not the kind of guy that will cheat and pull early in order to get clear colors.
I don't give a shit about colors.
I rather have a nice, full, ripe, mostly amber trichrome.
Hazy transition from hazy to amber.
And I'm always looking for the structure of the connection of the stem of the
trichrome and the head.
I start noticing that some of these trichromes are falling off for X reason and
the trichromes are not fully developed for X reason.
Then I'll make the decision to take them out and make sure that I notate that
particular strand wasn't fully developed and use it for other purposes kind of
hash. Like make Moroccan style hash and stuff like that.
Yeah. And then would you go back to the same plant next season and let it go
further? Or are you kind of pulling that out and going with something new?
I'll pull that out. If I find something that is not hashing for me.
I'm coming out. Simple as that.
We breed. Number one priority is hash production.
Number two is taste.
Number third priority is taste.
Number four priority is taste.
And then the fifth priority is structure.
You have to be able to have a nice structure with your plant.
Genetics, obviously, are key.
And don't forget that black pepper, yo.
You know?
I'll never forget the black pepper now.
Yeah.
Yep. Do you find, you know, with the, oh gosh, what I'm trying to say here, the
fruitier strains or the gassier strains.
And I know this is just a generic term.
It's my ignorance here.
But do you find one washes better or comes out with a better turf profile?
Or is it really strain dependent, not terpene dependent?
Well, I mean, the structure of the trichrome is strain dependent.
But I mean, even though you have the same genetics and two different, even though you
have two identical clones in two different environments, they're never going to
express the same terpene profile.
However, the structure might be the same based on the conditions.
But structure of the trichrome is basically what I'm looking for.
At the time of harvest.
I mean.
Yep, yep.
The structure.
And when you're when you're washing it, is it kind of like a bubble hash?
You said it's fresh frozen.
How are you how are you going through that process there?
I'm kind of I'm new to a lot of that.
So this year, luckily, we don't have the dust that we had last year.
So I completely eliminated the entire rinse process of it based on the cuts that I took
from the stereoscope and I put under the microscope.
There's not much presence of dust.
I won't be able to come up with six star hash because it's out there material, obviously.
But we for sure are going to have some beautiful, nice five star hash melt that trichrome
heads are so fucking thick.
Speak my language again.
That they produce so much resin and the resin is golden.
It's actually like pints from like a tree bark and a pine.
See a pine and you go and you see a broken limb and you see all the zap coming off of
it and it's sticky, it's goo.
It's the kind of resin that we get from these plants.
You mentioned golden and I was pretty amazed.
You know, I was on your Instagram.
We've got that down there on the screen right now.
Just looking at a few of the pictures and yeah, I've not seen like a real golden, like
a metallic golden color like that.
I was kind of wondering, was there anything special in the process or is it again just
the starting material?
It's all about the fire star that we have here.
The sun, I truly believe that the sun is able to take some of that photo
colors or radiant colors that they get from the sun, direct sun, because I've noticed
that if you cover something with a plastic, it doesn't get that golden sun that the
plants are meant to get.
They're not meant to have a plastic.
However, a lot of people do it.
I'm not trying to knock nobody's gross style.
It's just that my gross style is outdoor direct sunlight.
And I truly believe that my microclimate here, that the amount of light that I, especially
UV light that I get here in Southern California, it makes these trichromes express the
color gold. They grab the sunlight and trap it in the trichrome.
I don't know if I'm sounding hippie-ish or ignorant, but that's what I noticed.
That's what I noticed, that direct sun exposed plants here in Garden Grove.
I've washed neighbor's stuff here that are only one, two blocks away from here, from
my microclimate and all those buds that are growing outside.
All those that don't have the same amount of resin production because of the conditions
that their plants are in.
But however, the color did come back the same.
Yeah, you mentioned the magic word there, microclimate, and there is going to be a lot
of that, but we hear people talk about terroir, what's in the soil.
But I also kind of believe, too, especially with equatorial strains, kind of like you're
saying, the sun there, the sun in your area is always going to be a different area or a
different angle than where I'm at.
Oh, son, Mr. Golden Sun.
My respects for the almighty creator.
You know what I mean? It's the way I ever since I started growing my first plants
outside, I never went back.
I grew GDP indoors for the beauties of the looks and the smells.
And everybody was smoking that pretend though.
And unfortunately, we did that.
And, you know, I was never able to get the same resin productions that I did outside that I
did inside from a hatch.
So it was basically a duh, come on, outside.
I will never grow indoor.
You know, and back then I was running I was I was rocking the 600 HPS in the middle
highlights. I'm not saying maybe all this new UV, I'm sorry, LED technology.
I haven't used none of that new technology.
I go back from the fucking old ballast, you know, when we used to use those ballast and
lights back in the day with the hoods and the whole nine yards.
But I was never able to replicate the same quality of resin indoor versus outdoor.
And some light bubble has to go that route.
Yeah, that's that's something that I've heard before.
So that's, you know, sometimes there's a lot of anecdotal evidence in the world that
turns out to be absolutely right.
So I think a lot of people would agree with you there.
You can make great stuff indoor, but there is there is something magic that is added by
the sun. You know, this plant's been on this earth for millions of years.
And, you know, that's the reason why some of these up in Afghanistan are so high in
THC content and so potent is because they're so close to the sun and the UV exposure is
so high that they're able they have to produce THC in order to protect themselves from
UV exposure. It's a natural reaction of the plant.
Absolutely. Another natural defense that.
Yeah, that's what you get.
No strands. So natural defense.
And I had a couple of speaking of different strains there.
Somebody earlier in the chat had asked and I wish I could pull it back up, but they were
just asking how you go about pollination or how do you handle that in such a large
garden? Is it open pollination or is it specific painting it on?
How are you going about that?
So if I am lucky enough to find a male that is worthy enough for me to add to the
gene pool, I just call in Chuck.
As simple as that.
You know, I've been calling Chuck in for a long time.
I don't have a specific.
If I find if I want to work with a specific male and I will work with one specific
male, I don't have a lot of mosquitoes.
I don't have enough room to be able to run intense and separating and segregating
different kinds of pollen.
So if I find one male, I'll call that male and I'll make sure that male stays in bed.
If I like him, I'll go ahead and repopulate that pollen if I have to.
So this case, the strawberries and cream have two.
You know, it was a beautiful, nice plant that I noticed it was producing resin glands.
Had that turn on the top.
What were I don't know if you've ever seen those old publications or old cannabis
books and they have the strand in that male kind of turns on the top.
But it's like a doctor or a doctor, not doctor who a doctor Seuss kind of type of
like that. That's how this man pressing.
And it's not that I was starving in the waters.
It was looking like this.
It was it. He was a rough male.
He's an ugly male that kind of showed up by itself on one of the pots that I just
what happened is that this this this pot didn't germinate.
So I kind of threw it aside and it popped up like four weeks after everything else
popped, it just wow.
I got a little plant there and it was it was that fucking male.
It was that male that created the structure.
Nice. This strawberries and cream have two by exotic genetic Mike.
It's been a heavenly scent because I can lay that sucker onto any any any plant
has a structure problem and most likely will carry the smell or the or the turkey
profile of the strawberries and cream.
But what it will fix structure and it has resin production genes.
I mean, it carries the resin production genes in a fanny pack and then it's up.
Oh, yeah, that's awesome.
And that's to you know, an advantage if you're just making seeds, you have the
ability to run them and see what you got from them.
So that's a huge advantage over, you know, with the the closet pollen checker.
Yes. You know, last year, I released seeds on tested and the people that were brave
enough to gamble got really rewarded.
Yeah, they did.
And, you know, I'm happy to be able to to provide some little seed and for them to
be able to come up with a new and entire plant that they themselves enjoy to consume
and relax after a nice afternoon or a heavy day at work.
And not only importantly, it's going to produce a lot of hash, but importantly, it
tastes good. Yes, that is important.
And here we're going to skip skip around real quick.
We'll come back to that thought.
Can you ask him how you mitigate caterpillars?
He's in your microclimate.
And was it the Jadam sulfur that you used on the plants?
To kind of help mitigate some of the caterpillars or the moths?
So basically for for moths and caterpillars, I use beneficial insects and birds, wasps.
I create environments for wasps to to to make their nest.
Like I said, I spread bird feed and I'm constantly looking out there.
I know around what season the moths are going to come and lay the eggs underneath the
leaves. And I constantly come and look in the bottom and find a leaf that has anything
stuck to it. The leaf comes out and gets flushed up.
It's a constant never.
I don't like to spray anything besides Bt force, natural force from Russ Brundon, who
was the distributor, but effective microorganisms from China, Tintin.
I only use her spores for Bt for all of them.
And I use that as well.
However, it's only effective if they eat it.
So, you know, there's some that survive and some that make it.
But like I said, the heat signature of these plants, these particular the ones in this
bed and the bed behind, it's the kind of heat signature that or exudate or whatever you
gigaboom, whatever plants are emitting.
It's not likable to the moths.
You know, all the tools that you can like the birds, praying mantis.
I mean, I used to get my praying mantis in San Diego.
There's a breeder that sells praying mantis.
And the guy is maybe I don't know the word got out, the praying mantis or maybe because
now there's a limit of one praying mantis.
I'm like, I need 20 praying mantis.
Like, oh, no, you only get to get one now.
I'm like, oh, that's weird.
You know, so now I get prunes and hatch them myself.
But close the loop.
Correctively do.
Those praying mantis are ninjas, the wasp are ninjas.
They will constantly hunt, you know, for not only for the moths, but if they find that
worm, it's war.
It's going to win. Oh, yeah.
Yeah. Rip them in half.
Get that worm and it's a juicy, nice little tree.
And they're like, I'm glad I showed up to this guy's garden.
Yeah, sure.
See here, we got another one from Cheddar Bob 13.
He says, how important are environmental temps while washing or for producing full melt?
Is there a correlation between temperature and quality?
Environmental tension as like grow tense or?
I'm assuming while washing, like in the room, like do I need to be in a freezer doing
this or can I sit out on my porch in the sun in Southern California day?
No, absolutely.
You need to have a cold environment.
If you're producing melt, you have to have a cold environment.
I live in Southern California.
It's always 70 degrees.
That's the main problem when it comes to the washing.
You know, I normally wash when we have storms in Southern California because that's when
the temperature drops. I keep everything stored until until the barometer drops and we
got storms in January, February.
And then I start to wash.
I have a little cold room that I built.
It's my room, dry room, cold room, dog house room.
You name it. It's my little shed over there.
And I use that room to wash when it's permitting conditions allow me to.
But you have to have a cold room.
If you have melt, good quality resin lamps that actually have resin inside the
plants, not pretend though dust or little peat fuzz that you get from someone.
I'm not even going to go that route.
But if you actually have some resin that actually sticks, you know, that's going to
melt on your bags.
If you reach any temperature about 40, 43 degrees.
Wow. OK, that's a lot lower than I would have imagined there.
So, yeah, I mean, some of the strands are really greasy.
They'll kick up and clog up your bags immediately.
So you're trying to stay away from some of the greasier strains, like like I have a
Dutch treat that that thing will clog grinders.
It's that greasy.
No, I mean, you got the right conditions.
You can keep that plant, you know, wet and moving.
Even on the greasier strands, if you can keep that that that that gland, don't let it
sit, cake on the bottom of your bags constantly.
Keep that, you know, those heads moving with a cold water sprayer.
Make sure that your water is coming from an ice container.
It's literally 40 degrees.
And you keep that those those grease, you know, greasy heads moving.
You're able to scoop them up and not, you know, not kick up your bags.
It all comes with experience.
Making hash is not something you can teach overnight.
It comes with experience.
I keep telling people it's a lot easier to teach a grower how to make hash than it is
how to teach a hash maker how to grow, because a grower knows the basics about plant
structure, not only plant structure, but trichrome production and characteristics and
behavior and all that stuff that you can have under your belt.
So when time comes to wash hash, you have a little bit more knowledge, you know, versus a
person that's washing cultivars from Joe Blow.
You never know. You get some kinds of different stuff like that.
So, I mean, experience is so important.
You know, it is.
And that was kind of as funny as one of my questions is like, you know, which came first for
you? Were you a grower or were you more into the hash production first?
You know, hash. I got blessed in hash with hash in the 1990s and never turned back.
Wow. Although I do smoke flour.
I love flour as well.
But to me, not knocking on flour smokers, but it's kind of like cavemanish.
I kind of evolved into hash.
I love flour, but I prefer to smoke hash.
I grow for hash.
Yeah. Hey, that's totally fine.
I worked with a guy for a long time and, you know, I'll smoke some flour.
I'll offer him some of, you know, what I had.
And he's like, bro, I don't smoke pre-run.
So after hearing that, I'm like, OK, there's nothing worse you can say.
So life's life changed for me when I started, when I made hash
the priority in cannabis, not a byproduct of cannabis.
That's when the big picture showed up.
When I started or stopped using shrimp to make hash as a byproduct of cannabis.
And I started making it a priority.
That's when the whole world opened up for me.
In quality, when I made growing hash production a priority, not a byproduct.
Period. I should make sure that hash should never be a byproduct of cannabis,
but a priority, but not bubble hash.
That's a great one right there.
That's that's that's the bumper sticker to take away from this one.
So, yeah. How did your style change up or did it change up when all of a sudden
you're like, I'm refocusing the end use of this plant.
What are you going to do different there?
You know, I just got tired of trimming, although I do trim a lot.
But I just got tired of trimming and monitoring and, you know, keep it simple.
And most of these leaves, they're frosted.
So I don't need to remove a lot of it.
And since a lot of people don't realize it, I'm running fresh frozen.
So I can work that material a little bit more because it's not as brittle
as a material that is dry.
If you have a material that is dry and you're working it with the paddle,
then that material became a lot more brittle and it's going to break up
and end up in your good hash.
Yeah. OK. Versus this green, fresh, frozen.
You have more vulnerability.
You can beat it up a little bit more, get those trichromes out.
But but the plant matter structure is going to stay green
and whole versus breaking up into dust.
Does it make sense?
It absolutely makes sense because I've done it a lot with dry.
You know, again, I'm trying to use all of the plant that I can.
I mean, I've got sitting right here.
I've got this coming up.
You know, this thing's going to get washed soon.
And you're making me think in my head.
I'm like, well, gee, should I be doing it when it's wet still?
Because that absolutely makes sense.
All the particulate, it's small.
Some of it's going to get small enough to come through and then it's going to
not infect, but it's invade or whatever.
It's going to be in with my heads.
So so trichromes, really, they're not discriminatory.
They don't care.
I mean, they do care what conditions are being cured at,
but they don't care if they're being cured on the plant or being cured outside
of the plant. So, you know, they really don't care.
So if you can remove those trichromes when they're fresh, they're beautiful,
they're green, they're full of flavor, turkey profile, they're they're cold.
They haven't melted.
And you can preserve that particular structure of trichrome.
I mean, it's a lot easier to segregate, isolate the heads.
It makes sense. And remove them, shake them off.
Yeah. Yeah, definitely does.
And kind of to that question, Cheddar Bob 13 again, he says,
how small do you break up your flowers when washing?
Smallest possible.
I will grab a bud and I'll come from the top,
I'll point the bud to the bottom with the spear facing my hand and I'll come
from the top with the scissors.
OK.
I'll trim that bud to create as much as exposures as possible.
One of the reasons why I like to breed seed and wash the
plant that has seed is because it opens up the buds.
It creates round surfaces for the trichrome to grow on the calyx of that
seed. It's a lot more easier for me.
I think I'm not a professional.
Just some Joe Schmuck throwing stuff in their backyard and going to the path.
But what I've noticed that round surfaces are a lot more easier to remove.
The trichrome versus a really thick, dense bud that has a bunch of beautiful
structure. It weighs a whole bunch of weight,
but it has most of the content of the trichrome value inside
the bud. And if you throw on full buds,
you're going to have to lose a lot of trichrome. Number one,
what you want to do. Number two,
you're going to end up having to beat the shit out of that material.
I think with the material,
trying to get those trichrome in between the nuggets,
you don't want to do so. I tried it, you know, prep, prep, prep.
From the beginning,
starting inoculating the seed with biology before you start to pop them,
all the way to start scissoring the stuff. Excuse me, I don't mean to offend you,
but I do believe the plants feel,
so I don't want to call them suckers.
So it's a priority for me.
Sometimes I believe in I respect this plant that much that I pop them.
I'm crazy and crazy.
Well, we're a similar kind of crazy then. I was talking the other day.
We always, you know, for some of the indoor growers, it's like, do you,
do you trim or harvest in front of your flower room? Everybody's like, nope,
we take them out so they can't see what's going on.
You know, plants, plants truly. I've seen it.
I slowed enough that I can sit here and observe my backyard.
I truly believe that plants believe your intentions. They feel your intention.
If you don't like a plant, I've seen,
I'm getting goosebumps right now as you speak. If you like, like everything,
on your feed,
no house you find the ones that are not enjoyable or desirable for whatever
reason criteria is.
But I've seen plants that I think that I've been lazy enough that I'm going to,
that I just think that I'm going to chop those plants tomorrow.
And those plants start to wilt.
Just a basic idea that I call me hippie, call me whatever.
I've been called crazy anyways. I know I'm crazy in my own way.
So it works for me.
Plants have some kind of connection that they can
sense your intentions. That makes sense.
Yeah. Well, we've got the,
we've got the mycelium network and that's doing a whole lot more communicating
than we're aware of at this point. So you never know, man, you never know.
That's below ground. You know, like I said, I'm not a PhD. I just see what I see.
You know, there's studies of water, how water can,
I'm a truly believer that flowing water gets charged by positive energy.
Stagnant water is dead water. That's why I have those brewers.
I even put water that I use to spray to even water my water.
I don't let it sit stagnant right out of the host.
I put it in my brewer and I generate, I get some flow moving. I get the,
you know, whatever chemical physics are happening from that water flow,
it charges the energy from like getting water from a river.
And I know the difference in my little experiments that I do. I feed
it. Like last time you were on future Canada's project episode,
we talked about this water filter that I constructed out of activated carbon and
water to strip out, you know,
contaminants from the water prior for me to using it in my garden,
because my city water is obviously not, I mean, it's good quality city water,
but it's also contains stuff that I don't want to have.
And if I can strip it with some kind of activated carbon,
and if I can make it a difference,
I don't have a huge RO system here in my backyard, but however,
that little carbon activated water filter is working out very good.
That's good. And does it, do you, well, no, probably not with the,
the organic soil. You're not watering as often. I was about to ask pH.
Do you have to pH the water as well?
No, I have enough humic acid in my soil that it balances out.
As soon as it hits.
Awesome. That's perfect. So as far as the, the production of hash,
the in consumption of hash is your favorite
style of hash to consume. Is it the same as you're making?
Does it, if that makes sense there, cause there's, you know,
people will do different things with their hash.
You know, I love a full milk hash. There's something about, you know, I love,
I mean, resin is nice. It's rosin is nice for on the go. I mean,
it's easier to clean if you have an electronic device.
I'm a true hash connoisseur. I truly believe that that little bit of extra,
something that that trichrome has cuticle wax or stem of
whatever this in the hash that didn't get filtered out through your rosin bag,
that little particular plant matter, whatever it is, is extra medicine.
And I feel more medicated on full melts on hashes that are even five stars.
That little bit of plant matter.
I feel more bodily sedated and medicated out of those
particular hashes versus taking the same hash and rosin it out.
It's a little bit different. I don't get the same psychoactive
results from a rosin, same strand, same hash badge,
same wash from a melt hash,
say like a like a one 60 to 70 degree melt hash versus the rosin of that.
Makes sense.
Yeah. Yeah. That does make sense to me. I'm a, cause again, I,
I really go for the full spectrum. I'm a big believer in that.
You know, I primarily smoke flour. I make a little bit of hash for myself,
just to enjoy, you know, what it offers as well. But yeah, when you start,
you know, and you're not even talking, distillating, pulling apart any of that,
but even when it comes to sometimes pressing some, some rosin,
I think some of the monoturpines get lost in the process.
And just that little bit of nuance does bring on the different effects like
you're saying there.
Oh no, absolutely. It does. It makes it, you know,
like I said at the beginning of the beginning of the game,
you got to start thinking what's your goal is at the end game. You know,
you want to produce, you got to do whatever,
ethically, ethically, not whatever it takes unethically.
A lot of people, whatever it takes unethically, messing up cultivars and it ends up.
It, it,
it blew my mind in this state when I realized and found out and confirmed that
some producers will take product that fails one test or another,
and then just turn that into concentrate because you can remove it in the
distillate process that you, you mentioned ethics. And, and to me, you know,
Hey, at the end of the day, it's still a clean product, quote unquote, but,
that's an interesting, interesting Avenue that this industry has taken.
Yeah, no, no, no, for sure. And you know, it's, it's,
I try not to smoke anything. Yeah. Yeah. Don't trust anybody.
Not that, you know, I do have a close group of people that we share,
genetics, knowledge, fears, doers,
that we, we, we, we keep a tight group,
but yeah, out of that group, I don't smoke anybody.
Unfortunately, I have to know that, like, I know this guy, uh,
soon to smoke hash, not dope. I know he's a fucking hash counter.
So if you speak my language, I know that him himself won't smoke.
Nothing is not living. So just because that's the nature of the guy. That's,
he's, he's, he knows what he's smoking. He rather, you know,
go the extra step. I'm looking for good quality medicine.
I will touch stuff like that from him or, or, or buddy Ian here.
Watch together. But say that even the stuff on the rec market, man,
I mean, I mean, we do, we do a lot of lab testing,
I'm at work and I know how GCs can be manipulated because we run, you know,
our GPs for, we look for a lot of contaminants.
I saw environmental soil drilling and testing as for a living. So,
um, some of these results that labs are putting out are basically
just, yeah.
Well I, you know, I do subscribe to that too. Keep it, keep it close in the
circle. Uh, you always gotta have somebody to compare it against and with,
but yeah, I don't do, well, and that's another subject.
Yeah. So, so through, throughout, um, you know,
throughout your course of growing the plants and making hash,
has there been one strain that really stands out for you or one that you wish
you had back that you let go?
I lost, I lost a very beautiful strand that I had back in 2002.
The, the original, uh, uh, GDP cut that I got,
Northern California, lost it. I wish I would have it now.
Uh, I love that GDP, that one strand, it was fruity pebbles cut.
It was just amazing, spent all the way around. Um,
one of them, it was a small plant, but it was a beautiful plant. Um,
I wish I had the old sour diesel. Yeah. You know,
uh, I grew that from a seed bag. Um,
it was three seeds that I got and they were all females.
Unfortunately I didn't get a male.
The cut that I got, I lost it in the same,
the same batch and that shade got a little too high. We had a power outage.
We were out of town camping when I came back, everything was fried. So,
uh, AC went out, light went out.
Yeah. The, the, the trifecta there, the heat, the power, the AC.
You're like 400 miles away in the Sierra Nevada.
You don't even know the power went out.
No, no. So what, what, uh, what are you most excited about now?
I know you said you got the strawberries and cream there.
What are you looking forward to wash?
So I got blessed with orange turpines from
Mimosa. But not only that, uh, one of my good friends gave me a bat,
a bag of seeds from a chief. Uh,
we popped lemon heads this year. Huh?
I got some really beautiful females, uh, extremely excited about them.
Uh, they're cloned, they're saved. Uh,
I'm really excited about those.
I also have a beautiful GMO from skunk master flex. I cut from him.
Um, beautiful ratchet GMO, uh, new to my garden.
Uh, I just started doing the whole social media thing two years ago.
This is all new to me.
I was the kind of grower that didn't want no attention from nobody. Yeah.
It underneath the turtle shell, kept things to myself. Very secretive.
We spoke tomatoes. Uh, um, no, it was,
it was very secretive for me. And so eventually I,
we decided to do this.
No shit. A little bit of it.
I've been gathering here throughout my reads and, and, and, and,
and research and, and not only that experience,
what works and what doesn't work and what I've noticed that, uh, the secret,
there's no secret. It's like Kung Fu Panda when the recipe for that,
that super you were seeing Kung Fu Panda. Yeah.
When, when the duck disappointed the fucking, uh,
poll that the secret recipe was no secret recipe.
The recipe is just simple, man. Keep it simple soil. Don't overthink it.
You know, that's the secret.
The gem, the gem right there. That's awesome. I want to get,
I want to get some questions to, uh, in from the chat. If, Hey chat,
if you guys got any more questions, please let us know.
I want to make sure you can get them answered by Pedro. Um,
so what are Pedro probably,
what are a couple important steps for the
outdoor gardener looking to make, you know, premium hash products out of it?
What are, I know there's a lot of things and we've covered a lot of things,
but if you could distill it to maybe two or three points, what,
what should people focus on out there?
You should focus. Number one,
if your sole preparatory goal is to have good cash,
big plans and beautiful hash is genetics.
You got to have genetics. I keep stressing out. You cannot make ugly, pretty,
have to have genetics. Number one. Number two,
you have to operate or grow an environment
extremely important.
You can have the same clone in two different environments,
same clone in two different environments,
one thrive and one be shit in my language. Extremely important.
Another important thing is don't take shortcuts.
A lot of people procrastinate and they take shortcuts and they start coming up
with problems down the future. You know, uh, uh, social media, you know,
it takes a lot of time from us. You know, I, myself included, you know,
where you start, stop, or you stop paying attention to the plants,
if you're not paying attention to the plants, at least maybe third day,
something's going to blow up.
You don't even know and it might be too late before you can catch it.
That makes sense. Another thing that I recommend you to do is,
um, uh,
just do everything with a good intent
to begin with. If you start with good intent to begin with,
then most likely you're going to end up with good intents and good results.
It works for me. And, and, and, you know,
I'd rather lose a plant than spray anything that I don't want to consume
myself. If that makes sense.
I absolutely agree. And there's a comment in chat here. It's a, you know,
quality in quality out. That's the love you got to give the plants.
No, can't make ugly. Great. You know,
and that's why I don't watch nobody else's material because I hate disappointing
people's feelings. Yeah. Yeah. Cause it's, it's different. You know,
I've heard sometimes, Oh, go ahead. Oh,
sometimes you could have the prettiest resinous looking plant,
but it's not going to wash well. Yeah. And you know, not only that, but you know,
I've learned my lesson and I just, you know, I, I just,
I don't wash the stuff unless I know it's a good close friend of mine.
And I know that number one,
sulfur towards the end of flower bags.
I don't like to waste my time.
Yeah. And let's see here. A question from chat. Do you,
how often are you defoliating and flower if ever?
So I don't try, I try to defoliate on the bottom right before flower.
And the reason why is because I don't like to expose a lot of open wounds or
you defoliate, you creating, you know,
you creating wounds on this plant susceptible to IPMs and stuff like that.
And it goes back to the exiting thing. You know,
those plants are putting out exudates.
If you start seeing that you start having problems with ventilation and you have
to be forced to remove full gear, then do it. But I try to,
I like, I like to spray with kombucha, you know, after I defoliate,
why it has microbiology, it has alcohol. It has,
it's like a small little microbiology, uh, uh, uh, uh,
antiseptic, you know, I also put a olive, uh, not olive,
all of error in the same spray. So if I do a defoliate on the bottom,
I always spray the bottom area that, that I, I, you know,
that I cut.
That makes a lot of sense. Never thought of it.
Yeah. I mean, kombucha is, I mean, I make kombucha to drink,
but kombucha has so much of the by Silas environment and biology
concentrated in there.
And it also has a little bit of alcohol in there and vinegar, you know,
if you let it go long enough, you know, and that little biology there, you know,
back to keeping it simple, bro. You know,
there's my kombucha brewer. It's over there. Tucked in in the back.
That's awesome. My, my wife would love that. She's big on the kombucha.
Yeah. So I keep the same strand and you know,
I make the mothers for vinegar and make vinegar. Uh,
I use vinegar as well on my plant.
The Americas would not be colonized if it wasn't for vinegar
for vinegar. I'll, I'll have to look that one up. Oh yeah.
They, they, they, they, uh,
they kept their porks and stuff like that in drums with vinegar and it didn't
spoil. So they can make wages from, uh,
pain all the way to the new world with me without going bad. Yeah.
That's awesome. That's awesome. Something I didn't expect to learn today,
but I just did. So, Hey, that's always the goal, right? Learn,
learn something new every day. Yes. Yep. And you know, for,
for everybody listening, um, you know, I always like to ask this,
this question of people. And sometimes the answer is no,
but is there anything that you wanted to talk about or share with people that I
didn't ask you about here? Cause you've got a lot of great knowledge there.
Um, you know, I keep stressing it. We got to create awareness,
got to create awareness.
This plant is a catalyst is driving all of us to look at books.
You don't see a lot of, uh, agriculture, corn or soy producers trying to,
uh, uh, uh, heal the soil.
They're more worried about genetically modifying their crops in order
to be able to withstand pesticides to fix a
problem they can fix. If they even look at the origin,
the origin of the problem, unfortunately,
all of our farmlands are being stripped out of their organic material and true
nutrients that you really need for, you know, uh, uh, uh,
uh, agriculture people were taught in the universities,
the most prestigious universities, the only three elements,
so three nitrogen, phosphorus, and potash in order to have a healthy plant.
And in reality, there's 40 something, I don't know exactly how many,
but there's a shitload of more, you know,
basic nutrients that you need in order to have a nice,
wealthy or healthy plant, uh, that is a nice, uh,
healthy soil will be able to provide, uh, uh, uh,
a kind of soil like the Amazon, the Amazon and growing, you know,
is the most greenest place in the world.
And you don't see no agricultural people out there with their tractors tilling
shit up and fucking shit up and automatically balance itself.
And it has the most nutrition soil in the world. Yeah.
And this plant itself, it's creating, it's the catalyst.
It's creating awareness with people around worldwide
make action action.
So I'm getting emotional, but passionate about it.
That's a great thing. I mean, we do need to be stewards of the land and it's,
I kind of like you're saying, I think is cannabis.
It's amazing that this plant is really bringing a lot of people around to soil
remediation to improving, you know,
the humics and the fulvics and the textures of our soil.
And once we're able to get that on a larger scale, um,
we're going to be in a much better place because you can keep putting band-aids
on things, or you could actually solve the problem and, uh,
build a better future. So yeah, sustainable soil. I'm a huge,
huge proponent for that.
Yeah, no, no. I completely agree. It's, it's, you know, if, if we, if we just,
you know, boil it down to the basics, we can, we can solve, excuse me,
I'm trying to get power running out of power on the phone. Oh, sorry.
We can solve so many problems just by going back to the basics.
Yeah. You know, uh, don't overthink it. You know, we don't, unfortunately us,
humans, we are pain driven and sometimes we can listen to pain,
but we should have learned from the dust bowl, man. You know, you know,
we haven't, you know, unfortunately we were hurting our lands.
Our lands are not producing the proper food with the proper nutrients for us to
be able to consume all the proper nutrients that it's supposed to have. You know,
when you buy a tomato, it will never taste the same as a homegrown tomato.
No, it's, it's full of water and it's full of, you know,
it's not nutrient dense food.
Tastes the same. Enchiladas don't taste the same with store bought tomatoes.
It's just the way it is. And, and, you know, it's not, it's not the,
it's not the, the, the, the people that, you know, the, the,
the agriculture engineers that are at fault is they weren't taught properly.
You know, their curriculum said, you know, mix the three salts together,
give them to them and give them all these, you know,
pesticides and everything's going to be okay.
And the pounds of red tomatoes, they make it to the market.
We eat them and now we're lacking vitamin D as a whole nation.
It's, it's amazing the correlations we can draw and with other aspects of health
to the way that the food is produced. So there's a lot,
there's a lot behind that statement there. Definitely.
You know, my, my, my background,
I've been doing soil samples out in California and out of state for 15 years for
living. And I've seen amazing soils and I've seen shit soils.
And I'm the kind of soil nerd that brings samples back home.
So put them under the microscope, see what's going on.
And I can tell you that the entire central Valley of California,
that it's a salad bowl of the entire nation, not the entire nation,
because I'm not really, I don't know that,
but they produce a lot of the greens.
And every time I go up to 99 and I see a beautiful cornfield that pull over,
I grab some soil, I bring it back home and I look at it. And guess what?
All I see is a bunch of minerals.
That's it.
There's no, no life, no organic matter. Just yeah.
The, you know, you see,
you see a lot of farmland that just gets crusted over. It has the hard pan.
They leave them fallow everything erodes off the salts come to the surface.
And then you're just pouring more stuff on to try to fix that the next season.
It's, it's a vicious cycle.
No diversity of plant. No, no, no cover crops. No,
no plants in between rows. No, no. I mean,
legumes man, nitrogen fixers. Uh,
I'm sure they're pulling out all the roots,
not leaving all that organic material in the ground.
Subsequently or water tables are dropping because the floor doesn't have the
organic material to store the water that we need in order to charge a lack of
force. I see it all the time.
Our water tables are dropping dramatically.
And the reason why is because there's not enough organic material in the ground
to hold the water. Simple as that.
That's something just even from a conversation I had yesterday,
uh, and, and, and you today, you know, if I, if I watered once a month,
I'd have nothing but sticks, sticks in the ground, but Hey,
it's, it's what you've done with the soil. There's no magic to it.
It's just do it.
And the reason why we call it magic is because we can't see it, you know,
but it's there. It's biology. It's living. It's, it's, it's there.
If I can sense, I'm talking about it right now,
I should take off my shoes and walk barefoot in there to get grounded.
It's because I'm feeling it,
but I'm that kind of guy that will take off my shoes,
my socks and go rub my toes with the roly polys.
And then.
Okay, brother. That's awesome. Well, please, please, before we go,
you've got a lot of great information.
People in chat have definitely been enjoying it.
Where can people find you if they want to learn more?
I'm in garden Grove. I don't do a lot. I mean,
I try to do a YouTube channel,
but I don't really have the time to update a lot of the stuff.
Most of the stuff I do as an Instagram. If you want to send me a request,
privately, you can email me at lab bubble hash at gmail.com
or hit me a DM. I try to get back to you.
As soon as I can. I'm always about sharing.
And if you have something that is working for you, please share it with me.
Cause I am not only, you know, I'm constantly,
constantly never ending improvement. I'm a student. I constantly learn,
you know, just because I have beautiful plans.
It don't mean that I am the master. No, I'm not.
I'm always a student and I am always open to new stuff.
And if it's working for someone else,
I would like to learn from someone else's mistakes. That makes sense.
Absolutely, man. I sincerely appreciate you coming in and hanging out today.
I know we've been doing this for almost a couple hours now, uh,
out in the sun, standing around there.
I'd like to thank you and your wonderful, uh, camera person there. That's,
that's not an easy role either.
I bet arms or arms are getting a little shaky or tired. Probably.
We put up a little prop on her. She's, she's, he's handling right.
It sounds like you work smart around there all the way around. Work smart.
Yes. Cool. Good. It was a conversation, you know,
it was a great conversation. You know, maybe next time we'll get a, you know,
Craig to jump on with us. I know we're,
we're maybe going to talk a little bit of surfing. I, I live in a surf spot.
Uh, I've heard you do a little bit yourself and he does as well.
So maybe next time we'll all get together and jam on jam on some of that too.
Craig and I surf the same spot in Mexico, you know, back in the nineties, uh,
T club, each of con I grew up, you know, South of Puerto Vallarta,
a little town, Palmolive, and I early, early in my teenage years,
I learned that, uh, the local girls like surfers more than soccer players.
So I surfed
and you know, uh,
like minded people got together at the same place a long time ago.
Greg is an awesome, outstanding farmer. My respects for Greg. Uh,
everything that he does is amazing. Uh, ethically amazing. I should say.
Uh, yeah, there you go.
That's that is awesome. And we'll go up here. There's one more.
Whoa, I'm hitting the wrong buttons here. Sorry. I'm I'm,
I'm managing in the background, but one thing that I just wanted to put up, uh,
from Mr. Buddha boy, he's an awesome, uh, community member here.
And he just says, I seriously appreciate your time, Mr. Pedro.
No problem. Sharing is caring and good karma is going to bless me with good
terms. Yeah. What you put out, it comes back.
I like that. Be mean and you get booth, you know,
the way it is. That's why we have pepper for all the
runner. Run out and get your pepper guys.
And you better beat me cause I'm going to Costco.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. This, this is, this was great, man.
I appreciate it very much. So I'm going to say peace out to everybody. Uh,
you guys know where to find me. Keep your eye on this channel.
It's going to be a lot more active. So Pedro, thank you very much, my man.
Look out for the seeds. Look out for the hash pictures only.
Yes, sir. No, no.
