Yes, we are live.
All right. Well, thanks for...
Yeah, as I was looking at the time here in California,
I was like, he's not going to want to stay up much longer.
So why don't you maybe introduce yourself and I'll give you the floor.
Yeah. Okay. So I'm obviously Golden Syrup.
I'm a moderator on UK 420.
I've been a moderator for about, I don't know, maybe five, six years, something like that.
I've been on UK 420 for over 10 years now.
Old timer, one with my friend, so I mean mentor, my tutor.
Taught me everything I know about breeding and whatever else.
A couple of years ago now, he kindly gifted me the Celia Cup,
which was the mother of his smile line and told me to crack on and look after it.
So yeah, here I am.
And do you want to kind of talk about who he was?
Like, I think you had mentioned that when you first started growing, people directed you to UK 420,
then you discovered this guy and who he was.
Yeah, so I mean, way back in 2010, when I was a young man, I started work at a grow shop.
And everyone was sick to death of me, absolutely pecking their heads with questions about this, that and the other.
So they were like, look, join UK 420, read all the old time owners posts and you'll be all right.
So naturally, first thing I did when I was on there was start messaging him.
And like I say, it kind of lost, the friendship lost him from there.
So I mean, all time on has been about since the beginning, really,
from early news groups on sort of like the primitive Internet.
And then went on to post on the BCGA with Vic High and Mr.
Soul and everybody else, and then went on to form Canna World, Overgrow,
and then finally UK 420, which is still rocking and rolling today.
Really, without Oldtimer, we wouldn't be discussing cannabis online on the forums quite like that we do today.
So he wasn't just kind of an active participant.
He was also kind of one of the people who shepherded those communities.
Oh, yeah, absolutely. I mean, he played a hand in founding Overgrow,
played a massive hand in founding UK 420 and actively encouraged people to grow their own.
And it was always about, for Oldtimer, it was never like there was never a personal gain from it.
It was always just about people growing cannabis for themselves,
growing it the best that they can and, you know, growing the most potent cannabis that they could.
And he did it all out of the goodness of his heart.
I mean, Oldtimer were growing cannabis indoors in the early 70s, a long time ago, under fluorescent light.
And he told me that they used to line the walls and ceiling with these fluorescent tubes.
Trying to just crank out as much light as possible.
Oh, yeah, absolutely. I mean, he's told me that, I mean, all this can be found on Cannabase and UK 420.
But he spoke about, like, they didn't know about light cycles back in the,
this was before, like, publications and whatever else.
They didn't know about light cycles and they just spent months growing these huge plants
with not a bud to be seen on it.
They didn't have Bruce Bugbee available to them.
No, not in them days, no, not at all.
And the more that Oldtimer learned, the more he published online, the more he shared.
So more people could, you know, grow their own.
And ultimately, a lot of the, I mean, it sounds primitive now, but the 18, 6, 12, 12,
those sort of things that were Oldtimer and others that really pioneered the use of those,
you know, light cycles and techniques and whatever else, especially in regards to breeding.
You know, the discussions on BCGA between Vic High, Oldtimer, Mr.
and more were pivotal, really, for where cannabis breeding went in the future.
Yeah.
Can you kind of, I mean, I think both on breeding and just plain growing, like you say people
said, you know, go there and then you started picking his brain.
What were kind of some of the things that you learned along the way from him?
And I think two things.
One, because you had mentioned some stuff that like he just intuitively figured out,
like the light cycles and stuff like that.
But yeah, just kind of the knowledge he shared with you personally.
I mean, the thing that, I mean, it sounds really basic when we speak about it like this,
but one of the things that Oldtimer really hammered home was breeding mainly for effect and nothing else.
And I'd say it seems more poignant now,
especially in the age of Instagram where what the cannabis looks like is what sells it.
The complex psychoactive highs are really getting left behind.
And Oldtimer has been hammering this home for a long time.
You can see posts he made in like 1991 about,
it doesn't want rock hard dense buds that can hammer a nail into a bit of wood
because he's got hammers in his shed and they don't get him high.
And like I say, it seems really basic to just talk about how he really hammered home just to breed for effect.
But that was probably the main thing and how to achieve
and how to really lock those sort of things down through back crossing and inbreeding and whatever else.
And I mean, he shared a lot. You see, obviously I'm a cocoa grower,
but Oldtimer shared a lot about growing organically and a lot of the,
you know, the super soil discussions between Subcool on the BCGA were all,
a lot of those things were spurred on off the back of discussions between Oldtimer and Vic High and others of their soil recipes.
And I mean, I know the companies in the UK now, I mean, indoor organics,
they were massively inspired by what Oldtimer shared online about his organic recipes and his soil mixes and whatever else.
So we have someone just joined us.
Yes, yes. I really don't know that much about Oldtimer other than what I read of his postings on IC Mag.
When I was researching the haze, of course,
he's one of the sources for information on the haze.
And if I remember correctly, he had a lot of the really pretty purple frosty stuff.
And am I remembering that correctly? Golden syrup?
Yeah. So, I mean, what you've got to understand about Oldtimer's haze stock is the kind of like,
it's easy to say that the alpha version of haze, but it's not really the full story.
And I think, so the way that Oldtimer described it to me, that is back in like sort of the 70s and whatever,
haze was more of a descriptor of what the cannabis did rather than a particular type.
Now, I know, so Oldtimer's haze stock.
So he was in the 60s, he were part of the international commune movement, which now Oldtimer didn't like traveling.
For anyone who's read his post, I don't know, he's like a grumpy old, a really grumpy old man.
Lovely guy. But, you know, didn't suffer falls particularly.
But he really hated traveling.
And so when people used to go on the hippie trail and, you know, to the States and visit the communes there,
and when they'd come back, you know, Oldtimer would send them with a request to fetch me some seeds back.
And, you know, that's where he made these connections within the commune movement,
where he started sharing seeds that people had fetched him back from places like Nigeria and India.
He shared those genetics with people from California and he got, you know, what we now know as haze back.
But like I say, it wasn't particularly haze back when he received it.
OK, that's interesting. I didn't pick that up from what I was reading on IC Mag.
I don't think he got into that kind of depth with the old hippie trails and the commune movement and all of that.
So that's it. I'm here to learn from you.
Peter just let me know about this about 20 minutes ago before this.
So I couldn't resist. We do.
We do things on the fly here. And Chilbert, put your put your IG in the chat.
I was looking for Chilbert UK on Instagram. Exactly.
Yeah. So go on. Tell us more about did you do anything?
What else? I came in late. So did you talk about anything else he did besides the haze?
It's like what? What is he? No, no. So that's kind of where we started.
So it's skunk stock. As far as I'm aware, came from a much similar source.
From what I understand, his skunk was a little, it wasn't the sort of squat indica thing that we think of today.
It was more, you know, more sort of narrow leaf sativa leaning.
And like I say, I believe that his skunk came from similar sources.
And I know that his blueberry obviously came from the, I think, the 79 Sagamatha release.
And obviously worked on that with Vic High. And there was, I mean,
his other big line was the old times line, which was based off ESB, which is ES blueberry.
So the ES originally started as a Nigerian variety.
There's not really much information that he gave other than it came from Nigeria.
Cross with the early skunk that came from California.
And this is described as possibly the strongest weed he had in his collection.
Often causing complete whiters. His old times line was that then crossed again to the blue.
Like I think it were a back cross to the ES, the ESB back cross to the ES.
And it is particularly strong cannabis and not quite the likes of which is readily available today.
Or what many people have ever smoked. I can remember having a very uncomfortable couple of hours
the first time I smoked his lot number five evolution variety,
of which he hasn't released any sort of lineage information.
I can just tell you it's kind of like coming up on really good acid.
Yeah, some of those longer flowering things can really put you in an uncomfortable spot.
I haven't had that happen with some of the shorter flowering varieties,
but some of those longer flowering ones, it's like we're playing rushing roulette
when you're going through and like testing the plants.
You got to be careful who you give them to.
Definitely. And I mean, one of the things that like old-timer were really passionate about,
were adapting these really wild long flowering jungle sativas for indoor growth.
And I mean, anyone who's grown any of his work will tell you that it's masterfully done.
Most of it, most of his varieties all finish in the sort of nine to ten week bracket.
And yeah, the effects are unlike anything else that I've ever smoked personally.
I mean, the Celia cutting that I'm working with currently is a roller coaster ride to say the least.
Awesome. Awesome. The way that you're speaking, like I said, I didn't catch the beginning of this.
You're speaking like he's still around, but you're kind of here speaking for him.
And am I picking up on that right? I mean, to be fair, I mean,
everybody only kind of found out yesterday, even though it was, you know, last week that he passed away.
OK. Still coming to terms with it, to be fair.
Really, really heartbroken and kind of expected we'd got him for a little bit longer yet.
OK. My condolences, man. I had no idea. Like I said, I just learned about this 20 minutes ago.
I had no idea. So as I said, my condolences.
Yeah. I mean, thank you. I mean, condolences to old-timers, family and his children, his grandchildren.
And, you know, condolences to Jules and Oder and VRG and all the rest of mods on UK420
who have been really close with old-timer over, well, you know, 20, 30 years or whatever.
You know what I mean? A long time. A long time. He's been a very influential character to a lot of people.
Yeah, you could tell that he was really well respected on what I was reading from back in the day.
So that's why I jumped right on this. I couldn't pass this up.
So, yeah, I don't even know what else to ask you.
I'd just like to just like hang back and just let you let you talk about your friend, man.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I'll try my best. I am a little nervous.
I've never been on a podcast before, so you'll have to bear with me.
It's just the three of us.
There you go. And where to even start about the man, really.
If you've only to like, look, I implore everybody who's listening to join UK420,
hit oldtimer1's profile and just read through the reams and reams of posts and information.
Also, don't forget to hit up the Cannabase as well, which is the archive of the BCGA.
You know, I don't think many people really know that's still up and available for people to read or at least part of it.
And, you know, I think it really,
it really goes to show the integrity of oldtimer's character that he never,
you know, he never saw it like fame or glory or recognition like other characters in the industry.
He just, you know, he did his thing. He posted the information and that were him.
And I mean, his work's probably in so much more stuff than we all realise.
That, you know what I mean? That is absolutely for certain.
And I just hope that, you know, his work goes on and continues to live on forever in other people's gardens.
And I'm hoping to do my bit in that. I know Boudelaire of Fleur de Mal, he does oldtimers ESB.
I think that's the F3 generation now. So not, you know, not too far away from the source.
There we go. I said chill but UK has already said it.
Excuse me. And I don't know if they're still available or can be made available again.
But the no names from underground originals, that's got oldtimers C3 in it, which is, you know, amazing.
So definitely worth checking all them people out.
If anyone who's listening really wants to check out oldtimers gear, that's, you know,
they're the places to go. UK420 is the number one place to go.
You can get my Sealeo seeds or you'll be able to get my Sealeo seeds on there next week.
You can find your underground originals and whatever else.
But yeah, I mean, you've only to look on those sources to see the impact that he left on everybody
and the impact that his work left on everybody as well.
Awesome. Awesome. I'm definitely going to check that out.
See what he was writing on there. You said reams and reams and I'm into that kind of thing when I get into reading.
So that's awesome.
I mean, the amount of information as well is staggering.
And I think, I mean, they were even having, it's quite funny really, because history really does repeat itself,
especially when we look at lighting now and we're speaking about spectrum in regards to LED lighting and,
you know, adding fire ed and UV and all these things.
Like these guys were talking about this stuff in the 80s.
You know, they've shown us, you know, really, really good to show just how, you know, the pioneering work that they did.
Yeah, as those older guys, they started off on sun grown
and then they had to be forced to grow that crap grown inside under lights.
And it's like, we want lights that grow like sun grown.
So it was just as I can see how that quest began pretty quick for them.
That's why a lot of them, like they went inside or they went inside for a little while
and then they went back out to the greenhouse because they just, it wasn't for them.
They knew what they could have, you know?
Yeah, absolutely. And I think, I mean, that was something that I know old timer himself noticed.
I mean, they've always grown under lights,
but when they moved away from old halide lighting to the more commonly available sodium,
when it became available to them, excuse me, they, old timer noticed and did blind taste tests on the quality of,
you know, strictly sodium grown weed, strictly sodium, strictly halide grown and a mix of both lightings.
As far as I'm aware, up until he couldn't grow anymore, old timer still grew with a mix of metal halide and sodium lighting.
And, you know, you've only to read the reports of, you know, people who've smoked his cannabis direct from him,
just how potent it is.
There's a lot of reports from, you know, people like VRG and whoever else about smoking his holy weed.
I think it was Wembley in 2002 at the Hemp Expo.
And, you know, it left, again, he's just such an impactful person.
It left a big impact on a lot of people.
And I mean, I know it spawned a lot of careers, put it that way.
Yeah, the good ones usually do.
It's, I'm trying to remember, why was I, if you say that he was on this UK 420 mainly, then what was I reading on IC Mag?
I guess it was like people reposting him from there.
Yeah, I would imagine that it's people reposting his quotes from there.
I'm not sure. I mean, I'm not sure if anyone had anything from Overgrow backed up.
I know he made a lot of posts there.
I know his Bonsai Mother Guide, you can find that via a quick Google, that's been backed up from Overgrow.
To be fair, I'm sure at this point, anyone who's serious has seen that guide at one point or another.
Yeah, I didn't even realize that was him.
I remember that guide and I remember doing that.
I still use tips from that till this day.
But yeah, that's interesting.
That's cool.
I didn't even make that connection that that was him that put that out there.
So yeah, that was him.
I think he wrote it for Overgrow.
And I'm glad that it's still backed up in lots of different places.
I mean, just to show that the information that he shared was truly invaluable.
That's awesome. That's what we're here to talk about him today for.
It's like people that don't make an impact don't affect people like he did you and other.
You know what I'm saying?
It takes, we know how to sift through if you catch what I'm saying.
Yeah, I mean, he spent a disproportionate amount of time helping people out,
always constantly messaging people, posting up until he couldn't anymore when his eyes deteriorated.
He was constantly active online and it just goes to show just the, you know,
the testament to his commitment to it.
He sounds like our Bog.
Do you know about Bog?
Oh, yeah, Bog, Bubble Bog and all that.
He sounds a lot like our Bog. Bog was known for that,
but exactly what you were describing with Oldtimer there.
So that's you were kind of kind of getting in my heart too, you know?
Well, and it's a special kind of level of patience to, you know, diligently answer people all the time.
I mean, we talked about this earlier today.
Yes, we did. Yes, we did. So yeah, yeah.
And those guys were known for that and Duke's carrying on that tradition apparently.
He's one of those guys today that's known for doing that for people.
So yeah, props to like really carrying the torch.
So yeah, definitely.
I mean, it left the impression in everybody's heart that when he did that.
So it's only right that we all carry on the tradition that the likes of Oldtimer
set in helping everybody out to grow their own
and letting people have access to genetics that they wouldn't otherwise have access to.
And I think that's the important message is everyone should grow their own
and everyone should grow, you know, cannabis that actually gets them stoned,
actually gets them high, not this bland, you know, boring,
dead behind the eyes thing that's popular at the moment.
You're speaking my language, speaking my language.
You're popping his cork, as Leighton likes to say. It's cork's tingling.
That was the biggest message that he drilled into me personally,
because I mean quite naively when I started growing cannabis all them years ago
that I would grow in just what was available locally and fed up to death for it.
But the way that he would, you know,
get his point across that you've got to find something that makes you feel a certain way.
It was always a very personal thing for him.
And going forward, like from having them conversations and applying that,
you know, that, and like I say, it sounds really basic.
Oh, it's how it makes you feel. But when you look a little bit deeper
and it's how complex it is rather than just how potent it is, that's when,
I mean, I've noticed myself, that's when you find those really,
truly special individuals in populations.
And that's, you know, that's how you, you know,
you really make that truly potent, complex cannabis and not just boring.
Yeah. Yeah. Your friend sounds a lot like some of my old friends.
They're gone now too. And yeah, those older guys, they knew a lot.
They got to smoke some of the, like a lot of people are looking for the skunk now,
but they were looking for stuff like Colombian and Thai and the stuff that they,
like they got to smoke the unadulterated, real deal, good,
like the actual primo stuff that we can only dream of.
We're trying to like sift through a muddled mess,
trying to pick out little expressions of what they,
and what I found is it was really nice having,
once I had the genetics, having those guys around to where I could like do all of the back work
and just use their memory and their brain and their palate.
And it's just, it was really nice.
That was a very special time in my life.
So I can see why you probably feel the way you do today.
When you lose somebody like that, it's tough.
Yeah. And it, especially because, I mean,
he did introduce me to like those kinds of cannabis
and without that influence, that's not cannabis I would have ever had access to.
And like I really can't stress enough how unique it is.
And he talks about how, I mean,
he spoke to me about how his varieties aren't as potent as,
like you mentioned, the Landrace or, you know,
heirloom varieties of the ages that he's personally smoked.
And I mean, I compare that to my experience and the varieties that I've had,
like luckily I had access to and got to sample.
And his stuff is just, you know, different.
It's just completely different. And he's telling me that,
oh yeah, my stuff's not, you know, not the same as that stuff,
which, you know, staggering to think.
Because I couldn't imagine anything more potent really.
I've had a good few uncomfortable times.
Yeah. That's, yeah. Like I said,
it's like Russian roulette going through those plants sometimes.
It's like, dude, am I really up for this today?
This is a fun conversation. I'm really enjoying this.
There's something to be said for, you know,
I can talk about boring varieties as much as I want,
but there's something to be said for like, you know,
those knockout varieties because you can't smoke,
you know, the old-timer strains or, you know,
the old-school narrow leaf strains and want to get a good night's sleep.
It's not, you know, it's not going to happen for you.
Yeah. And I mean, and speaking of, you know, those old-school,
you know, breeders and those kind of complex old-school varieties,
like you mentioned, there isn't very many of them left now.
So I did want to just mention, you know, Charlie Garcia of CannabioGen.
It would probably be worth anybody who's interested in complex
sativas to really, you know, check out his work while you're still able to.
Because, you know, I know that he's an older gentleman as well.
That's awesome you're shouting him out, man.
I'll leave it there. But yeah, I really, I dig that.
Oh, yeah, man. You know, it's got to be said for the, you know,
the dudes who are, you know, who carried the torch for all of us to,
you know, stand on the shoulders of, you know, they've got to be recognized.
It's just a given, really. Yeah.
So, what you got, Peter? You can see me unmute myself.
Now I was going to ask about the, like, you, I think you said 2010
was when you started the Grow Shop, right?
Yeah, that's right. Yeah. So can you talk about kind of the scene
and the, like, the people you met along the way in the Grow Shop
and kind of like what the conversations were and the weed scene in the UK?
It's still very, it's much more discreet, right?
Yeah. Well, yeah, especially back then it were, I mean, it's changed a lot.
It were a totally different beast really back then.
I mean, the shop I was working at the time, funny really,
because, you know, all these years later I'm back working there.
But anyway, that's the evening there. But it were a city centre,
it were a city centre Grow Shop. So it were incredibly busy,
but it were also incredibly tense because that were during a time,
I mean, anyone from UK will know the history,
will know exactly what I'm talking about. There were a time in that region
where there were a local judge who had a bit of a vendetta against growers.
So it didn't matter if, so it didn't matter if you had like one plant
or, you know, 400 plants or three plants, you were going to jail.
You were going to be spending some time in it.
So it were a bit of a scary tense time.
It were definitely a scary time to have a crop in, however large or small.
And so, I mean, that's what I mean.
And the shop that I was working at the time was literally,
you know, about a stone's throw away from the courts.
So it were a constant reminder every day walking into work that you'd see,
that you'd see, you know, the courts and all those police cars
and you'd be like, oh God, am I going to come home
and find my front door off today or what?
I mean, so back then it were a lot.
I mean, that was really the, in my mind, there was always a UK online scene
in terms of, you know, like UK 420.
But around that time, 2010, that's when a lot of, I forgot what,
there were a particular sort of like activist movement group thing that started.
UK Cannabis Social Clubs, I think it was.
It were, you know, no blep it.
And a lot of sort of Facebook groups arose from that, like, you know, regional.
So there was like, you know, like a Manchester Cannabis Club,
shout out to Teesside Cannabis Club actually because they're still rocking
and, you know, they've got nod from local police and stuff.
So, you know, check them out, big up them.
And that sort of thing.
So during that time, that was kind of like as Instagram was also becoming popular.
So, you know, over the past 10 years, it's gone from really, you know,
straight scared every day that you were going to get sent to prison
for having a couple of plants in house to, you know, it's quite relaxed.
In a certain sense now, you know, cannabis is still very much illegal.
I got raided in 2019.
But I mean, to put it in contrast, if I'd have got raided in 2010
with four plants in my bedroom compared to 2019
when I got raided with 42 plants in my front bedroom,
I didn't serve any prison time or anything.
I didn't see the inside of a cell or anything like that.
I just, I had my day in court and were a bit nervous,
but, you know, come away to the side and, you know, here we are back at it.
But I mean, that's kind of what I've experienced as I've moved, you know,
so I've worked in the hydroponics industry in UK for, you know, the whole time.
I've not, there hasn't been a time in sort of past 11 or 12 years
or whatever it is that I've actually been unemployed.
So I've kind of, I've witnessed the change, you know,
in how the black markets operated and how, on how legislation
and attitude has affected, you know, the number of people that are growing
and whatever else is probably a crop in on,
there's probably at least a crop on every street in Britain in every,
probably more so to be fair,
there's probably a couple of hours on every street we are cropping.
That's the kind of world I want to live in.
All those wild Brits, they put up that austere outer demeanor,
but they're really all getting stoned at home.
Oh, yeah. The rise, because more people have seen,
because of the rise in Instagram and more people have seen,
like I said, there's a black market, big up,
black market is very online in the UK.
It really is. It's moved online.
It's become far more accessible to people.
People are seeing it more, they're becoming more exposed
and it's just, it has kind of exploded in a sense.
And just to clarify, when you're talking online,
you're like, I can like go on a website or like DM someone on some like,
Yeah, it's like what and then be like, I need an eighth or an ounce or whatever.
Yeah, pretty much. It's not so much websites.
It's more through like Instagram, Telegram.
Do you guys have Signal? All that sort of thing.
Yeah. Snapchat. I do not have fans running.
Is my audio terrible? I keep seeing this in the chat.
Yeah, that's why I muted you.
Is your background noise is louder than golden syrup pretty much.
Oh, really? Yeah.
That's the only reason I messed with your audio.
Yeah, this was the first one I saw.
Okay, I didn't catch that. I would have highlighted that while he was talking.
Am I really quiet? No, you're perfect, man.
We can hear you just fine.
That's what I was saying. He's loud.
So I was like, damn, if he's loud, I must be really loud.
All right, let me switch mics. But carry on.
So, all right, so and I'll mute myself,
but it's basically like you have your dealer
and you'll go on to Signal and let them know you need an ounce.
Yeah, I mean, to be fair, I've not been on that side of a deal.
Be careful, man. Be very careful.
I'm saying hypothetically, this is how other people do it.
There you go. I believe so, yes.
I believe that there's usually a guy on one of these apps that can contact
and they get like a menu.
I think a lot of it kind of goes down postal now.
It's not like the traditional you'd go and meet a guy on a bicycle.
I think it's more of, you know,
they're just, you know, they're paying crypto or on PayPal or something.
And yeah, it's all a bit beyond me.
But like I know a friend of mine, he's in a Facebook group and gets like hash regularly.
Like every couple of weeks, he gets a little bit through the post,
which, you know, blows my head.
But that's where it's evolved to.
It used to be like kids on kids.
Well, it used to be like dudes on bicycles or, you know, meeting him in the back.
They're like, and if you have it, I doubt you have it over your side,
but like where we live, the backs of houses are just big enough to get a bin lorry down.
So, you know, you'd usually meet some little chubby kid in a tracksuit down ramp,
you know, back at houses and he'd sort you out.
But, you know, I don't think people are exposed to that kind of thing anymore.
I think it's a bit of a thing of the past.
What's the most epically 70s tracksuit you've seen someone wear?
Hypothetically. You've heard people say someone wear,
I'm thinking of like the Italian Mafia guys.
I used to sell out of my apartment in Providence and I just make everyone,
but I was selling mostly to my friends.
So it's just people would come to me.
We'd smoke a couple bowls and I'd send them on their way.
I can remember buying some bud off a guy on a kebab van when I were at university.
I got there, I took some with me, but, you know,
foolishly thinking it was going to last me for ages and it really didn't.
I smoked it in no time.
So I were on the hunt and I had to buy it off this guy on a kebab wagon
and I'd got a feeling that he might be able to help me because he'd got,
you know, if you'd seen the Adidas tracksuit bottoms with the Jamaican flag strip down the leg.
So as I seen those, I was like, yeah, I think this guy can help me and he could.
I remember in Jamaica, I was windsurfing and there was like no wind
and this guy in a little like four horsepower motorboat just kept following me around,
wanting to sell me weed and mushrooms.
And I was like, dude, I absolutely want to buy what you're selling.
But like I'm in my bathing suit, 200 yards offshore.
Like what do you want me to do?
Like I'll see you when I get to land.
And of course, like when I got to land, he like immediately came up to me
and I was like, all right, I need to find my money.
I'm still wet in my bathing suit.
Yeah, you can't blame him.
He was keen.
You can't blame him, can you?
But I mean, yeah.
How about the evolution of the growing scene?
Like, you know, what did you notice people by snapping up to start their grows back
in 2010 versus 10 years later?
Was there any kind of change in the growing styles you were noticing?
To be fair, up until, wow, up until not that long ago,
I probably couldn't put a finger on it, maybe five years ago or something.
It didn't change much at all.
I think, in fact, it was probably about 2015 that things actually started changing.
Up until that point, nothing changed.
It was always the same.
People used to buy the same lights.
Everyone still grows in pots of cocoa, but just nothing ever changed.
And people were all growing the same cuttings.
So, I mean, the area where I…
So, basically, what the situation in the UK was for quite a long time,
as far as I'm aware, anyone can correct me in the chat, was each area kind of had their
own regional or local cutting.
So, you know, Luton cheese, London lemons, Sheffield blues or livers,
as it used to be known, Barnsley Jack.
Every area had its own kind of, you know, standout cutting.
Cheese was everywhere.
It was, to be fair, there were a period where, like, anywhere from sort of, like,
Nottingham all the way down to London, everybody were growing cheese.
Them poor lads, they had no smoke with cheese.
But in that kind of a situation, up until about 2015, maybe a little bit earlier
in some areas, but that's when the Stardog cutting got introduced.
Now, everyone's probably heard of the Manny Dog, the Manchester Dog cutting.
That was, and still is, incredibly popular.
But it went from, I mean, in such a small space of time, really, like, you know,
four or five years, it went, Stardog went from being, like, the epitome of quality,
like, yeah, you've got our Stardog, Stardog's the best, to now it's strictly grown by,
you know, Albanian gangs.
So whenever somebody says Stardog now, they're like, oh, no, no, I don't want any of that.
No, thank you.
Everyone's just sick to death for it.
And that, and it kind of goes around in cycles like that, or it used to go around in cycles,
where, you know, everyone would be growing cheese and they'd get sick of it,
and then everyone would be growing amnesia and then they'd be sick of it.
And it kind of just kept going around in circles like that.
But now, because of Instagram and the accessibility of Seeds and all the work
that's coming out of America and, you know, all the hype scene and everything,
it's just a bit of an amalgamation.
So you like all your old school classic varieties, you know, haze, you know, cheese, blues,
all that kind of thing, you know, nobody really wants it anymore.
Like, everyone just wants to see all these new fangled names.
And yeah, it's a bit of a mess at the minute.
It needs some clarity needs to come and it's not come yet.
Are you talking about things getting muddled?
Is everything just got to have a Z on the end of it?
Or is it like, I just got to be Cali Bud?
Or like, what's their crazy standard right now where they're losing their genetics?
Because this happened in America a decade ago.
Yeah, it's just got, it's like everyone just wants the Cali Buds.
They want that gas, they want oat that ends with Z, you know,
that sounds like it's, I suppose, you know, a biscuit.
They want something that sounds like a biscuit, Oreos or whatever.
It just, people are more focused at the minute on bag appeal.
Like I said, Roy Duggan's got it right.
Everyone wants Caliweed.
And a lot of consumers on the base level are still under this impression
that it's actually coming from America and it's not grown in some lad's bedroom in Bradford.
Yeah, that's kind of crazy to think in today's day.
Unless it's like coming in a tuna can or something, then possibly.
I might believe it, yeah.
Oh no, they've advanced past the tuna cans.
It started off as those, you know, those little plastic pop tubs
and you had to squeeze the sides and the lid would pop up.
It started off as those.
Then it moved on to the tuna cans very briefly.
Now everybody's, you know, Mylar bags got to be branded up.
You know, if you want to, basically the situation is if anyone wants to make any money on black market,
any real money on black market, they have to brand up.
They have to put it in Mylar bags.
They have to, you know, shot it through Instagram.
So who's the Mr. Nice guy of the UK right now?
What are some of the big black market brands?
Genuinely, and I'm not even saying this to like protect my neck or anything,
like I genuinely couldn't tell you who's like a big deal at the moment necessarily in the UK.
Because I'm a little bit detached from it to be fair.
I don't know.
Like, yeah, I don't, like I wouldn't even, I wouldn't even know where to begin to start
because I wouldn't want to say some names and upset other people that, you know,
might be doing, you know, better or whatever else because it's not my scene.
Well, maybe the chat can lob some brand names in that are kind of the big.
Oh, definitely. I mean, the last time, the last time I really kept up with anything like that,
I think Team 10 extracts was still, you know, a big deal.
I mean, there's still a big deal on there, but there were a particularly big deal in UK.
Snapchat. So people are showing stuff on Snapchat.
Oh, yeah. Like that's just another app that people use that,
you know, they'll use the story function to post menus and, you know,
people see the menu and message them all on this and there you go.
They'll send them some money on however means
and they'll receive some product in the post or they'll go and meet them.
And I mean that's happened with the cuttings as well.
There's a lot of cuttings guys like that used to be a strictly local thing
and now you can, you know, you can pay whatever and get clones through post.
You know what I'm thinking over here is that the trends change,
like everybody's looking for different stuff and each age and everything.
But the thing that stays the same is that pot people are like some of the most innovative
and like kind of just you can't like hold us down.
We find a way. We always find a way.
So this is interesting listening to kind of how things are done over there.
Yeah, like I say, it's a bit like a bit of a Wild West at the moment.
Back in the day it used to be a case of as long as people didn't even use to look at the weed.
They used to just crack. All weeds used to come in these very distinct black plastic buckets.
Anyone who's like grown weed commercially or for a long time at UK will know exactly the buckets I'm talking about.
And the guys didn't even used to look at the weed.
They just cracked the bucket, stick the nose in. If it smelled like the local weed, they'd have it.
Yeah, sweet. No problem. Nice one. Now it's a case of, you know,
they put their hand in back, they're pulling it, bud out, they're looking at it.
They've got it under microscope, they're smelling it.
Oh, I don't know. It's a bit, it's a bit too green this. It's a bit too this.
It's a bit too that. People have definitely got more.
I mean, it's not a bad thing, but people have definitely got, have got more picky as,
you know, as they've like been exposed to like more well-grown cannabis that they've seen online.
They've started to expect more of the local grower.
That's for certain. And it's been a bonus, like a bonus, like contention for a lot of people.
Here's a good question. You see that one?
What are the prices like? What, crikey, what do you want?
Do you want kilo prices or ounce prices or like it?
But, but like what's an eighth go for it? Like an eighth of high quality bud on the street?
Like here in the US, it was, I mean, and so I feel like for a long time it was 50 bucks an eighth.
Like 60 bucks if it's really good or 40.
So on this, if you're not buying online and on the street level, if you ask for an eighth and you,
so if you ask for an eighth, the chances are you're not going to get three and a half gram.
You're going to get what you're going to get what's called a 20 bag,
which is just a bag of weed for 20 pounds.
And it's generally a couple of gram, two gram, maybe more if you live sort of outside of cities.
I don't know. If you're buying online, I'm pretty sure an eighth,
an actual eighth can go, can go anywhere from sort of like 25 quid up.
I've heard people paying stupid prices for like 80 quid for like Cali bud and whatever.
But I think generally the price of a weighed eighth is like 25, 30 quid.
So that's like 40 to 40 bucks, basically 40 US dollars.
Yeah. So yeah, some like, yeah, around that I would imagine.
Yeah, some of that.
But I'm doing the fancy translations in the background.
That I mean, that's like that street level and people might, street level,
people might pay like 180 quid to 220 quid an ounce, you know, on the street as a smoker.
That's kind of what you're paying. Wholesale and you know, that sort of thing is a much different story.
That's been affected massively by the influx of, you know,
Eastern European growers that have come to UK.
They've, you know, they've made a big impact on market as well as the general uptake of more growers in general
because it's become more accessible and easy and, you know, affordable for people to put a crop in.
And the recent lockdowns were a great excuse for everybody to put a crop in.
That's awesome. There's more home growers.
You don't got to worry about those markets and what's hot and all of that.
That's the advantage. Exactly.
Like I, you know, working in grow shops, I've spoke to a lot of bread and butter growers who have really struggled in recent times.
And yeah, it's kind of made me glad that, you know, I've never been that grower, so to speak.
So I've never had to lean on it quite like they do.
And, you know, I feel for them, but step your game up, innit?
Yeah. Where did the UK sit on the, you know,
US historically has kind of always been like in the 70s, 80s, 90s, 2000s, like a flower market.
Whereas Spain, France was always hash with tobacco.
Where did the UK sit on that spectrum? Kind of in the middle.
I mean, I mean, I kind of missed the hash craze.
So just as hash was going out, I was just a teenager smoking, you know, hash at school.
You know, bongs made out of plastic bottles and carrier bags and stuff.
So probably not the best to comment on the hash scene.
It did transit around that time. So that did.
I don't know what time, what year. So I mean, it was like anywhere from about 2005 onwards.
I think that's when it started shifting over mainly to a flower market.
And initially you could get all sorts of stuff.
I can remember smoking like amnesia, power plant, Armageddon, other things like that.
And then it would just that's when the sort of like people decided that the I mean,
these clones were about way before then.
But I think it might have been about that time that they became more readily available to people.
And that's when in my experience anyway,
that's when the variety available dropped off massively.
And it would just it would literally just like every grow room had the same cutting in it.
It would just mass monoculture in every room.
Like I said, I know locally that there were just there was so much livers and so much Jack.
Like it one of the main reasons that I decided to start growing in first place
because I was so sick of smoking it.
It sounds like a perfect environment for like a lot of disease to like take hold
and cause problems for everybody. Did that eventually happen
or did you all kind of avoid that as bringing in new cuts
and just running those same things and spreading that all around everywhere?
And I know how things were done back then.
It's the clandestine grows aren't always the cleanest.
No, definitely not. I mean, I know that there's been sort of like look,
I know locally that there's been things like powdery mildew outbreaks
and you know spider mite outbreaks
and whatever else but there's always somebody that's got,
you know, these clones backed up clean and it manages to come back around again clean.
And so I think for the most part we've kind of managed to avoid it.
There were I mean, it's not it's only an opinion piece,
but so a long time ago everybody in UK used to grow NFT.
If you're familiar with NFT. No,
only NFT is the modern one that everybody's all charged up about
but so this is before the silliness. Let's hear about this.
Yeah. So there were a time when everyone were growing in a system called NFT,
which was nutrient film technique
and you basically sat rock wall cubes in a really like shallow tray
and there was like a bit of a cover between the top of the nutrient film technique
and it was a bit of a there was a cover between the bottom of the tray
and the top of the tray. So the rock wall cube would kind of sit in the gap between the tray
and the cover. A pump would pump water onto the tray,
which was a very slight angle
and there was like some kind of matting on the tray
which had spread the water out really thin into a film.
The pump would constantly run the roots are growing to it.
There you go. It's like a pure hydro system. It were really really popular for a while.
Everybody grew in NFT. Yeah, there we go.
If you search NutriCulture NFT,
you might find the particular system I'm speaking about like it's the same principle,
but it were like a like a ready-made system that a company used to sell called NutriCulture.
It's like it looks like that's the one.
So everybody used to grow in that and everyone used to grow a particular,
the livers cutting in it and there were a time at like maybe,
you know 2008 maybe around then,
just all of a sudden nobody could get on.
Everyone were getting Pythium. Everyone were getting root rot.
It just weren't working out for them. And that were kind of the catalyst for everybody moving on to pots of cocoa.
And me and a colleague have discussed the possibility
because he said in his experience that whenever he's tried to grow that cutting in NFT,
it's just really not worked out for him.
But then when he's gone over and grown it in a pot of cocoa, he's not had the same issue.
So we have the British invasion right now.
Thanks for jumping on Shilbert.
Hello, can you hear me? Yes, sir.
Yes, sir. We can hear you. Yeah. How's it going?
I'm just happy to have you ask. This is not my face.
It's going to say you're a handsome devil.
Cool. It's a pleasure. Big respect to Future Cannabis Project.
And big respects to Oldtimer.
Were you on the UK420 forums back in the day?
I joined a forum a bit over a year ago.
Back in the day, I did go on the forums just trying to nervous look for strains to grow and stuff.
I think we caught most of that. I think that we heard most of that.
You're cutting in and out of just a little bit.
Okay. I'll try and hold still. Yeah, no, I just tipped in and out of forums.
I didn't really join them or post them. I just kind of did a bit of looking.
But yeah, like Golden Syrup was saying, everything was hush hush.
And you didn't really let on too much what you were in then.
Better times now in the UK.
And when did you first come across the name Oldtimer1?
Like when did you first hear that name?
Probably about 18. That would have been about 1989, something like that.
Coffee shops.
Yeah, it sounds like your hands over the microphone.
Like you keep like scratching up. Are you? How are you holding? You're holding a phone, right?
Yeah, I do have a shit old phone. It's about to go.
Well, I'm glad to hear that you all are less fearful over there,
even though you've got to wear a mask and he's got that cool dog pic.
But I'm very happy that you all got less of a target on your back over a plant.
It's ridiculous. We're in a lot better times than we were.
Glad to hear it. And so have you been.
So you mentioned the late 80s. Have you been growing in the UK?
Sorry, Peter. Have you been growing in the UK since the 80s?
I started growing a plant in my garden when I was about 15 until my mom pulled it up.
I was in the late 80s and then in the home for about a week.
I stopped for a while while I was teaching.
Now I am back to. Oh, look at that pink.
An impromptu garden tour. Yeah, those pink ones always grab my attention, man.
That pink is so pretty. Yeah.
Loft loft growing. Not a lot of head height.
So what's in there right now? Blueberry muffin.
Another blueberry muffin. Pink champagne.
These are all mimosa, queen fat lime pie coffees, which are my first F1 fun project.
Those are some really nice looking plants, man. You're a good grower.
5K home grower.
Well, actually, since we were just talking kind of nutrient film,
what's been the evolution of your grow style over the past decades?
I started with soil to ditch that way. Went to cocoa for a good long time.
Now back to soil. Some super soil, some living soil.
Try and grow my wheat the same way I grow my vegetables. Organic.
There you go. And golden syrup in the.
Are you seeing most people growing like since you were at the Hydro shop?
Most people growing in hydroponically?
Hydroponically in the sense that they're using coir, but not.
I think a lot of guys use what's called a flood and drain system.
The particular brand is the IWS flood and drain.
It's kind of like modular, modular pot.
That's very popular. Dripper systems.
Very popular. But ultimately, everybody's growing in pots of cocoa.
Since living soil became more available to people,
that's definitely picked up a little bit.
It's still not. I mean, organics in the UK are probably less,
less than 10% of the entire market share.
Yeah, we don't sell. We don't sell a lot of it on the whole.
Everybody is mainly growing, you know, pots of cocoa and doing all the nasty shit,
like putting PGRs in it and filling them full of,
you know, unnecessary PK boosters and whatever else running EC,
untold numbers and just generally growing palmweed.
Awesome. It sounds like our boy Chilbert here has got some of the best on the island then.
Probably, maybe so. I'm not going to comment on,
you know, anyone's specifics, cannabis or anything specific that I've seen.
But, you know, on the whole, the commercial stuff, you know,
the guys who are online and stuff, they're all doing really good jobs.
You know, you've got to kind of think of, you know,
those guys as the best of the best because they've got something to show off.
And I would say that the people who are posting online are a very,
very small number of the active UK growers.
Most people stay incognito, so to speak.
Yeah, you know, them who stay incognito,
I don't think it's entirely because it's illegal. Is that some homemade hash or what is that?
We used to call it gold seal. And the other bit is a bit of Lebanese.
It's still around. Still around, not so much of it.
Varying qualities, this stuff is, you know, pretty decent.
Actually, you know what?
I used to smoke in school on lunch break.
Sweet.
Are you wearing Bluetooth earphones?
No, not wearing any earphones.
Okay. All right. I was going to say it sounds like you're wearing,
we're getting a clipping sound.
All right. Where's that comment? I'm curious about that.
I've never heard of this before.
I can remember getting some. Say that again.
Is it what we call shitweed? Is that why you started laughing?
No. So gritweed, it wasn't around for very long.
It were a short-lived venture by the black market.
But it was basically really shitweed sprayed with like some kind of silicon
or like glass or something to make it appear more frosty and nicer than it was.
I can remember buying a half ounce of weed off somebody as a young man.
And it was, I think it was like maybe one big bud that definitely weren't a half ounce.
And it would just, yeah, like you could just see all the shit in bottom of bag and stuff.
It didn't burn very well and stuff like that.
Probably give me some kind of like scarring of the lung from smoking it or whatever.
But, you know, it is what it is. But it weren't very short-lived.
We only ever saw that one little bit of it.
And, you know, it's not, it weren't really a thing.
If anything, when it did come around, it were after, you know,
people in Britain had been stung by like soap bar, you know,
like really crap quality hash that had like bits of shoelace and carrier bag in it and whatever else.
So when gritweed came about, like I said, people were a bit wise
because they'd had that sort of experience with a hash.
So it didn't last very long and it probably spurred more people on to actually put a crop in at home.
So it was probably a blessing in disguise in some kind of fucked up way.
You know, that's, once you started describing it, I realized that I have heard of this.
My boy Top Floor, he's from over there and he told me about this before.
It was brought up in the past, the glass stuff.
And I think that he said something like that as it made more home growers.
So it turned out to be a blessing in disguise just as you said.
So yeah. Well, you know, the market, especially the black market,
as they keep pushing and pushing and see how much they can get away with until the market's like,
you know what, we're not buying this crap anymore.
I'd rather not smoke. So that's the good thing about people have their hangups about capitalism.
But that's kind of how business works.
You know, let the market decide what they want.
It's like the reason that we're here talking today is because a lot of people know about old timer
because what he was teaching people and what he was putting out there genetic wise worked.
And over so you can only like screw people over for so many years before you get a rep
and they're like, you know what, fuck that dude. And then the word gets out.
That's what I mean. Absolutely. And what old timer did in conjunction with other things that were happening at the time,
like, you know, with the laws and what were happening in the hydro industry,
it were all all things that were happening independent of one another,
but all ultimately contributed to growing cannabis for people being way more accessible
and, you know, more of an actual, you know, less of a risk for people, you know,
it didn't seem such the evil thing that it might have seemed prior.
Like, for example, the UK government, the move to cannabis from a class B to a class C,
which meant, you know, lesser penalty penalties for growing and whatever else.
But when it went back up to a B, it kind of, I'm not sure if it instilled doubt in the public or what,
but that actually encouraged more people to start growing,
even though the penalty penalties were harsher than they were previously.
But, you know, that encouraged more people to grow.
Then there were people like old timer really pushing, you know,
that online community or sharing information.
Whilst at the same time, the UK hydro industry,
well, that's when it's when things were coming in from, you know,
China and, you know, other manufacturing countries.
And it really reduced the price of hydro gear because as the wholesalers,
you know, one in particular, as that grew and their volume,
you know, of stock purchasing grew, they obviously got things cheaper.
That passed on. Growing became way more accessible.
Whereas the 600 watt light kit might have been, you know, a couple of hundred quid.
It went like you can get a knife for fucking 50 quid.
Talk about Celia. Well, Celia started its life as a Hayes cross skunk.
Obviously, this is the Hayes and skunk that old timer had access to.
The mail used in the cross is an interesting one.
So from what old timer told me, it was a brother to the princess clone.
It were a cross made using the brother to the princess clone.
That Mr. Soul never marketed because it grew too tall.
So old timer used it and crossed it against his Hayes cross skunk,
which I believe he called HL or HD. I can't remember.
I don't think he could remember either. But it were either one of them two.
But this, you know, this princess brothers cross got crossed into the Hayes cross skunk,
making what is now known as Celia,
which has got a very unique up, sort of euphoric, energetic high.
It all, if you put it this way,
if you haven't got a to-do list and polished it off after smoking a couple of dudes,
you'll be sat writing one, thinking of things to do.
You just can't sit still. Your hand, and it comes on in waves like a roller coaster.
So you can have a spliff and, you know, generally an hour later,
you're ready for another one, but not when you've been smoking Celia.
An hour later, you can still feel it coming on.
Your palms are sweaty, nape of your back, you're sweaty.
Yeah, amazing stuff. Kind of tastes a little bit like,
kind of like a mango-y, watermelony, sugar syrup kind of vibe thing going on.
Yeah, really, really somewhere else.
Wow, she sounds amazing. That's a good description. You're good at that.
Yeah, like I said, she's really good. So Oldtimer in, I think it was 2008, released Smile.
So Smile is across a Celia and something called Camden Poison,
which were across Oldtimer's friend made.
And unfortunately, Oldtimer's friend had passed away,
I think it was like 10 years prior to Oldtimer even releasing Smile or using the seeds.
So it's not like he could, you know, ask his pal what it was.
So when I spoke to him, you know, since then about it,
excuse me, so what he's been able to tell me is that it's,
I can't remember what, but it's a blueberry hybrid.
So maybe it's crossed with Durban Poison or something.
You'd think so, wouldn't you, being called Camden Poison, but maybe not.
Does that mean you've got to go, Chilbert? Does that mean you're about to hop off here?
Yeah, you want to turn the camera off? Is that what you said?
Oh, yeah, perfect. Yeah, go for it.
Yeah, you just kill the camera. Yeah, there we go.
All right. Thanks. I was worried your beard was going to catch on fire.
I'm sure that's not a fire retardant material.
Big fire, it's got.
Gotcha. I was sorry for interrupting your syrup.
It was just that I didn't want that man to burn up over there.
No worries, man. You're quite all right.
But yeah, so it's across the seal here and Camden Poison, which is a blueberry hybrid.
It released that in 2008. The idea behind it was, it was, it were a short,
it were a short squat plant for, so people could get an idea of what a sativa high was like,
if they, you know, regardless of the amount of headroom that they've got.
So even people with like not a lot of headroom could grow it and get a good,
good idea of what a real sativa high is like. And it did a really good job at it, to be fair.
So Smile were my first experience of smoking old time one, an old time one variety.
And yeah, it really opened my eyes to what cannabis could actually do for you.
And not just, you know, that sort of mongey getting stone thing,
because up to that point, that's all I'd ever had access to.
And that's kind of what I thought weed was. And so to smoke something so radically different,
yeah, it were insane. I could, yeah,
I can remember just being in awe and feeling like I can't believe like I'm up and actually doing stuff.
And yeah, it just, I ain't got words. It was just, it were a magical experience to say the least.
So the Smile release, you know, it got a lot of acclaim really amongst the people who grew it.
And it's got a lot, it's got a special place in a lot of people's hearts because it is,
so one of the things that old-timer said about it was that somebody had said,
he ought to call it Prozac from seed because it did what Prozac ought to do.
And it, there's a lot to be said for that statement
because it really does do what an antidepressant should do.
And it's a very unique quality for cannabis to change somebody's mindset in such a way to like,
you know, really check the black dog off and to be motivated.
And so, I mean, an interesting story about Smile is I used to work for a guy at a grow shop.
And I used to, obviously when I crop, I used to sort all lads out and give them all a nice good smoke.
And I'd given this particular gentleman a good couple of rounds to Smile and said,
here you go, crack on, I think you'll like this. And the preceding months,
I've never seen, it was like a man possessed.
It was, so he spent a lot of money and basically expanded his grow shop into the other side of the unit.
It was sawing, screwing, he built an entire new counter.
It was like I say, it was like a man possessed.
And then as soon as he ran out, he just stopped, stopped dead and didn't do any more work on it.
And it took him a while to figure out what the difference was.
And then he were on my case and can you get me any more of that?
When have you got some of that coming down?
That's a cool story.
And like I say, and that were consistent amongst all individuals in the seeds that he produced.
And like you say, you've only got to read the smoke reports on UK420
and that's something that followed people around that kind of, you know,
anti-depressive, energetic, motivating high.
And it was the thing that like I've suffered with my mental health my entire life,
especially depression and that strain really,
like I say, it really opened my eyes to the medicinal benefits to cannabis
and how it could help me personally.
And obviously, me and old-timer spoke a lot about that.
And that's how ultimately I've ended up with the mother, the Celia,
because he wanted me to carry that work on.
And I think it's important. A lot of people,
when they're breeding cannabis for medicinal value,
they get caught up on things like pain relief.
And, you know, whilst the very noble causes, and I'm not, you know what I mean?
I'm not dismissing it at all because it is really important.
Not a lot of effort goes into cannabis that's good for your mental health.
You know, I think there's a lot to be said for varieties that can help people with things
like cluster B and cluster C disorders, especially depression and anxiety as well.
Yeah, I was going to say anxiety. I mean, yeah, that's why I can't,
I can't talk too much about it. But someone I know well has anxiety.
And when that person who does not smoke weed tried to, like a high CBD,
they thought it had no THC. I mean, it didn't have a lot of THC,
but it was basically like a full-spectrum kind of concentrate.
And they stopped using some of their anxiety medications,
which I was like, this is a huge win. Like in this person's life,
if they can reduce 50% to 100% the prescription pills they take for something like anxiety,
I was like, that's amazing. Absolutely. And this is what I mean.
I think so much emphasis is being put on breeding cannabis just for either aesthetics
or nose or just pure power. There's no real, like character to it.
I mean, I hate to come back to Stardog, but it's a really good example.
And I'm not saying it to like, you know, dismissive of the work
because it's definitely got its place. But it is just sheer raw power.
If I smoke a joint of that in the morning, I'm ready for bed by afternoon.
You know what I mean? That's not, like I say, it's got its place,
but that's not conducive in my opinion. And I think a lot of breeders,
not JJ and Top Dog, because Stardog's its own thing,
but I think a lot of breeders, when they're like, they breed for potent cannabis,
but their idea of what potent is, is just this sledgehammer to the face.
And it's not, that's not interesting cannabis.
And all that serves to do is increase your tolerance and send you to bed.
Yeah, that's it. All of that stuff with dog in it does that to me,
is I can't, I have to smoke that at night.
There's, you can't do anything. I almost don't like it.
It's, what I like about it is the sleep that I do get from it.
Because, I mean, I personally will never dream
if I'm smoking something with a dog in it.
Yeah, definitely. This is what I'm saying.
So it's, those kind of varieties have definitely got their place.
But I think because those kind of highs lend themselves to the kind of aesthetically pleasing buds
that everybody seems to like at the moment,
that's kind of, it's kind of the bland direction that it's going in.
I mean, there hasn't been a lot in recent times that I've personally smoked,
that I've, you know, a variety that I've, you know, that I'm not working with myself,
that I've thought like, oh yeah, it's really good this.
But usually I'm just like, yeah, it's nice. It's what we'd call fair to middling weed.
It's like, you know, it's either here or there.
It's, you know, it's good, but it's not great.
It's not bad. It's just weed.
Yeah, that's, I get it.
You kind of get in the weeds. I hate to bring it up,
but you start talking about high THC and paranoia with that.
So if you smoke some of the stuff that we're used to smoking with somebody
that's not used to smoking at all, it's like you may like give them an anxiety attack.
And it's not like it's not a sativa or anything.
It's just that it's strong and they're not that they're not,
they don't have the tolerance build up to smoke some strong weed like that.
So they end up in a very unpleasant place
and they're looking at you like you fucking drugged them with something, you know?
Oh, yeah, absolutely. And I think it's funny that you've fetched this up
because this is a conversation I've had previously with a friend of mine
where we've discussed that I think when people are selecting cuttings
or they're doing some breeding work, tolerance really comes into it
because if you've not, if you're the kind of person that maybe,
maybe only smokes, you know, a little bit on an evening or,
you know, a couple of evenings a week or something
and you're trying to select cuttings or mix seeds,
how can you, how can your selection process be trusted
because your tolerance is so little that I could give you any weed in the world
and it would get you stoned, it'd get you really high like,
so there's a lot to be said for being out like you've got to have,
you know, a certain level of tolerance in my opinion at least to be able to pick apart
these highs and be able to separate the ones from,
you know, just brain dead stone to oh,
this one's actually got a bit of something about it.
And like I say, I don't think if you've not got the tolerance for it,
I could give you any weed in the world whether it's a sativa, indica, whatever,
like if you have not got the tolerance, you can't pick,
you can't pick one high apart from the other.
It's just going to get you smashed.
That's very true. And it becomes a problem when you're selecting
because you need your tolerance up,
but you don't want, in order, you brought up noticing subtleties
and stuff like that and these really more refined stuff,
like what you're talking about with old timers.
Old timers weed sounds like very refined, sophisticated buds.
And what's, I wanted to touch on this earlier,
those flowering times that you're mentioning and the effects that you're describing
are very impressive to me, that he's able,
that he was able to hold on to all of that long flowering effect
that we all love, that likes the long flowering stuff,
but he was able to get that down to nine or ten and like still be able to hold on to that.
And that is true breeding work right there.
That's very impressive.
Absolutely. I mean old timers thought a lot about having to spend a lot of generations,
you know, working stuff down that. Ultimately, you can only,
especially with stuff that goes really, really long,
you can't really, that question distracted me,
you can't really, that question is distracting me.
I'm so sorry. It's all right. I forgot what I was saying.
Now I've lost it. I'm a little stoned.
Yeah, I was talking, I was asking about the subtleties
and like how he was able to hold on to that flowering.
Yeah, the long flowering characteristics.
I mean, obviously in really long flowering varieties,
you can only go so far with the genetics that you've got.
I mean, if something's, you know, a long flowering strain,
like I say, you can only go so far. You can't bring something that's 16 weeks,
naturally down to nine weeks. That's, you know what I mean?
It's not going to happen, ever. So I do know he used the blueberry a lot in his work.
So I know that he did a lot of work, you know,
within the lines themselves to bring them down the best he could.
But then he definitely used, especially,
so what I've discovered having access to the Celia Cup is the lines
that he released to the public were the ones that he used his blueberry with.
And blueberry did a really good job of passing on a morphology
that were more suited to the modern market in the sense of,
you know, it looked more appealing in bag.
Whilst not, you know, bringing that flowering down that little bit more into that,
you know, nine, ten week category. I mean, to be fair, Smile finished in like,
you know, some Smile cups would finish in seven,
eight weeks and old-timers, smelly berry variety,
some of those had finished in sort of seven, eight weeks as well.
But he used that blueberry to bring them flowering times down
and give it that sort of appearance that were popular at the time.
But without affecting the high very much, if at all.
So it's the summit to be said for that selection process to be able to pick a male
that doesn't affect like, you know,
the chemotype of the females in the population very much at all.
Like I say, the best, I mean, personally,
I thought the best Smiles weren't anywhere near as strong as Celia was.
But I know from smoking, you know, his varieties like Old Times and Lot 5 Evolution,
which have both got, not sure about Lot 5 Evolution
because he never talked about it,
but I would suspect that both lines have got blueberry in them
and they're a bit of a white knuckle ride.
So, you know, I mean, I can't imagine comparing those smokes to Celia
that the blueberry has toned down, you know,
the high muck chip at all and just passed on those morphology features.
That's awesome. He made a good choice with that blueberry too.
It's a proven breeding material.
And also it has that tie, those two ties in it that started the project
to where it kind of made it easier for him.
His DJ did a little bit of the work on the other end for him
to where he could really go through there
and he might be able to pull out a pheno that was a little less on the Indica side,
that Afghan that was in there.
So that's a very smart selection to start his project with.
I mean, absolutely. And I think it's probably worth mentioning as well
that anyone who's interested in this sort of thing,
it's always worth keeping an eye on the UK 420's subscribers seed list,
which is when you subscribe to the site, you get free seeds.
There's a list of member donated varieties that you get to choose from
and so Oldtimer, so the Smellyberry, which is the livers cut cross,
commonly referred to as blues, crossed with blueberry is,
you know, the blueberry work that him and Vic High did.
But there's also a Smellyberry back cross,
but this is a back cross to the blueberry dad.
So this is probably, you know, the closest that anyone's got to the blueberry line
that Oldtimer used in his work.
So, and I do know that, you know, F2's and whatever else do pop up
on the subscriber seed list from time to time.
So anyone who's interested in getting their hands on that really old blueberry,
I mean, that's probably the best place to look.
Cool. I'm sorry for distracting you with that question earlier,
but you addressed that.
Yeah, you had addressed that earlier.
So I wanted you to, since the people that were coming in later,
maybe you could kind of expand on that a little bit.
Is this is, this is completely different than what we know of.
This isn't related to Sam or Neville or any,
this is a completely different source is what he was saying earlier.
Oh, right. Yeah. So I think this is where the confusion comes from
in that Oldtimer were trading seeds with people
who were involved with the development of those varieties.
And I suppose that's where a little bit of confusion comes in
because it depends whose story you actually believe.
Because Sam, I mean, Sam's got his version of events about the Hayes Brothers
and, you know, where skunk came from and wherever.
But, you know, there's other versions of where those varieties originally came from,
not what Sam did with them after the fact.
And from what Oldtimer shared online and what he's told me,
his version of events correlate more with what you read from other sources than Sam.
And I mean, ultimately Oldtimer never used,
I mean, he got access to these genetics and he never used that information to like,
or to further his own seed career or further his own agenda in any way.
And I think that says a lot about the integrity in that he could have made a lot of money.
There were a lot of money to be made, essentially,
and he didn't utilize that and he didn't make that money.
Whereas Sam can't be said for other people, can it?
That's true. That's true.
So some people always got to hustle, you know, there's always got to hustle.
I mean, I'm not, you know, I'm neutral on these things.
I'm just I do my thing. I stay in my lane. I'm neutral.
Everyone's got to make money. You know, I can't say I'm, you know, morally,
it's not what I'd do. But, you know, if that's what somebody does,
that's what somebody does, isn't it? And that's how they made the money.
So fair dos.
Yeah, I like how you handled that because whenever you get into the Sam conversation,
it gets in the weeds really quick and people get upset.
And so it's just nice to touch on it and move on.
Yeah, I mean, Sam's had his part to play in cannabis being accessible to people.
He's had his part to play in the varieties that we all enjoy today.
However far removed from what he did it is, but you know, it's still there.
And, you know, respect for that and respect for, you know,
a lot of people probably not agree with me because of the whole conspiracy aspect of it.
But, you know, he did a good job with, you know, his Hortifarm thing and,
you know, GW Pharmaceuticals in UK, evil and backed by government
and all sorts of other evil shit.
But, you know, he supplied them with cuttings.
He did. I mean, prior to them, there weren't any sort of like medical cannabis in UK.
And, you know, after that, the war. So you've got to take wins where it is.
I respect what he did. I ain't got, you know,
I ain't got a burning hatred for him like some people seem to have.
Yeah, same here. Same here. We weren't there, you know,
is how can you hate somebody you don't know?
That's just doesn't make any damn sense.
But I mean, all I can do is take in the information that I've read online
and what Sam shared and read the information that other people like
Altimer and others have shared and come to my own conclusions.
And, you know, if they're wrong, they're wrong. I weren't there.
I'm not going to then start. I'm not going to start an argument with anybody who wore.
Yeah, exactly. As I will say, it's like when you started talking about this,
I kind of just remembered this.
I don't know if Anthro Sinsamea is here today,
but he just shared something with me that was very interesting that that is along these lines.
And I still don't know what to think. It's that it seemed credible.
I can't I'm sorry for being cryptic here,
but I'm not trying to start some shit or get Anthro in any trouble.
But it was it was a very interesting thing.
So thank you Anthro for sharing that with me.
Yeah, conspiracy theories.
Sometimes there's a little more truth to them than you and you realize it just takes time.
Oh, yeah, absolutely. And like I said, the truth will always come out.
But as far as I'm concerned, I stay in my lane. I'm going to do my thing.
And, you know, let other people get engaged in all that sort of thing.
Okay. Well, one more thing since this keeps coming up,
this name keeps popping up over here in the chat.
I don't know if you're reading this. No, no, I can't see it.
Okay. Well, should we address this, Peter? No.
Okay. This is old timer one's moment.
Thank you. Okay. Good deal.
Yeah, let's talk about him some more before we hop off here.
I know it's getting late over there across the bar.
Yeah. I was going to say who were some of the kind of,
I mean, I think we have a big US crew watching who are some of not just the UK,
but kind of European breeders that you think are doing interesting work that people should know about.
That's a really good question, actually. So, I mean, as far as Europe's concerned,
I mean, the only person I could say,
and I've already mentioned him, is Charlie Garcia, the Cannibiogen.
It's always worth checking his stuff out.
I think the seed seen in Spain and Europe on the whole is kind of like,
you know, that Euro, femme, auto thing.
There isn't, I mean, feel free for anyone to like prove me wrong,
to show me wrong even, because I'd love to be.
But I don't think there is much outside of like, you know, personal work.
I don't think there's any real exciting stuff necessarily coming out of Europe.
It's like, yeah, just to clarify,
I don't I don't necessarily care less if someone's big or small.
Like how about just some people who are smaller,
who you've gotten packs past you, who you're like, wow, this is amazing.
Um.
Like like like as an example here in the US,
we've for the past, I don't know, couple weeks,
we've been talking about Earl Talk Genetics.
My name is Earl and like different people have grown, you know, he's not a breeder.
He doesn't sell anything. I mean, he's been breeding,
but like I gave a bunch of his stuff out
and other people got his stuff from other places and people grew it out
and were like this this guy has bred some really awesome stuff.
Yeah, so I mean, it's probably become evident how actually far removed I am from the UK scene in that sense.
However, that being said, I see a lot of there's a gentleman called Frosted Dank Genetics on Instagram
and I see a lot of his work being passed around as cuttings among people
and I see a lot of his stuff that you know, people are really excited about.
So I put top of my head him, more on like a smaller level.
Um, there's a guy called Vic Firth and he's done some really good crosses.
I think it was his animal stomper. He did an animal stomper cross,
which you know, worked to much acclaim. So, you know, shout out to him for doing that work.
And Dr. High Pants as well. I don't think he's done so much in recent times,
but you know, big up him because he did a lot and he sent a lot of work out
and people really, really enjoyed that.
Oh John Taylor, how's the volume and sound?
Sound great, man. You can go with the video too.
We could go for the full.
I've got to put the mask back on.
No, no, no, forget it. Yeah, just go audio only.
But you sound great.
Okay, cool. I'm less nervous now after a good doobie.
I'll chuck a couple in.
Somebody who sort of does modern stuff, conscious genetics.
The pink champagne upstairs, that was his stuff.
And somebody who does plays around with old stuff, connoisseur genetics.
He does a lot of work with Neville's old hazes and stuff.
Growing his super silver sour diesel haze at the moment,
which I've smoked a couple of times and it's definitely in my top ten smokes.
But I haven't finished the plant yet. It's only vegging still.
So there's a couple. Look out for them.
And obviously shout out to Underground Originals as well.
That's another grassroots UK 420 breeder that deserves all respect as well.
If you can find any of those seeds. Yeah, I can.
Oh, I didn't realize that I was still muted.
I'm sorry. What interests me about these UK breeders mostly to me is
because the United Kingdom, Britain, is you guys kind of led us into the modern age of selective breeding.
Like a lot of the dog breeding that was done over there and all of the cattle and stuff.
I'm in farm country here. So we have a lot of Burel's cattle work running around out here.
So I really pay attention with British breeders and what they say because it's kind of,
I don't know how much of that you all get educated in over there, but we have stuff called 4H classes over here.
And I imagine the equivalent to a British 4H class is like college level.
So I'm kind of wondering just selfishly if either of you all could talk about that or if I'm just way being nuts over here.
No, we don't. I can't speak for Chilbert's experience, but I can't say that's anything I was taught about at school.
And I am really interested in dog breeding, though.
So I have read a lot about dog breeds and British dog breeds.
I mean, if you can see my little picture here, that's a turn spit dog.
That's a now extinct British dog breed.
And it's what I named my little seed company after. So yeah, turn spit genetics.
Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. And I really like you, Sarah.
You're cool. And here is a great UK country.
This is the Scottish, the Highland cow. Which I want.
I want to hang out with these dudes. There'll be some Scottish guys really angry saying it's not fucking British.
Yeah, I own a border collie and those are kind of like, well, they're border collie for a reason.
So they're kind of Scottish, kind of northern British.
There's kind of a fight over those two. But wonderful dog. I love that guy.
Oh, yeah. I mean, a lot of dog breeds in UK have got interesting origins and stuff.
And there's a lot of interesting stories about them, you know, like, you know, pit bull terriers and that sort of thing.
I mean, the turn spit dog. I liked it because they were originally bred for running in the wheels in kitchens that were attached next to the fireplaces,
which would turn the spit which the meat were on, thus the turn spit dog.
And generally big kitchens. There were clever little dogs and generally in kitchens that have a pair of them.
So once one had had, you know, a good shift running on wheel,
it would jump from the wheel and bark at its companion to get it up, to get it into wheel while that one had a bit of a rest.
Wow. But obviously as the invention of the, I think they call them steam jacks,
which, you know, were a little device that made it, you know, the meat turn with the heat from the fire,
the turn spit dog became redundant. And because they weren't visually appealing dogs,
they were quite ugly little things, you know, like crooked back legs and like sticky art teeth.
But because they weren't, you know, the cutest of dogs, they kind of became extinct.
Well, they did. They became extinct. And I thought that were a really nice parallel to draw between some cannabis varieties where they might have been,
you know, unselected, so to speak, because they weren't visually what people were after.
But, you know, psychoactive wise, they might have been the best of the bunch.
And yeah, I thought, you know, I thought it were a nice, a nice little, you know, parallel to draw.
Very cool. Very cool. I saw that you were wanting to, you were kind of coming in and out there,
Chilbert, you got something to chime in with over there?
Oh no, I was just playing around with the chat. I thought I could pop in chat, but it's private chat.
No, someone's putting comments about Ace Seeds. Gotta give Ace Seeds a mention.
Oh yeah, definitely Ace Seeds.
They're definitely an outstanding seed bank. They print so much information.
They get their stuff tested. They show you variable tests.
So they test different phenotypes, show you the lowest, highest, give you a range.
The numbers are so believable compared with all the stuff we see now, 29%, 33%.
I saw something on a YouTube channel yesterday.
Someone was testing some Kali weed, 33%, and it tested at 17%.
People are buying these seeds, growing the weed, thinking, oh, I've got this, I've got that.
Yeah, it's, you've got to do a lot of recon and dig deep to find out what you're actually buying a lot of the time.
You know, that's why we find people that are trustworthy, honorable, like old timer.
You don't have to question that stuff. And they always provide the information freely.
Yeah. Ain't that the truth, man? That really is the truth.
What I liked about Ace, the thing that impressed me most about Ace was that they give you a born on date,
like when those seeds were produced and a lot number and all of that.
And he was mentioning their descriptions and the test numbers and all of that.
So yeah, and there's more than one.
Like they test both of the parents, it looks like in a lot of cases.
It's like they don't differentiate, say that it's male and female,
but it just seems like that they provide a lot of testing information.
And those lot numbers and the born on date was something that I've never seen with another company that I bought seeds from.
So, yes, Ace was very impressive. And the seeds checked out.
That's exactly what they described it as, is what I got.
Yeah, definitely a lot to be said for Ace seeds.
And they do some really amazing work and good on them for keeping the old time of Ace alive as well all these years.
That's admirable to say the least.
Yeah. Yeah. Another place you can get Ace genetics.
Oh, really? Like that? Yeah, they have the old time of Ace.
Yeah. But aside from the UK420 that he was mentioning earlier,
people getting putting out F2s and he mentioned another project.
Maybe you could bring that up for the people that came in a little later.
But so that old timers haze from Ace is that's basically it.
Unless you have these like extra connections and wait on the project.
And do I have that correct, Sir?
I think, yeah, I think so. I mean, the old time of haze that Ace have.
I mean, as far as I'm aware, there is close to original haze that you're going to get unless you get,
you know, the ones from Sam or like perhaps Tom Hill's haze.
But I think even there, you know, a step removed at that point because they're the positronics haze, aren't they?
Ultimately, excuse me. So if you want in that, you know, real deal old school haze,
you know, old timers haze or Sam's haze is, I should probably mention Todd McCormick as well.
His haze as well is probably, well, his haze is the haze, isn't it?
It's the one from Sam.
So Todd's haze is probably, you know, the number one and then old timers haze.
I mean, in my mind, you've got to think of it as kind of like the alpha version of haze.
Yeah, so haze before it were quite finished.
Okay. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Todd, that's AG Seed Company.
For those who aren't aware of, a lot of people in this audience are, so it's kind of redundant.
But yeah, that's from Sam.
But as for, like I say, as for access to old timers genetics,
there's the old timers haze. You can get ESB from Fleur de Mal.
You can get, in fact, I'm not sure if they're available at the moment,
but there is a strain from Underground Originals called C3,
No Names, which has got old timers C3 as the dad in it.
That were very popular. There is, obviously on UK420,
you can get lots of F2s and such like of old timers work.
And my celia work will hopefully be with Jules and UK420 by the end of next week.
So people will be, you know, that they're the main places you can access old timers genetics right now.
And to be fair, that's really all there is. So, you know, get your hands on it while you can.
There's 10 packs of F2 ESB on Pips website.
I was looking earlier actually. And then there's a good supply of the F3s.
I've got a couple popped with the F2s, which ironically I popped about two weeks ago.
Oh good. But yeah, definitely like I say, while it's still available,
it's definitely worth checking, like getting his gear while you can.
Of course, like I said, the varieties have unfortunately, you know, ended with him.
So what's available now is what people can ultimately get.
And anything I release from this point other than the Bat Cross is, you know,
it's a step away from his work, isn't it? Because it's my selection.
So yeah, that's not so bad though, because you knew what he was messing with.
So you would be a good source for it. On that Bat Cross, tell us about that.
Like what's your, what are you doing there? What's your goal?
So just bear with me one second, because I've got a cat pestering me.
Come on. So originally the project started with the idea of a collaboration
between me and Altimer because he wanted to cross tangy into Celia to add some flavor to it.
Which to be fair, he didn't need any more flavor, but he wanted to add some flavor.
He wanted to add that kind of flavor to it, whilst also adding some potency to,
you know, that Cali Orange tangy thing, because anyone who's smoked a lot of it
will know that it's beautiful, but it's not very strong.
It's not very strong. So that was the idea.
But then unfortunately, Altimer got ill and I got into trouble with the law
and that kind of put the kibosh on that. After I got sentenced,
that's when Altimer gifted me the Celia cup and, you know,
told me to, you know, look after her and crack on and do what I will.
So first and foremost, you know, preservation is key, isn't it?
So I wanted to reproduce Celia into a seed form that were as close to the cutting,
you know, as I could get. So as soon as, you know,
I was back on my feet and I were able to set something back up again,
the first thing I did was put down a load of smile seeds and I flowered a load of males off.
I'd say I picked a male, but he picked me, I suppose,
because we had a bit of an issue and all the males except one turned hermy on me.
So yeah, he picked me. I used him, crossed him back to mum, made a shitload of seeds.
I did a test run of him. I've had a couple of friends do a test run of him.
There's guys out there now, so, you know, Big Up Roadrunner and Bit Guy and Jimmy St
and that, we've all got him in at the moment and all doing really well with him.
I mean, obviously the idea is I'm going to, I wanted to, three times back cross
would probably be the most, you know, simple and easy route to get where I want to be, in a sense.
But after running the back cross ones and seeing, you know,
just what were available to me in, you know, just that step of the process.
There's obviously, I'm going to do a little bit more than just, you know, back cross back to Celia.
You know, we're a random male every time. So from those initial test runs, I selected three plants.
So there were one I've dubbed Little Celia, which were, you know, a carbon copy of the mother, just smaller.
So idea is that I'm going to F2 the line using that mother and try different one-to-one male combinations to find out which one,
you know, produces a prodent in which, you know, produces closest to the mother
and then use that line to back cross again to the mother and just repeat that step like that until I'm happy with the results.
OK, sounds like a good plan. I hope that you're, you don't run into any roadblocks unnecessarily, man,
because this is important, what you're doing here. As you said, preservation is key.
That's close to my heart. That's very close.
Absolutely. So, I mean, that's the key.
Another one of the things that I wanted to do was because Smile was so popular and it was, you know, a little different to the just straight Celia,
like a sort of like IBL line for the Smile is definitely on the cards.
That was something that me and Oldtimer discussed quite extensively in how to get there whilst not making the line too,
the problem, one of the things with an IBL that we discussed is that it kind of makes a line a little bit too uniform.
And one of the things that Oldtimer really liked was sending lines out that weren't too uniform because it gave you the scope to find something that really,
you know, really vibed with you. And, you know, that's the spirit I really want to keep up.
So in reproducing the Smile, it has to be done in such a way that it allows for that little bit of variation and doesn't make it just a,
you know, a one fire thing because if I make a line like that, I'm making it how I like it.
And obviously the idea is it needs to leave enough scope in there that people can, you know,
pick between the subtleties of the individuals in the population.
Yeah. Smart man, smart man.
It's like you got to find that balance between not turning it into crap and like keeping what you have there because you want to keep it open,
but not like completely open because that's against your goal.
Like you're moving away from where you're trying to, you're bottleneck it, but not too much.
I get what you're saying.
Yeah, absolutely.
And it's, especially, I mean,
especially, I mean, something I noticed when I was sampling the plants from the Celia Backcross One,
it was something I noticed a lot in how the amount of variations in the same kind of high,
if you know what I mean. And like, and it became really apparent when I, because obviously you can't,
you can't judge it, you can't judge something just strictly on your own because you're biased with what you enjoy.
And something that I really noticed when I was, you know, sending samples out to friends and people to try it,
well, just how much, just, just how, just how many people vibed with like, you know,
different plants from the same population.
Whereas, you know, I could tell that, you know, there were a bit in them like, oh, you know, this one's a bit, you know,
this one's a bit more on edge and, or this one's a bit more euphoric or, but there were a definite,
but this is what I mean, like when I'm selecting plants like that,
the ones that I like the best are the ones that I tend to get attached to.
And when you're breeding work for other people to enjoy, that's, you know, there's obviously you've got to,
you know, leave your mark on it, but by the same token,
you can't just make it all about what you like because, you know, you're not ultimately going to be selecting from it.
Yeah, I said, I'm kind of glad that I don't have those kind of problems because I just worried about what I like
and what the people around me like. So that makes it easy for me as far as that goes.
But I really respect what you're, what you're looking to do here with this,
because like the moment that we're at right now, we're kind of screwed.
Because what you, you said that this was unexpected.
I understand that he is an older fella, but it's still unexpected in some ways.
So that's, yeah, as it's kind of getting shocked into action,
as is probably not what you were planning to do this year, I imagine.
A lot of upheaval this year on the whole anyway.
So this coming when it has definitely been a shocker.
I mean, granted, we knew old-timer had not been very well because he did suffer from a stroke last year,
which, you know, really, you know, which left him in a bit of a, you know, a bit of a, you know, state, unfortunately.
And, you know, it were a very, very private man,
even to those of us that he spoke a lot to and thought a lot of.
There was only select few individuals from the forums that, you know, knew much about his personal life.
And, you know, rightly so, you know, cannabis is still really illegal in the UK.
And it's, you know, it's not, it's not an unfounded fear to our visit.
So I can only, anything I'd say in regarding his death and his passing,
it'd only be purely speculation on my part.
I can only assume, like I said, that it's, you know, related to his stroke that he suffered from last year.
Yeah. Well, said for the family, we all know what it's like in some form.
It's always rough when you lose somebody.
So that's it. We've lost him, but they're hurting harder than we are.
So, oh, absolutely. Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, my thoughts and deepest condolences to his family.
I know that old-timer were married to Mrs. Old-timer for over half a century.
I know he's got children and grandchildren.
He were a very, he were a much, much loved man.
And I know he thought very, very, very highly of his family.
He spoke of his love of them often to me.
So I know they're going to be hurting right now.
And I said, my thoughts and condolences to them more than anybody.
Yeah. So the oppression that we've all been under kind of makes you more family oriented
because that's really the only people that you feel like you can trust in the world.
So they become like even more like, you know, everybody loves their family.
But it seems like this people that are kind of, we, our circles can't be too large.
So the circle that we have is even tighter.
I think you know what I'm saying here.
Oh, yeah, absolutely. And he definitely kept a tight circle.
That is for certain. There's no two ways about it.
He were a very, like I said, very private man.
Did his bit online and that were him.
You didn't know much else about all the time.
Good, good, good. I know it's getting late for you guys over there.
We've been going for about two hours now. Anything more you want to say?
Well, Peter wants to keep it going.
I'm I'm also cognizant. You guys sound like you guys have more energy than I do right now.
So yeah, I'm here. What what what time is it?
Greenwich Mean Time. It's just about to hit midnight.
Okay, so it's not too late. Is midnight again?
Are you guys night owls or like you do you seize the day in the morning?
And I'm not much of a sleeper to be fair.
I'll probably not go to bed for a couple of hours and then wake up really early.
Yeah, I don't sleep for too much.
I'm a bit of time and enjoy and make the most of it at the moment.
Appreciate each day as it comes.
Absolutely. So what's what's playing on the BBC these days?
What kind of what kind of music?
What about the British music scene right now?
I don't listen. You're asking me. I don't like I'm I don't watch telly.
I ain't got a live TV stream to my house. I don't listen to radio or anything like that.
So I could my experience be like British music
and what's on the radio is me journey from home to work and back.
So I ain't got apart from that. It's just all like, you know, do a leap or something.
I'll talk about British music for a second. Is that I find it fascinating that some of my favorite like bluesy music is like white guys from Britain.
Like a lot of Led Zeppelin and who else Clapton,
you know, it's just really it's interesting to me is like how much soul music was put over there.
There's some other like more obscure ones, too.
I'm thinking of like a soul singer like you would think that this lady was in Motown,
but she was over in England. Anyway, it's fascinating.
Sorry. Motown were a really hugely influential thing in UK, weren't it?
Like people loved it in I think the 70s or whatever. When music was good.
Yeah. Yeah, you all did it really well.
No doubt about it. It's well, I mean, I think also a lot of the kind of old US blues singers,
they found a receptive audience like that. They were, you know, let's say in the 80s and 90s,
these old blues guys were playing shows in Amsterdam and Paris and old jazz musicians were kind of the US didn't really have a huge appreciation for them.
Okay. It's just interesting.
It's like another thing that is fascinating is that Southern rock type of music like Creedence Clearwater Revival.
People think that Creedence was from the South, but they they did Southern rock, but they were from Cali.
Stuff like that. That's why I was just that. I don't know.
I'm sorry for getting off onto that, but I just thought that that was very interesting.
So I figured I'd have a few for it too.
Yeah. I mean, we could talk forever about like how people singing weird accents and stuff.
I mean, a good examples, Arctic Monkeys.
Do you remember when I think Alex Turner went to he went to America and then come back and he was singing and talking in a funny accent.
Good band. They are a good band to be fair.
Yeah. I always love people who I know someone who went to the UK and came back with a British accent.
And my mom's German and she's lived in the US for almost 50 maybe 50 years now.
And she still has a thick German accent. She's not like talking in a in a Boston accent.
A friend of mine's mom in school is his mom was from Germany and she wouldn't speak English.
She refused to learn English. That's how hardcore she was.
How'd that work out for her? She did fine.
They were very rich people like she just did like finance stuff.
That's what she was into. And her husband was a doctor. So these were very, very well off people.
They did just fine with what she was doing as she worked for the big bank over there.
The one that Trump got in trouble with. He was a cool guy.
Is the reason that he ended up here. They ended up here is because as good as the hospitals were over there in Germany,
there was a better one here for what he had going on when he was a baby.
So that's how I ended up having that old friend.
I actually know. God, who is it? Who is like the one of my favorite bands?
I love Little Feet. Yeah, they're awesome.
It's the original singer like the older stuff with the original singer is like awesome.
Lowell George was his name and they were still good after he croaked out.
But they're awesome. If you don't know who Little Feet is,
read some UK 420 old timer and listen to some Little Feet and have yourself a nice evening.
What is it? This is like with my daughter. Is there stuff?
I mean, you know, Little Feet, like I used to listen to him a ton.
Probably I had, you know, I listened to like a song every once in a while.
But like there's stuff from my youth that I definitely want my daughters to like listen to.
It's kind of just introducing them to lots of different music and let it, you know, for me,
like they'll have an appreciation for a lot of different stuff.
You know, they may not listen to something a lot. But yeah, I'd be psyched.
It's like reading lots of books. It gives you a lot of different insight and perspective.
And it makes listening to lots of different music and being open to it makes you a much more rounded person.
So it makes sense that you'd want that for your children.
Wait, where is that comment?
Derek Trucks. Yeah, Derek Trucks rocks. No doubt about that.
There's a reason why she married him. But her name slipping me.
My wife, she loves her. Derek Trucks.
And oh, she's actually more famous than him. And I'm not remembering her name right now.
That's crazy. Anyway. Yeah. Great music. We got a cool audience here, apparently.
Yeah, Radiohead. I haven't thought about them in a while.
Well, so every time I hear Coldplay on the radio, I'm always like,
how does Coldplay get more radio time than Radiohead?
Yeah. No offense.
There she is. Susan Tedeschi. Thank you, buddy. Kill a lot.
Susan Tedeschi. Oh, Christ Christ. Yeah.
That's yeah. That's like a rock super group in a marriage.
Just those two can rock it out.
So, all right, well, we will. We have a Pink Floyd.
Yeah, Pink Floyd. I will definitely. I think I'll spend a trip to what when I was little,
I watched Tommy and the wall.
Like just random stuff that I watched that like I probably wasn't old enough to watch.
With my older brothers and sister. And I still remember it.
And that wall is a deep, deep movie, man. It's like that was the people need to be watching that today.
What's that? There's another pretty cool British movie, too.
Is. Well, there's lots of good, there's lots of cool British movies.
Yeah. OK. I meant one kind of relate. It's not it wasn't like a rock movie like the wall,
but it had that kind of a statement to it. It's slipping my mind right now.
There's a really old one that's kind of related to I don't know if this was a British movie,
but it was set over there. It's a black and white movie called Lloyd's of London.
And if people want to learn how the insurance industry started, watch Lloyd's of London, man.
That is a crazy, crazy movie. It gets into Nelson and and that whole story and everything is.
I don't even know how true that movie is, but it a lot.
Yeah, that's not what I was thinking of. But the blue meanies,
we're all scared of the blue meanies around here, right?
Yellow submarine was not a was not traumatic in the same way that the wall or Tommy were.
So. Your thoughts on Toast of London, is that something that Brits watched?
Yeah, I think so. I think it were Channel 4 thing, weren't it?
Is that the program? For us, it was a Netflix thing, but I loved it.
New series. Sorry, I'm sorry. I'll do my after you.
No, no, sorry. Go on. I was just going to say new series of Peaky Blinders is out.
Anyone likes that? Peaky Blindness? Peaky Blinders. Peaky Blinders.
Yeah, OK, it's good. Is it about gangsters in Birmingham?
Is it? Yeah, old school, old school Birmingham gangsters.
Yeah. Oh, that's another good British movie.
I saw was Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels.
That's a growing, growing movie. How accurate is that?
Were they depicting how things were done back then in the early 2000s accurately?
It's kind of a cult classic now, I think, isn't it?
Yeah, definitely a cult classic. I don't know how accurate it actually is.
Probably not very, to be fair.
OK, gotcha. A lot of people over here, whenever I bring that up, they don't know about it.
So it's not a cult classic as much as the people that I talk to.
But it's very cool.
If you look at the grow they had, the weed is really fake.
It's like more like plastic Christmas trees.
Yeah, the same with the poppies at the end, too.
It's very low budget Hollywood.
Looking at the chat.
What I liked so much about what I was asking about how accurate it was is because I liked how the elevator thing worked.
Like they were in control of who could come up there.
And I like if you're doing something like that, that seems like the best way to approach it.
There's a film, The Gentleman, that's maybe a year, maybe two years old.
That's a good film. Oh, yeah.
That's a Netflix one, isn't it? Or Amazon or something.
If you like the Ganga films. Yeah, that's worth a watch.
All star cast. Bit of Kung Fu in there as well.
Just for reality. Did John Cleese actually leave?
Last I heard about John Cleese, he was going to leave the island.
He was done. Did that actually happen?
I don't know. I don't think anyone really cares about John Cleese.
Okay. Gotcha. He's funny.
He's a funny guy, but it can be funny whenever he wants, can't it?
Like he wants to leave. Sod him. He can fuck off, can't he?
Gotcha. It's funny when people get like that because I have the same attitude.
It's like, really? You're going to go run away?
It's very childish. You get loads like that.
I mean, well, what's the other one?
Morrissey also turned into like a massive bigot.
Like, yeah, I'm going to fuck off like. Sod him. He can go.
Good shatter. These chatters, man.
They're something. Do you guys agree with that statement?
Is she one of your proudest exports?
Yeah, she's not bad, is she?
Yeah. You're not going to send her back, are you?
No. I'm just trying to find.
Can't remember the lady's name now. Bear with me.
Well, Michelle Keegan. You want to check her out?
What's her name? Michelle Keegan, a British actress.
Very good British actress, but also very beautiful.
I'll have to check her out.
So you're in that TV program, Brassic?
Yeah, no TV these days.
There's not enough time for TV with, you know, two future cannabis project channels.
It's true. It's a lie to keep up with.
Every morning I get up, there's about six hours worth.
And then before I get that through that, the next lot's on.
And now sometimes it's just double bubble.
Well, Toad's been doing marathons.
We need a healthy dose of,
I think the British crew needs to add their two cents every once in a while.
They're very US-centric conversations.
That's true. Yeah. I could definitely think of a few lads who would have something to say.
Yeah, send them our way.
Yeah, the one guy that I'm in contact with over across the pond is very private.
And he's very diligent about his work too,
as I can't even get any of his seeds until he's done.
And I appreciate that about the man.
Yeah, I'm trying to think. He's not coming on here.
There's a lot of good dudes doing a lot of good stuff.
And I know for a fact I've missed loads.
When you asked that question earlier, my brain just went blank straight away.
And I know I was missing loads of people out. So I apologize.
I've definitely upset some people and I didn't mean to.
Did you guys watch Outlander?
No, it's not some Outlaws. Nobody knows what that is?
Okay. It was good. It was on Netflix. It's on Netflix.
I think there's a new season coming soon.
But it's when I first saw kind of it coming across my radar.
I was like that sounds like a stupid premise.
It's like this woman who goes back in time and falls in love with a Scottish guy.
Kind of under British rule fighting the Brits.
And so she goes from like 1944 to like, I don't know, 17 something.
Around like 200 years back.
And it's actually really like I other people may not like it, but I liked it a lot.
I'm a bit sad. I just like I tend to rewatch stuff just over and over.
At the minute I'm rewatching The Sopranos and Trailer Park Boys.
Yeah, I'm watching I think it's called Norsemen.
It's funny.
It's the Netflix show, isn't it?
Yeah, it's funny.
You ought to check out, oh shit, what's it called?
Lily Hammer.
That's also on Netflix.
But it's got a lot of the same cast that's in Norsemen.
Yeah, I just the accents are epic.
It's like listening to the Swedish chef.
Every character on the show is like a different version of the Swedish chef.
Yeah, it's called Norsemen.
Someone asked if you guys know who Mr. Bean is.
Yeah, absolutely.
Benny Hill.
Yes, Benny Hill.
When I was little, I used to love Benny Hill.
Yeah, I think it would be illegal now actually by today's standards.
I think they wouldn't put that on by today's standards.
No, definitely not.
An old guy who gets a little handsy with younger girls.
They were still close to the bone with the stuff that they put on television in the UK
as little as like 10 years ago, 15 years ago.
It was still incredibly close to bone.
There was a very popular show called Little Britain.
So if you ever watched the first couple of seasons of that,
it was horrendous.
They'd never be able to put that on the telly now.
And someone asked, Gilbert, what was your Instagram?
Do you see that?
Is he still with us?
Oh, yeah. Sorry, I'm just typing the answer.
Yeah, I forgot I'm actually here in life.
You're like, I can answer.
Yeah, it gets confusing at first.
I'll type my Insta.
My impression of British people up until I was about 18, 19,
until I actually met one, was all from watching David Attenborough in school.
So I thought that all British people were like David Attenborough until I met this lady.
And she was not as pleasant as David Attenborough.
No, British women aren't.
I love that immediate honesty right there.
I mean, to be fair, I'm trying really hard to actually speak well pronounced
because the area that I'm from is traditionally known for the really thick accent.
Awesome. I appreciate you making it to where we can understand you guys
because I've talked to people from Scotland and stuff
and they use words that are not English.
They don't use English words.
Yeah, so Elke is saying he's thanking you for making an effort to be...
Americanized.
Just well pronounced.
Yeah, there you go. Dumb it down for us Yanks.
For sure.
If you're ever interested to hear it in its full glory,
I implore that you check out a film called KES.
K-E-S.
That's one of my favorites.
Good shout for us.
Brilliant.
There is a sauce that goes well with steak.
How do you pronounce that word?
Worcestershire.
All right.
Is that both of you agree on that?
Yeah, essential English condiment.
Okay.
It's essential.
I'm just, I'm going to be a bit regional here.
There is a better one called Henderson's Relish, which, you know, if you can get it, you'll...
I'll check that out.
Yeah, if you can get it, you'll understand.
I'm on it. I like my food.
Yeah, you'll...
So Worcestershire is kind of like Tabasco sauce and Henderson's is like Cholula or something.
Yeah, I think it's more or less the same thing.
It's like a bit of a, I don't know how would you describe it?
It's like a fermented salty fish thing, but it doesn't taste fishy.
Yeah, yeah.
It's sort of unique.
You put it on cheese and toast and in casseroles, different dishes to sort of give it a depth of flavour.
Yeah, like, what's the phrase? Umami, is it?
Umami, yeah.
How's that? Is that close to garum?
It sounds like you're describing garum.
I've had garum before. It's a fish sauce.
It's not fishy.
I'm not sure what that is.
I've not had that.
OK, so you were saying that Worcestershire...
How do you say it again?
Worcestershire.
Worcestershire. OK, no R. Worcestershire.
I'll get it now in Southern. Worcestershire.
OK, so you all said that that was a like a staple English condiment,
but it's also a staple over here in America in barbecue sauce.
You cannot make a good barbecue sauce without Worcestershire in it.
Yeah, that's right. My dad used to put it in barbecue sauce when I was a kid.
Yeah, it's almost like a secret ingredient.
People don't know how important that is to a barbecue sauce.
I bet Cheddar Bob does.
No, I bet you guys don't get brown sauce, just HP brown sauce.
No, I've never heard of it.
Yeah, you'll have to check if you can hook yourself up with some of that stuff.
That's a taste explosion. That'll blow your mind.
Awesome. Is tamarind kind of the key ingredient there?
Pardon? Is tamarind...
I mean, so I bought like a bunch of actual tamarind
and I wanted to play around, like kind of experimenting with stuff
you haven't cooked with and I wanted to play around with tamarind.
Yeah, I mean, I know it's got some in there.
I think it's more like it's more like a fermented dates sort of thing.
So like fruity, but not quite.
Yeah, this is making me want to have some steak.
You generally eat it on bacon. On bacon?
Okay. Yeah. Like you dunk bacon in it?
No, no, no. If you're having like a bacon sandwich, you'll put it on your sandwich.
Okay. It's quite a brown sauce, red sauce, sort of north-south thing in England.
So southerners are more about the red sauce or the brown sauce?
Well, that's more like a ketchup or...
That's kind of what they push on the telly.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't think like the reality is, I don't think it's...
I don't think people just have both everywhere.
Yeah. I like we're doing deep dives into British film, television, music, food.
We need to spin the clock some more.
Pies and stews. You know what I mean?
Like traditional British food is like pie, you know, stew, stew and dumplings,
like a pie, fish and chips, that sort of shit.
Fish and chips.
I was going to say traditional British food does not have a high reputation globally.
Salt and smoke. This comment, southern boys only salt their steaks.
Smoke. That's the other ingredient.
Yeah, smoke.
Oh, man. Okay. I have not had dinner and you got my stomach like turning over here now.
So I'm going to have to hop off of here.
So thank you for inviting me.
This was incredible.
Like I said at the beginning, I could not refuse this invitation.
Yeah. And just quickly like this for everybody watching.
I mean, this was basically I think golden syrup.
I talked to you this morning, right?
I was like, would you want to do something?
So I appreciate it. Chilbert for being a sport, for jumping in from the chat.
Yeah, you're a pleasure mate.
We pulled this together, but I think you guys, I mean, for me, it was, you know,
we can do more, but it's kind of giving people an overview of who this person was
and kind of what they should know about this person
and their importance to kind of cannabis community culture, you know, the UK scene.
Absolutely. I think just his, and I'll let you go, his,
like what Elka pointed out much earlier, like just he was sharing, right?
And that's not something that, it takes a ton of time
and effort to diligently get back to all the, like all the people who are asking you questions.
And that's, that's amazing. Like for me, that's kind of amazing to hear just how much,
much time he put into helping educate other people and answer their questions.
Absolutely. And I think it's really important to recognize that in those early days,
during those news groups of the early internet and the forums during, you know, the turn of the century,
it's important to acknowledge that by him actively encouraging
and being a part of those really early online communities,
it fostered the environment for us to be able to sit here this evening,
or, you know, this afternoon or wherever in your case,
and actually be able to speak and discuss these things openly like we are.
Because like I said, without it, without that early foundational work,
we probably wouldn't be here today.
Yep. You're absolutely right. That's something that we talk on here a lot.
Chilbert, he's apparently a regular and he's, yeah, that's what we do on here.
It's really cool that Peter is like, he's been bringing on a lot of the older fellas to come on here and talk while they still can.
And not all of them are willing to do it.
It's like the old timer, it seems like he's one of the types that never would have done something like this.
So it's like getting the ones that will to do it is that it's awesome.
So it's nice getting somebody that was so close to him
and really knew what was going on to where it's nice to have you on here talking about the man and not just some rando.
So no worries. Thank you. Thank you very much for actually having me on.
Thank you for giving me platform to speak about him and, you know, to share the information and his story to people.
And I really like to say just to reiterate what I said right at the beginning,
I implore everybody to check out the Cannabase and to check out his posts on UK420
because even now it's incredibly insightful.
So yeah, thank you very much for giving me opportunity and to, you know, wave the UK banner a little bit,
you know, we've got a lot going on. We're an interesting little island.
Well said. You always have been. Sorry children.
I was just going to say well said bro. Well said.
Yeah, the guy's a legend. Yeah, yeah.
Absolute legend. Laying foundation for all of us to be doing what we're doing now.
I mean really just during those times there were a lot to lose by just even participating in that kind of thing online.
So to spread that information and actually do it were quite a revolutionary act really.
And, you know, that kind of making it more accessible to people.
So more people are talking about it. It's definitely contributed to the liberalization of Cannabis laws that we're seeing around the world.
And however part, smaller part it played in that it was still a part that were played
and it definitely needs recognizing of what it did, especially now that it's passed away.
Yes, sir. I really hope you guys come back.
It's been a pleasure. Yeah. I'd love to come back on. Just let me know.
We will do that. And with that, thank you, everyone.
Thanks for listening. And thanks to Golden Syrup and Shilbert for sharing.
Absolutely. And Elko for asking all the good questions.
I was just here listening like everybody else. Thanks so much.
No worries. Thank you very much. Catch you in a bit.
