All right. Take it away.
All right. We're here to talk breeding today.
So to give everyone context,
it was interesting because I thought we were live and I was like,
it's so weird that I don't see the number of people in the room,
but it must be because I didn't start it or something.
I was like, wait, we're not live.
So we've been talking for a good 15 minutes thinking that we were live.
Yeah. So you want me to bring that?
So why don't you get one?
I'm going to start with the context of what are we talking about today?
Talking about making your own stuff.
Like that's my plan,
making your own stuff.
We're going to get into detail about that today.
This is what Peter's making right now.
So let him talk.
What he just told me,
he's going to tell you guys because we just fucked up at the beginning as always.
Right. So anyway, this I filmed this morning right outside the front door.
This is some ABC that is pollinated with male pollen sent to me by
Eclectic Elegance because I had two plants that I knew were female.
They were both kind of like that big and they started to flower.
And then I brought them back into veg.
And I had a third plant that was like behind them.
And I didn't know what it was.
And I was hoping it would be a male because I have
let me mute that for a second.
So I have a bunch of seeds from someone in Australia who sent them to me,
but I wanted to make more.
And so I was hoping the third one would be a male and it ended up also being a female.
So I was like, fuck, well, at least I'll be able to see what it's all about.
But it is a bummer that I couldn't make seeds.
And then Lucas was like, no, I have male pollen.
And.
But it's a cool looking plant.
I mean, what I I thought I did in this video,
which I didn't do, was to then show how close to the street I am,
because it's literally I'm on a street corner, sidewalk here, sidewalk here.
And this plant, everybody who walks by the house sees
this plant and it's super stealthy,
which is pretty cool.
And what I was about to tell you before we noticed that we weren't online
is that what it looks like to me is a time like an upright time flowered out
because the way those leaves look, it's really cool.
Yeah, let's see if we can get it's a little bigger.
Actually, you know what I could do?
Hold on, let's let's watch this.
Give me one second here.
You talk and I'll just set this up.
All right.
So while he's doing whatever it is that he's doing, we're
what we're what we're talking about today is making your own stuff like that is.
Unique to you, and I guess that that's redundant,
but the reason that I'm making that point is because it's.
This is something that I'm passionate about with both vegetables and we it's
like where where I come from, that's kind of how it's done, I don't come from
clone land, so when we get a hold of a line, we're very picky about what we get
to begin with, with vegetables or anything else, trees.
And then once we get it, we try to hold on to it so that we can
we reproduce it, what we originally get, and then we hold on to that
and then we do our selections from there for what works best for us
in our environments and what we like and all of that.
And that's what Peter said that he was doing with this ABC is that he's starting
with this pollen from eclectic elegance, but he wants to use the pollen
from the source that he he originally got it from in Australia.
So it's this is this is a really cool thing that he's doing right here,
because this is like he said, he's growing this right
and right in front of his house where people it's like they.
They don't know what that is.
It looks like a time plant to me.
That's what I would think it was, unless I could smell it.
And he said that did say that it smelled nice before we started this,
he said he's getting like a lot of berries and kind of some funk to it.
So, yeah, that's really cool.
As I remember when he was telling me about this stuff when he first got it,
I'm glad that he's got it germinated and flowered out.
And as Peter's the man, did you get yourself set up?
I guess not. Oh, OK.
Here you go.
OK, so. You can all see this, right?
I can. OK.
So the problem was I was like looking at this with the sun blinding me
and I had like my glasses all greasy, so I couldn't tell like it was in focus.
But so that's actually a creeping time in the bed to the right of it.
Do you see that? Uh-huh.
And then. Yeah, I'm trying to get the leaf shape.
Yeah, there we go. Now it's in focus.
So this is all.
Oh, sorry. All right.
So let me play that again, because.
I feel like that's did.
I think I already showed the street, but my point is I wanted to show
how close to the street I am.
But yeah, so so this summer I want to do another run just from see,
get some males, do a.
You know, do a seed run and then have fun with it.
Yeah, that's that's I love stuff like this.
It's just it's weird.
I'm curious how it's going to end up smoking for you.
As you said that you were getting some nice berry smells out of it.
It's like usually I get berries from the Afghan stuff, so it's
interesting to me that it's expressing like those Afghan Afghan noses.
So cool. It's beautiful, too.
Like an ornamental. Yeah.
All right. Let's see if I pan to the street,
which I thought I did in this video, but.
Yes, here we go.
So that's my lettuce flowering out.
Yes, see where it is.
Wow. I mean, that's like everybody walks their dogs right there.
That is awesome.
So anyway, that's.
And then I have some stuff from Jackson
on the other side of the house, which is the T1000 cross with the Jaro.
Yeah, but that one's easily recognizable.
Took that one away a little bit.
Although actually, this will be my moment to
I had a funny.
OK, let me go to another camera. All right.
Sorry, this is trippy because I got two videos going.
So I had a bunch of different things at Tom's house and
I had the line one Jaro that I put into the raised beds
and then I had PCK
the T1000 Jaro.
Both in what I had him doing was bringing them out,
they were in pots and I had him bringing them out in the sun during the day
and then giving some additional supplemental lighting in a tent.
At night, so it's like bring them out in the morning,
bring them back around four o'clock, like give them more sun or more light.
And I couldn't make it to his house for a couple of weeks.
And when I showed up.
He had the stuff in the beds, he had all the other plants
right next to him and everything was going into flower.
So you had males of like the PCK, males of the T1000 Sky Jaro,
you had males of the
of the line one Jaro, like
you had males and females of every.
I was like, this is defeating the whole point of what I was trying to do.
And he was like, what?
He's like, this is awesome.
And I was like, dude, when shit like this happens,
you have to call me or text me or tell me that there's like send an SOS signal.
Like he lives maybe 25 minutes away.
And so I always hope that I can get up there more frequently.
But then it's like I can only get up there once a month or something.
But anyway, I wish I had filmed that as I was walking into it
because it was such like a bad news bears moment.
But anyway, with that, I'm going to let you do your thing.
I assume when I wasn't listening, you kind of told people what you're doing today.
Yeah, I gave a general rundown.
I'll be it'll be very self-explanatory where I'm headed with this.
This is basically just telling people what I've done in the past a little bit.
It was successful for me.
It would be successful for you.
Just choose your own goals.
So it's good talking to you, Peter.
Hope I don't fall on my face, my man.
I'm going to I'll be on, but I'm going to I'm going to remove my camera
and I'll jump in it, send the distress signal if you need me.
Gotcha. Gotcha.
All right, everybody.
What we're talking about this, if you didn't catch the when I explained it before,
what I'm intending on discussing with you guys today,
and I do mean discussing it with you because I have
have the ability to pull up questions from the chat over here.
And I intend on doing that later on.
So if you have anything to say to me or any anything that pops up
along the way that you want to have answered, just put it over here
and I'll try to pay attention and get back to those later on.
So. Here we go.
When you first start off with like wanting to like do something on your own,
it's really best to like have a goal in mind from the beginning,
like what it is that you're you're attempting to do.
And that requires a little bit of research and whatnot.
You can't just go on like some seed site and just do a little bit of research.
And look at a description and read, read that and take their word for it and say,
OK, I'm going to base my project on what they said this the seed is going to do.
And then I'm going to take this other seed from this other guy.
And he says that it's going to do this.
So I'm going to cross these together.
And this is this is my goal in the end.
And in some in some ways, in some cases,
you can you can do that to a certain extent.
And the reason that I'm putting that caveat in there is because I sort of did
something like that recently.
But what you that Blacklights 88 that I'm always talking about.
But what you do with something like that is that you've got to like vet the person
that you're getting that shit from.
So what I did there is I was like, I made sure that
everyone was in agreement that what Bob had was real.
Bob Hemphill, that his Blacklights are actually black or his black dominos
were black dominos and his NL1s were NL1s because he got that NL1 from Kagyu.
So you just you you go in and say, OK, this is what this guy says it is.
And everybody's in agreement that these guys are legit.
So when you you go from there and.
You sorry, I'm stumbling,
but I want to keep this in order as you can
go off of some people's word, but not everybody's.
What's what I'm that's what I'm trying to say.
You can get lucky and do your research
and you can cut some corners that way and shave a little time off.
And my goal there was to just like get some old school Afghani
and put put a bunch of old school Afghan lines that have provenance
and check out and then start going through what I had there
and then then deciding what it is, where I wanted to go.
You know, it's like because I didn't know what I was going to
going to find in that cross.
I had a general idea from the parents.
But with anything, you don't know until you pop them after the fact.
So with that one, I took those guys word for it and it worked out for me.
But that's not always the case.
As as I found out earlier on in my journey,
and that's what got me so diligent about looking into people
pretty heavily before I like spend money with with them and
waste several months to a year of my time.
So, yeah. So just
there there are known breeding lines out there that you can start with.
Skunk number one is one of the old ones.
And the thing with skunk number one is it gets a bad rap for no reason.
Let's talk about skunk number one for a little bit is
people get on that sweet skunk because everybody wants to.
They're looking for that roadkill.
But those sweet skunks are really that's good weed.
It really is good stuff.
And the taste is nice.
It's not everybody wants to taste the skunk's ass.
They like to taste the candy, that sweet little with a little bit of skunky in it.
So it's just it's not that the the skunk one gets a bad rap
because it's not what people are expecting it to be.
They're looking at people say that they find the roadkill in that
and in that stuff. But the
the ones that were really funky, skunky that I've found are always
more Afghan and skunk one skunk one is a very
it's a large sativa type of plant with a lot of stretch and everything.
It's it's and there's a there's a lot of variation in it.
Somebody over here, big Blaze 80 talking about the cheese.
Cheese came out of skunk one.
So there's there's there's funk in there.
But it's that.
The the all of the skunk one that I've got an older line of skunk one,
that's that seems legit.
And then I had a problem with the seed distributor
and they wouldn't replace the beans that I ordered from them.
But they were they were going to offer me whatever.
So I decided to pick their skunk one that they were offering me to see
if they were how legit they were.
So I don't even know if I'm ever going to.
Pop those things or not, and then check them out, but they yeah.
Anyway, the.
As Scott.
The known breeding lines, but and what you get when you're
that's why I went off on a tangent on skunk one is because those
those older known breeding lines, they are useful because they have
a lot of record behind them and you know what to expect when when you get it.
Skunk one is an easy one to test because so many people out there
have have messed with that thing.
And so, yeah, Bobby Jones says no flavor, but the high is great.
And I'm going to talk about that later on.
Those no flavor plants, those are very useful to like cross into something
that you're wanting to preserve the flavor on, use them as kind of a backboard.
And I know some people will disagree with that and say, you know, you're
you're muddying it down.
It's like, yeah, you can muddy it down if you if you make poor selections
along the way, but if you're just using that plant to like
not influence the other plant and you can prove over time that, yes,
whenever I cross this certain skunk one male into this other
cookie, wookie or whatever, that it saves the cookie
wookie flavor that I'm trying to.
Hold on to without influencing it too much and maybe like stretching it out,
like having influences that you're not so upset about.
But it's definitely not what your goal with it is, is that it's not going to fuck
with the flavor which that you're trying to hold on to. So.
Yeah, I think that's enough on the on the skunk one, but
other things like that, as people say, that
plants like that kind of overtake and dominate.
And I haven't experienced that with playing around with the skunk one.
But the what it does is it doesn't dominate, but it stays in there.
Like once it's in, you can't get it out.
It's it always pops up later on.
So I've always found that interesting, it's like, but once
once the skunk one is in there, it's always going to pop out.
And I was happy about that recently because I was going through some haze
times skunk ones, haze times skunk one times gene that
I was going through those and I've got a really nice hazy plant, but it's got the.
It's got the.
Another thing about skunk one is that's kind of distinct to it,
and I always kind of wonder when I see these plants that look like it
on people's Instagram feeds is that the.
The resin goes all the way out to the tips
on like the fan leaves, it's it's really it's
and it's very consistent, a lot of them do this.
And haze is kind of stingy with its.
The the more I guess more haze
dominant hazes that I mess with, like I don't have
I don't have any pure haze, as I've addressed before, but the
and I have no desire to mess with them because the reason that a lot of the haze
people talk about the haze is just like even if it's a haze cross,
we still call it the haze is because it is one of those plants
that just like takes over.
It's that once haze is in there, it's it's haze.
So those haze inels, the haze skunk one that I've got and
those dreamtime hazes that I put out there, those those hazes just that there.
Once it's once it's got the haze in there, it's haze,
because that's what's going to be popping out mostly.
And so I was before I got off on that tangent,
I was talking about other plants that are known to take over across.
And one of those is my holy grail.
That's the the deep chunk and the the deep chunk.
I've always been after that because of what people have said about it
and how stable it's been is that thing was really worked.
And like all of my time that I.
Spent going through the hazes, I've pretty got pretty much got that
like locked down is what I like in that and what to look for and all of that.
And what I was wanting is to find something that on the opposite end
that that the work has already been done for me.
And I can just go through and make an F1 from one of my hazes that I choose
and then just get a nice
deep chunk male and cross that into one of those old hazes.
And as you know, as I don't really I don't have to.
Go with a pure F1 route in that in that direction, I don't think like you
don't need the the land race, narrow leaf, 12, 12 to 20 foot tall,
long flowering thing and the land race, Afghan or Pakistani or Indian.
All of that stuff is.
You I think that it's been proven over time
that you can make nice F1 without having to go all the way back
to the drawing board, you can use some of this stuff that and
that has already been worked a little bit.
And that's that can
like why reinvent the wheel?
You know, it's like who's going to like, for instance, who's going to take today
and like this, let's just try to recreate skunk one is why would you go into
and getting a Mexican
Acapulco and an Afghan and whatever else that that was used in that goddamn thing
and recreate it?
It's a waste of time and effort.
We already have a good version of that.
So it's it really doesn't make much sense.
So I respect the people that want to take that land race, long flowering thing
and then that land land, race, short flowering thing and make that true F1.
But like to do that properly, you're talking about years and years
and years of work because it's well known that you're going to have a hell of a time
going through those land race and the tropical site.
You're going to be going through a lot of hemp before you find that drug one
that you're it's really going to tickle your fancy.
And then on the other end of it is.
It's obviously a little easier because you have you don't have the time,
the time restraints, the time constraints and
everything else involved with those tropical plants
as those those tropical plants.
It's the there's a reason that the guys that play with those
commend so much respect from us is because those those things are.
They're just unruly.
It's jungle weed.
It's like you're dealing with a bunch of fucking leaf and the.
Yeah, a lot of a lot of problems.
So on this haze that I just found recently, I was really excited to find one
that had a bulbous trichomes on it, which is kind of harder
to find in those tropical things.
A lot of them are those little
systolic hairs or whatever the hell the word is for those.
Anyway, so it's got the it's got resin all the all over it
and it's got the bulbous trichomes.
It's got nice flavor and the fact and everything is
it's checking all of the boxes.
So I'm really excited about that plant and.
Yeah, sorry, I was reading what's going on.
Apparently an argument going on that I don't know.
I don't know anything about.
OK, hope we don't get out of hand.
Anyway, let's let's get get on the topic.
It's enough about those those old lines.
Let's talk about making making your own.
And this is easier than you might think is.
First, you've got to know how to produce plants properly,
and I've got a little and my journey with that
is I first started off with hydro and sorry,
but this this little hydro book, it's a little bitty thin thing.
I picked this up at the at the hydro store a long time ago.
And that little thing really taught me a lot about just.
What plants need and how to be
also how to be safe with water and electricity, that's
that's important with hydro, too, but.
And. Sorry, I need to quit
reading these comments over here and just stick to what I'm doing
for the time being is learn how to produce plants properly first.
And then once once you've got that down, then you can start looking into
what people are selling out there.
If there's something out there that you that you already have
that you like, so a lot of people have stuff that they've selected out of these.
Out of these seed packs that they buy from these sites,
and so they've got their little their clone version of that
that was put out there, and they really like that
and they keep that around for a while, and I've noticed that that's kind of rare.
It's like I've noticed a lot of people just keep popping packs
and just keep going through and trying new things.
And that's cool.
And so everybody's got their own way of doing things.
But what I'm getting at is that it's nice to start with something that, you know.
And so that's the point that I'm trying to make, start with something that,
you know, don't take somebody else's word for it when you're first starting out,
because what you're what you're trying to do is make something that you like,
not what they like.
They gave you their they made their selections on what they liked
and what their people around them liked and what checked out.
It's a focus groups or whatever kind of testing that they
they put their their product through before it hits the market.
So you're you're you're not worried about all of that
because you're just this is what you and your your friends are into.
So start with something that you like in a clone form,
and then you can take that.
And once you've got it down, you you ran it a few times.
All right. Yeah, thanks, Peter.
Well, once you've ran it a few times and you've got that plant down,
then you start going through
some something else that you have interest interest in
and you start playing with those males and you can.
You could start.
It's easiest just to start with that one, but you can kind of get yourself.
You can kind of get yourself ahead of the game a little bit if you're.
Once you're once you're selecting, once you've selected that female
and then you go through and you start picking out some males
that you're wanting to cross into this female from something that you
you think is going to mesh well with it or they have some characteristics
that you're you're digging, do a couple of them.
I try one or two, maybe three, but this is a numbers game.
So don't don't get your numbers too too deep.
But you you take those males that you're wanting to
preserve that clone with and then you hit that that clone with those.
And then you you pop those seeds from from that seed increase.
And then from from there, you see what each of those
those males did to the female,
like what happened in the progeny with male A and male B.
Then there will be
then you have a basis of, OK, where where do these
where are these lining up with
what my end goal is with this clone,
which is usually when you're doing something like that,
it's like you're worried about losing it.
OK, so when you're trying to preserve it
to where you can go back into seeds later on and
I've done this several times, it really does work.
The thing is, is that you've got to choose the male that you're doing,
that you're performing this process very carefully.
And that's what I'm explaining to you here is that you don't just start with one
and crossing that in there because that that that one may have checked
all the boxes, but it's just not passing on what you want it to
or it's passing on some shit that you don't want it to or some
there's some craziness popping out from some recessive that you just like,
OK, I'm not dealing with that.
I'm not I'm not going to be talking about numbers today.
I appreciate that question, but the
there's been a lot of breeding talks on here.
And I think that you'll get a nice idea of a number from those guys
because they they.
They know what they're doing.
Peter doesn't put people on here that don't know what they're doing,
and I appreciate that he he trusts me with me coming on here and talking
because it's the company around here is top notch.
So as I'm not like I'm just trying to to help people.
Do what what I was successful doing for myself, so.
Back back into this little simple project,
you got this clone that you're wanting to turn into a seed
so that you can go back in and find something similar or better.
Sometimes you'll you'll find something better later on.
It's like, wow, OK, I'm glad that I lost that original one.
As I've done this with several things, one of them was the lemon skunk.
As I kept the lemon skunk around for a very long time,
and it ended up being like nine different versions of it.
And it's like I was I was getting better at selecting them along the way
as I was losing them.
It had something is who knows what was going on with it.
But after it was around for a while, it would just stop.
You know, it was just quit, quit rooting.
And as the anyway, old, old horror stories.
But I've done this several times.
And what I'm what I'm going to be focused on is
the the the male side of it, because when when I first started out,
like seeds weren't as available as they as they are now.
And so once you got something, you really wanted to hold on to it.
So I vetted the people that I got stuff from really well before I got it.
And I was going to waste a bunch of time on it.
And so what I what I would do is take that and
open blow it.
So that I could take that open pollination, go into there
and then see what I what I actually had, like what I was going to see
popping up later on in this stuff, if I crossed it into other things
or just like get to know it.
That's what that's what I'm saying here is just get to know the plants
that you're dealing with first before you start crossing stuff up.
Like that's where the the pollen chucking thing came from,
is that that pollen chucking stuff is there, you know, as the whatever.
But it's really what what they were what they meant by that derogatory term
was that they weren't doing any selection at all.
There was no observation happening.
They were just oh, here we go.
It was just chucking pollen everywhere.
And open pollination is not that you're you're intentionally not selecting.
You're taking as many as you have from that first one.
And so you get rid of the ones that you don't want to keep those genes around.
It's something that you just you don't like.
So you can you can do a little bit of selection, but it's
just getting as many of those genes flowing together as possible
so that you know what you're dealing with in there for for later on.
And when you're when you're doing that open pollination,
like I said, you're not you're not really selecting for anything.
You're selecting away from things.
You're you're if anything, you're negating shit that you don't want
and popping up later on.
And if you've got something hempy, it's like you don't want to keep that around.
So. So and that's what a lot of that stuff
that I gave to Peter to spread around to you guys out there.
That's what those that's what those were.
Is that they were old seeds that I did this open pollination
and then I had made my selections down the line using my mail that I'm
that I'm going to talk about later into.
Into that to where I could just leave those behind,
I don't have to go back into those open pollinations
because I've already found what it is that I'm going, what I'm going for
as I've already started my direction, so there's really no reason for me.
And it was great smoke to be had in there.
So I just thought that it was different stuff.
So I'd spread it around.
So that's that's what's going on with that is.
So. With with those open blows,
you really get to know what what you've got, and even it's like, say,
something you buy if it's if it's not, you're not get it.
If you say polyhybrid, I guess what I'm trying to say here.
When you take these polyhybrids that you're buying from the the seed sources
these days, then the.
You're. You're going to get so much diversity
that what's what you're dealing with is really your
your magic is going to happen in the F2 and beyond.
So whatever you do with that first spray,
so whatever you do with that first pack is it really doesn't matter
because these people have put so much selection into these damn things
and all of that is like you just I really wouldn't.
With a lot of this stuff that's being sold out there now,
I don't think that you would really have to throw away a lot of that first pack.
You just like whatever pops out of it to to start with.
Just let those go.
Take the seeds from that increase.
And then you start doing your selection in that F2, because that's when you're
going to be able to start bottlenecking it into the direction
that you wanted it, wanted to go.
So as with this, with those polyhybrids that there
that everybody is selling out there now with the cookie, wookie name, all of that is.
The the the beginning, all of the initial work has been done for you
as far as like passing down awesome genetics that you can you can work through.
But you you're what I'm talking about here is doing something for yourself.
It's not what everybody else has out there of this stuff.
So where that magic is going to be found, the things that you really like
is going to be in that F2.
And once you when you start going through that F2, it's going to be like
Willy Wonka's candy store, man.
You're just going to be it's it's it is the most amazing experience
that you could have growing plants.
Unequivocally, I say that because I've done it with so many things.
I've done it with cannabis.
I've done it with basil.
I've done it with tomatoes.
It's just it's it really is fun to go through that F2 population
and find those things that you really, really meshes with you.
So, yeah.
So and that's where it starts.
So whether you're doing it from just like a open pollination,
seed pack increase kind of deal or you're you have that clone
that you're trying to preserve, it's the same same deal is.
The only difference is, is that.
The work was done for you by somebody else in the the seed pack increase deal.
But. With the.
What? OK, going for for what it is that you want is that once you take those F2s
and you have your goal set, because this is when you're actually going to be able
to like solidify you, your goal, you have you have your goal in mind
at the beginning, what you think is going to happen.
And then once you start going through these seeds.
The you're going to find out that your expectations aren't always going to pan out.
But the. You're going to find stuff in there that you weren't expecting,
that you're going to like, and then you might head down those directions.
Or another thing is, once you start getting into these things,
if you can find some similar parents, males and females in that F2 generation,
is you can you can head down many different directions.
And I emphasize that is in that you really want to find similar plants.
Is that those similar those similar plants are most likely going to pass
on similar characteristics, it's not always the case, but they usually do.
And when somebody has done all of the work for you in the beginning,
you're not dealing with a bunch of trash.
So that's why I was, you know, I'm not knocking the people that start with the
the land races and then go from there out of that F1 through the F2 and all of that.
But that's a whole lot of selection.
I mean, you're talking about a lifetime and just one project doing something like that
and props to those guys that are actually doing it.
But I don't.
I don't need to reinvent the wheel,
so I use stuff that has already been proven to do certain things.
And once they prove to me that they actually do those things,
then I start using them. So.
What about Bob says myth males pass on plant structure more than other traits.
With me, that was one of the things that I always look for, like I want
pay attention to the male structure because I don't want it to pass on some funky,
branchy thing with
into into the later generations.
So I want to always look at and I'm talking about the flower structure,
not so much the structure of the plant that that gives you an idea, too.
But what I'm what I'm interested in with the males is the flower structure
is I like something that turns out and looks sort of like a female flower
and has as much as as many many female traits as I can get.
As if it's got resin, if it produces pistols, I'll talk about that later on, too.
It's like I am not I'm not I'm not at all scared of.
Hermaphrodite males, males that turn female,
and I'm going to explain that later later on is that this this comes from experience.
I've I've used them successfully several times.
I built a line using him.
It was the. Yeah, I will definitely get into gene later
because people always ask me, what the hell, what is gene?
So I'm going to I'm going to explain to the people that have stuff with him
and I'm going to explain what that is today.
So anyway, male traits or female traits in your mail is something that I've worked
that has worked well for me, and it's like resin is is beautiful.
Not all of them that are winners will produce resin for you.
That's that's not an end all be all for me, but it is it is nice.
It's it makes it easier because I smoke males.
If a male doesn't get me high, I don't use it.
I start there.
Like that's the beginning of my selection process.
As I just chose one recently and I tricked the old lady.
We're looking for a certain plant and I found the male version of it.
I didn't find the female.
It's kind of hard.
It's taken quite a search to find that girl.
But I found the male version of it.
So I packed up a little bowl of some of his his frosty stuff and.
Just to see how she would react to it, just to make sure that I was right,
this is this is what we're looking for.
And she she took the hit and looked at me
as peanut butter jelly time.
I was like, yeah, yeah, that's what we call this.
The certain plant, the skunk plant that we used to have.
And she was disappointed that that that was a male.
And I warned her.
I was like, I had to do that just to test you.
And I hope that you don't get a headache from that
because it's the first time I'm smoking him, too.
But anyway, that that was a lot of fun.
That's that's that's that's that's what I'm talking about here
is the stuff that there's a lot of fun in this.
That's why I included that in the description.
There really is a lot of fun in making your own stuff and making it for you.
And so, yeah, it's this is this should be a pleasant experience.
The people that want to like make a.
Like they just they start growing weed, they're a few years into it
and they're ready to start a.
They're ready to start their seed company, you know,
they found some some mom and a dad and they're ready to go there,
they're going to start their seed company and what they're they're.
To use a quote from Jay-Z,
he said something along the lines of
never do art with business in mind.
All right. And that's what we're talking about here is art
is don't do art with business in mind.
Do it. Do it because that's what you want to do.
Do it. It's like DJ Short.
I got DJ's book right here when DJ.
When DJ Short was.
So going through and crossing up that juicy fruit
and the chocolate tie and Afghan and all of that,
when he was doing that, he was doing that for the love of it.
He wasn't he didn't know he was going to end up being DJ Short.
And guys like me would be looking up to him and wishing that they could
just like pick his brain for like 15, 20 minutes at a show.
You know, he had no idea he was he was doing what I'm talking about here today.
He was going through plants that he knew
were going to give him what he liked.
He had experience with these things.
He knew what to look for in those.
And once he started making those crosses, he knew what he was after in that thing.
So it's. This is about fun and like
making it to where you're not relying on somebody else to tell you what you like
or what you what you have access to is that if you if you're just like buying
seeds from the seed distributors and whether there's nothing wrong with that.
But when you're just going through and you're just keep on going through
and looking for.
Things that they're telling you are in these these seed packs,
you're really not like looking for what you what you're
you're you're interested in it, but you don't know what else is there.
You're just until you start going through it.
But I guess what I'm trying to say is, is that
it's it's that person's selections.
You're stuck with what they have done and.
To what what makes that not such a huge deal when you start making your own
using other people's stuff is the dynamic nature of this plant is.
Cannabis is so amazing and diverse, as we all know.
There's that there's not other plants out there that produce the smells
and flavors and all of that shit that we get out of these.
It's there's things that are kind of similar, but the nothing,
nothing with the the range of our plant.
And that's why it grabs humans so much.
It has it has something to offer everyone.
And when you're just like sticking with one person's direction,
you're kind of cheating yourself with this plant.
You really are.
What what you what I recommend you do is really start diving deep in there
once you know how to grow the plant properly, really start diving in there
and finding out what it is you really like.
What what you what you like, not what other people are saying
is great and the new hottest thing.
What what jives with you and the people around you?
And so what I'm what I'm getting at here today is
the method that I used to do this.
OK, and the the method that I used was to create my own
male line, like a line where I could go in whenever I needed to.
And I knew that I would be able to yank out a male out of here
after doing a little bit of selection.
It's not just any old male, but the Yankee male out of this line
and use him to preserve something that I find out of one of my other lines
that I'm familiar with that I have familiarized myself with.
And the most recent thing that I've done that with was the I had a haze skunk one
a string of pearls, lovely, pissy, amazing haze example.
She I miss her dearly.
She was she was something very special.
So I had her around for a long time and she had this.
She had this hermaphrodite issue because I've noticed
that a lot of the really good ones, the ones that I like there.
They're not very sex stable for some reason.
It's like if I find a really skunky, funky skunk, almost guaranteed not sex stable.
And same thing with a really good good haze is when I when I find a haze
that really, really, really tickles my fancy,
those things are most likely hermeprone.
So I decided to use her anyway
because I like the effect.
And I just it wasn't so bad that I knew that I'd be able to find one
that wasn't like that.
So I took that hermy, pissy, cat piss haze and selected.
A gene and my gene line, the
all of the males, I call them gene.
They have different numbers based on like where they
where they ended up along the way. But
gene is a it's a it's a mystery line, but it's stable
and it's not like anything else that I've come across or have
out of my research.
What I think it is, and I'm not sure about this is who knows what the hell is.
It works for me. I know that.
But I think that it's the original line that the that the power plant
was selected out of that power plant that everybody makes fun of over in Holland
is apparently that that was a bad selection
from a pretty nice line that was made over there.
So who knows?
It really, really doesn't matter what it is, what it turned,
what it turns into.
Herring plant and the male plant and the female cola.
Anyway, the.
The I wanted to hold on to the traits of the gene
traits inside of this haze, so this pissy haze, it wasn't necessarily the piss.
It was the high associated with that. So I.
Found my mail, crossed it into that.
And what I was looking for
was something that had that that skunk one haze
characteristic and the type of
the structure of the plant and everything.
Basically to.
Use the use my line as a backboard
for this haze clone that I had been keeping around for years, so.
What I mean by a backboard is that it's a lot of people do this with backcrossing.
This is what a lot of.
Of.
The I'm confusing myself here is thinking about to me,
that's what I'm talking about with the backboard,
is that you want to bounce your clone off of something that's different.
Enough so that you can pick out
the plant that you're looking for.
So when when you're when you make that that cross
and you're looking for that haze plant against my
the genes are always like really broad leaf, short squat.
Little.
So kind of hard to, but it's it's it's not a long flowering sativa plant is what I'm getting at here.
All right.
What I was doing with this particular project and what I think that this would be useful
for a lot of people is I would collect my thoughts here is is do like the sort of the beginning of a backcross.
And you don't necessarily have to keep doing the backcross over, over and over and over and over again.
And because that that may not lead you to the result that you you're looking for.
For various reasons.
So the backcross and filial generations and all of these things, open pollination,
is all of these things are tools that you can attempt to use to get to your end goal.
And one of these tools that I'm talking about right now is what I'm using that backboard to select out your
the plant that you're looking for.
The plant that you're actually looking for or something that's similar to that plant.
And like I said, I wasn't looking for necessarily the pist or the string of pearls.
I was looking for that that the resin and kind of the same kind of flower structure and all of those things to
continue that down the line and just leave gene by the wayside.
Okay.
It is, I think that I've collected my thoughts to bring it to bring it to a head there.
Sorry, I was not being articulate.
But what I was trying to say is that this is just one of the ways that you can get to your get to your goal
with somewhat minimal effort.
Because if you're going into the filial generations,
the filial generations is that you can get to where you're well with gene.
It was by the fourth generation.
I'm able to go in there and get what I get what I'm looking for.
Minimal effort.
It's it's you've really it doesn't take that much time to do what I'm talking about.
It really doesn't.
It's it and to do it right.
It takes a little bit more time.
And that's that's all depending on where it is that you're you're trying to go with it and how
far you're you're wanting to take it.
As if you're wanting to get into BX4 and really bottleneck something down like that and just keep
really you want as close to that clone.
And someone's saying here is a up to F5 is stable.
Up to you or you mean after F5?
Because up to F5 isn't stable.
I think I know what you mean by that.
But everybody's got their opinions on that.
It's like I didn't know what I was starting off with.
I didn't know what filial filial generation I was dealing with.
So I never called it F this or F that.
I was just I started with my original seeds.
Then I made a selection from those two plants.
That's another thing when you're doing a filial generation, you can only use two plants
in that in that thing.
Like I'm not saying that you can only use two plants, but you got to keep everything
separate.
If you're using two different males on one female, you've got to keep everything separate.
But just two plants, that's still just an F1.
You can't have two females on one female and then call that an F whatever because now you've
just fucked everything up because now you've got two dads involved and you don't know like
who's parenting what from the seeds that are coming out of that.
If that's you see what I'm saying?
So with the what?
Yes.
Now with the just two plants on the filial generations, and I think it's the same way
that people say when they're when they're doing their their back crosses too, is you
don't want to introduce more genetics there than are already that you're already messing
with.
Two cannabis plants already has so many thousands, possibly millions of genetic combinations
that you're already dealing with a lot anyway, that you you really don't need to complicate
that by getting two moms or two dads involved or four, like two.
You see what I'm saying?
It's just you're creating extra complication for yourself along the way.
So I've heard of people saying that they made some like they buy a pack of whatever's
whoever's beans and they say I made some F2s and then they start talking about the males
that they used and the females that they use plural.
And I was like, oh man, it's like what you did was an open pollination.
You didn't make you didn't make F2s.
You you didn't do you didn't do the selecting on the first round.
So you made an open pollination.
Go back, go back and go back in there on the second time and then just choose two plants.
And then.
Then then then you you're.
I think that I've made that point already.
What I'm saying is, is that you don't want to add complication.
So that's enough of that.
Let's talk about some of the things that I learned from from DJ here is one of the one
of the coolest things that you you pick up from these weed specific books.
And.
Is the the way that we look at things differently than other.
Other botany people, I guess, as we.
We are a little bit more picky and observant in most cases, like even if you're just a
little closet grower and it's just you got a couple of plants and you just got your head stashed.
It's like you're very particular about those plants because those that you're putting a lot
of effort into that you've spent a lot of money on the genetics and the setup and all of that.
So it's like it's not like grandma that just buys a pack of two dollar pack of tomato seeds,
throws them out in the garden, and if they grow, they grow.
They don't they don't.
What's what's what sets us apart is all of the dedication that's gone into it,
especially like in the past, like the the people from the past generations when when it wasn't so
accepted and legal is that it took an extra special sort of passion for those guys.
I saw Greg was in here earlier doing his political thing.
And guys like him, it's like it was a it was a different world.
A lot of us don't even know like we can't even imagine the type of stuff like I.
I can imagine a little bit, but not to the extent that these guys were is.
It's just having that kind of a target on your back just seems too stressful for me.
I've got enough gray hair and I've never dealt with anything like that.
I really look up the guys like him and his friends and all of that.
So it's the same with him.
That's what he was doing is he him and his buddies were the way that he described it on
that right interview is that they were trying to breed stuff that was going to help with his PTSD.
And, you know, nice that it was it was for a specific purpose and passion.
And he was able to to do great things.
And we have all been the beneficiary of him and his friends work and Steve Murphy giving
them those source genetics to the right people that knew what the hell they were doing.
So if you're still here, Greg, thank you.
So back to the back to like starting your own project is like when you're
starting your own project is that there's a lot of a lot of freedom in that.
And it's like even if you're just doing an open pollination, you've got something that's like you
like say, Kevin, like you got a hold of some of Kevin's Durand stuff that he's he's like
putting out there.
So and you want to really go through that and you open pollinate those and you really want to see
what a land race Afghan is really all about.
So you die in there.
And that's that's just a beautiful thing.
It's like you're going to have those forever.
You have those to give away to people later on.
And it's like, oh, I found some amazing stuff in here.
Here, try some of them.
It's like I've got plenty here.
I really enjoyed this, this and this.
Let's look look for something like that.
So it's there's a lot of self-empowerment in being able to make your own things, whether
it's food or smoke or just being able to fix your own stuff, learning how to fix things for
yourself when they break.
It's it's it's it's really something that I'm into and I'm passionate about.
And it's.
Yes, cataract.
It is a smart move to open pollinate just a pack of 10 seeds.
You're you're really limited with that.
And I used to be kind of judgmental about the the amounts of seeds that came in packs
and what packs were sold for and all of that.
And as I've kind of.
Growing up and seeing how this this type of this business is run, I kind of get it and
you don't know what their costs were to produce those and get those out there.
So I try to be a little bit less judgmental about a three hundred dollar pack now.
Is it really?
Yeah, it's a three hundred dollars for 10 seed sounds ridiculous until you found out
that they put like five or six years of work into that and it's like verify it's like,
yeah, this is.
This is the real poop.
So as the.
I understand why people get a little standoffish and get a little does the
prices get a little crazy, but there's there's reasoning behind that in some cases as facilities,
especially out in the on the West Coast, where a lot of this this type of business is done.
Facilities aren't cheap.
Licensing isn't cheap.
There's just to get and they could be doing better time, better things with all of that
time and effort and all of they can be making themselves a lot more money than producing
some seeds for us.
So really, you got to take all that into consideration before you start like ragging on
somebody for their three hundred dollars for 12 seeds, you know, as to get a little bit
more information together first before you start giving somebody hell.
So I've never even sold a seed and.
I've dealt with some like seed business problems and it's it's kind of interesting if I was
to sell sell you guys some seeds, I would do it in a certain way based on what I've
already experienced from people that have gotten my stuff through auctions or who have
gotten stuff through Peter is I really appreciate that people are popping them and asking me
questions and I try to help as much as I can.
And it's a.
I'm a pretty busy dude.
I do more than just the weed thing.
But yeah, that.
I like helping people if I can, like if if I'm willing to like share something, I really
enjoy doing that because it's it it makes the world a better place when more people
are doing that kind of thing.
I found this like when you when you're around like minded people, you want to share like
minded information and things with them is that you know, I consider you guys my imaginary
friends.
I'm just sitting here talking to my imaginary friends today.
It's a nice little break from what I'm normally doing.
So it's a I enjoy it.
So I really want to help people like choose things for their own taste, whether it's a
a smoke or like Peter brings up tobacco a lot like he's he's going to go through and
find a tobacco that that he likes.
He says he doesn't smoke a lot, but when he does, he wants to smoke something nice that
that fits him and suits him.
And it's like.
I'm going to try to find.
I need to find time to go go see this dude that has a specific tobacco line that I told
him that I'm going to get him.
It's for wrapping is a cigar tobacco, the stuff that they wrap cigars with is their
special varieties and their shade grown.
So as I need to get that together, get that to him for whenever he wants to try that out.
But I really I like that kind of thing.
And what Peter's doing with that ABC, very, very cool.
If you didn't check that, if you didn't catch that at the beginning of this thing, it's
yeah, go check out that cool little plant.
And so, yeah, it's the Peters in the cool stuff.
He does he does good shit.
And his garden is always looking good.
He gets the garden all year, all year round.
Lucky bastard.
But.
Yeah, so it's I really enjoy hanging out with you guys and sharing information with you.
And I've learned a lot from from this channel, and I really appreciate that Peter lets me
come on here and share the stuff that that I have experienced with you guys, because
I do talk about history and I try to like make it clear that I don't whether if if it's
I'm just talking about something that is verified, like historical information or this
this is something that I have experienced firsthand.
So I try to I try to keep keep those things as separate as possible, because it's like
a lot of times people can take things and misconstrue them.
And it's like when I first came on the scene, it's like people took my name and the people
that knew that name, like took it a little too far.
Now, it's the Instagram like they basically made me like use the last part of of the Elka thing.
So I would anyway, I'm not trying to not trying to get into all of that.
But it's just interesting how things are taken in this community or group.
It's interesting as the way and we're very protective and I understand it.
I completely understand why everyone is very particular about accurate information, like
the other night, for instance, when somebody in the chat said to Ming-Jin, something about
the deep chunk and Tom and monkey balls and all of that.
And it was inaccurate.
And you could like I heard it.
I heard it at first.
And I was just like, I would like to see Gene's reaction to this.
So I went back and rewound it and watched it.
And he had like a visceral reaction to it.
And that's that's good.
That's a good thing.
It's because like somebody was trying to say something to him that he like experienced
and knew that like firsthand, like, you know, you can't you can tell you can tell me a lot
of things, but you can't tell me that this isn't right because he lived it.
And that's the way that it is.
It's the same thing with Greg in here is you you can't tell Greg that something happened
that didn't happen.
So it just that's just that I like that about this this community.
And I'm part of the Jeep community, too.
And there's a lot of that over there, too, is they're very particular is.
Yeah, they they.
They're they're they're similar to us in a lot of ways, but not all, but it's the history
is very important and accurate information is very important.
And that's like part of what's what Peter's doing here with the future cannabis project
is like he's talking to as many people that that know what the hell they're talking about
as possible.
And then he's got he's then he's got people like me.
But anyway, he he has room for a lot of a lot of very various voices.
But apparently Peter's got something to say here.
What you got, man?
I didn't realize you noticed that.
Now is listening.
I mean, I I I was just on the phone while you were talking.
I was on the phone with my friend who just sent me down some.
So for this event on Tuesday night, this is some outdoor Donnie Burger and this is some
greenhouse Donnie Burger.
And he's also going to send me the indoor Donnie Burger, which he's flowering out right
now and then more of this stuff.
But I'm psyched because he was talking about kind of from his perspective, like the outdoor
was more funky and the or the greenhouse had a little more variety of taste and flavor,
had a little more sweetness in it.
And I'm psyched to see what the indoor is all about.
His outdoor Donnie Burger was the best thing I smoked at the Emerald Cup.
And everybody there agreed like Brandon Rust was like, this is the best outdoor we'd have
ever not just ever seen here, ever seen in my life.
And so but what on the topic you were just on, like I fully know that there's a lot of
misinformation being thrown around.
My hope is out like it's kind of a question of like, do you slow it way down and verify
everybody and everything before they say anything?
My hope is that the hive mind would come in and be like, hey, that's inaccurate.
My other hope is they could say it in a politer way than it usually happens.
But like like this guy's a clown or like what an idiot.
It's like that's not how like I get it.
You know, there are people who come on regularly who, in my opinion, like 80 percent of the
time or whatever you want to put the percentage as 50, 80, say like dead on accurate stuff
and also put some misinformation out.
My hope has always been that other people would come in and be like, like, actually,
like I disagree with that or I think it's inaccurate.
And here's why.
And I feel like that would be super helpful for everyone.
My bigger picture of thinking has always been I feel like the overall good that has
been done outweighs and other people can say their opinion on whether you know what they
think of that has outweighed like the misinformation that's gotten spread like that.
I have people reaching out to me all the time talking about how they've moved to organic,
regenerative, growing vegetables instead of just wheat, like all these things that
I view as kind of like positives.
And I always try to tell like I don't say it enough, maybe, but like, you know, when
you see someone who.
Like I know St. Bernard's observation booth is watching is very smart and he's at a level
where he can be like, that's wrong, that's wrong, that's right, that's wrong, that's
right, wrong.
Other people are at a lower level.
And to those people, I always say, like when you see someone on this channel or anywhere
and you think they're an expert, don't just run and implement what they say across your
entire grow, like test it in a small area and see if it works for you.
And I feel like everybody has different ways and different paths, but like don't take some
K&F thing and and like like some K&F input and like fully or your entire crop and then
find out that you just sprayed lots of pathogens or like I use grocery store bananas and like
like what they were grown in not the best way possible.
Like I didn't know that.
And I just spray that all over my garden.
But yeah, I mean, I think my hope is that even the people at the highest level agree
that the overall good has outweighed the bad.
And that doesn't mean we can't improve.
And that's kind of why I'd love to have that checks and balances system, but have it in
a in a nice way where people aren't just like dickish to other people, for lack of a better
word.
Yeah, my mind's I don't know where I'm going with that.
I'm looking at this just came in.
This is this is a Katsu Romulan airwolf, which I'm not allowed to release until March 12th.
It's an airwolf F1.
Dog Walker OG cross with Romulan.
Awesome.
And it's really cool that you're you're bringing these these old guys back out, Peter, man.
It's like a lot of these guys that aren't known.
Like, it's really cool that you had Kagu on the other night.
It's like that's not a household name in the cannabis community.
And it really needs to be same thing with Snow High.
And really, with Snow High, it's like people aren't into the stuff that he's been holding
on to forever.
But it's it's it's legit.
He's he's got a impeccable reputation for a reason.
I hope you can make it to your thing, man.
Yeah, no, I'm psyched.
I mean, if he can't make it on Tuesday, we'll do something like this.
But no, I'm psyched to bring him on.
And I was actually just talking to someone about an older breeder up in the hills of
Humboldt, who has tons and tons of seeds.
I think, you know, for a lot of older people who have been doing a lot of breeding for
a long time, it's kind of like a confusion at what they see in the modern market where
it's like, is everybody just like pollen chucking and then selling that and other people are
buying it?
And it's like there's a little, you know, obviously there's plenty of that happening,
but it's also like as I look around here, I see, you know, stuff from Alex Hardy, stuff
from Boneyard, stuff from HBK Genetics, 707, you know, Jackson.
I mean, Jackson's stuff's all cleaned out, but like all these different breeders who
do work lines diligently and do kind of like what you would hope a breeder does.
But then there's fun, like a lot of people watching are home growers and there's fun
and kind of like they may not have, you know, worked a line to the point where every seed
I pop is going to be, you know, almost identical because I'm not growing commercially like
it's fun.
And I think, you know, it's there's room for everything.
But it was just as I was talking, not in this conversation, in the phone call, you know,
it's kind of just like these older guys who are, you want to answer that?
What did Jackson say again?
He said that it's the same thing.
It was just another name for it.
If I remember correctly, that was several days ago.
But what I brought that up for, the reason why I brought that up is why not try to get
talk to Tom, talk to the man himself?
He'll let you know.
Jackson obviously knows the story.
He knows the line.
I've heard of one of his plants he's been holding on to for a while.
It's called the monk.
And maybe that's maybe that's it.
It's the monkey balls.
It's just short for monkey balls.
I don't I don't know.
I'm just talking out my ass right here.
But what it's what it's what it's what it's what it's what it's what it's what it's what
the reason, like I said, is I brought that up is get Tom Hill.
You're talking.
You're talking to all of these guys.
Talk to him before we can anymore, man.
And he knows he knows Jackson.
So just get Jackson, somebody comfortable.
You know, it's like these guys don't want to talk to me.
They don't know me, but they'll talk to somebody they know.
Yeah, someone's Joe says I don't think Tom Hill has been vocal for a long time.
That's that that deep chunk is one of my holy grails man just because
The works already been done for me. I can I can create a really nice f1 with one of my hazes crossed into that
That deep chunk. So that's that. Yeah. Yeah, we do need Tom Hill anthocyanza. Mia is we
He did a lot for us. He only made a few things but what he made was for the the home breeder
You could tell like he was very open about it when he made his Tom Hills Hayes and he did the the Pakistani
X18 and when he did the deep chunk, he was trying to help guys like me and the other guys out there with it's that
they in the era that they grew up in it was like
if they
Seeds weren't easy to come by
one of the cool things that Kagyu talked about the other night that I found interesting is there's always been a debate between like the
later generations
when the older generations talk about how they found seeds in hash is
When you think about like screening and rubbing hash and then like a seed being in there
It's kind of it is kind of unfathomable
But Kagyu said that he found seeds in the hash as who knows maybe with it. They started the ball with a seed. I
Don't know you never know what was going on back then but it was always always like a valid argument both ways
It's like oh they were sifting
There's no way seeds made it in and then you got the other person say is like seeds add weight
They were trying to this was a commercial market and it wasn't being inspected by regulatory agencies and shit
So, you know, it's like whatever you could get out there you get out there
So I just found it interesting that he confirmed that for sure that he himself found seeds in hash from back then so
Yeah
Yeah, so so that was awesome
All right, I appreciate that it was at the the end of your do you realize that there are like 200 people watching right now
I do now I wasn't paying attention to that while I was going as
Just really trying to keep my mind as focused as possible without notes
I do I wanted to really try to do this with without notes as much as possible and like
Try to try to do it on my own
But once you get in on on this and like trying to remember like oh, yeah, I wanted to touch on this
I want to touch on that it makes it a little harder than just looking over is like, okay
Yeah, that subject hasn't been covered yet. So
Anyway, I really like the this book club idea
But the it hasn't really worked out for us as far as like getting
Getting some of the authors on here to talk about their amazing works. So well, I I think what we need to do is skip past
Just everyone knows that I'd
Reached out to Mel Frank who was super busy
Like we should have a cup and it doesn't always have to be with the author I just think of the author's living it's
It'd be cool to hold that up again
Yeah, this is this is the the cannabis specific goat grow book that I used
This is Mel Frank's book as I have a really nice collection of old high times
I would like to do a show where I go through and like
Maybe I'll like take some shots of those high times so that I'm not like high time
Those high times so that I'm not like holding it up all ghetto like I am right now. But uh,
Yeah
I'd like to share some of the information in those old high times
Magazines because they they helped me a lot with learning like cannabis specific growing and stuff
This is the cannabis isn't much different than a lot of other herbs
But once you start like wanting to breed it with the male and the female aspect of it and the diversity
That's in it and all of that. It does get kind of complicated
But growing it isn't all that complicated once you get like what what once you understand what specific things
cannabis does that say tomatoes don't do and
Corn and you know is but once you got enough plants behind your belt
You understand that everything's different and that's why they were writing those cannabis specific books back then
So what were you saying about Mel? Is he still giving you the runaround?
No, he was never giving me the right he was just super busy and
but I'm trying to get him to speak at the event on Tuesday with
with snow high and
Tyler from family tree
Which I think would be especially if the conversation is kind of going towards what snow high is all about which is a lot of
like building block land raise stuff
But I
Think if we reach out to a couple other authors
But also like I know like Brandon's been like posting books and Tony has been posting books
so I almost think it was like a book club where it's a couple people and like
Let like I think if this time slot works for you
this could be like the you know, maybe it's other stuff every once in a while, but it's also like the book club time slot and
You know like next Friday it could be like you Tony and Brandon or something like that or whoever like
like
someone can be the one to pick the book and be like I'm gonna talk about this book and kind of like my
It's it's the video cliff notes version of what everyone should get this book and then go buy it
Yeah, and it's nice to have different perspectives like several different people that have read it
They're gonna pick up different things that really worked for them or there's like hey, I'm gonna try that
So it's that yeah, it's that
So, okay. Yes. Let me show this or speaking of things that you can pick up in books. I brought this up earlier
the male Hermes I
Decided to run with that idea because he just DJ discusses that
Phenomenon in his book and
I just decided it's like it's showing female traits and
If it later on if this doesn't pan out, I'll just feed all of those
Those seeds to the birds. It's it really doesn't you know as it it's worth trying
different concepts even if they don't
Pan out and that male Hermes thing really panned out for me is that there's there's two
Hormones that are responsible for female flowers and
One of them is cytokine and cytokine and can show up in male plants pretty easily and that's gonna if it's at a
High enough level from what I've read in other plants when cytokine and shows up in spinach in a heavy degree
It flips the sex of the male plant and it starts showing female flowers
So as the cytokine and is it gonna be passed on and
Create Hermes problems in your females later on because it's a female hormone
And this could be just bro science and I'm talking out here
All I'm saying is that I saw this happen with a line that I have used for years and I I love this stuff
It's it's it really is my bread and butter. It's it's made things a lot easier for me
It took me like seven years to get that thing done. But once I have it done, I'm set for life now
I'm good. So wait just quickly because I had
in in in one of the houses I have stuff growing at I had some males that then her mead and
I just killed him
You're saying what are you saying about male Hermes?
Is what I have found with the male Hermes that I that I have used
That they didn't create Hermes problems in the female later on like you would expect
So and I'm not saying that this is always the case. It just worked with what I was doing
So so you wouldn't necessarily kill them as soon as you see
Like I had a bunch of g13
Let's say there were like 12 plants growing and I think there were like
Four males and two of them her mead and
I'm assuming it was because like, you know
I'm growing in the winter and it's like, you know the light like I had all sorts of like I was trying to like bring
them in and out and on a schedule, but obviously you're not always
accurate and
And then like what when I brought him to this guy's house to finish off like
That so that was their start as just outdoor in the SoCal winter and
It like the temperatures just dropped. It was like in the you know for everybody who's not in LA
It's it's warm, but it was like, you know
low 40s for like a week straight and then you know a
Couple weeks later so then the you know, the plants express themselves as male and female and then like a couple weeks after that
he was like two of the males are
you know starting to flower as well and
Would you have let them
Pollinate
Like like would you have called them or would you have
kept them
Well, it depends on what I was wanting to do
If I was if I was looking to breed and those males those
Those males that were turning into females had what I was looking for then. Yes
But I would like say if I was doing an open pollination, I wouldn't get rid of those no fucking way
I would get rid of those I'd want to keep those in there to keep that going on in the in the later generations and
It may be a mistake. It could be that that particular selection didn't do what happened with gene
You never know until you start doing this shit and it's this type of thing hasn't been studied
You're not gonna find papers on yeah, so it's pretty early in the life cycle
It wasn't that far along
What what is true what is definite is that the cytokine and is
Responsible for female traits is that that is that that's been found in several different plants
It's a think that there's even a study with cannabis where they talk about the cytokines in it as I once I
Learned how important hormones were in in this plant
I really dove down deep into what the what those hormones could like what they could do
detrimentally and
Beneficially for me and how I could use those things and that's
The from my line I always call the females
Ethel and the males gene and really because I started off thinking that I was looking for
males with extra ethylene
You see what I'm saying is I thought that those males that were expressing female traits were doing it because of the ethylene and
Then that's what the that's
this is what I thought at first and then I learned about the cytokine and and
That you don't need to be is scared of them. And that's
Sort of what DJ was talking about in here
He just mentions it a little bit and he's gotten a lot of hell for it over the years
But I actually tried it and it worked for me is all I can say
Yeah, and just to clarify it wasn't that bit so every morning I would bring them outside
So so basically I popped them here
If you can see
Right there and
And
You know once they started growing I would bring them outside all day and then every night
I diligently bring them back in and put them under these lights and then I brought them
you
Know at some point actually it was right before I was leaving for Christmas because I was like I'm not gonna be here for 10
days and
Even though it was a little earlier than I wanted to I brought him to
Like I'm like the squirrel
Putting plants and different people's backyards because my wife doesn't let me grow here. So
So I brought him to their final homes and and you know, that's when these things went from
You know, let's say 18 hours of light or 20 hours of light a day to you know
Right before the Solstice actually that remember the Solstice show
Yeah, so right before the right around then is when I brought them
So the light cut down but yeah, whatever it was that the the light stuff the temperature
To two of the males her meet out and
But listening to you I now wish that I had not done what I did but
Yeah, you never know until you try something man, I
Figured that the winter runs just a bonus run so
Yes
So
The bonus for me on a winter run is that always get just a little bit of extra flavor on that that cold room
So that's always what I look forward to on the winter runs
Is that just a little bit of extra something that I'm not getting on that when I just can't cool it down that much
You know, I try to keep it as the best temperature as possible
but sometimes in August you just
It gets hot and you just can't can't keep it from getting hot when you're dealing with lights. So anyway, as
It's really cool what you're doing with that ABC Peter is that is this your first time like doing any like
Breeding project or anything is doing a little little pollination with that ABC
No, I've done it for the past couple years
But the ABC
Someone who may or may not be in the chat sent it to me from Australia and
you know, it's like 20 something seeds and I
wanted to I thought it'd be cool to seed it out and then make it available to people and
And then let them play with it and then
Do my own thing with it, too. Like
You know, I I want to I want to do more with the freak show, too
like I like fun so like I like building block stuff like land race and I like fun weird stuff and
So like here I have
You know, this is some a bunch of Thai stuff
that
someone who lives in Thailand sent me and
It's like stuff like that I want to propagate and then make available to people so that they can
It's like if you know, some people have no interest in that they're like I just want the the kind of
hypeast and I don't want to say hypey stuff but like
Stuff like this probably doesn't look good. It probably it's like unwieldy to grow. It's
It's not like commercial market anything
I
View it kind of like old records, you know, it's like digging through crates and finding like cool weird shit
So so I think having the building blocks is important and if people can have it like a you know
Like different kind of land race II stuff from different regions of the world that's kind of all you know
Affordable and and then you can have your own fun and do whatever you want
It's kind of where my head's at so but
That's cool
The things that really literally tickles me is like the the guys out there that are like me
I like trying out their stuff like there's this guy
JD hogleg JD JD sent me some stuff
I'm really excited about running that this fall as I've got a plan like way ahead, but I'm doing
something similar to what you were just talking about, but I'm doing it with what I'm into is I want to
Tony baloney
I'm doing a bunch of stuff from guys in the chat room that I've hooked up with and have sent me things and
traded with and
some stuff from
Companies that I've learned about through the internet
So I'm gonna do I'm gonna do a nice little little little pop of a bunch of different people stuff and see what they're into
And what they like so it's the I'm really looking forward. It's like music
I love listening to what other people like and like do I like it all now?
But like am I gonna find something cool that I've never heard before like that's what I love
Yeah
And these guys they
They really seem like they know what the hell they're talking about and they know what they like and what they what they were doing
When they were making these these beans, so it's like yeah
I'm really looking forward to Tony baloney's beans and JD's and a few other people's I've got I bought a bunch of
Thc'd from done. I got a bunch of chocolate chunk when I was going through my Afghans
I'm not gonna use those now
But I was I'm just gonna pop all of those out and see what see what he was doing with that chocolate chunk
He's not apparently he's not making those things anymore
But when I had the chocolate chunk in the past, it was real chalky and I didn't like it
so I'm wondering like what it
Was that just a bad selection or is a lot of it like Afghan one chalky shit
so I'm
It's gonna be an adventure thing for me as I'm getting rid of all the boys
Just keeping the girls and seeing what pops out of those girls. It's good
That's what I like weird shit like that
Is with the land races the
They're interesting to me. But the thing with those is just it's it's it's a little bit too much of an adventure
it's like I'm not one with a machete slashing through the jungle finding the
Holy grail or El Dorado or whatever, you know, is that that's not me
I like to go through stuff that somebody has already done a little bit of that
Exploration on it for me because I
Don't expect to live past 60. So that's just the the way that everybody in my family has gone and my friends
And so I just that I expect I'm going to be the same way
So I try to manage my time as best as possible and I've really enjoyed spending it with with you and your your audience here
Peter thanks for letting me come on here, man. Well, I I love I'm I love when you want to come on
you're willing to come on because these are like talking to you is kind of like how I
You know
They're the they're the weed conversations. I enjoy it's like chill conversations with chill people
so
Yeah, I feel the same way. I have a lot of fun talking to you and I've learned a lot from you and your channel
Man, it's a I've always been protected by I don't know how old you are
I don't really care but I assume you're older than me 46
You're a little bit older than me not much but as
I've always had like older guys
Like kind of take a shine to me and protect me and like just be a really good friend and I feel that way
About you Peter. We've never met and we we may never meet but I really appreciate you and I consider you an actual friend
man, so that's I know you
And I definitely I would be very depressed if we don't meet in the next couple years
So we will make that happen
I can
What once my kids are a little older and I can make my my East Coast road trip
I can expand it from just Rhode Island because people like when I'm like
I'm going to Rhode Island people be like come hang out in Maine and I'm like dude
like I got like eight days with my 90 year old parents and my
Three little kids and like cousins and aunts and uncles and like I'm not going anywhere
Like I just want to chill
but at some point I'd love to start seeing people and
but that's not not in the cards right now at
like like even like like when we filmed all the Willow Creek stuff that I've been releasing there were like
Our events on this day like drive up and I was like, yeah, it's not gonna happen
Yeah
The way you're reproducing man, you're the most prolific breeder I know of
You got a lot of responsibility
Yes, my my my my jeans are strong
It's funny because all three of my kids are half Chinese and they don't look Chinese at all
Like they all look just like little mini me. I mean you guys have seen them on
The camera it's like they all look exactly like me. So
But now I always make the joke of a
Friend who has eight kids
He has four from one
Mom and four from another and I
Was like that is insane
It is insane my my dad was the youngest of 12
But back then they were breeding farm equipment like he was the last of the tractors, you know
So it was a different world of my grandma is that she lived until she was like 93
It's and smoked since she was like 14 or 15
So I said whenever I hear people like talking about how cigarettes are gonna end your life early
It's the sure didn't do it to granny and she she's so proud of me
And she she smoked coffee or smoked
Smoked cigarettes and drank coffee like all day every day until the day she died
so as
No hypertension problems for her
Well, that's like the French right like, you know, it's like you see different. It's like lots of French people chain smoke and
live long lives, so I
Think the the the modern-day American diet has a lot to do with a lot of things
Yeah, that's a great point man. Very observant of you dude
That's yeah, cuz she wasn't eating any of that shit is they produced everything themselves. I've told you about her before
It's like they they only way that they felt the depression is they couldn't get sugar and coffee
And I bet that drove her nuts because I know how that woman loved her coffee. That's why she always brought it up. I guess
They couldn't get the sugar in the coffee, but everything else they were growing on the on the farm
They slaughtered their own pigs. She made her own soap out of that fat and all is that she was an amazing woman
we need more people like that around today, but it's
You you can't even get somebody to think about a life like that now. No way
Yeah, and I always think you'd have a lot more
Vegetarians and people had to kill their own
meat right like it's all like
put in the final packaging in a grocery store where you don't have to even think about where it came from and
So I I wanted like when I have land I want to do that
Like raise my own animals and then kind of see where I personally go from there
Like my wife eats meat like she's gonna die if she doesn't and
Or like she's never gonna be able to taste it again after the current meal
But before meeting her like, you know, I eat meat but like I wasn't like, you know
I'm happy eating salads and like pasta and
So I'm not like a huge meat eater
but
Where my meat eating goes when I raise my own animals and I say if I ever want to eat meat
It has to be one of my own animals and then see what I do
Because it's a lot easier to buy it from the grocery store and not have to think about like
The animal that that got into this packaging
Yeah
It really affects me when I've got to take out a chicken and I'm like, oh, I'm gonna eat it
It really affects me when I've got to take out a chicken and we try not to waste them unless there's something like I don't
Know why it died. I then I don't then we don't eat them. They become compost but I
know these these animals I raised them from babies and
It's like having to kill part of the family, but it must be done
And it really affects me whenever I do it is and when I had to do ducks
Oh the ducks were horrible as though ducks are the I've been around a lot of animals
I had a lot of interesting pets and stuff, but ducks are the coolest animal I have ever experienced. They're really
Yeah, duck ducks are awesome. They're a little messy
That's why a lot of people don't like them
but if you can get past the that they're a little sloppy they they have like a personality you would not believe and they are
Intelligent like chickens are very intelligent, but they're vicious
Ducks are intelligent and they have like kind of a loving streak to them when they get angry
They don't like they don't try to kill each other. It's like a little like neck
Bobbing kind of thing. It's like they don't like get their bills out and try to like peck each other's eyes out like chickens do
chickens can get absolutely medieval but ducks have like a I don't want to say that
Violence shows less intelligence, but and kind of in a way it does but
Ducks are more intelligent about how they handle their squabbles and I respect that about them
So
The number one animal I've wanted since I was probably
22 is an alpaca. So
Alpaca would be at the top of the list because it's like having a bunch of dr. Seuss characters roaming around your yard
my
my brother and his wife just closed on 30 acres in Connecticut to
They have a yogurt come. I think I've told this before but they have a yogurt company called white mustache
It's Persian yogurt and they do seasonal
Fruits in it. So like they'll be peaches during peach season mulberry during mulberry season and they source them from other orchards
But they want to start producing
their own inputs
With 30 acres they could have animals and I'm like pushing like the
like the the hairy cow like the what are the like the
Is it the Irish cows or whatever that are like hairy?
That's Scottish cows
I just want animals that I'd like walk outside and be like I fucking love you guys. You're so cute
Someone showed hairy pigs on Instagram the other day. I mean pigs of any type I'd be down with like they're
I'm gonna have to do my research on like which pigs are better to have around but
Yeah cows pig goats
Chicken ducks
Goats
Chicken ducks
But else
I'm telling you man. Don't mess with chickens. Just get ducks and their their eggs are better, too
The ducks the ducks eggs have so much flavor in them
It's just that it's night and day
The only reason that we still have chickens is because my love my wife just loves those little things. That's right Highland
Highland cattle. Yeah, I mean they're more precise
Is it a sheep? Is that what it is?
No, no, no, I don't think that that's possible. Yeah, I think somebody fucking around
Yeah, I don't think that you can cross species like that
Yeah, I feel like it was someone in Humboldt who posted
pictures of their pigs, I think it was yesterday, but I
Knew a pig farmer and he could he couldn't keep him in like even if he buried like big cattle fence
So it wouldn't rust is just burying cattle fence about four feet pigs will dig out
It's it's it
He was always fighting to keep these pigs in so he just he eventually just
Liquidated all of it and gave up. Yeah is he just had so much trouble with and he had a great environment for him
It wasn't like they were trying to get out of some some sloth hole is that he was moving them around like Salatin
What it was doing and then like he then he decided is like, okay
I've got a berry fence like around the area where I'm moving them and he spent a ton of money and they were still like
Digging out when he had him up had him up against it
It was one thing they could get out of the area that he was trying to keep him in with the electric fence
But he could that that was one thing
But once they were getting out and like out into the roads and stuff like that out of the fence that he was buried
Burying he was just he he had had enough is because a lot of these farmers around here
They can get sued by somebody if their animal is out in the road and a car hits it
Like they're responsible for that person if somebody dies and all of that. So it's a it's a really big thing
so whenever I
See one of my neighbors cows out and let him know immediately if he doesn't know already
It's just it's a big thing, man
yeah, my my friend was killed by a deer that
another car hit the deer and threw it and it hit his windshield and
Then he went head-on into a third car on the highway coming the other way
Yeah
Yeah, that's
yeah animals on the road are intense, but uh
Yeah, I grew up in a body shop
So I saw a lot of the carnage from shit like that man
You see a lot of the blood still in those cars when they come and bring them to drop them off
Even if it's totaled they take it to the body shop
So you get to see all of that so I'm a very safe driver because I saw all that shit growing up
But you can't the deer drill doesn't work all the time man. No. Yeah, this is
my mom's German, so I
I've eaten a lot of goose growing up. I
Bet they're a lot like ducks. They're probably a little meaner. Yeah another minute
I mean a geese we always had geese in our yard
Because we had a pond and they'd like on their migration and they
They shit all over the place
That's there that's their big thing when they yeah, I just remember lots of goose shit
That's funny
Yeah, I was about to highlight that same exact one. I've heard the same thing
There's people that are after our eggs for the same thing as cookies
Apparently cookies there. They make the cookie a little fluffier or something. I'm not into baking
That's the wife's deal. But uh, yeah, I just love the flavor of them with bacon
so actually randomly
As I think of baking so rhubarb is something
that we always had growing outside and
growing up outside Boston and
I have like such good memories of like
my sister
Used to make rhubarb crisp
so like rhubarb and strawberry or rhubarb, but she was really good at making apple crisp and
And so I want to grow rhubarb
So that's that's I think on this year's because it comes back also every year so
No, that's cool. That's one of the things I want to grow it and then I don't know if you if you watched
One of the clubhouse conversations we had this guy mark who's like a chemist who was talking about
Catnip as a like IPM and so I'm growing a bunch of catnip
I remember I don't know if you've ever watched any of the YouTube videos with like cats kind of all
Like just like in ecstasy like rubbing up against the catnip
Yeah, I've seen it in real life as we've got catnip out there and
I actually harvest the flowers for them like weed and in the fall and
I've seen it in real life
Actually harvest the flowers for them like weed and in the fall and
It cures up and oh, they just they go to a different world. I think you could their eyes change
It's it's really amazing
I don't know if that picks up on those YouTube videos or not
But when I've watched them in real life, we had this cat. She's not around anymore
But she she she's the reason I started doing that and curing it for her like that
Is I decided it's like this is an herb just like weed why not give her the primo
So I was I was collecting it and drying it out
Just like I was during it in jars and everything and it made a difference for she loved it
Yeah, so I it's interesting things from your youth like that just stick with you and rhubarb is one of them
I've never even had that was it tastes like
Raw it's it's I
I can like feel the taste but like when it's cooked as a
like if you mix it in with like strawberries or other stuff, it has like a
sweetness to it
I
can't really describe it well, but
Yeah rhubarb
We we had right outside the house. We had a
four quadrant garden
So it was all in the ground but like rhubarb was on one side
strawberries were on the other side and then the other two beds were kind of like
putting different kind of
Stuff that would just last a season but those things kept coming back and then we had
Raspberry bushes and blueberry bushes all around the outside and it was always like competing with the birds to get them
Yeah, but uh, yeah now I grew up on
you know, I think it was like 17 acres and
I
miss I
Missed the that life like now
I live on like a quarter acre in LA and I want to get back to like having land because
Like you have land right like it's it's enjoyable
Yeah, it's beautiful. It has its you you where you are has its advantages and where I am has its advantages
You know that you've experienced both so as the on that rhubarb what you were describing
it's kind of sounds like other things in food as like
It combines well, it's like it's one thing by itself
But it turns into something different like when you say you like combine it with strawberries
it's kind of like you eat a cake and
You you eat that same cake with coffee and that cake tastes like ten times better. Is that what you're
Is that what you're saying rhubarb does that sort of thing?
Yeah, I mean, I love it with like as a crisp with
strawberry or whatever
When I think that was probably the most frequent one, I can't really remember other stuff, but uh
yeah, I I just know it's something I haven't had in a long time and I
Want to bring it back?
So I have like like actually after the experimental farm network
One we did I picked two different varietals up from them
One like one was kind of like for me
It was like from a family in Maine who's been on the same property for 40 years when they bought the property
The rhubarb was already growing there for you know
They don't know how long and I was like I want that and then there was another one that I think was like similar
Story and like New Jersey or something
So it's kind of rhubarb that's grown in the same place for
Decades or who knows how long
And now it's gonna grow in SoCal
That's awesome. There's heirloom stuff like that. It sounded like you grew up with a really cool perennial garden out back, man
That's that's beautiful. People are talking about asparagus over here, too
That's another one to add to one of those perennial gardens. So the
Yeah, the asparagus confused me because I didn't realize that it doesn't
It takes two seasons right before it actually does what you want it to do
Yeah, but realistically more than that like my mine really didn't come in and give you some nice spears until like the third season
So it really depends on mine started from seed though. I started mine from seed. I didn't start with little
Yeah, I had it it is I am gonna do it from seed
and
What were we just oh, sorry asparagus so so I had no idea so like my asparagus like it it you know
it's like so wispy right like
Mm-hmm, and I was like, okay like
When are the spears coming?
Like did I miss them were they like the first thing that shot up and I would like wasn't paying attention
And then it like grew into this wispy thing and I was like, oh no
Maybe it's the wispy thing like eventually the spears will pop up and then the wispy stuff started all getting yellow and I was like
What the fuck like I can't grow this plant like and then I started reading about it
and I realized that it's like no no like not in the for like
because I
Once it's fully yellowed. I just you know, I didn't pull the roots out or anything
I just cut it. So I have other stuff growing in that bed and
My assumption is in a couple
Weeks the rhubarb is gonna start popping back. I mean not the rhubarb the asparagus is gonna start popping back out, right?
Yes, and mine usually does it once it starts to die back like you were describing
There would be little spikes that shoot up out of the center of it as that starts to like fold over and die and yellow
off but as soon as the
Ground starts to warm up again in my area. That's when they start shooting up in the spring
We've had a warm week last week and
We're expecting another one next week. So it's a well, I'm thinking that
Everything is going to start shooting up out there. We got our autumn or whatever our spring crocus or whatever is
Popping out of the ground and flowering right now and we we had ice on the ground this morning with flowers shooting out of it
So that that's always fun to see but yeah, it's about that time. Mary Mary, Washington
Somebody just brought up Mary Washington and that's a variety that I grew
the group Mary Washington from seed and I
Just do it
I only I only eat that asparagus at the beginning of the season to like replenish my minerals because I don't like buying a bunch
of stuff from
From the grocery store during the winter time
So we get kind of depleted on our all of our our greens intake throughout the winter time
Like the only thing that I've got out there right now
That's growing is spinach and I'm trying to not pick at it too much so that I have more spinach
When it really starts to grow in the spring. So it's
we're
Same with tomatoes. We actually did break down and like we bought some
some
Ken
Cantadina, I can't remember the name of them
But we actually bought some store-bought tomatoes and I had to like put them in a bag
And they've been in a bag for a week and they're still not right they're red but they're not right
But I like I keep pressing on them and they're like rocks
Yeah, I wonder if they're gonna ripen or rot first. So anyway, this is kind of get picky
Like we're talking your your
Your basil is now growing in the garden. Oh
also, I
finally
The basil I had previously I finally like
Fint like seeded because I had it in a couple different beds and
so yours is is
this year's basil which will hopefully stay and
I have a whole bunch of little plants that are about that big
Awesome, man. Is it did you get any spotted ones?
Well, it's weird show early. They're they're green and then purple on all the tips
Okay. Yeah, that's normal. That's normal for that variety
But the the spotted ones are the ones that they're just prettier
they have the same smell and flavor as all the rest of them, but in the I was talking about f2s earlier is
that's what I made the f2s with is I
kept all of the spotted ones from the f1s alive and
I was I was hoping that I would be able to select for that spotted basil down the line
But the ones that had the flavor that I really liked
Weren't the spotty ones and like the in the f2s and f3s and stuff
So I had to like I had to I'm dealing with culinary herb here
So it doesn't matter what it looks like
But I really like kind of got hung up on those really pretty spotted basil plants because it would have set mine apart from all
the rest not only
Smell and taste wise but also visually but anyway, I'm really proud of that stuff
I'm glad you decided to try some
Yeah, and I was waiting because I didn't want it to like
You know and I have all the tomato so I pulled the tomato the tomatoes I had going my neighbors came over for dinner one
Night and we're like these are the best tomatoes I've ever had
And I was like I got a guy I was like fuck do I keep these going or like so I save seeds of them
and
Your yours are up next on the tomato front
Awesome
Yeah
Somebody was asking me in the chat last time. I was in the chat room about me getting some
vegetable seeds out there to them as I
Got to remember to do that. It's it
Well, I try to share as much as I can
But it cost me like five to ten bucks to send a package out each time that I want to share it with somebody
You know what? I mean, man?
Yeah, all I mean and that's what I'm trying to do like yeah like vegetable see it's like that's why I give people seeds
whenever they buy
cannabis seeds because I'm like
Something's already going to you and like with your basil
I want to do what I did with the other base
The other basil was great, too
but I basically let it go to seed and then I just give it away to people and that's kind of how I've
Made that happen is like I send tons of packages out every day and I'm sticking in different
Vegetables that are finishing in my garden and actually the interesting thing is like tomatoes are a form factor where it's like
like stuff that's in little pods like brassicas right like the long or like radishes are super easy just to
You know you you let the pods dry out and you stick some in
Like there's the Swiss chard
But tomato
it's like I'd have to like put effort into getting the seeds out of
like it's more work right like all my I mean I have like big bins of
I'm looking at like rat tail radish and daikon and all my wacky Asian
Hansai Thai tatsoi choi sum
There are things that once they finish the process I
can like put them in a bin like like cucumber like I don't really feel like spending time pulling cucumber seeds out and
Like it like the the rat tail radish hold on
As I know what he's talking about. It's like different types of seeds are really a bitch to deal with man
It's like sometimes you just don't even want to mess with them
So that's what I think that's what he's getting at is like sometimes the processing isn't worth what you get out
So this is a rat tail radish
Right so they're now dry and then I realized that they don't really fit into these small
ones
So I was like alright. I'll do bigger ones, and then I'll basically just like
You know what I want people to see is kind of like
like where the seeds come from so I want them to see this whole thing and
So when I send it, then I'll put it
But I'll rip this
Actually, so here's one of the seeds shit right well that's you got lost
But there are a ton of seeds in here and I'd like for me like I never you know
It's like I didn't think about
Maybe it's just kind of like what I find interesting. I'm like
That's kind of cool like like
Like black sesame. I'm growing right now, and I I don't know what
Black sesame looks like when it's like
Flowering and then seeding, but I'm excited to find out and I like the idea of sending it to other people
Where they like they're like what is this and it's like a pod and it's like oh
I didn't know I didn't know that broccoli like that. I only buy in the grocery store
eventually keeps pushing out and
Then produces all these little like long thin seed pods like
So my hope is that people you know some of you know this stuff inside and out
But I feel like for a lot of people it's kind of like I like I like not taking these seeds out of this thing
and
Just sending someone the seeds
Because then they wouldn't know that it grows in this thing that makes sense
Like I like that I learned that like I didn't know what rat tail radish does until I grew it up
Yeah, and that is definitely longer than your normal radish seed pod
I can see why they called that the rat tail radish. What did the radish itself look like?
So this one doesn't have a radish really that's the interesting thing about it, but the
Luobo
Let me share my screen
Which so I have Luobo over here, and I have
watermelon radish over there
But the Luobo hold on let me share my screen Chrome tab
I'm trying to figure out which window this is gonna share hold on
Give me one second
My gardening Instagram
There we go, okay
Everybody give me one more second and then we'll let everyone go this is
Your your presentations gone off the rails
I
Don't know if I can do this
I can't I can't do this
I can't do this. I can't do this. I can't do this
I can't do this. I can't do this. I can't do this
So this is
Let me find oh, okay, so this is this is the Luobo
Look at that
That thing's a beast. Yeah. I mean that that's bigger than a lot of the daikon
So any garden really is always so beautiful man
It's like you sometimes you've got stuff flowered out sometimes you've got actual vegetables going sometimes this is
This is actually my favorite. This is
This is the dog on it or scaredy cat
But I love those flowers and
this is
Tyler from family tree brought these over and I rooted them out and now I have a ton of them and they smell
they smell like weed and
They're awesome
That's that's cool that kind of looks like a mint it's like something in the mint family
It's got the same type of flowers and I feel like it is
Those were the assassin bugs that were on the squash
I'm
About to follow some of Tyler's instructions here in a week or so whenever my soap shows up
Very helpful guy that Tyler
Yeah, this is this is when I was first planting them those are definitely mints because those are mint coitulant
This is when we pulled
On but what I want you to do because we don't know if it's poisonous or not
That's a why it's fine, it's a friendly why it's eating okay
Yeah, so that this is the I
Like my caption
Yeah, the shard is prolific so those were these were some of the tomatoes I had going that I've since pulled
But anyway, what one of the conversations I want to have is
Like whether you're an expert in it or we need to find someone else but it's like what can I and can I not
plant near each other or how far do certain things have to be from each other so that if I want to
like it like if I want to do these seed runs of a
Specific radish or like a brassica like the brassica family is huge, right?
And it's kind of like what can I grow in the same place that they won't cross pollinate each other?
You know like right now I have a whole bunch of
Romanesco broccoli that I want to
Grow out and then seed out, but I'm like, can I grow?
like like even even the
the Chinese like the the
The choice some is it's a brassica like can I grow that next to it?
Or am I gonna am I gonna have like a half broccoli half like bok choy looking?
thing
Or like a broccoli broccoli Rob be planted next to
Like can mustard greens be planted next to
The Romanesco like I don't know
But I'd like to learn
Yeah, it's a really good question as useful information to there's a book out there that I got it from the library
But I really didn't look at it too much. It was a
carrots love tomatoes and
It was talking about companion planting and there was a section in there of don't plant these things next to each other for cross
pollination cross pollination purposes and
Also is that their roots don't get along? That's what I picked up
I didn't read much of that book
but the coolest thing that I learned out of that thing was that some plants roots don't like other plants roots and
They like put out the exudates to
Basically declare war on them
Honeysuckle I found out is one of those
Honeysuckle will try to kill everything else around it
So that's a I I respect that plant
This is muscle not yours, yeah
It's it's a weird world out there under our feet and we don't understand a fraction of it
It's a fraction of a fraction of it, right?
well with that I'll
Let you guy I gotta I gotta put up
I gotta do data entry with aka bean brains in advance of tonight's show
Hold on Greg saying that he was censored. No. All right, so I didn't answer Greg now. He was timed. I would never
by st. Bernard's observation booth and it was only even though they disagree and
It was only because you were getting so Greg
Apologies, but
Elka was trying to give a presentation
for the first time ever and he does read the chat and he was getting
distracted with all the political talk and then you say one thing from one side of the political aisle and someone else responds and then there's a
bickering in the chat and it was it was not conducive to
Elka that's why you eventually stopped reading the chat to write
So, yes the hope in that specific instance was that the chat
Helps Elka by just staying on the topic
because he's doing his best and
and
Was being distracted when when you know, it's like you have the main chat and then like all these
It's like all these side chats that are all over the place and I'm guilty of it
I'm not I do it all the fucking time. I
Completely understand so as I wasn't getting that upset about I just didn't understand what was going on over there. So that was like
You're learning what I deal with every day where I'm like trying to like
Keep up with what's going on in the chat and then like I'll tune out and I'll tune back in and I see like three
people fighting with each other and like what I have to like scroll way back up to be like
All right
that that's why I said like I love when I just talk to someone like you because we can just chill and
Like do any of you see the two of us bickering with each other
And we don't agree on everything either that's you know, that's that's kind of how adults communicate
You don't have to do with somebody. I like I respect Greg more than anything
I love listening to Greg's comments whether he's talking about politics or weed or whatever the hell as I
Respect him so fucking much and I'm sorry that you were offended my man, but
It wasn't me. And but it's just that I get it. I
Get that not everybody wants to hear it. That's not that's not what you're here for
He is the political conversations can be had elsewhere
But there's a reason why I called Greg professor there for a little while
Because all professors that I've ever dealt with you get education
But you also get a little bit of their political leanings whether they're right or left or middle or any of that is they they just
Can't help it. They have you as a captive audience. So they're going to
Try to influence you the best that they can they also feel like that they that it's part of their job
And whether that's true or not, that's just that that's the way of it
So I made a little joke about it and it started a colony professor McAllister because you just accept it from from people
You know, I said, I don't mind it. I don't agree with it, but it's whatever
I think that the big orange is just as bad as bad as the big guy, you know
Big orange wasn't great. But the big guy ain't so great either man. So whatever
Political shit. It's the there's that's a whole whole other segment some of my favorite
I mean growing up, you know, we had six people in my family. So it was like dinner time was all about
It was like shit going on in the world and like different opinions and people
debating and stating their points and I used to I was the youngest so like I
used to love those family conversations and
That's what I love for my kids to have we're like at the family
Dinner table we can all have different opinions and listen to other people and then make your point and make it convincingly
And you can also agree to disagree like, you know, I have plenty of friends who think differently on a lot of topics and I'm like
We're never going to agree on that topic
So
Yeah, that's
The the most politically astute person that I ever knew was my grandmother and she was very left-wing she was she liked
Gore Vidal
Gore Vidal she loved you know who that is Peter as I dropped Tim Russert's name the other day and you knew who that was
I was like, yeah
All right
So she was a big big fan of his in the 60s and 70s and everything and she just like kept that
Kept that going so as I got a really good perspective from that side
And then her one of her was very right wing and she just loved the Bush family and everything
So I got a good education on what both sides were about listening to those to argue at family shit
So I've been through all of that shit is that it it's fun to watch
It doesn't look like it's fun to like get all
Charged up and participate in it and these people don't affect your life as much as you think they do
They're you're letting them do it with all of that like taking taking over your mind and where you're focusing your energy
So let that be what I tell you about politics
Yeah, and also what like I also miss
You know like the NBC nightly news broadcast when I was little right like you have like Tom Brokaw or Dan Rather
And it was like it wasn't an opinion on what first of all it was more global because I feel like
Fox
CNN MSNBC all they talk about is American politics as a as
like
Two teams and who's currently winning and losing and I'm like, I don't like there's more to
All of the I think you and I talked about this the other day
There's more to this like I want to know like
there was a mudslide in like Haiti like
Give me the news on that like there was something going on elsewhere in the world. Like it's not all political
And I and I get so tired of all the I mean, I don't really watch the news networks
But like when you turn them on it, you know what you're gonna get it's gonna be like
You know the Democrats won some points here today, but the Republicans like, you know, we're gonna take it and blah blah blah
And it's like that's for me. That's not the news
And I just miss someone just telling me not telling me what to think about it, but just telling me what happened
Like Russia invaded the Ukraine like here's what we know about it
You know
some natural disaster here
But yeah, like the family conversations growing up like because I used to help my mom cook dinner and I just remember we'd always have
the nightly news on and
It's like I also have fond memories of that
Yeah, this is you you learn a lot listening to older folks if they've been around longer than you have
So it's like some of that you may not agree with what Greg has to say over here in the chat room everybody
But he has he's been around a lot longer than you and he's seen some shit that you haven't seen
It's including war zones. So, you know, just keep the when you when you're like bashing somebody
Keep in mind who it is that you're bashing. It's like you really don't know this person
Or we can treat Greg as our grandpa and say that's grandpa being grandpa and
He's earned that right, right?
Absolutely. Absolutely, especially for us man. If you don't know what Greg did for you
educate yourself
If you're smoking weed right now Greg had a lot to do with that being possible
So anyway with that
I
Appreciate you taking time out of your day and I everybody I hope everybody in the chat appreciated it and
Yeah, we should do this
I'd be psyched if you did if you did this every Friday and I could jump on when I can and not have to
And I think if you had a crew of people that you could
And I think if you had a crew of people that you could you know, it's like on today's episode we have like
So Brandon rust who was here like three weeks ago or whoever?
It'd be fun
Yeah, we could pull in some people who haven't been like blew a green tank hasn't been on in forever
There you go. He's cool cat. He's East Coast. He's on your time zone
He's into dogs too, I'd like to pick his brain about dogs and stuff is you could you could get Nick for dogs, too
Yeah, Nick
Nix is I saw Nick on the news like when it was happening
Nicks Nick's cool cat. It's like if I ever do anything with the the state name on it
I'm gonna run it through him first
because he's the
He's the guy that's gonna run it through him first
He's got to be the judge
Yeah, no, I think it also be fun to like
Do deep dives and the other?
like I want to hear people talk about hops breeding or like tobacco or
People who are into like you just mentioned dogs
Like even like cows right like all those different cow like the highland and
Remember watching a YouTube video where they showed off like 12 different
Types of cows that are like the super muscly ones. I don't know if you've ever seen those ones
That's all the cows around here super muscly I don't know I really don't know what you're talking about
Is that they literally look like bodybuilders like like not just a little muscly like like like
Jack's like I don't know actually hold on. Let me probably find a picture
Texas Longhorns are pretty they got a big physique on them
But so does a an Angus bull an Angus bull that said I've never seen a cow bigger than a full-grown Angus bull
They are intimidating
They're they're peaceful as can be unless they're separated from their females or there's a group of females around that they don't
Know aren't theirs. Oh, man, that is that looks
That's a real cow Wow
Belgium
As why do they do that?
Like they always take something and they like take it to the like the Malinois for example
like we were just talking about the Nick and the German Shepherd is isn't a Malinois just like a
Jacked up German Shepherd like that cow
Yeah, I my assumption is these cows are not the healthiest
But I mean now you get what I'm saying right like it's it's the must like this muscle cow
Yeah, that's what else you gonna call that and really if you're making a meat cow, what else are you?
You know, they I guess they were successful in their their breeding goal there
You want as much meat as possible? There's plenty of meat on that cow. I imagine it doesn't taste any different than a normal cows cuts
There's just more of it. That's insane. Look at the neck on that thing
It's like it's like a human on steroids is what it looks like
But they would they wouldn't be able to get away with that it's like because they're all coming out of the mama looking like that
That's not steroids doing that. That's crazy
Yeah, I guess that's for the pictures actually, all right, so while I'm on this
Somebody says tough meat, I guess that kind of makes sense it like
Yeah, there's your little cute cow
As they have a lot of those at petting zoos, they're very
Like having one of those roaming your yard would be pretty satisfying
yeah, that's
That's pretty cool. So anyway, all right, should we call it?
Yeah, man, this is what two and a half hours. That's that's that's enough for me, man
There's never gonna be another one of those 12-hour things. I don't know how that
turned into that monster it was it was cool and I
I
Felt bad like trying to end it because it once I realized that I was in control of whether that thing kept going or stopped
I was like shit. These people are having so much fun doing this. I'm tired as high as hell and
It was it was that was an experience. I
I'm glad that that happened. It was a lot of fun. There's two is a cool cat. Tony's a cool cat
It's the wealth of knowledge on that thing, man
Yeah, that was that was epic the twists and turns of that conversation
Yeah, and it wasn't planned at all
It's like you couldn't plan it to do what it what that thing morphed into is
You had the right people there to is Trevor
Yeah, that was really cool
Yeah
I mean
I think the only the only reason we ended when we ended was because I think I was like I think
YouTube has like a 12-hour limit and once you go past that it like shuts it down and
I remember another one when I went to go visit my parents in Florida
for my dad's
What was it his 91st birthday
It was like
Six hours and I I was like got drunk. I got like rip-roaring drunk during the conversation
I like fell asleep on the couch listening to it woke back up and I was like, holy shit. They're still going
Yeah, oh I agree with you chronic wonders I'm hoping that I can stay up late enough to watch that live
I was hoping Chad would show up is Chad hosting that aka bean brains. Yeah, I was about
Trying to break trying to wake my mouse up and get it over there. Anyway, that's uh, yeah
I have a question for being brains. I hope that I can stay awake for that
So I was also hoping that Chad would be here so I could just have him run the errand for me. But
Anyway, why don't you say the question all of these on there?
Yeah, no, I'm psyched. I mean
like snow high next week
Yeah, there are a couple other and I'm trying to tease out some I mean people that nobody even knows
Out of the out of the hills as I should say
Roy Dugan
that was the
the seed company episode the 12-hour marathon craziness as
a thing
That was a clubhouse conversation
Okay, right. What was it? It was on it wasn't like a video
Yeah, he wanted to do it on clubhouse he's a private cat and I don't blame him
Yeah, and just just quickly Jason's mentioning
this picture
So that's the man who's coming on tonight awesome
That is too cool
I've got some of his beans that I'm wanting to pop. I got his collection of
Catalogs too. And so he's sending down
He's got so much the 907 blue jeans Americana consumption Hawaiian cat piss
MTF back cross for nl1 and l5 and l5 big fuck the Williams wonder
Say a bunch of stuff
That's he's got a bunch
I want to ask him about his whole Hawken like how the hell he got that dwarf. He has something very very special
So we should do a wahak in conversation because earlier today I was talking
wahak in and
This guy we're hopefully gonna tease and they coming on
Has been doing a ton of work with that
And
But anyway, I'm realizing that I haven't eaten any food all day I
Had lunch right before this so
We'll let everybody go man. We we always ramble here at the end just talking to each other
Is that I guess that's what a conversations about right? It just goes and goes and then when it's done, it's done
so
All right, so I'm gonna end it peace everybody
All right, I hit the button
