Good morning, everyone. We are live and Sir Lancelot is traveling across the oceans to
Thailand and we have Kitty. And what time is it there?
It's 1 AM. So like if I cut more than one way through, it's no one's fault except for
my own.
No, we definitely have to thank you because that's one thing that, I don't know, in general
Americans aren't really good on the global clock, but it is a big difference. It's a
big difference in Asia. I remember being out in Singapore and friends were calling me at
all hours of the day and night. So I want to thank you for joining Kitty. I want to
welcome everyone. This is our latest Seed to Social show. And as Peter was kind enough
to share, we're going to APAC or the Pan Pacific as I like to call it, to talk to Kitty, who
I consider a good friend in Asia that is very much an advocate, if not almost an activist
I'd say. You've always led all of your conversations and all of your interactions as it pertains
to cannabis back to education. And I know that's where we really hit it off because
we both, like many in the industry, we lead with education and conversation and helping
people understand the benefits of the entire plant, not just of THC, not just of CBD, but
of whole plant solutions. So thank you for staying up late. And I know you have a lot
going on. You have a lot of projects and we'll get into that just now. So definitely
welcome to the show.
Thank you for having me. It's okay right now, the amount of busyness, it just adds an extra
hour onto my bedtime. So I'm cool right now.
We won't keep you too long, but we'll jump right in because kind of first, I think starting
at the ground level, and of course this is information I have and you know it so much
better because it's your backyard. But just kind of reflecting for those that don't know
specifically in Thailand, cannabis was legal at one point. You all have a very long history
of ties to cannabis, right? Up until 1930 when of course the international pressure
came and Western civilization was-
Legalization, actually prohibition came a lot earlier than the single convention. It
was actually back in, I think it was 1922.
Oh my gosh.
It was actually, they put a criminal charge as well as a fine onto doctors who actually
put cannabis into their medicine recipes. So it came out around a time when gratin was
also ended up being made illegal because it was kind of a bit more on the taxable opium
dens. So that was out in the break.
Oh my gosh. So even further back, because that's what they'd always taught us. Oh, it
was in the thirties and Salinger, this whole movement that was happening with prohibition
on our side of the pond, so to speak. So you guys were ahead of it. And that is crazy.
You point out something that a lot of people don't realize that serums and elixirs were
very common back in that day and age, right? Just in medicine in general. I remember seeing
some of the bottles here, stateside cough syrups that had a certain level of cannabis
derivatives in it as well as opioid derivatives in it too. So it was definitely a different
time, right? Almost a century ago.
Yeah. We actually have a lot of Thai traditional recipes, but in the way that it's used back
then, it's nothing that you would see here. They would only use small parts of it. Say
if there was 20 plus ingredients, cannabis would only be just one. So it's not a key,
but it's kind of there to all work together as a synergy of all various different herbs
and spices and things.
And that's very much a nod to Eastern medicine, right? So myself, we've talked about before
growing up in San Francisco, I was so thankful of the influence of Eastern medicine being
for us, our Chinatown, not the highest populated, but the highest land size as far as Chinatowns
go in the US. We're very fortunate in San Francisco and being exposed to that Eastern
medicine. But you make a valid point to where those other ingredients might've been turmeric
or ginger or other herbal elements as opposed to pharmaceutical grade elements, right?
Yeah. Our way of traditional use can be actually very different as well. The elders,
they like to just put in water, tea, and it would be like, say, the top buds. And because
of what we're talking about, like sativas that are here, sometimes they even put in the leaves
into the soup and it's kind of used more like a backyard herb.
Okay.
It would be like, we would also grow like ginger in the backyard as well as like basil,
holy basil as well, like the hot basil and all of various different herbs that we would use
in our cooking. So I would say that cannabis would actually used to fit in that categories
back in the days. And it was kind of overlooked because it's just one of those things.
It's another plant, right? From the garden.
It's a plant, like come on.
So kind of fast forwarding to today, we've again had some great conversations. I don't think,
at least I don't know of anyone that's more in touch and not just in Thailand and better part
of Asia as far as what's going on than you. I mean, you always, when we catch up, you have all
the great insight and information. And even I remember one of our last conversations, you were
talking about some of the characters that are kind of popping up on the scene over there, which gave
me flashbacks of not the medical movement in this state, but the adult use movement when friends
like Frenchie can only used to dress in marijuana suits and very flashy, almost like what you would
expect out of a Cheech and Chong or Dazed and Confused movie versus more of taking it serious
and kind of a nod to the mainstream. So how is the scene over there as far as current state with
cannabis?
We're moving along. It's getting a little bit better, but it also equates to like,
we're actually going into the miss, the gray market, you know, that the medical
time in California where you can go and get your IDs, but technically there's no such thing as ID
here. But at the same time, the way that the police and our system, the way that the system
of the government and all of that is done tend to kind of equates to loopholes because the police
are not up to date with all the rules. And we don't have like, say a computer in the police car
that would like, you know, be able to know as soon as they have your ID of what you've been up to
or where you are going, even though technically it's kind of in place because we're supposed to be
like a digital 4.0 type of thing. Apparently we have digital ID project thing that's supposed to
be going on, which would actually help ease all of this. I would say bullshit that surrounds it. So
it's, but then again, like this is Thailand, like that seems to be like the best answer I can give
many people. And for those that actually lived here or know of Thailand, they would totally
understand that. It's a very hard thing to explain, but we are right now entering into that
part of what used to be history in other parts of the world where legalization was still in place.
And we are now entering into that part of what used to be history in other parts of the world
where legalization occurred. So the gray market bit, let's see how long this lasts. I would say
like, I would say that we hopefully we would find our way within two or three years into some sort
of better control, especially with more and better technology that we, and cheaper technology that we
have. So we have a digital ID type of thing where we can actually do the tracking and tracing and
not just following what's, we don't always have to follow the rules of the international, how
say how the US is doing it, how Australia or how Canada is doing it. We should be doing our own
rules that make sense for us in the way that the people within this industry
would actually operate. Is that too much to ask? It seems so simple.
I think you're right because you pointed out something that's quite obvious is in talking to
friends, having friends tied to government all the way through to gray and to black market
or illicit market to be PC. You're right, a lot of countries, they've had, I know the
prime ministers that have visited Canada, out of Ireland and France and in England
and everyone's looking to Canada and I get it because it's a commonwealth country and
in the connection there with the likes of Australia and other countries or city states.
But you're right, like Canada hasn't even figured it out and Canada, oh by the way,
is a very different market, not just geographically and demographically, but even
all the way down to climate and logistics is very different than a place like Thailand or even
Australia, which I'd love to get into for those that haven't noticed because I picked it up the
first time we met, a little bit of that Australian accent. We will talk about the southern pan
Pacific too, but like Australia, they're still trying to figure it out, right?
New Zealand, unfortunately they didn't get the vote through, but I guess the public wasn't ready,
which I actually respect that, that while the public feels like they're not ready, it's okay,
we can go again. But I would say that many things are developing internationally,
especially for cannabis. I have a feeling that I do see that a lot more bigger players getting
involved, like Wrigley's, Gums has just declared that he's in. And I would say that without the
private sector, a lot of people go, oh no, the suits are coming. It's like, yeah, but at the
same time, without the suits, we won't be able to have it so mass that it will eventually be
forcing the world into legalizations in some way or another. If there's such a freaking high demand,
everyone will want to get involved. And then the countries that don't legalize will end up,
will have to legalize it somehow, just like say in Dubai, where you can go and still drink at the
hotel. It's like, and also people have the right to get high, God damn it.
Yeah. No, you have a very valid point. And I said something that was maybe a little
controversial in hindsight, while on a panel with ICBC with our friend Alex Rogers,
and it was in San Francisco. So it was actually in my hometown. So maybe I felt a little more
comfortable, but I'm like you, I was up there and people are constantly going on about to your point,
big pharma, big alcohol, big tobacco. I said, you guys, they're coming. Not only are they coming,
but technically they're already here. To your point, we knew about Wrigley on the down low
for the last few years. We knew about Celestial Brands partnering with a certain LP. We knew about
Anheuser-Busch having ties amongst others. Never mind the GW pharmaceutical deal. I mean,
that was news I just posted up last week on LinkedIn. That's a big deal for GW pharmaceuticals
to get swooped up by an American pharma company because of the fact that they are the largest
medical grade cannabis distributor and exporter in the world. And they're out of England, which
can't even get their shit together. So I agree, there has to be that balance. And we hate to
compare it to alcohol. I know you're like me, it's very much two separate topics, but it's easy for
us to compare because of the likeness and prohibition. And it's going to go micro macro.
We've seen that in markets like Colorado. You have Live Well, the John Lawrence operation,
which is very, it's $80 an ounce. It's that low. And then you have the clinic or someone who's a
bit more craft. And obviously individuals like myself gravitate towards one more than the other,
but there's those people that just want quantity. They're the Bud Light drinkers versus the Guinness
figures. So, no, but, but yeah, so like, it's, it's not just, I would say that like the whole
reason cannabis is, I would say very formidable as a, as a could be like a, what's that word?
Disruptor for many industry. Like we only just overlooked that, you know, just brief about
alcohol. Don't forget about food. I see the biggest thing coming up is plant-based food
and hemp seeds. This is where, this is where I'm like really gonna focus this year.
Hemp seeds, chicken. So it will have actually higher protein than actual chicken and it will
be healthier and you don't have to kill a chicken or grow it. Yeah. And that's even here. A lot of
people are realizing that. I encourage our friends that are listening in on the U S side, go to your
local Whole Foods, to your local Trader Joe's, to your local Sprouts. And there's been hemp seed
based products on the shelves for years. And to your point, just like back in the days, right?
In Thailand, it's kind of been under radar because people are just like, well, hemp seed,
like hemp can't get you high. And it's just the seed and it's raw, you know? So it's never,
now all of a sudden it's kind of coming in because unfortunately the big movement with CBD and the
FDA and USDA getting involved. So things have changed. But to your point, it's, it's been one
of the, I mean, this country, again, going back to the U S, you know, what they called at the time,
Indian hemp was one of those foundational crops for this country. And you can pay your taxes with
it. I mean, this is, this is fact, you know, before things got crazy, but again, you know,
talking about what's going on out there. And we we've discussed this too, you know, as far as
what's on our radar, rather it be from our friends at Prohibition Partners or MJBiz, Daily, or any of
the news outlets. The focus mainly is stories on Thailand and South Korea. We obviously don't hear
too much about cannabis and any of the other, you know, countries, albeit large or small in,
in the Northern Pacific. Is it really that like, you and I have had this convo, you know, you're
like, no, Lance, it's not quite there yet. We're not quite there. Like all this news is interesting,
but it almost sounds like to a certain extent, you're saying it's kind of propaganda, right?
It's kind of a little bit more insinuating that things are more legal and things are further along
than they really are. Right. Yes. Like CBD is still very restrictive. Like even though we only
recently on the 29th of January, it was allowed for us to file for a license. So that was the day
that it was allowed. So the form for the actual application process came out the night before at
like 11 PM. This is apparently the platform where they will actually accept the submission is not
really done yet. So, and CBD is still as rich, pretty much as restrictive as THC. And there is
no way for that to go into say food or cosmetic products yet because the FDA haven't figured out
what's the amount that should be for the products and what type of products. Also, even hemp seeds
itself, this is where I'm trying to focus. And this is where I'm going to get my way some way or the
other. Do not mess with a scone kitty. It's just as simple as that. So with that in itself, like
even the government officials aren't educated enough. When they were phone, like called up and
asked, like, we would like to get an application license to be able to grow hemp seeds to be made
to food. And they just go, the rules for that hasn't been out yet. So you can't do that yet.
You can only do it for cosmetics right now because the labeling rule has just came out.
And then it's like, no, but we want to eat it. And she's just kind of went back and just go like,
what if someone ate too much of it and die of a heart attack?
Like what? You don't know what you don't know.
And then she goes, you need to have human trials. And I'm like, okay, maybe I will make some like
granola bread or something. And then like, see, like you guys eat it. Then let's see if anyone
dies. You joke, but that's how tomatoes made it in the States. A guy went to the steps of the
Capitol and started eating a whole basketball to prove that you're not going to die from consuming
tomatoes. It sounds so crazy when we look back at it, which all of this I think will be trivial,
but that does beg the question of, you know, as the WHO, you know, the World Health Organization,
now they've been out for some time and be more supportive and trying to help destigmatize and
eliminate some of the taboos associated with cannabis and specifically hemp. But now the UNODC,
you know, United Nations finally coming around to that as well. Does Thailand look to
international governing parties like that for influence or for educational insight? Do they
do they turn to that or do they turn to Israel, which is doing all the medical and scientific
study on that now? You understand that apparently we bleed different colored blood. So any research
doesn't count unless it's done in Thailand. And also like we can't even just translate it and
give it to them. Yeah. So it has to be done in-house per se. And everything's right now is
to be done in-house, even though we don't actually have, we do have some expertise. Like I wouldn't
say that we don't have, I would say that it's more of a, how do we make it better? How do we get more
yield out of it? How, how, how do we make sure that those strains actually acclimates to our
environment, especially with our high humidity? How, how do we grow it at different parts of
Thailand? When do we need to rest our fields? And I'm really focusing on the hemp seed because
it's probably easier to convert sugar cane farmers or corn farmers or rice farmers into
doing hemp seeds than to do cannabis. And also we won't be able to export cannabis. Like we'll be
limited to like America, Canada, and like what, England. It will only be CBD. And I know that CBD
is not what's needed in those countries as much anymore. Like, come on, we went through COVID.
It's like, if it doesn't get me high, it ain't gonna do it. Like I totally understand it. It's
like, it's like, yeah. So like it needs, people needs to have the edge taken off. Like, come on,
be real. So, but I would say that people will still always want food. They will always need to
eat. Yep. Very true. And how yummy would it be if we can make like say plant-based fried larb
or yeah, or like, you know, like a Thai style chicken that is even plant-based.
I would say that there may be a better product that people may want now that is more healthy,
that is good for the environment. And that is like giving like farmers opportunity to, you know,
do something that rather than just growing sugar cane and then burning it and then making
places around there, like high with PM 2.5. That's the problem that we have right now in Bangkok.
Every other morning I looked out my window and it looks like mad mass.
Crazy, crazy. And those things matter. And you touched on earlier about how this plant,
even just speaking ambiguously, how much of an impact it can make in disrupting other
industries, right? Again, not to flashback, but you know, that was all the way down to the
influence of William Randolph Hearst and the paper industry had on suppressing the hemp industry here
domestically because they saw the fact that versus paper where, you know, this crop they
commoditized and they're able to own this huge land and property, you know, it's proprietary
because there's only so many trees and so many age. To your point, hemp's a perpetual crop. I
mean, even in Thailand, you all could really grow it year round to your point, if you have the right
cultivars and something that's acclimated to that market. But I saw some of that in Thai stick and
there's definitely land races associated with the Asian, you know, communities and continent. But
to your point, it is a disruptor because it disrupts the paper industry, it disrupts the
cotton industry, it disrupts the plastics, anything you can make with oil based products,
you can make with hemp based products. And then nevermind, to your point, the health attributes
that are associated with segwaying into the food. And I agree with you, I think bio,
we were all meant to consume plant based this this whole meat eating hardcore protein,
that was never meant to be the epicenter of our diets. It was always meant to be plant and seed.
Bacon though.
Bacon, sorry.
I'm sorry.
It's like I can go plant based most of the time, unless it's for bacon, then it's like...
Oh my god, that pork belly is legit over there, by the way. I did. The first time I had proper
pork belly was on Japan Airlines flying over to Tokyo. Oh my gosh. Now I know what it's all about.
It's beautiful.
I would say that I see a lot more food products coming out of Thailand. That is there for
the consumer that is looking to move forward into like, I would say, I think it is my...
True story.
Love you, Jodi, man. Shout out, dude.
But yeah, like, we want to still be the kitchen of the world. Like Thailand is,
you know, we name ourselves the kitchen of the world. I have no clue who named us that. But still,
we're apparently with the kitchen of the world. And also, we also have a really good medical
tourist, tourism thing going on there. But unfortunately, COVID is not really
helping with that. So export seems to be like the only way to kind of really get this kind of
out of the way. And I also see like cosmetics to be it. I see a lot more natural,
natural plant based cosmetics as well. Especially... Oh, actually, there's another big news
apart from the hemp thing. Gratom is looking at being fully lifted from the schedule 5 narcotics
here by June. Oh my gosh.
That's huge.
As you know, it's had a bit of a rough ride here in the States. I mean, it got categorized with
spice, you know, it really... I think we can keep it as spice. We'll move with that. But like,
this is something that's huge right now. And we're looking at like the possibility of having
three plants in your backyard.
Well, they're indigenous, right? I mean, I haven't done too much homework on Gratom. But that is
something that is a derivative more indigenous to, again, to Asia versus, you know, the Americas,
as an example, right?
There's pretty much three main places where you can actually get them, which is Indonesia,
Malaysia, and Thailand. And there's like a specific... it likes to be grown in. But like,
there is still a lot more that we can learn from it. So I see that that is another big,
like say medical plants that would be coming up. I understand it's already been there,
like over there for you guys. But it also means that we can actually go back to our books to
look at all the old traditional medicine recipes, bring that back and see like, what we can use now,
how we can apply it. And also there has been a lot more research with this in the cosmetics field.
Yeah, like, you know, cosmetics, hemp, like hemp cosmetic, Gratom cosmetics, not really cannabis,
because I really don't want to touch over there yet. But like, these two things, I do feel that
with the touch of Thai traditional medicine, and also like the touch of what we have and what we
can offer here would actually make it something that's really cool. And I would say, exportable.
Well, that's you make a good point. Like for those that aren't familiar with, you know, what
Kitty's speaking of about the medical because that is like, there are people that traditionally did
come to Thailand because of affordability on certain services that were made possible. And
nevermind, I mean, Thailand, for those of you that don't know, Google the beaches alone, my gosh,
I have a friend over there that he's a transplant from Australia. He's always posting videos on
YouTube of his. He's always searching the beach, he's a beach pirate is his handle. And he's always
doing, you know, doing these videos. And oh, my gosh, it's it's gorgeous. It's a great place to
visit. And I feel like Thailand, if anything, is a little bit more in touch and a little bit more
open minded to a bit more of the Western ideologies. I just don't see Singapore, you know,
being the epicenter like you're talking about. Thailand could be not just from a tourist, but
from an export point of view as well. So it's a very valid point. And how do you think have has
Thailand's position? And I guess on both, to be honest, to kind of segue the conversation,
how has it influenced your neighbors? Because that's one thing you aren't really hearing a lot
from the rest of the peninsula as far as, you know, where are things, you know, where I mean,
besides, again, city states or countries that we know are very restrictive, like you mentioned,
Dubai and the Emirate Empire is don't go through there with the seed stuck in your shoe, right? Or
else you're done. You're literally out of jail. But but has it had any influence like it has here?
And I'll give an example, like, just recently, and this is another thing I posted up on LinkedIn,
you know, Idaho, which is one of the most, if not the most conservative state in the western US,
I put it up there next to Arizona. They're they actually just passed this is insane. But they
amended their constitution to make cannabis illegal. So as to disallow any opportunity to
move forward medical. Now, the crazy part is they're surrounded. They're literally Canada's
got adult use of medical. Washington State has adult use medical Oregon has adult use medical
Nevada does Utah does well, you know, I mean, I think there's like Montana, I think it's only one
that's still coming online. They're surrounded with cannabis, but they're still holding out.
Do you see that being a possibility with your neighbors, geographically speaking,
as Thailand can sit, you know, continues to kind of move in the right direction compared to others?
I think all of them are trying to find a way in in their own way. Because like,
there's there's a lot of them like we have like the within the near vicinity, which is like
Asian. A lot of them are extremely conservative, but they have also been able to make like say
Bruno, for example, Bruno, they they don't actually have cigarettes for sale that there's
no alcohol. So like they they are able to keep it that way for a while. So I don't see any problem
with them keeping cannabis out of it. But at the same time, there's also like Malaysia who's
exploring the way into hemp, as well as like, the Laos and Myanmar is having a big problem right now.
So I don't see them going anywhere near it for a while yet. In terms of Cambodia and Laos,
they'll probably see if they see an opportunity, they will probably jump in. Vietnam may actually
be another one that could come into play. But overall, like right now, even Hong Kong has their
own CBD cafe. It's just a but a loophole, like it's literally a loophole that and they people
there that are just pushing for it and then just like, we'll go for this until like someone says
no, then we'll stop but we're gonna go for it anyway.
Japan is able to do CBD, but only 100% so 0% THC. South Korea have a tiny specialty zone
where they are able to grow CBD for testing. So it's kind of like they're checking out like
how it's grown whether this would be like say, worth it, because right now they actually do have
sativacs imported into South Korea, but it's very, very high price. So I recall talking to
Rhys John, I think that was his name. I'm really bad with names. So but he's like, he's the forefront
over that in South Korea. In the Philippines, still like, it's not it's not moving forward or
not moving backwards. It seems to be like very stable right now as to like, what's going on
with cannabis. But overall, I would see that hemp seed would just be something that be able to
export kind of anywhere because China is okay as well. And we actually do see China like,
here's the thing, especially with Thailand being in this position right now,
LCMB and possibly China is probably the only market we need to look at. We don't even need
to look at Europe or America. That is really far away and has really high regulations.
LCMB is actually Laos, Myanmar, Cambodia, and Vietnam. Just in those markets in itself is
already a large amount of people and if we are and we also looking at China as well. So
just supplying them is going to keep us like, you know, very busy. And especially if we are looking
at food products or health related food products like vitamin supplements, those things that are
made from say hemp seed oils in mixture with our Thai traditional medicine, as well as like,
any like cosmetics related products as well. I do see that that is more than enough. We may not even
have to look at trying to get around all your rules and laws to have our Thai yummy snacks or
like plant based food to be over there. You guys may need to fight the Chinese for it.
Yeah, yeah. And that's in on a side the FDA, I believe I just read this too, I get way too many
newsletters. We are working on trying to figure out what the qualifiable levels are. Oh my gosh,
we have a surprise guest. Here he is. Here I am in the flesh. You made it you're here and your
background is actually more bland than mine. Now I feel so much better. Too much exciting,
too many exciting things happening in here. Right? Straight word. Well, hey, I
have to officially introduce you. I'm good. Good to see it. Everyone. This is Josh. Josh Schmidt
is is a friend of both Kitty and myself. He has quite a tie to Thailand, which is why we want to
bring him on. On top of that, he is I see him as a friend that is my favorite in the industry is
doing some fantastic things. He's always been tied to phenomenal genetics, phenomenal flower to one
really sick ass operation. If I might say I remember taking a tour of it. We'll get into
that just now. But I remember touring the facility I'm speaking of that he's sitting in right now in
Sacramento. And the first thing I said was, this looks like you're building it to EGP,
standards. He's like, why do you mention that? And gave me the whole download. So,
Josh, welcome. We're so glad you're able to make it. We know you're
thanks, Lance. Hey, Kitty. Thanks for braving the late hours to stay up.
That's I told her she's all one more hour to my bedtime. It's not too bad.
So, Josh, we'll jump in this really quick. This is perfect timing. You know, we've known each
other for a hot minute and you have a connection to not just Asia, but specifically to Thailand
and some of the things going on over there. So you want to give a little bit of a background
about yourself, what you're doing now and then again, what that tie is to to the other side of
the world. Of course, right now, currently I'm VP here at Nature, VP of Biz Dev Nature.
We're basically a supply chain answer for brands and companies here in the California
licensed space. We're a 12 acre parcel, licensed parcel here in Sacramento with about over 250
employees. We're 21 licenses on one property. Each flowering bay, 15 bays has a license.
We're the home of a lot of the fantastic brands, including my own Pistol Point. And it's just a
group of the most amazing humans I've ever seen work together. So a lot of exciting things going
to come out of here. We do everything pretty much for the plant or with the plant, except for
cold beverages and pretty much cold beverages. And that's that's it. So we can we'll have every
capability under the sun. Nice. Very cool. And then what is it now? Thailand. Let me let me go
on the side. And one of the many languages you speak to, I have to add a lot, a lot of them. But
I'm 40 years old, started smoking cannabis when I was 12. So 28 years ago, before my bar mitzvah,
always traveled. My father's from Israel. My mom's from San Francisco, always traveled,
saw the world, got into cannabis at a young age. I had one of the first dispensaries in Los Angeles,
the first ever in Van Nuys, California, 2001. Hold on one sec. Let me get out of here.
In 2001 in Van Nuys, and then I later had one in West Hollywood, one of the first in West Hollywood.
So I've been in the space really long time. When I started living in Los Angeles,
some of my employees were really pushing us to always go to Thailand. And I was like, I always
went to Jamaica, I was went to Mexico, I went to Israel. And I was like, screw it. To die was
New Year's Eve 2005. I went there used to be a nonstop flight on tire from Los Angeles to Bangkok.
There was there used to be two there was one in New York, JFK to Bangkok, and there was one with
tire and then LA. So it used to be amazing. Really easy and convenient. So I got the bug.
I literally met my current wife on my first trip ever. Went back in one year, like 10 times fell
in love with the country met a lot of other great people built a connection to Thailand and the area
the region. Eventually, after five years in cannabis in California went to Thailand, moved
there for four years, selling coffee and rice, mostly. And obviously still consuming cannabis
as a secret, you know, as a secret, I would go to my little reggae bar and cows on road. I didn't
know kitty or people like kitty at that time. We couldn't talk about things like this. I was never
in cannabis for anyone knew for what anyone knew. So things have changed kitty actually invited me
to be to join elevated to stay with her a couple years ago. And I remember when I went into
Bangkok, I was a keynote speaker. You know, she did some, you know, PR and whatnot. I landed in
Bangkok. I'm like, thinking in the back of my head, or am I gonna get pulled into a room?
I'm like on a list. You know, there's still those kind of that run through your head.
Because Thailand is known to like, for other reasons, get people on.
I got you. I got you. Yeah.
Thailand's come so far, and I was just talking to kitty earlier today. What she's done with
others around her in the last how long she's been, you know, for the last at least five,
almost five years, whatever. She's been doing God's work, if you will. And has there's no,
there's no price, there's no value on it. That's it's it's so so big. It's along the lines of
personal beliefs and plant medicine and so many things. So she's really killing it out there. And
I'm just blessed to have her as a friend and a partner, and excited to do a lot of great things
together. Awesome, very well put. And I couldn't agree more that that was my attraction to kitty
and keeping up with her. It is weird, because it was I think you're introducing me right after I
actually met her. It was kind of this weird symbiotic amongst us. And I was like, Oh,
you're introducing me right after I actually met her. It was kind of this weird symbiotic
amongst us three. But that's why I was telling her in the beginning, you know, the fact that
she always leads conversations with education. She's a real advocate, you know, if not activists
in the space. And to your point, we need individuals like that in every corner, every,
every country of the globe. You know, everyone's so kind of infatuated with what's going on in
North America and the Americas in general. They don't understand this is a global movement. And
to your point, you've got 40 plus countries now that have either legalized, descheduled,
or at least deregulated this plan. But it takes the whole world to move forward and individuals
to make it happen. So I mean, and to you too, as well, Josh, I mean, that's, we've had the
conversations and I so fortunate kitty invited me over there and that COVID happened. But I think
it's really important for people to know that this event that you all are tied to and that you speak
of. So maybe if we could kind of jump into that, because I know we have quite a few watchers and
followers that are wanting to further impact the industry on a global scale, and maybe even expand
their businesses on a global scale, their offerings. So tell us a little bit more about the
event and what it's going to be like after COVID. I know that kind of shifted everything, but if you
could elaborate on it. We actually did have one last year, but it has been scaled down, even
then, like we had way too many people. So we actually had to turn people down because
of COVID, a lot of people is looking at doing businesses for themselves or like looking
at getting back into, you know, just anything to do. Because a lot of people have lost their jobs.
A lot of service people have, you know, it's just how it is all over the world, I would say.
So cannabis in itself, because it was PR'd as something that is money making, people are very
interested in it. And my thing right now is to make sure that they succeed in the things that
they are wanting to make or wanting, you know, like wanting to get involved with, like from
all the supporting by just the simple thing as consultation all the way through to like,
how do I get involved in this? How should I look into this? How do I write up that business plan?
You know, like, is it different from like any other business? What do I have that is kind of
the competitor's advantage within the industry? Because I always been telling everyone that like,
don't forget the 65% of the industry where it's non plant touching, where it's very IP based.
It means if you're smart enough, or you understand it well enough, you will have that edge. And no
one can take that away from you. It's not something like, you know, if you grow a plant,
if someone can grow it the same, then then there's kind of no point, you need that something special.
And only you can find that. So it's it's trying to getting I want to get the whole startup thing
going. So we are now looking at doing at least a monthly workshop that is coincide in with the
regulation that's going to come out. And we're actually supposed to, I'm actually looking at the
days for the one for this month, which will be on the application of how to how to fill it out.
Because right now so many people is confused as to like, what papers do I need? So we're going to do
that, you know, things like baby steps. I'm here along with you next month because of Women's Day.
So we're looking at doing like a for women by women product development workshop, where women
only because we do feel that we have been neglected within this industry as well in terms of
products. And in terms of like, accessories or anything involving to do with cannabis, it seems
to be very masculine and very harsh. And it's very difficult to get a hold of, especially here in
Thailand as well. And I want to see more women in the designing process and in the product development
process. So that will be happening monthly, and which will be online and offline, but will mainly
be in Thai, unfortunately. So apologies to you guys that are English speakers, but I would try to
have at least like a couple of months, there's some sort of an English speaking event for those
that that are English speakers as well. And also like our event will be looking at around November
of this year, hopefully that like things are slowly looking back at getting into normal,
but no promises. Like I'm just really freaking out about doing anything that's like more than
100 people right now. And but we're still looking at doing possibly like smaller events,
like possibly a hackathon, because we would definitely need to have design,
agricultural engineering, machineries, for like, you know, simple harvesting or simple, like,
just simple machineries that we don't have right now for Thailand, because we don't have big ass
fields like what Josh has, like we have like tiny little space where there's bound to be like,
there's a tree in the middle of it. So like we have smaller machineries that like we need to outfit
out. So I think a hackathon would be great, as well as like a simple refinery to separate like
various part of hemp, as well as all the other technology that would come out, that is required
to have for the whole, I would say value chain right now. So I'm trying to support all of that.
And hopefully that there's going to be a lot more of people getting involved with this in the right
and not just focusing on growing.
Yeah, because there's so much more to it, right? And you discussed earlier,
some of the things going on in China, which China for those of you know, at one point was
over 90% of hemp exported in this world. Now it's gone down substantially because of other markets,
Africa, US, Europe, etc. But even some of their technology and processing is quite rudimentary,
right? I mean, that's one thing that they never focused on. And again, you guys have seen it
closer than I have. But that's cool to see that you're wanting to put a focus on that and even
more so put a focus on and Josh is good about this. There's a few of us are definitely advocates
domestically. But even though the consumption skews towards males 63% on average, they say
male can, there's still a whole almost 40% that are female and you're right, it's very neglected
because there's so many solutions that are associated with this plant rather be a hemp
derivative or THC flower that can contribute to many aspects health wise to both genders. Yeah,
it's it's I agree with you. It's kind of jaded more towards the masculine side or just the
traditional approach towards the industry. So it's great to hear these things that you're trying to
do outside the proverbial box as we say. So, well, what's in store? Josh, are you making it out there?
I mean, November, it's interesting. My family, my wife is going, we'll use my last name batch
crazy. In the house. She misses her family dearly. Like she's never like been away from Thailand this
long I ever with the kids. So they're guaranteed like even with a mandatory two week quarantine in
play. They're gonna go in June. There's a program with if you have a Thai passport, my kids have
passports, my dog, my wife, they let you go and stay in a hotel for two weeks. And then they let
you out in the wild basically after your negative. So they're gonna do that. I it's hard for me with
having two weeks stuck in a little hotel, then I would basically probably have a little time left
after that. So we'll see how this all progresses. It's really tough with travel right now. And what
I'm doing here. But ASAP, like I'll be there as soon as possible as I can get there. I'll be there.
We have a house there my family, my I've been there going there so often and whatnot. I can't
wait to get back. Yeah, it's cool to hear. And you've always said positive. Is that anyone that
I've known that's been associated specifically with Thailand, you know, I've said nothing but
good things, you know, about the people, the place, to the culture, the food, which a lot of people
don't think about that. That is just in itself, you look at that, you don't hear so much about
Vietnamese, Laos. I mean, it's really it's it seems everywhere I go, Thai, you know,
a lot of comparisons in my heart in my mind between Thailand and California. I'm a little
biased to talk about California because I'm from here born here raised here. In my eyes, there's a
lot of amazing brands and companies in the space, especially in America, North America, whatnot.
But I think the biggest brand out of all of them, the biggest brand in the world is California.
I think it's a brand we're a brand like it just you know, you can have every brand from here,
or to go to every state people always just considered like a Florida orange, like a Thai
coconut, a young coconut that you drink. It's just what people know, even that it might be wrong,
and they might do better somewhere. You know what I mean? So Thailand has a lot of similarities in
general, while there's many cities, provinces, areas, we can get deeper into that rabbit hole.
Thailand is a brand to a big brand, one of the most powerful brands in the world.
So with so many things, especially agriculturally, and not compared to China, where you can
realistically only harvest once a year, even though it's huge, really only harvesting once
a year, it's frozen after that in that northern region, you know, and they can maybe get a little
bit more and maybe twice. Thailand, you can get multiple cycles similar to Colombia. So they have
a good opportunity to really expand things. I would you know, and Thailand also will be a hub
for Asian, the associated Southeast Asian nations. Everything will kind of start in Thailand,
a lot of other countries like Indonesia, like Singapore, but they're going to be reliant on
imports. So I see Thailand being just massive. Nice. Yeah, it's good input. Because again,
there's a lot of people that are looking to expand, you know, rather be to your point, a brand,
even if it is born out of California, I agree, you know, we're known, especially in the industry,
you know, humble Mendocino is known in so many reaches in my travels, from Israel to Asia and
across Europe. But to your point, I see that as Thailand being that focal point as well. They've
always been again, every aspect of it has just been so much. Not saying other countries around
aren't hospitable or aren't so much acclimated or adjusted to again, working with the Western
civilizations, but it seems like there's more of that synergy. Right. So it's definitely good stuff.
Well, I want to thank both of you again, Joshua, for being our surprise guest.
I had a little supply, some problems with supply.
There you go. There you go. And you always I mean, again, you're always a plethora of insight. And I
always think of you when I think of Thailand, along with Kitty, because you really had opened
my eyes to the opportunities there and to what's going on. Kitty, I know it's like it's late,
and you don't get much sleep.
I just have a quick question. Josh, as somebody who kind of knows genetics and the California
scene, I was before this call, I was actually talking to someone in India who wants to send
me seeds from local farms all over the country that have been growing for, you know, 50, 75 years.
You know, for preservation, but also to get them out there and kind of when you as an American who
knows your shit, go to Thailand, and you smoke the local weed one, you know, everybody talks
about kind of like, it's all been Dutch, you know, Dutchess or whatever. And so like, have you come
across the stuff, the Holy Grail of the land race stuff? And then part two is, how do we make sure
that, you know, the equivalent of invasive species like gelato and runs and ice cream cake don't
suddenly cross pollinate with all the local stuff? And, you know, those are already there, too. Those
are already starting to be there because a lot of the seed guys are getting them over there. But
the prior question, the best stuff I ever consumed that was the most, because all of it is sativa
that gets that when I was living in Thailand, 95% of the stuff that people were consuming
in Thailand and even south to Malaysia and Indonesia is from Laos, from the border region,
a lot of Laos, they grow it in Laos, the government works with the smugglers, they bring it into
Thailand in a brick, and it comes into Thailand through the northeast and gets, you know, shipped
everywhere. So a lot of that stuff is just like seeded sativa that they're throwing in the sun
to dry and brick it up and whatnot. When I went into Laos, because I used to go get a lot of
homegrown in Laos, in Cambodia, in Cambodia, you'll find more, more buds and whatnot. But a lot of
that stuff, also the seed came from Holland. And in Laos, I remember smoking some amazing cerebral,
like narrow leaf, like sativa-ish strain that was just blowing my mind in Vientiane and
in Vang Vieng. And then kitty had some other stuff. Sometimes you had a lot of that stuff
usually gets grown from imported seed and whatnot that came, you know, through the channels
that it does, the immaculate conception, if you will. But there's also a lot of guys with seeds,
you know, Dutch passion on the Dutch side and the Spanish side. And then you have a lot of these
other small guys like Top Dog that have infiltrated with all the chems and the GMO.
Some speakers and like...
Everyone's here. But I would like to raise up my hand as someone who actually does collect
genetics that are local to Thailand that actually talks to the growers and the breeders that are
here. Those that are like, you know, having the, this is like from generation to generation.
Yes, it's a land race. And yes, there's a lot of mutations. We have our sativas tend to be very
high in terms of the male. It's kind of like almost like it can be more than 50, actually,
especially depending on the temperature and how humid it is and depending on where it is as well.
And depending on where in the location of Thailand, it looks similar, but it's not.
The taste in itself, it always hits you first with the lemonade. And then you have that kind of mango
as a back note. But depending on how sweet it is, is also depending on what type of
the substrain of the sativas it is with that green at the end. So like, it all has the same sativa
taste. But at the same time, it still has like, kind of like if you eat orange from this farm,
is different from the orange from that farm. Not really a farm, like say two counties over.
To see that there's, they are people that these old guys collecting their seeds, and they are
either crossbreeding with newer genetics, as well as keeping the original. Because we know that the
original will always be kept is because in Thailand, they don't tend to remove the male
plants. And they don't mind the plants getting into like seeds, because they actually use it for
totally different things. And they don't mind really, you know, they'll just pick the seeds
out and smoke it because it's not really to, you know, used to sedate. Having anything above 20%
is like way too much as well. So it's, it's just, those are also for like, you know, village
villages, and are usually like old people talking about 60, 70 upwards who already retired. So it's,
it's a very weird sets of different mutated, pretty and nice smelling looking plants out there.
Not sure how we can use it at all. But overall is I do feel that there may be something.
Nice. Yeah, it's different everywhere, right? Josh, you talked about the bricks, and I saw those in
Australia. I can't believe they get as far down as the guys talk about. They're like, we,
it gave me flashbacks, because, you know, Josh, I both made California boys, when I was younger in
the illicit market where we'd be getting this brick from south of the border, and you'd have
to throw it in the microwave with a sponge to get it to flow. I mean, this stuff was so and it's the
same thing over there. It's like, you guys are vacuum sealing, you know, twice bagged crazy.
And it's just it's, it's pretty. Luckily, a lot of those seeds that if you planted in California,
let's call it a lot of this land race seed, it's going to kill a spreadsheet for a legal company
because they're long flowering hermaphrodite. Yeah, yeah. That's why a lot of people don't get
into it. But if you grow it in Asia, if you grow it in Asia or Colombia, it will flower properly or,
or not mold out like it would here. Why not? So at least you would get to see like at least
kitty gets to see like the true like a lot of people won't go 12 to 14 weeks in North in California
or in America. So kitty at least gets to savor those flavors that you don't get to taste and all
of these runs the ice cream cake cookies, but I'm gonna I know kitty wouldn't mind having a little
bit of that runs in her mouth right now. I'll tell you that much. God damn it.
The trendy triangle strains, you know, which is fine. There's a place for him.
Exactly. Like one thing though, like I actually the sativa, the Thai sativa high is different from
like any sativas that I ever tasted. Because it will just give you like say, this for a good two
hours. And that's what you'll get. You're like, and it seems like you have like a marching band
behind you. So like making everything just seems so happy for two hours. And like just going like
that. But unfortunately, we don't have like really tight buds because it's very humid and for it to
not get moldy. It actually the spacing of the flower is actually really far apart.
Yeah. And that's the thing you guys what you're talking about, you know, not just the genome,
but the phenotype and then that contributes to the chemo, you know, to that chemotype that comes out
in the end result. And you're right, Josh, you can't repeat. Peter has all kinds of a lot more
technical conversations in his other shows about this. But you know, is it really the same if you
take and recreate that atmosphere in another place was a conversation we had in an underground one
time. And if you take the soil and you replicate the sun and the same water from Alaska and
Southern California, really difficult. We know, we just it's not this plant so much more dynamic
and so much more of an enigma. I challenge anyone to go out into the market in the world and go find
a better tasting young coconut water than one produced in Thailand. Yeah, because they've put
the work and they have the varieties, the genetics of specific coconuts in a specific terroir that
tastes a specific way this harmless, harmless harvest company, these pink, it's those that can
only come from Thailand. There's no so that's not much like other you know, it's specific varieties,
genetics and where they grow and yeah. Like, it seems like people keep on forgetting that
it's a living thing. Yeah. Yeah. Very true. Very true. It's ever evolving. Well, thank you both.
I'm not going to keep guys. Thank you. Thank you, Josh for crashing in man. We'll have you again
when we start doing our domestic. We're going around the world but we're good. We're gonna come
back. Anytime. So we'll travel to Sacramento. Our journey takes us to Sacramento. Thank you,
everyone. Peter, nice meeting you. You too. And just quickly, unless something else gets
scheduled in between, we have Living Soil Conversations tomorrow at 10am Pacific time.
And our guest is Mr. Blue of Green Tank who is in Maine in the cold. But thank you, everyone.
Have a good day. I need that marching band behind me. My work day for the next couple hours. So
I'll bring you some of my headstrong haze I grew last season.
Some runs for you.
Bye bye.
