Standard. Might as well go live while we're waiting.
Hey, I'm ready. Hello, peoples. Welcome to the future.
So tell me just quickly about the cherry pie cut.
Oh man, she's gonna be loud, very, very loud. She doesn't stretch massively, so maybe 30
percent indoors. Outdoors is different stuff, but she gets overgrown by quite a few other
girls, but she's going to put on a hard, chunky, extremely loud.
And depending on the inputs and where you grow her, they can be from extremely like
a lot of well, I don't want to say skunky, but that's kind of there's a funk that comes
out of that plant that's crazy. She's so loud.
You crossed the space cheese that I did. It comes out killer. I'm over here looking
at the plant. That's why I'm looking. I get you on the side there.
Nine weeks, nine weeks indoor. Let's see what else. She she takes she likes to feed pretty
good. She's not a light feeder. She's going to produce big ass leaves when she starts
growing for you. What do you got in there? Three gallon?
I just moved it up to a three gallon and then I'll put it in something bigger. Once
I like I've been moving them inside and outside every day, so I'll bring them outside in the
day and then I'll bring them back in at night. And then this is this is from Alex Hardy.
So this is the breath of Red Dragon 13. That's what that one is.
Right on. So the cherry pie Kevin passed that cut to me. He's had that for a while.
Someone asked the horizon back was so basically I wanted to plant something full term in there.
And so I'll put like I put some creeping time in there like last week. And then I got
to pick what single plant's going to go in there. So I'll have updates.
But it's full term outside that the one that you were doing the horizon bed in. It's just
trying to pick something to put in there. Yeah. Could put a could put a could take some
cherry pie. Yeah, the cherry pie. I just sent you that Roberts Creek Congo and the Topanga.
The Congo is going to go longer if you decide on that. The quicker if you have to have a
faster finishing plan outdoors, that cherry pie is probably going to be the out of what
I've sent. She's going to be the quickest. I don't know about Hardy's breath of Red Dragon.
I don't know the time frame on that one. So but I know it's a killer line.
Well, we're in SoCal. We're in no rush. There's no snow season or frost.
If you want something that a lot of folks doesn't don't have that breath of Red Dragon
or the Roberts Creek Congo is probably going to be what you want to put out there because
they're going to be some that Congo is is is nice weed, man. It's going to get you high
as son of a bitch. That shit puts me down. It's me. I like like there's not a lot of
herbs that can get me that high, really, that the Congo really does get you high. And it's
extremely complex and terpene profile. That thing is loud. I've still got nobody that
can lock down like what they're smelling out of that plant. They get so many more complex
terpenes out of it every time they go back to smell it. They're like, man, last time
it was lemon. And this time I'm getting like this crazy pepper out of the backside. I mean,
it's weird. But I love everyone I pass that thing to. They love it. I'm glad that I got
that passed to me also. The Congo is legit. They came from a man named Alex Lomano Negra.
He passed away, I believe it was 2006 or 2008. He used to pass a lot of land, race
and heirloom genetics to people through all the forums. He's the one that that's where
that Congo came from and then was crossed out in British Columbia, the Roberts Creek
area.
Hold on. Someone just asked.
Mystery machine.
Yeah, the mystery machine is this. Sorry, he's on Facebook. Rob, the mystery machine
is it's a juicy fruit crossed with a yeah, it's regular seeds, juicy fruit, unknown male
donor. So we don't know what the the male is. But the female is juicy fruit. No Congo
seeds available.
No, unless you talk to Vision Creator, they make an S1. I'm not making I do have some
crosses that I made with the Congo, but I do not have any Congo seeds and do not plan
to make any Congo seeds.
Did you get that from Kevin Sioux or where'd you get that one from?
Yeah, that was passed to me to Kev. That's the Roberts Creek Congo. There's a few people
out there that have it. She's a special plant. She wants to go about 11 to 12 weeks. If you
can take her 12, do it. She likes to feed the Congo. She'll take pretty much whatever
you can throw at her. Square one, I don't know who Square One Genetics is. Jam fart.
Juicy fruit.
I like the YouTube now.
I can finally see the comments. That's why I got this new setup so I can see the comments
and do everything at one time.
Are you on a laptop or what do you want?
Well, I'm on my Chromebook, but when I'm on the Chromebook and use the internal camera,
it does not allow me to see the comments unless I just put the comments up. But I've got an
external finally found a camera that works with the Chromebook and now it's letting me
run this like I should be running. And I get to see you guys in 4K.
Nice. So I got it. Let me see what how close I am to having to put Valentina down for the
night.
So everybody, I'm sending some new gear into Dog of Love here. They should be there next
week or maybe by the end of this week. I depend on how the mail's running. There's going to
be some Gift of the Gods, more Hazed for Days and some 44Ds. Those will be going in
there.
You see that?
Bender's Bag. Bender's Bag. Well, first I'll tell you Broken Bones. Broken Bones could
be one of 10 different one of my crosses. Either five of them came from Angel, five
of them came from Redwood. There's a... What did I put in there? Let me think. I put some
Space Kushes in there. There's Hyperion, which is a Durban Poison to Redwood. There's
Scorpius in there. That's the Maui Waui to Angel. There's... What else? Bender's Bags
are in there. There's a bunch. It took five of each one to make all the Broken Bones up.
So they're random crosses. Bender's Bag is Cataract Kush, DNA Genetics. It's a Femm Mother
cross to the Redwood Kush F3. I was running that Cataract for a couple years. I was trying
to find something that was similar to the Cataract line from back in the day that I
used to make Angel with and it's just not there. I've ran that line so many times in
the Femm form and once they Femmed it, it doesn't come out the same as it was when it
was regular. So that's what I was working with on that.
Some people sent me some packs that they had bought over the years so I could run the Cataract
Kushes from different generations that were all Femms to see which one I could find closest
to them and nothing in there comes out like the regulars did.
So this was a question from the James Loud show yesterday with basically talking Hoplate
and Viroid.
I don't know anything that's bred specifically. Not any strains. I just know some of the things
they do to treat some of those viruses. Like when Tishty culture, they're using STS, silver
thiosulfate. Silver can be used to kill the viruses when they're cleaning the plant. I
don't know of any plants specifically being bred for it. That's something that I need
to look into. Off the top of my head, I do not know.
All right. Let me send Trevor the link. I'll email it to him. I know I did email it to him.
I know people are trying to breed for pathogen resistance but not the viruses. Viruses are
going to start rewriting RNA and DNA. So once a virus that you have not encountered comes
into contact with your plant that you might have breed for some other virus resistance
and it rewrites that RNA which starts changing the coding of the DNA, I don't know how you
keep that going into even like a next filial generation.
Have I tried Fender's bag for nerve damage? The cataract cush side, that's what I was
looking for because that worked very well for me. But I have not tried that one specifically.
I use more of my Redwood Cush Cross the Deep Chunk for the muscle spasms. I have a missing
leg so I have more than I have ghost pains. So I got muscle spasms supreme. So I understand
what you're talking about. I look to a lot of the Afghani lines to help me with that.
Deep Chunk specifically works for me and Bubble Crosses. For what I've grown, my Mudbone works
my and it's deep too, both named for Richard Pryor. Those are the two that I've read that I would steer
someone towards. I don't have Mudbones in. I do have some in my stash. I don't sell them.
But we might be able to work something out if you hit me up. I just get so many people
once I say that. I only drop 50 packs every time maximum. That's it. I've done F2s and
F4s. I made F3s for myself. The F2s sold out in probably 48 hours and the F4s might have
took like 96 hours and they were gone. People bought them so fast. The closest you get to
a Mudbone is El Viejo de Muerte, which is Redwood F3 female cross to Angel and then Redwood Cush F3 male.
So basically Redwood F Cush.
Angel to add some additional properties from him. One of the last, well it was the last cross I did with Angel.
I call it a silver now so for pretty.
So let's see what does this say here? So would you stop the channel?
Would silver stop the transmission of viruses in a feminized breeding run?
That all depends on if, like you're only going to be spraying one plant in there so if there's other,
if the virus is in all the plants, chances that could come back to the female you're treating.
You'd want to try to take a clone and spray it lightly is the way I'd go about doing it.
And getting rid of the mother once I've done it. I want to try to get the virus that's in there out of the room.
And I want to clean the system.
STS, I've posted this. I don't know if it's on Instagram but on Facebook I've shown some of the peer reviewed studies
with them using STS and other silver for cleaning pathogens off of cannabis.
They were also using it on lettuce for lettuce hops, Viroid and what other one?
Wheat streak virus. I believe those two were ones specifically they were using it on
to kill viruses in the plants that had actually become sick with these viruses.
Most people think the plant's dead and gone so if they clone the meritine step of the plant
and go through the cleaning process, they end up getting some of the cuttings that come out of there.
Some of the actual tissue culture plants coming out will be cleaned.
I don't know if you're going to be able to do that like your mother room.
Dugging's coming around because people don't know how to clean it.
It got around, it just took someone to find it.
They didn't invent it, they were just smart enough to see it because of the size of the garden that they're running.
Eventually you start seeing shit and you're like what the fuck's going on?
That's what happened with Russets.
You can physically see a Russet mite.
You had to have a scope that was high enough power to actually do this.
With the Viroids, cannabis people are always the last ones into it because it's not in the book.
No one's seen it in the magazines that are out there.
No one's showed it on the forum or even on Instagram because it's not the cool thing to do.
You don't want to see somebody's nasty ass plants.
If you're out there telling everyone you got viruses, they want to tell everyone you're passing off weed with viruses in it.
Shit's going crazy.
We were the last ones just to know about what was out there.
Cannabis isn't specific to the viruses and diseases that it can get.
It's picking up shit that's out there in nature.
It just ain't picking up all of them.
We can get all kinds of fucking viruses out of the fucking garden from the way people are treating their garden.
Too many people just doing nasty ass shit somewhere else and bringing it back to cannabis.
Then the cannabis picks up the virus and you pass a cut to your homie and now their shit's got it.
They don't know what to do because they didn't know they even had it.
It just keeps on going until the next thing you know you got a whole group of people passing around a plant that's got to go
because no one took time to clean it.
Everybody's too busy growing bugs.
At some point somebody has to stop and decide that this is a business or if we're going to go that way.
We've got to have the stock of the plant available all the time.
Germplast has to be saved.
Any chance to kick out a fem version of Scorpius?
No.
I sent in every pack of Scorpius but one.
I kept one pack, y'all.
I would not do a breeding project with one pack.
If you guys want to make fems off them, go for it.
Please don't claim you're the only breeder.
Put me in there somewhere.
Tell the story of how it got its name so you don't just look like a buster.
It's not just Scorpius for nothing.
The demi-god Maui used a hook named Scorpius to pull the Hawaiian Islands out of the sea.
You can look this shit up.
I didn't make it up, man.
I told his brothers not to look back and that he was going to reel something out of the sea.
As he's reeling these islands out of the sea, his brothers couldn't help themselves.
They're like, I got to check this shit out.
They turn around.
As soon as they turn around, it stops and the islands quit coming out of the ocean.
That's how you end up with the Hawaiian Islands and the positions they are.
Just quickly, I'm going to throw Valentina down.
You got Tyler to chop it up with for a couple minutes.
He's a good listener.
What's up, brother?
What's up, y'all?
I'm just giving everyone the story.
What are you talking about?
What's going down?
Someone asked me about making films of my Scorpius.
I had sent out all of them but one pack.
I told them they could go ahead and make the films.
Just make sure they pass the story of it so when they pass the F2s around, they don't look like a buster.
Totally.
Totally.
That's the shit, man.
It's a beautiful thing having the kids asleep, wife's happy.
Read F2s around.
Oh, sorry.
Get some weed smoke in my system.
Looking sharp.
If someone decides they like a line enough to make F2s of it, they should tell somebody who made them in the first place.
That's right, man.
It's all about the story.
That's the problem with our history as it is.
Nobody can write anything down because of prohibition.
Nobody really cared or knew how important it was in the first place anyway for the most part.
Anything that comes with a story, fuck, man.
You should see.
I have notes on the stupidest things.
I write notes and I ask people.
I annoy the shit out of people like Kevin.
Everybody always asking these questions and stupid, silly little details about stuff.
It's so important.
It is so important.
When you get those lines and you got all that stuff cooking and churning and burning, you got your arm with that info.
That carries it.
That ignites the fire even more for me.
That gets the passion going.
You're playing with something that's got history.
You don't have to steal from it or do anything.
You just got to put your spin on it.
Put your love into it.
That's rad that you support people like that.
Use my shit too, man.
Anybody that gets my shit, use the shit out of it.
I'm good with that.
Just keep the story.
Just like Toby said.
Keep the stories.
Tyler, I brought my show and tell item.
Right on.
You ready for it?
Got some bugs?
Yeah, hold on.
Peter's digging bugs out of the garden.
Keeping them in the jar.
Don't get off of me, man.
That's not coffee.
What's that?
That's not coffee, man.
That's not no real Bustelo, homie.
That's Bustelo.
That's the coffee business.
There we go.
They growling at you?
I'll give you $5 to eat that right there.
No, fuck no.
Oh, nice.
There she is.
That's a bitch and Camry got it on, man.
Nice.
That's a grub worm, basically, or grub.
They call them grubs.
Common lawn grub.
Basically, it is ...
They'll color up in little circles here and roll up into a little sidebar.
If they get scared, they'll roll up like a little roly poly in a little loopy loop.
Tell them what it is.
They are the offspring of the Japanese beetle or the June bug beetle.
Those big, shiny, green, black beetles that are all fucking huge and clumsy.
They fly around in the summertime and they get all into your soft flesh fruits like peaches
and nectarines and all that figs.
They love figs, fig beetles.
Some people call them fig beetles around here because they're always in the figs.
Basically, those June bug beetles, the Japanese beetles, they look for nice, rich, organic
soil, compost piles.
That's where I found this one in my compost pile.
Yeah, there you go.
You got somewhere where there's a lot of decomposing organic material and they'll lay their eggs
in the dirt and the soil.
These giant grubs will come.
These things are huge, man.
They're like the size of a frigging quarter when they're full grown and rolled up or damn
near close to, at least in nickel, that's for sure.
They are usually white.
That one's pretty damn dirty and wet.
They're usually a little bit more white and shiny.
They are a problem in excess numbers.
Do you still hear me?
Are we still going?
Yeah, and I can still hear you.
So, yeah, if you've got a whole bunch of them, if you're digging around, like planting them
in your pots or in your garden bed or in your compost and all of a sudden you dig up like
hundreds of these things, then you should probably think about sifting them out by hand,
throwing them over the fence for the birds or whatever, or a bee, or in addition to,
get some nematodes.
There are specific grub nematodes and other lawn insects.
The specific nematode that goes after this or one of them starts with the H.
It's like Hesperus.
It starts with an H.
I have it somewhere in there.
It's the most common thing.
You can get it from any bio tip top nematode seller.
You just search for grub nematodes and bang, it'll come up.
It's really easy to apply, just like the phony snap nematodes.
Look at that.
I'm just imagining someone just tuning in and being like, what the fuck is going on?
It's like a colonoscopy or something.
It's the inside of my anus.
Yeah.
If there's just a couple of them, you don't have to worry about it.
Is that what the long pipe really looks like?
If you find a whole bunch of them, you should definitely get rid of them.
They'll mess up some roots and they'll cause a little bit of disruption in the soil system.
Small numbers, I don't usually worry about them.
If you've got a big problem, you've got a big fruit tree orchard, like I go to regularly
or they've got a lot of figs, you'll find thousands of these in the soil.
When they're just in huge numbers, it's a problem for anything small that you're trying to grow,
especially vegetables and stuff.
They're the real problem in the soil for that.
There are traps.
Just quickly, does anyone need to see this thing any longer?
Here comes Trevor.
Can you zoom out of it and zoom back on it?
There's Trevor.
Hey guys.
It's not rolling up, but it was when I first found it.
I'm trying to get this camera to...
Actually, you know what I can do?
I can give them like so that when they actually see it in their garden,
that they'll know what they're looking at as opposed to down the column.
They usually look white and they're usually curled up and they got a dark head usually.
Yeah, usually rolled up like a little swirl.
You don't see them moving around much?
Peter's pipe here is active as hell and it's pretty dark right now, so it's going to look different.
For real.
You'll dig up soil and there'll be a lot of organic matter in the area also and you'll find them in there.
You'll find them clustered in the area.
Pull them suckers out of there because they'll attack the fuck out of your root system.
Yeah, they'll just start messing up everything.
A couple of them, like I said, it's not the end of the world.
Yeah, a couple of them, not bad.
Here comes the black gold.
There's a bag of soil you could buy at Home Depot.
Give us the money shot.
The patio plus soil used to come with about 70 to 80 of those per bag in them, man.
I'm serious. It was insane.
You'd buy that shit for...
Oh yeah.
That's when you start researching companies and find out some companies are using human sludge to put in there and shit.
You're like, oh man, you got me planting tomatoes in Dookie, bro.
In the wrong kind of Dookie.
In the summertime, like when they're attacking your figs and your peaches,
you'll find like 50 of these June bug beetles all up underneath your peach and it just shredded half of the peach.
Half the peach will be eaten.
You can go to some nurseries or you can order them online, but there's these pheromone traps.
It's basically like a big-ass Ziploc bag.
It's like a fucking gallon Ziploc bag with a little pheromone lure that attaches to the top of it.
And it just smells like cinnamon or some shit like that.
It's spicy.
And it attracts them and they come over and they're all fucking clumsy.
They try to land and they just fall in the fucking bag underneath and then they can't get out.
There's been times, man, where I set up a trap one day and come back the next day
and that entire gallon Ziploc fucking bag.
We're almost damn near full of those giant green things all crawling on top of each other, pissed off and shit.
You just took out a big chunk of the population that way.
So they're not laying their eggs in the garden.
If they're a problem, they're eating their fruit, you can get the pheromone traps.
The trick with pheromone traps is to buy them as fresh as possible.
And don't buy them from places that are storing them outside or if they're really dusty.
The best thing to do is find them in a store and hopefully they've got a date on them.
Around here, they do sell them pretty regularly.
Some places they do, some places you're not even going to find them.
They don't know what you're talking about.
You have to just order them and take your chances.
But you definitely want to get the freshest ones possible for the most effectiveness.
But those drugs, they can be a bitch or you'll never worry about them.
It just depends on your situation.
Peter called me, he's like, whoa, I got these things.
What the hell are all these?
So we had them out there sifting out drugs for the first time.
It was a lot of fun.
Fucking gross.
But if they're in the compost, that's not bad.
He's over there looking like he's about to commit a crime over there.
Where's the sun at there, homie?
He's on mute.
We can't hear him.
Yeah, no.
Smoking a blunt. Blunts are strictly outdoors.
See outdoor activities.
Right on, right on.
Yeah.
Eating Tide Pods and dabbing on grubs.
That'll be the new shit next time.
That's how you survive out in the, it'll be the new millennial survival show where they dab Tide Pods and eat grubs out in the forest and shit.
Tune in next week.
Tune in next week.
When our hero with the man bun eats five or six grubs and dabs on some tangy.
Hell yeah.
That's how you hide the flavor of a grub.
You dab on your favorite herbs, a little bit of lemon and tangerine, a little bit of grapes.
Naked and Afraid Grubs, man.
That's right, man.
Nah, they got to keep the clothes on.
It's bad enough they're dabbing in front of me and eating grubs.
Me and my wife watch that show all the time, that Naked and Afraid show.
She used to yell at the TV, she's like, you guys aren't getting paid.
Go home.
It's so funny, there's like nothing but honor in it.
You know, it's, you know.
I hear you.
They want the fame, dude.
They want to be out there.
Go outside and look like fools and shit for fucking five dollars and get rash off some fucking poison ivy and shit.
Because they didn't know what the fuck it was.
It wasn't in the instructions.
Use the grubs as fishing baits, you know, but I'm sure that those ones would be decent fishing baits.
I know the tomato hornworms, you know, if you guys ever seen the fucking tomato hornworms.
Yeah, them big motherfuckers, dude.
Those fish won't eat those, they're poisonous.
Those fish won't eat those at all.
That's from them eating the nightshade plant.
The nightshade plant is poisonous, so the fish don't fuck with them.
Nah, they don't fuck with them at all.
You'd think that that would be the best fish in the world, you know, when you see those shiny ass green fucking hornworms.
Yeah, they won't work out.
But I bet you those grubs would be decent fishing baits, man, if you were a fisherman, you know.
Anybody knows about that or tried that shit, I'd like to.
I'd be interested, man.
I was wondering about trying to ferment them somehow, like a fermented fucking insect extract and shit.
Some fucking EM1 mash them fuckers up.
Because they gotta have a fucking amino acid in them, right?
I mean, they're gonna get broken down in the compost.
Yeah, they're big fuckers.
I know, they're fucking big.
I've seen them up here, they look like your thumb curled up in shit.
They're beautiful, man.
Yeah.
I haven't gotten that far.
It looks like a stray finger that's just like moving around.
Totally.
They're usually not moving a lot like that.
Where we have them here, they're usually just like, they're not doing shit.
They're just fucking sitting there waiting to come out of dormancy.
So that's like the most active one I've ever seen.
Yeah, when the soil stays cold, especially up north, the longer.
They just stay cold.
They stay all kind of just like fucking curled up and just chilling for a little bit longer.
But yeah, warmer soil, they get down here, man.
Shit'll start moving around, it's crazy.
Well, mostly the point I wanted you to make was just generally like if you have a little bit of something, it's not really much to worry about.
But like, you kind of hit a tipping point, right?
Yeah.
Springtails or roly polies or...
With anything.
If you've got a farm, though, and you've got lots of soft flesh fruit, you've probably seen them more than the average person
or do lots of composting or something, you know, more than the average person.
They really, they search you out and they usually like to stay in that area, you know, they don't have a huge business.
So Riley from Australia, from down under, has a question for you, Tyler.
Did Adam from Sam Foose Cannabis get those Pambix seeds?
No, but if he wants them, he can reach out to me and I can get them to him if he wants to use them or whatever.
He can, you know, and I can get them to him.
So Riley, you can hit, yeah, I don't know which, we've done many fundraisers, but I don't know which one that was, but hit me up and tell me.
No, Riley paid for a bunch of seeds or got some seeds in donation or one of those auctions and then he decided he didn't want the seeds
and then he wanted the seeds and then he wanted to give them back.
And then, so, you know, so I just told him to have, you know, whoever wanted the seeds hit me up and we'll get them the seeds.
Alright, so you and Riley have each other's contact?
Yeah, yeah.
Okay, cool. Alright.
You guys can take that offline.
So Trevor, what historical deep dives have you done lately?
Um.
And someone asked what you're smoking on right now.
Um, it's a mix of a bunch of stuff that my buddy grew.
My homie, Landhammer Farms, actually, his flowers were just used in a extract that was entered in the Emerald Cup and it won first place for live resin extract.
Pretty bomb. Good stuff.
Kyla Extracts and Landhammer Farms.
It's really a mix of just all sorts of random stuff that came off the farm this year.
So, it's good stuff.
My buddy, Bam, hooked it up with a nice Ponte Leaf.
So, rolling some nice big fat blunts these days, enjoying my night caps.
A little nicotine in the system.
Yeah, but, uh, in terms of deep historical dives, I actually haven't done as many.
Things have been pretty hectic, been running around.
Haven't been able to do as much research as I like to do or I normally do.
I have, I did the Dave Watson, Skunkman Sam, and Rob Clark article for the Beard Bros. a couple weeks ago.
And did Mel Frank last week.
And that was pretty cool.
I really, really enjoyed researching Mel because I have a soft spot in my heart for Mel.
I like Mel.
You can't not. Mel is like a sweet dude.
Yeah, he's really nice.
Mel was out in Calaveras County back in the 70s, like early days when people were growing out there.
And so, um, being somebody who grew up there and like knows folks who remember those times.
Like, I mean, I wasn't alive, but I know a lot of older growers who were around in those times.
And speak about the herb that was coming around and how there was a difference that happened once Mel showed up and started sharing genetics with people.
And he's got a lot of great old photos on his website or his IG.
You should check it out, MelFrank420, if you haven't seen it.
And yeah, the dude, like, I've talked to him a couple times in the DMs and he's mentioned how the different genetics that he brought out there and traded with people.
And, you know, it's really cool to see somebody who's done breeding work, acclimatized varieties, and really kind of influenced and shaped the entire history and trajectory of cannabis.
So that was pretty cool.
There's another one coming out tomorrow.
It covers probably the other key figures.
I kind of think of, there's the Santa Cruz, Watson, Sacred Seeds, that whole group of people who are in California who are operating, growing outdoors.
There was Mel who was going back and forth between the East Coast and California, operating more in the Bay Area and the foothills and out in Sonoma and stuff.
But then there was the Pacific Northwest cats who were growing indoors and really like, you know, Steve Murphy, the Northern Lights crew, Greg McAllister, all those cats.
Diving into that history is really, really cool.
You can find out a little bit more about the Northern Lights folks because they either wrote books or, you know, Greg's been out there doing interviews.
He's written on the forums and stuff.
You can track all that information down.
But it's really cool to go in and check that out.
I'd like to hear more about George from Portland, the dude who had the hash plant.
I'd like to know more about the hash plant history.
And, you know, I know different people who are still rocking some of those classic Pacific Northwest hash plant varieties, the UW and different things like that.
I think that those are really, those are the herbs that I remember as a kid.
The really potent, funky, dank Afghanis that just sedative, chill.
Everything was musky green bud.
And that's like what I grew up on.
And I feel like those dudes really were the key to producing those genetics and pushing those out there.
And so it's been fun to really check out the West Coast and, you know, the U.S. and the 70s and 80s and sort of those seed genetics that went to Amsterdam and then came back.
And how it's all been this sort of like cyclical process of genetics from all over the world coming over to here, then going to Amsterdam, then coming back to here.
And yeah, it's pretty legit.
So those cats are, they're legends.
And anybody who has the opportunity should, you know, seek out this information and really like go and check it out.
Anybody who knows me knows I'm not a big fan of Matt Riott, but props to him for what he's doing with his Breeder Syndicate broadcast.
You know, there's really good material on there.
It's good history. People should check it out.
And yeah, so be sure to check all those things out.
Like dive in.
Yeah, we should talk about that.
Yeah, the 70s period.
Now they're breaking it down.
I got a lot of old school cats that I hang out with here.
I mean, real old school cats that, you know, been in the Hell's Angel Biker stuff and like all that era of, you know, back in the day in SoCal and Arizona and stuff like that.
But like when I heard like Natsu Dog talking about it and he made a good point, it's like the 70s really were like that was like, you know, that was a big time for all of the major genetics.
Because that's here in America.
That's where we got to play with them.
You know what I mean?
And that's when the Colombians were getting put together with the Afghanis and everything was coming in as pure and in loads and different things like that.
And we were taking these things and metal and freaking Rob Clark and all those, you know, all the pioneers of those times were putting those things together for the first time.
That's, you know, that is totally the truth.
Like nobody, you know, they're figuring those things out, trying to figure out how to shorten the thing.
There's a lot of cool stories just like that.
So yeah, people should definitely check those things out, you know, from the syndicate for sure.
You know, there's really have more appreciation for that era, that period in time.
You know what I mean?
Because that's really what shaped it.
That also made me start thinking like, you know, whatever, there's still a ton of stuff that is left out there that people haven't been, you know, been able to get to yet.
You know, and everybody says it's gone, but there's a lot of stuff that we just haven't got to yet.
And like the ABC, the Australian Bastard Cannabis and all these other weird, odd lines, even my Pam line, things like that, that are just kind of oddballs out of the equation.
That people don't really, you know, get that much of a chance to work with.
It's not a chem, it's not a, you know, an OG, it's not a, you know, those things that are the building blocks of the old, you know.
So really cool stories, man.
I love talking about that old shit.
But have respect for the 70s, that's the shit.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, it's crazy how quickly people were able to take those really raw, unworked lines and produce the hybrids that we know and love.
And not only do it, but like the conditions under which they did it.
They did it under incredibly restrictive prohibition conditions.
They did so with very limited access to academic research, archival materials.
There was very limited research that had even been done at that point.
So they were really like, you know, building the plane as they were like flying sort of thing.
Like they were inventing that shit as they went along.
And they did really incredible work.
I also think like, yeah, we need to not overlook the fact that there are still these classics.
We need to preserve them.
We need to do everything we can.
And we also need to like, with the PAM, like, we need to find these outliers that haven't gotten just put through the ringer and hybridization and turned into, you know,
be it Northern Lights 5, The Haze, The Skunk One, or OG Cam and the Cookies.
Like, you know, we've kind of like every iteration.
You can like name like the backbone on using both hands, you know what I mean?
Maybe less than both hands, you know, so there's got to be more than that.
You know what I mean? Our backbone is based on 10, you know?
So, cool.
Yeah, yeah.
And I mean, it's cool to like hybridize and make all those crosses and work with all those things that are proven winners and to bring those into your gene pool.
But it's all the more important to keep those things pure so that those outliers like the PAM don't end up just becoming, you know, a part of the polyhybrid clusterfuck,
but are still a pure outlier that can be hybridized, can be line bred, and, you know, it can be its own outlier and its own thing unto itself while still making new creations that are within those, you know, Cam, OG, or whatever sort of gene pools you want to select from.
And I think, you know, that's what's legit, that we have the opportunity now really, you know, Phyllis for better or for worse, like it revealed the PAM's relation to all these or lack of relation to every other sample.
And that's valuable information.
And like the fact that you preserved that, got that sample tested and are working with it is invaluable to the community.
So I'm stoked about the PAM and everything you've done with that.
That the story continues, you know.
Yeah, man, it's just like, you know, it's just one of those funky little accidents, just like all the other funny ones, you know what I mean?
You know, you get lucky, you have an accident, and hopefully you can, you know, you can recognize it and kind of move forward from it, you know what I mean?
So this year we'll do the F5, you know, working on the F5 this year and the BX2 with the PAM1.
So the PAM1, BX2, and then we'll do the PAM15.
So I got two lines with it. We got the PAM15 and then we got the PAM1 that are completely different plants, but extremely similar, you know, in that same line and working them in different ways.
And then after they're both really super inbred, I'm gonna bring them together and we'll see what happens there, you know what I mean?
Or, you know, as well as do some other open pollinations. I'm gonna do some more open pollinations and funny stuff.
I'm gonna seal up the F5 and we're gonna do the PAM1, BX2 this year, you know, that's the goal, you know, with that.
So every year I try to do further in at least some, you know, some way, you know, at least, you know, a season, every season.
So it's hard to do everything you want to do. You got something, you know, you're like, I got all this fun stuff that I could do.
And it's like, we got to further this one. We got to preserve this one. And then I can do some fun stuff, you know.
So yeah, it's cool. Appreciate it.
Yeah. No, pollen's a motherfucker. You gotta prioritize.
Yeah, exactly. That's the hard part, you know.
God, man. I was just going to like, I think there's more nights where I like open up a cooler or open up the fridge.
And I'm like, I just like go through it. Just like, oh, should I do this one? Can I do this one?
And like half the time, I'll just close it up and put it away because I can't do it.
I just can't. But I like to go through it and dream, you know.
Hopefully one day we'll get the Josh Rutherford space to where I can pop 4,000 beans or something.
You know, that'd be nice.
Head east to Oklahoma.
I talk about it, man. I talk about it all the time.
I just want, I want the fucking plant to be me.
That's a hard sell to the wife, though.
It's hard for me, man. It's hard, you know.
If I can get something close by that we can figure out, you know, that's what I'm working on.
I'm trying to figure out ways. I've been meeting with different lawyers.
I've been talking with different people.
I've been trying to find ways to stay close to home.
You know what I mean?
But it's fucking hard to stay close to home here.
It's like almost easier to lead some sort of a revolution or a revolt or something.
We gather people to march on every fucking city and every continent for everything.
We need to do that, dude, anyway, because we need to free the plant anyway.
Because I can grow thousands of tomatoes back there or peppers or whatever and no reason to give a fuck.
But as soon as I put fucking, you know, 20 fucking cannabis, then I'm a freaking criminal, you know.
So it's like, it's ridiculous, you know.
So, you know, unless, luckily I have that way where I can, I have so many places and I have so many people
and I have so many cool things that we can kind of monopolize and utilize so I can see stuff that most can't.
But, man, we got to fight for the normal dude that, you know, wants to grow a bunch of stuff and preserve something.
Because we need as many people preserving stuff as we can, you know what I mean?
And even if you're a dude in your garage and you can pop 300 or 400 beans or something and preserve it right,
you know, I mean, fuck, we need all that, dude.
You've been growing something since the 70s and, you know, we need those, we need that, you know.
So we got to march for something, man.
Yeah, I just talked to one of my friends who's in Kansas City and he's been there for eight years.
I got some family out in Kansas, man.
Tough place.
Nice place to live for a family.
It's a tough place for weed, or it has been anyway.
Yeah.
He grows some dank.
What's that?
But I said he grows some dank out there, so, you know, it ain't all bad.
Yeah, we, uh, the CannaCon's in Oklahoma in like a month.
And I think we're going to do some stuff there.
I may go out.
That'd be fun, man.
You want a road trip from SoCal?
SoCal.
I'd love to go, but I don't know that I'd be allowed to.
I'm trying.
She's like, you haven't gotten any shots.
This is it, you're going to Oklahoma?
I was like, you know, I got a mom, you know, a good mom, I love her.
But, man, it's hard.
It's hard to leave.
I got kids.
Oklahoma's hard right now.
I've been dreaming, though.
There was one in Pennsylvania, there was one in Oklahoma.
Look at that.
There's got to be a couple coming up for us, I think, soon.
I don't know the schedule or anything, but there's got to be some sort of event coming up for us.
I'm scheming.
Yeah, we need something.
I'm on it.
We need something over here.
Yeah, I'm looking at the, uh, I have two spaces that I want to pull the trigger on, but I don't quite have the funds to do that.
I have two things to do on both.
So one is the 10,000 square foot greenhouse in Camarillo.
And then the other one is the, it's 27 acres in Somos.
And it's just all straight farmland.
So then it's kind of like, what can you do on those two properties to make more money than it costs to do?
To lease it.
Water, man.
That's the thing, man.
Water.
You can get around power, but water, you know, we need water.
Access to water.
I was looking at some spots in Arizona and Colorado and random places, like,
God damn, I'm going to have to have a well.
There's no water around here at all.
There's no water for miles.
Yeah, no air is in there.
You know, so, yeah, we got to get some water.
That's the key.
You know, but shit, 27 acres.
You know, we can drill somewhere in 27 acres.
Yeah.
Which is water right there somewhere.
So somewhere in 27 acres.
But somebody asked about.
I'm working on the ABC, the Chem 91 ABC.
So the Australian bastard canvas to the Chem 91 clone.
Yeah, so we're the first generation.
Cool thing about the ABC is the recessive thing.
It's a funny leaf and the whole Australian wildness.
But it's a recessive thing.
So in the first generation, you don't see any of the funny leaves pop out.
So you plant normal plants, you know, you plant a bunch of normal seeds.
So you got to grow those up.
You got to cross those together.
Got to unlock the F2.
And then you got to find your funky leaves that you like.
And then you kill all the others and you breed those fuckers together and bring it down.
So I'm all excited.
I've been getting those going.
I've got some close, some behind.
We're going to go through a couple of ways.
And we're going to lock down that leaf with some chem in there.
And then I got some killer chem and some other nasty plants that I'm going to put in there.
But in the end, I'm going to have some ABC leaves with some good quality, you know, line worked, you know, nug quality in those plants.
And I'm excited to see what the hell that ABC brings, you know, on effect or smoke or taste.
Does it ruin everything?
Kind of like the root or Alice.
I mean, you know, those things.
So I'm wondering, I'm waiting to find somebody who smokes some ABC, number one.
Number two, I'm looking to find, you know, finish up some so I can know for myself.
But I'm all, I'm all psyched on the, on the weird leaf project.
Well, I don't know if he's watching.
I don't know if he's watching right now, but someone from Australia who picked up some seeds a couple of weeks ago was like,
I'll send, I've been growing ABC forever.
I'll send you some.
I was like, please do.
Please do.
Send it over, man.
Oh, yeah.
So, yeah.
No, but I'm wondering, I'm curious, you know, I never really been mutant curious before, but this one's like a legit kind of out of the, out of the realm, out of the gene pool, weird thing, you know what I mean?
And that's, that's where I hang out.
If I can remember, maybe next week I'll try to bring Jordan on, who's Shapeshifter, who's the guy behind the Freak Show.
Yeah, the Freak Show.
Yeah.
Huh? You know the Freak Show?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's got, you know, those are, that's cool.
That's a cool like mutant, like, you know, anomaly that came out of, you know, normal lines in a lot of, in a lot of ways.
So, like, I think, you know, for the most part, I'd like to hear the story of what it would be.
That'd be a really cool kind of thing, you know.
But that ABC, I'm just, that's what I'm, that's what I'm talking, that's what I'm dealing with, you know, like, I'm all excited about it.
But you haven't smoked, the ABC you're growing, you haven't smoked it yet, right?
No, I'm getting close.
Yeah, we're getting, but that's still, that's the F1 and there's no, there's no ABC expression on it.
It's just a normal plant, you know what I mean?
With some, with some chem, you know, they're good and there's some nice funky little things in there and it's not.
But it's the, in the first generation, those first F1 seeds, it's just Chem 91 and ABC, but basically it's just Chem 91 and everything that made that up, you know.
And that ABC contributes very little to the eye.
So I'm wondering if it contributes more, you know, to the effect or the smoke than it does to the eye in the first generation.
If it does have any type of like significant imprint on it, you know, that way.
But the second generation, after you breed it, it'll, it'll unlock those recessive traits and all those little funny leaps and all those things will, will, will come out.
And then, then I can really get some, you know, ABC looking plants to come out of there, but they'll still always have the, the chem in there.
So I won't ever get the pure ABC unless your, your boy gets me sent over, you know, his, his stuff there and then we can get some pure stuff right out that way.
That'd also be cool because, you know, depending on sources and, you know, bloodlines and epigenetics and all that shit, his, his line over here with combined over here with mine might, you know, might open up the, the spec or it will, but that's cool, you know.
And then I get to learn more too as well.
But that's kind of where I'm diving in.
I'm diving into this.
I'm going to try to make one of those cool plants and it's neat to be, to be here because everybody's got to do lots of cool stuff with what we have currently.
But now there's something kind of new, new, that's like really kind of different and new.
And, you know, I'm going to be one of the first to kind of play around with it, which is cool.
I mean, lots of people are playing around with it, but I'm going to be one of those, one of those groups of people of the first to learn about it and really get it, get it rolling.
I'm excited.
It might suck and I might bag the project just like hundreds of others, you know, you never know, but I'm excited and I have a goal on it and I want to accomplish it.
And if you've seen CSI or inspect his work, he did a bunch of, bunch of them with the triangle cush and the Girl Scout cookie.
And he's, he's already headed to the F3 on those, but in the F2, he found beautiful ones that were basically triangle cush with the ABC leaf and cookies with the ABC leaf, you know, and the, the, the nugs themselves were gorgeous.
So it can be done and has been done.
And I'm just going to work on the cam, cam side for myself.
So yeah, that's something cool.
I'm looking for the guy who, uh, ordered from Australia.
So I can remind him, uh,
I can't search for like, I'll find it later.
I was looking at your pictures, Tony, that, that fire OG and the, uh,
the other one you put up there.
Um, man, they look, they look, they're muted.
Are you muted or am I muted?
Oh, he's muted.
The Skywalker and the fire.
Yeah.
The sky, Skywalker and that fire, man.
They look like, they look like fucking.
Yeah.
So here's the thing.
A lot of people were, um, like some people were hitting me up wondering what the fuck I was talking about.
Cause I put up Sativa OG on there and man, I don't know if you can link to my Instagram on there,
but there's a cat on there that they show up a post about that coming through with, uh,
that Skywalker getting the name from a guy that passed the cut.
He went by Luke Skywalker, his name and the place he was passing it to.
Um, they, they tagged it Skywalker before that it was just called Sativa OG because at that time,
at that time when they were passing shit around, there was, they thought the end of consent Tiva with cuts.
And I don't believe they were realizing a phenotype.
I know there are different cuts of OG that are passed around.
So it would have been two different cuts.
He claimed to have had both cuts, but that, that Skywalker's, uh, the old school cut that I know,
it's a, that grows almost identical to the fire OG.
It looks like triangle Cush way.
It's growing.
I'm trying to get them all the same size.
I'm taking cuttings off them so I can put them all next to each other to show what they're going to look like.
A lot of people are confusing that cut with either, um, the, the Dutch passion cutting or,
um, there's another cut of Skywalker that's passed.
That's also got a blueberry in it.
This one's all OG, man.
The only thing coming out of this gas, my partner,
Skywalker, like that all fucking gas, tall, lanky, fucking three leaf throwing,
fucking resin-y beast.
I got it in LA years back.
I made a couple of things like my avocado ice cream and a couple of things back in the day before I lost it.
Um, but yeah, I did.
I, I hadn't, I hadn't, you know, I hadn't seen him next to the fire.
Like it looked like those two, like, this was like the same fucking picture.
So I was just like, how much, how much do those really like match up in the end?
You know, that's, that's interesting.
Like it really looks like.
Yeah, I'm about to put them outside of that, uh, that small breeding area that I showed.
I'm going to put them in all together, that fire, this, uh, Skywalker.
I'm putting the triangle in there.
Uh, I'm trying to figure out what other ones to put in there.
I might put all nine of the OGs I have in there, grow them all next to each other in the same environment outside.
I see the expression that they'll give off.
I know once I put them in a large, um, raised bed, the three fingers is going to go away.
It's the only expression that comes through with usually either a lot of pH swings or high nitrogen.
Those, uh, those plants like to start throwing that three finger expression out of there when growing fast.
And then they'll start to throw even like a, a rolled edge.
They look like they're, um, dehydrating.
Like the room's too, um, uh, dry, not enough humidity.
And it's, they just start speeding up their growth so fast.
They grow like a vine straight up.
They need to have support.
They'll start snapping their shit over.
So what I did was I let them get big enough.
I took the tops off them so I could get the best cutting off of them.
I'm going to split out right now.
I'm going to take the cuttings and those will probably be what's going outside.
All those, the Ghost OG, the Triangle Kush, the Fire, the Skywater, and maybe the Topanga I'll put out there.
Or maybe, um, one of the Kims, Kim D or 94 or 91, put one of those out there to see what they are.
Cause they like to say that they, OGs came from the Kim line.
So if we put the 91 in there, which is the oldest, we can see the expression that all those are going to put out in the same area.
The correct amount of UV, infrared, and the rest of the damn spectrum.
Instead of just having peaks and 660 or, you know, somebody's putting in too much, uh, purple room.
It's just got way too much blue in the room or there's just doing all kinds of crazy shit.
The pots are too damn small.
Those things will have hell, uh, three fingers throwing them in one gallon pots.
I'm telling you, that's why I showed on my Instagram.
There's also a page there that has the Fire OG showing all three different expressions.
It might even be shown four, three, four, fives.
I know it's showing all those.
I used to show that all the time because I had all the fucking OGs.
People were always like, it's an expression of OGs only.
And I'm like, well, it's kind of an expression of them, but it's like, you're not breeding that trade across it consistently.
It just has to do with how you're treating that fucker under the soil.
Yeah, man.
My Pam will throw three fingers as soon as she gets a little, you know, a little funny or she comes out of the pot.
She's got a clone or whatever.
You know, that's like a normal thing.
Yeah.
It's all kinds of shit.
Just didn't like the hormonal thing, you know, uh, reset happens a lot of times for me and resets, you know, and the reset, you know, you'll get them.
Oh, hell yeah.
Young and they're reset and then they're getting go on you start, you know, but I got, you know, that thing's going to be outside, you know, this year we'll have, we'll have that SSE, you know, a couple of my friends, you know, well, that's what else I'm going to put in there.
That one's yeah.
That one's I flowering out that one now it's almost done.
We were fucking nasty and mean and dutiful and just outstanding and yeah, it's fucking.
Yeah.
Happy to die motherfucker.
Put some Royal pollen on it.
I reversed the Royal Kush, Mandel's Royal.
Which one?
Yeah.
Put that on that, that SFV that came from Mandel too, that you brought up there.
And yeah, so it's like the, it's like both of those little things just, just put just for, just for, you know, just to see, just to play with, to have my, you know, see what, you know, but we'll see.
But yeah, it was that's cool.
It's a fucking nasty one.
I'm happy as fuck.
That's cool.
Yeah.
That Skywalker I have is not the cut that's in seed form that I know of.
Nobody that I know has made an S1 of it.
That's not the, it's not what DNA genetics made and it's not what people get from a Dutch passion.
This is a old OG cutting that would, most people would think is, like I said, close to SFV.
Triangle fire.
It grows.
I'm going to put all of them.
Yeah.
The ones that have that blueberry influence in them have a very different leaf structure.
They do not grow a long, skinny, thin leaf.
They don't grow like vines.
I actually use that other one in my Savage Kush.
The, the Skywalker OG Kush from DNA genetics is a complete different plant with full different expression than this, this Skywalker I have.
Skywalker OG.
It's actually coming from the cat that's got, he's going to pass the bubble back to me.
I'm going to be using that bubble again.
I plan to use the bubble.
I'm sifting through the mud bones to try to mail.
I want to put a mail onto the bubble and do a back cross to the bubble and make some mud bone F2s again.
Yeah.
I want to give those mud bones away.
And so that's what I'm making them for.
I'm not going to make no money off the mud bones when I make F2s.
I plan to give them out to everybody.
As soon as I brought them up, I've been hit by so many people about medical issues that I know that Lion can help with.
And I would, as long as they will live like somewhere I can send them in the U S I would give them away for free or I can send them to Peter and they can go into orders for free.
I'd like to give them to everyone out there.
No, and I'll second that man.
If you guys get anybody out there that's got medical stuff and they need some CBD stuff or some one-to-one stuff or weird stuff.
I mean, just hit me up, man.
We'll, we'll get them to you.
Why no down here, we have Matthew in the chat down in SoCal.
So Matthew follow up with you.
Got my email follow up with me on specifically what you want.
And we'll get it to you.
Yeah.
There is a, so I was just trying to find all the Emerald.
The Emerald Cup does not make it easy on their website to find who all the winners were, but I.
I was going to go through it, but there is a question a little while ago.
That's not the question.
That's the question.
I brought that was talking about that earlier.
I probably mumbled it out because trees was talking.
The cannabis, the male and female have a different size of genetic material.
Past the female has less.
It's I believe it's 813 billion and the male is 843 billion.
So it's a small amount, but you could be looking for a specific trick, like the recessive expression that's in ABC.
And it may be coming possibly through only on the male side of that plant.
So you could be looking all the time through females.
You might even start S1 in the one you get.
It doesn't pop out of there.
If you don't add the male back to it, you are losing expression.
There could be purple expression.
There's a whole block of DNA that now is attached to that extra set of DNA markers that you're not passing across.
And across because you're never adding a male to it.
Feminine line.
There's no problem with feminizing the line.
You just have to realize what you're doing.
You take a plant, you fem it, make an S1.
It's an F2 actually.
It's just female form.
So now you've got an F2 that you're breeding with, which means it's got a different expression than what you were really looking for in the parent line.
So you should make an S2 or an S3 out of that thing.
Take it farther before you start breeding with it.
If you're looking for the original parent's expression, you're less likely to find it.
Because most people are just going to pop 10 or 20 seeds.
And you're going to find some terpene expressions or you might find expression in the structure of the plant.
It may not breed the same though.
So you're not going to pop enough seeds to find that out.
And if you're, like I said, if you're looking for a recessive expression or something that's tied to the actual DNA,
the QTLs that are dominating the actual expression you're looking for,
can be coming from only the male side of the plant.
There are some genetic material that it's only passed through a male.
That's the problem with feminizing a plant.
That's why I said I was going through all the Cataract Kush films to try to find something that ever represented the original stuff
that I grew a long time ago back in 2004 and 2005.
And I can never find it because they didn't use the same parents to make the line.
It's just carrying the name.
So you'd never find it because you're looking for one plant you used to get out of an expression of a hybrid.
And now you're getting an F2 expression of a single phenotype.
So it never comes out even when we're close to what you were after.
You're just losing out on a lot of the shit that was originally in that plant.
Plus preservation.
You know, you got to, you know, it's better to have a male so you can actually preserve the line
and, you know, work the line in that regard, you know, as a real true, you know, line.
But there are shortcuts to feminizing and there's every way, you know, every tool in the toolbox.
You just got to know how to use them and when to use them and how to fiddle with them.
Yeah, like feminize breeding is really easy, man, for me.
Like you can take a, everyone's got a cut that they've been looking for.
It's out there somewhere on the market.
So at any time you can go retrieve that cut unless you made it yourself.
Like you can go get a SFE anywhere.
You can go get a Blue Dream somewhere.
You can make friends with someone and eventually get a pure Kush or something in your hands
or whatever you want to mess with.
But like if you're breeding with a male, the chances of you having access to the male that that person bred with
is very small.
Like that's something that a lot of people never talk about.
Like the actual market value of the male's genetics that's been used in all these lines for so long.
That are being passed in original seed form, which are regulars and not in a hybridized, feminized line
or anything like that.
When you're taking an F gen with as many males and females in that line,
it's a complete different offering and a different beast than when you start to line breed with
one selection out of a hundred seeds or just one selection out of ten,
even if you're just using a male and a female.
There's so many more different expressions you might find through the breeding
by offering more males in that line, especially if you're going to preserve it.
Preserving is not just one male and one female unless that's all you have.
If you have access to as many males and females in there, you should make as many
open populated seeds as you can from that.
That's my opinion.
This isn't like hard facts, but this is how I would do it if I had access to some seeds.
If someone passed me 10 or 20 seeds and I wanted to continue that line,
I would let as many males in that line pollinate as many females in that line.
Then I would mark out the females that came out of there and the expressions.
I would be looking for out of that.
I would also mark the males down and keep them in a clone.
I would try to find what I was looking for in the females by actually growing those out.
You're not going to probably breed all those males out again.
Once you pollinate them once, but track them with photos,
write down what you're getting off smells from veg all the way through finish times.
Write down the size of the flowers, whatever you can.
Everything that you can see that came out of there.
Did one of the males give you an expression of a recessive trait that's coming out of there?
It's a completely green line and all of a sudden this one male out of the 100 seeds you popped
throws out a purple as soon as it starts to set flower.
Like day 14, all the flowers start turning purple on that male.
As he starts to drop, it continues to stay purple.
Not just the leaf, but that calyx.
This might be able to pass through unless you're looking for a colored leaf.
Write that down so when you see the progeny, you might be able to tell that that expression is coming through.
You might find it in all of the seeds that came from all the females.
You would know that that plant is passing you either a recessive or a homozygous or heterogeneous trait.
You can find out if it's a double recessive out of there or if it's something that's easier to breed through.
Maybe you don't have to take it to an F5 to start getting it to pop up more.
I'm getting confused trying to read the damn comments.
If you're trying to get that thing to pop up more frequently, you need to know whether or not that's going to be
heterozygous or homozygous in the way it's breeding.
You can do that.
All of those are really good points.
Tony's discussion about doing open pollinations.
Whenever you have a pack of seeds or you have ideally multiple packs of seeds,
get as many seeds as you can, get as large a population as you can,
and open pollinate that population so that you can preserve as much of the population genetic frequencies as possible.
Then out of that, do your line breeding.
You can do that either through selting, and that is the quickest way.
You will inbreed your line and produce a more homozygous line more quickly.
You will be able to identify deleterious, recessive, perm tendencies, things like that.
Through that method, you're going to be able to eliminate those traits more quickly.
You're going to be able to eliminate those traits more rapidly than you would through traditional breeding
simply because you're going to be able to identify and select against those traits that you're not looking for
and select for those traits that you are looking for while increasing homozygosity within the overall population through selting.
But everything they're saying about male length traits and overall genetic diversity
through male-female breeding is absolutely true.
Kevin McKernan did a...
He published...
Well, Medicinal Genomics published in 2019 the complete male genome from the Jamaican Lion line.
And that reference genome that they created from a male lion specifically has revealed an incredible amount of information.
If you go on, they've got the video here on YouTube.
I've linked to it on my page before.
If you check out the Jamaican Lion post that I made a while back,
he specifically references the McKernan presentation that he makes about the reference genome.
But through that, I can't remember off the top of my head the specific length traits that they were able to identify
in the recombining regions of the male genome, but there were a number of them.
And when you don't breed with a male, you're losing all of that genetic material.
And while it will more rapidly increase the homozygosity of your line through a feminized inbreeding,
you know, S1, S2 sort of breeding schematic,
what you're going to be losing is those traits that are linked to the male genome.
And so are chromosomes.
So that's something to keep in mind.
And it's really like research.
Check out that presentation that Kevin does.
There's been a number of papers that have emerged out of the reference genome that they produced off of the Jamaican Lion.
And it's one of the more informative genetic data sets that has been used to develop actual trait information.
Regarding, I believe, in a more recent paper that was published last year, McKernan and those folks,
they identified THC that THC synthase genes were connected to powder male due resistance genes.
And a number of other QTLs that are very important in things that we, you know.
The fact that they've already identified them means that the cost for future genomic work
using those specific traits and those specific QTLs that have already been identified
is going to be significantly cheaper because it's already been identified.
We don't have to do the work of identifying it.
So everybody should give shout outs to Jamaican Lion.
Homeboy, like that dude, the fact that he did the work that he did and that he covered the cost himself
is one of the biggest selfless acts in modern genomics
and is something that was really motivated by an effort to support the community
and sort of stop potential patent trolls and to preserve, you know,
particularly mixed type, mixed ratio chemotypes and that genetic gene pool out there.
So props to the dude.
Yeah.
This is a new one also right here.
This is the same one here.
She's a rich Rebecca by Yale and German band.
Good bird.
I don't know.
Yeah, I suppose.
It's the same thing.
18 May.
You're going to have to say this all over again when you're when your connection comes back in full force.
But are you talking about Shadrock?
Trevor.
Yeah.
OK.
All right, Mr. Toad, let's let's hear what you were just saying one more time.
Oh, this is just something that's tied to exactly what I was talking about there with the the size of the genome of cannabis in here.
I'm trying to see if this one's seen a different strain they were using here.
This one's used kind of bio.
It's a CBD strain.
And this is one they're doing a sequence on also here with the size of the genome of the cannabis strain.
So the more they do it on, the more they're finding out that the male is carrying a lot of what a regular grower might call the magic in a strain.
So you're searching for something that you smoke when you were 17 or some shit.
And that was back when they weren't feminizing shit.
This is back when they were growing plants from males and females.
This is one even when in the room, if you had a plant that S1, there's a chance that it wasn't an S1.
It could have been your uncle fucking around with plants at the other spot that had a male that he fucking didn't know about.
Like when they weren't really tracking shit because of prohibition and fucking because they weren't really trying to breed.
They were trying to grow some herb and didn't know what the fuck they were doing.
A lot of different shit back in the day could be attributed to what you're not finding in today's cannabis.
And the more we decide that it's better to just make seeds the easy way, then spend some time growing out a room of males or at least the male you decide to breed with.
If you're not going to grow out five or six or 10 or 20 males, grow the one you're going to grow out multiple times in different places to see what it does.
Like I did that with Angel for 15 years.
You're going to find out how much of that plant stretches.
You're going to see, does it produce color?
Does it make a different kind of trichome percentages outside because of the UV that is hitting on it?
Find some shit out about your plant besides you're trying to find orange in the terpene profile.
There's more expressions in that genetic line than most people are searching for.
We started getting too narrow-minded on what we're after.
We want a plant that fits this area that we're at.
And we wanted to have this amount of smell so we don't get caught when it's growing.
And then we wanted to produce this amount of weed when it doesn't.
And then we forget about all the other parts of that plant that actually made it special.
The area it came from, the soil it was in, the actual way it did grow naturally.
So instead of adding what we want to that line, find out what nature is going to give to you in a whole different area, but through the same genetic potential.
That's where doing the open pollination with as many males and females comes into line.
Because if it's like natural, say it's a plant that came from Russia naturally, but you live in Southern California, right?
And you start open pollinating there, it's going to start to unlock different traits in that line in your area because of what you're offering to that plant.
The expression from the UV that's hitting it, that's brand new.
The angle of the way the light hits it, the plant's going to eventually start reading new cues to start opening up different genetic outliers.
You're going to find different mutations that might have been there originally because you just didn't see it.
It wasn't showing up from where it was at. It's been growing in the same place for so damn long.
And now if you've got a large area like you're talking about, Peter, there, you can start seeing all kinds of new expressions and lines.
From letting people grow or even yourself, right?
You do a commune grow where every year we start working on different people's stuff, different projects, time, different ways.
And let the sun be the dictator of what's happening out there.
Teach people how to farm, teach them how to breed, teach them how to just be around the plant.
Be more respectful to their cells and to the earth.
And different shit comes out of what you want to do.
Yeah, man, I've been breeding this specific, there's this one Pam line that I'm doing with the 15.
And I pollinate the very first opportunity that I can, extremely, extremely early on it, every freaking time.
Like as soon as there's like one or two, one or two little hairs that are viable, taking some pollen, I usually try to start that F2 or F3 or F4 or whatever.
I'm on the F3 now, doing it super, super early at this one point in time, in the same place, in the same way.
And this first time around, I've noticed that the plants are starting to finish a little bit earlier.
And the farther I go, I'm hoping that by pollinating it earlier and it acclimating to my area over the time with those UVs and all the soil and learning the native environment and being replicated year after year or whatever,
that I'll be able to shorten it down to the flower in time to right where I want by pollinating it earlier.
And I'm wondering if there's anything to that or not.
And I've been playing with it.
But this year, it seemed like that F3 was earlier, that stuff finished a little earlier last season.
So this season, I'm going to plant some of those again.
We're going to go and we're going to do some stuff and try to figure out, you know, we'll pollinate them early again.
And we'll see if that kind of shortens it up.
But that's weird, funny stuff to try to use the environment.
And then like, all the seed that pops up, like my buddy has a compost pile and every year seeds pop up out of his compost pile.
And he only grows like two strains.
He's an old schooler. He just grows like these two strains that he's always grown.
And sometimes, like, you know, and they're always from seed.
And he always has them and he grows this one, an indica and a sativa.
He doesn't even fucking have names and shit on it.
They're not really that good.
But he breeds them, makes seed and does it.
But they always pop up in his compost pile.
He just calls them the SoCal Land Race.
You know what I mean?
Because they just pop up at his place and every year they grow.
And sometimes he'll take one and he'll use one of those as his plants.
And, you know, they turn out okay and he's happy and everything goes.
So, you know, it's funny.
Like, I always wanted to test that and really see, like, I wonder how long he's actually been pulling that off.
And how acclimated those things really are.
It's pretty fun.
It's cool to see that shit.
Just a stony thought, you know.
It'll start working.
It just depends on the line, man.
After a while, it will start finishing faster.
It will start acclimating to the area.
We know this from nature already, man.
That's why we get landlocked lines that become land raced or air loomed, whatever you guys want to call it.
We can fight over the definitions.
When you put a plant in an area for long enough, it expresses that environment's cues on it.
That's just how it works.
That's what the, and when you breathe that way, that's what epigenetic steering is all about.
That's why two guys can take ten seeds from the same line in two different areas and end up with complete different strains when they come back in a different period of time.
Over one year, you'll come back with expressions that weren't in the original line just because of the way someone wants to choose to take it once they get there.
How lazy they are.
You can do a lot of generational breeding if you have enough area.
I was wondering, does the pollination, I was just wondering.
I'm finally doing the test and trying to figure it out.
I was wondering if you pollinated the fuckers way too late, is that going to affect flower time?
They can receive their pollen at a later time, you know what I mean?
That information is stored for next time.
Maybe they push on a little bit longer waiting for pollen because they got pollinated super late, right before they were ready to give up.
Or does it work backwards in that reverse like I've been doing with those early flowers?
You pollinate it way too early so it doesn't even have a chance to get going at all.
It's like, fuck, I should just get started earlier.
You know what I mean?
I do better on whatnot.
I'm finally trying to figure out if actual pollination, time of pollination, affects your flower time significantly.
And how quickly would you see the results.
It's going to take my whole lifetime to really do it.
I just always wondered that.
It's one of those weird things.
Stupid thing to wonder, I guess.
No, man, that's not stupid.
That's a breeder, man.
That's what makes breeding and chucking different.
It's not because you made a stable line.
It's because you had a purpose for what you were doing.
That's what breeding is all about.
Now, taking that and making it an inbred line or something that produces offspring consistently is different.
But when you have a purpose for breeding besides just making more, if you want to find something out, and you go through the time and effort to find that out,
you have to get to an F3.
How much time and effort did it take?
How many grows did you have to actually look at?
Even if other people were growing at one period, you still had to do it.
I'm sending reports to tell you what terp came out.
Did the plant root like the mom did?
You have to find out a whole bunch of information.
That's different than just, I made some seeds, man.
I've just made some fucking seeds.
There's nothing wrong with that, but that's what breeding is all about.
Having a purpose and taking the time and effort to go through to find out if what you thought was going to happen, happens.
If you want to become a paid breeder, you're going to have to get a good breeding certificate.
Them cats, they weren't using a sequencing and shit when they first started.
They went and saw what happened.
They looked at a plant, they sat there.
They had to be on shrooms or smoking something to want to sit there that long and watch all that shit.
We're all headed in the same direction.
We're all like, man, I want to see what would happen.
That's how it all starts out.
Like I said, man, I'm always trying to...
I'm always dreaming of this and dreaming of that.
You can't do it all. It's crazy. It's nuts.
God damn it. I wish I could do everything quicker.
I got mangoes that I've been breeding.
I'm like, God damn it, this is taking forever.
I'm like year five, year six, I finally got some cool seedlings or some stuff.
I'll know what they taste like in seven years, maybe.
We'll see if I made some good choices or not or if I have something fun to play with.
There was a question on topping earlier.
Topping during seedling stage, the plant shows sex usually right after the time I want to top for the fifth node.
Does the top stress enough to affect sex or is it already determined?
Once it hits fourth or fifth, it should be fully determined on what the endogenous hormone expression of the plant is going to be.
It should tell you. There should be a start setting where it's going to head to, male or female.
You can sway those.
By the time you hit fourth or fifth node, it should...
Plants will tell me what they are by that time.
It just depends on the pace of the plant. Not all plants are the same.
Some plants won't even...
I find if I root down them a little bit, then I can get them to show quicker than anything.
More than topping or more than anything for me.
That's just always what I... If I want them to show, I'll just keep them at one gallon for a little longer or whatever.
And they'll eventually kind of show out.
I usually only top once, maybe.
Maybe twice if I'm growing outside and they're going to be giant.
I'll do maybe a tiny bit more, but maybe once.
And probably just like the third or fourth node, I'll top one time.
But if you want to see sex, I usually stress them out.
I just let them get a little more tight in their root system.
You know, they'll show you.
So, Rob, Seattle Chronic was supposed to join us.
He was also supposed to join us last week and he fell asleep on his couch.
And I'm guessing that this week the exact same thing happened.
Is Trevor still with us or is he also lying down on his couch?
Because I wanted to quickly go through the...
His blunt was pretty big, man. I don't know. You never know.
The Emerald Cup winners.
That will cause harms.
That's not right.
He also has kids that he is dealing with.
Let me see if this is the right page. That looks like it.
Can you see this? Or actually, here, let me go categories.
Licensed Cultivator Flower, Third Party Certified Flower, Mixed Light.
Licensed Cultivator Flower, Third Party Certified Flower, Sun Grown.
Let's start with the Sun Grown.
So, Emerald Spirit, Botanicals.
Pink Boost Goddess.
I wish they'd tell us the full lineage of the plant.
Biodynamic Blue Dream.
Is that second?
Blue Dream dropping second.
Watch the chat and see what happens.
It's going to be love and hate.
That's the only plant I'd be taking back if I was looking for another one.
I use that plant to help my mom with depression.
It helps her get off using depression pills.
It's the first plant that I realized helped me go in a specific direction with breeding.
Besides just being like a narcotic peppa high.
To me, I didn't like smoking that herb.
It didn't give me the high I wanted.
I wanted to get jacked up because I had so much pain I didn't know about.
Before I ended up with all my health issues.
I didn't go to the doctor.
I shouldn't have been worried about all the pain I was in.
I thought everyone had this kind of pain.
When I hit plants that didn't take my pain away, I didn't realize it wasn't working for me.
It might have been working for someone else.
Until my mom came talking to me about the Blue Dream.
I kept that plant for days.
This is weird.
What was that mother's milk?
That was Soul Spirit.
That's what I'm saying.
Mother's milk and that Bodhi.
Bodhi.
Yeah, it's got to be Bodhi.
What's up mother's milk from Soul Spirit?
Yeah, man.
What places are those?
They don't have any numbers next to them?
That's why I'm like this sucks.
2021 winners.
Right?
First place.
Pink Boost Goddess.
That's the one I was like, what is that?
No other info.
Yeah.
Would that imply that this is second place?
I don't know.
But anyway.
Alright.
Is it Pink Boost is the people that grew it and it's Goddess?
Emerald Spirit Botanicals looks like.
Okay.
I can read it.
I promise.
I can read it.
Yeah.
The Farmer and the Felon.
First place flower winners.
Sun Grown Farmer and the Felon.
Mixed Light.
Ice Cream Cake by local cannabis company.
Sorry.
Sun Grown was Canna Craft.
Mixed Light was local cannabis company.
Indoor was Connected Cannabis.
Uh.
What does third party certified Sun Grown mean?
Versus Sun Grown?
I was wondering what that is.
Third party certified.
Versus certified.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I heard that she was growing in the sun.
I don't know.
Third party.
That's what I hear saying.
I don't know.
That's cool.
I don't know.
They let in the little guy under a license or something like that.
And then in the
Ice Water Hash category.
Papa.
I actually pinged
the lead
for the
the lead hash maker
to see if she'll jump on.
But I don't know if she'll get my email.
That's some good
looking stuff right there.
Man, that's pretty.
Papa select
racking up first place.
Second place to the kombucha.
Third place.
Also Papa select.
Garlic juice.
Garlic and a
friggin extract man.
That's always nice when it comes through.
You don't forget that one.
You know?
They had to do that one cold to keep that garlic in there.
Yeah, I love that.
I gotta go yell at my dog to be right back.
Feeling frosty with the
couple of ways.
And then in the
Kalia.
That's the Landhammer
Farms.
Yeah, that's my homie.
Man.
That's nice.
Patty's cake.
Yeah, they had
Landhammer Farms was in
three of their different production runs
that they entered that all placed.
I don't know.
Some of them further down the list.
But they're all on there.
I mean, Papa's cleaned up, right?
I mean, on the
on the straight hash
and then the rosin.
I think on the hash
they got like first, second, third
and fifth.
Man.
Concentrate Sovereign Lance.
Sovereign Lance.
And what other?
Rainbow Belts.
That's from
Archive.
Bird Extracts.
Bird.
Orange Elixir.
4-5, 1-5-9.
Actually, let me see if he's awake right now.
That looks nice.
Personal use.
That's a
top grade right there.
What makes rosin look good?
Your eyes.
That's a strong style.
What makes rosin look good?
Your eyes.
Ha ha.
The bird is the word.
Yes.
Second place.
I don't know him.
Wow. Alright. Brett got first and third.
Third.
What's the job?
Dino Dog.
Number 8.
Dirty Skittles.
Hash rosin.
No name.
Alright, let's go.
Sunrun.
First place.
Gorilla Snacks.
Cannon Craft.
That's the one I saw right there.
Second place one.
Cannon Country 26.
On Instagram,
that picture was looking
all pixelated.
It looks better here.
Also Compresso.
It looks interesting.
I can't really see it. It's real small for me.
I want to put that on the computer.
It looks good.
Dark Calyxes.
Really light hairs on there.
Yeah.
Looks like, yeah.
I mean, it's good.
Chemical Crossroads.
So third place.
Green Shock Farms.
Pog. Passion Orange Guava.
Man, there's so many plants called POG.
Yeah, right?
They're going to say things that sound like them.
Passion Orange Guava.
You've got Purple Orange Green. There's Pot of Gold.
I mean, there's so
many different lines that were passed off as
POG that you've got to try
to do some history checking to find out if you have
that plant.
Legacy Sour.
Round Top.
Yes, I agree. Pot of Gold was good.
Purple Orange Green was also good.
Purple Orange Green.
Yeah. Pot of Gold.
Pot of Gold was passed.
Pot of Gold was down here.
I don't know if it's the same Pot of Gold you got.
I don't know.
I used to get a Pot of Gold up there.
The first time I got it came out
of the Humboldt Resource Center
up in Humboldt County.
That's the first time I've seen it
commercially on the line.
But I also seen Pot of Gold, which was different
but also sold as POG.
We picked that one up in Eureka
in a different place.
There was a Pot of Gold that used to sit next to
the Old Jizzle.
The Old Jizzle and the Pot of Gold
was something else
that was just fancy.
I used to go to back in the day when I was a young kid.
Pot of Gold was always
the better one of the three.
But it was hardly ever there.
The Purple Orange and Green
that was like me and Gene's stuff.
Yeah, me and Gene.
Yeah, I never had that.
There's several of this stuff
that's just called the POG.
Ice cream cake is good, man.
I got that.
That's like a guilty pleasure of mine.
I like that.
You get that Dog Walker OG to it?
No, but I'm going to
use some of the pollen on that.
That's something that's on the burner.
I'm also going to put the bacon grease on it too.
So it's going to be the bacon cake.
That one's going to be
looked at.
I'm going to put that on there.
That one's going to be looked at.
I'll put some gas to it.
Make it a little more.
How come I never made a modified grease?
That's like more wedding tickets.
Yeah, I like that.
Give that 30 gas to it.
I got a cool plant that I found
in a...
Oh, wait.
Napro Research?
I was trying to read who grew these here.
Sorry, man.
Napro.
Napro is...
They were involved with the
biotech patents.
Chimera worked for...
I think he worked for Napro.
They were hired by
biotech.
There was a bunch of controversy when they first won
at the Emerald Cup
back in...
I think it was 2017.
That's when molecular
farms and
biotech industries
and the utility patents that they were making
popped off and
big controversy.
They've been winning cups there
ever since.
Alright. Well, I'm going to
try that mother's milk.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I've always wondered about milk.
Dude, I'm smoking this
chocolate marshmallow
which is one of those exotic
things. It's the
GG Ford mint chocolate chip
which is the
green ribbon
controversy.
I don't know.
There's the whole
HPK green ribbon
the whole thing.
Then I crossed that to the Pam
and then I pulled that
to the F2.
This is like a funky
little side thing. Wintertime stuff.
Fun stuff.
Dude, the
jar that I pulled down out of it
has been blowing the top off.
It's fucking off the hook.
I'm really enjoying the shit out of it.
I'm going to have to
make some more seed and play
around with this one because
the one that I'm smoking
I'm giggly and retarded
and no offense to that
but I'm just feeling like the best
in the world right now. It's great.
I like it a lot.
I love when you find
some shit that just gets you high as fuck
and you're like, man, I got to fuck with that shit
right there. Didn't have nothing to do
with subjection or nothing.
That's probably how you found your Pam, man.
The strain I have called
Playing With Fire that just came out
of an accident and that was the best
weed I've smoked in
the last 10 or 15 years.
It's just torn me apart.
The first time I smoked it, I lost my joint
in the refrigerator, man.
That was high as shit.
I'm like, I have to put this
into something, man.
I worked it a few months and I was
going to try to reverse that thing but
that's when I lost my leg and I lost
both of the
females that came out of the shit we found.
Man, I loved that plant.
That stuff got me high.
I wasn't trying to make it.
It came out of an accident out of a friend's
room that I gave. I gave him
12 plants of fire OG
and 12 plants of kosher kush
and the kosher kush in the middle was
touching the light in the middle and it
dropped some pollen on one of the fires.
We got six seeds out of the whole room
and out of those six seeds, we got two females.
Those two females
were the best weed I smoked besides
Mean Jeans oil spill that he
had at the Emerald Cup one year.
Man, I'm like,
oh shit, I got to fuck with this right here.
It stopped all the breeding
I was doing and had me trying to go
in a whole different direction.
Slow up like working
two years on shit and have to go a whole other way
because I can't
lose this plant.
I lost that fucking plant.
I did have a
in crisis.
Something comes around, you know,
oh shit, everything else, fuck this shit.
The other day, I was smoking this
this morning and I was like, god damn, did I
like
ripped it once or twice and I was like looking
for the ball and I was like, it fucking
got ripped. I was like, this is
I'm going to keep this with me today.
Just cured up, started
nice.
Hopefully it stays
to it and I keep liking it over the next couple
days, but
you don't like it after a couple
weeks, you know,
you don't like it anymore.
If it
sticks around, I'll play with it.
For sure.
Trying to bring this to catch up
on here, what to say.
My neck crooked reading the damn comments over here.
It's a blessing and a curse.
I can't see them.
Talk all the shit you want to do.
I usually miss everybody asking
questions, so I try to catch up on it.
Plus, there's some friends in the
in the comment section here. Some of the
homies are in here.
Well, when you guys see who kind
of like what won this
year's Emerald Cup categories,
what are your reactions?
Obviously you didn't smoke any of this stuff, but
I wish they had scratch and sniff cards
that you can send out to people so we could smell these lines, man.
The high isn't where it's at. I want to smell it
first and then I'll go searching for it.
I'll put a motor on my
wheelchair, head on down I-5, I'll find that shit
somehow.
My biggest thing is I'm looking
for the breeders
and the different cuts and stuff. I want to know
whose stuff is getting grown
and whose stuff is winning.
Like I said, I could only pick out
boaties and I picked out something else.
It looks like some of those are in-house
farm stuff or
things I've never heard of.
I wish they had lineage on there.
That would tell me a bigger story about
what it was like and
how it was winning
and what the judges
were enjoying.
From the lineage standpoint.
I'm glad to see
Mother's Milk. I'm glad to see boaties
stuff up there.
I'm glad to see a couple
farms that I know
or I've seen or
hung out with a couple.
Hold on. Blaisdaily,
where'd you send the
question?
Or what's the question?
Or let me check.
Did you ask? Yes, I see.
People have questions. Okay.
And go.
Real quick.
My take away
on the winners.
In the flower category
it was good to see
I know Jackson shouted them out.
I don't know the farm but
he talked about an old school
legit farm.
OGs that he looked up to doing
well. So it's good to see that there's still
some OGs who are winning in the
flower.
I'm not sure. I didn't
look at all of the results but
that was the one that stood out
from the little card
schematic that was getting shared around.
And when I looked at the other ones
it was connected
and two or three
NAPRO associated
or biotechnology associated
farms
and
that's for better and for worse
and really kind of a signal
of where things are moving.
NAPRO does
large scale
scientific breeding
with targeted
intention.
They want to mix particular
terpene profiles with particular
cannabinoid profiles
and they do the breeding
work to accomplish
their goals and
it's working.
They've won a bunch
of cups and
it's possible
that there's conscious
or unconscious biases
entering into any awards
ceremony. There's always been
controversy around them.
I tend to think, knowing some of the judges
that this is a pretty honest and fair
attempt to evaluate
what was there and presented
to them and
it seems year in and year out
those NAPRO
farm or NAPRO research
related farms are
winning multiple
different categories
in the cup.
And we all
kind of have to be on notice that that is
a model and that it's effective.
Connected
winning, you know, connected
large commercial
operation.
They're also in the space, you know.
I come from the time
when the Emerald Cup was not so
much. Like those
sort of players and
the different categories that are allowed
now weren't even categories allowed
back in the day when I was entering
or when I was going.
So, you know,
times are a changing
for better and for worse but I think
that it's just kind of something that we have to
you know, it's a form of market
research more than anything.
Look there, look
who's winning, look what's winning
assess market trends
and evaluate
it for what it is on those
terms.
Don't get sucked into the hype.
It's not the be all end all but it's
definitely a glimpse into what
the commercial rec market is doing right now.
Also, look at those personal
winners, you know. Look at the
people who aren't rec
commercial license holders. See what
they're doing because they have a lot
more freedom and a lot more opportunity
to fuck around with shit that people
in the rec space simply can't
because the rec space is determined
by what sells.
And, you know, you look in
Kombucha won a bunch.
Shout out to Compound, you know, props to Homie.
He fucking clearly
has produced a number of
really just top caliber
washers and flowers just in
general.
The GMO, crushing it.
You know, it's definitely something
that has added a lot
of value and if you're
if you're producing for
concentrates it's definitely something you
have to be pursuing or working with.
If you're breeding for concentrates it's something
to add to the repertoire.
Then,
you know, a number of
different things.
One, Masonic won
he had a number of things that placed.
I know a lot of people say he's
he's just
pollen chucking and hype but like
if you're into washers and
that's what you're trying to do
his seeds are cheap.
You can get a lot of them and you can find
it only takes one washer to
get a washer. You know, if you're
pheno hunting and most of the stuff
on the market these days are polyhybrids.
So people with their purity
tests and all the like
you know, the breeding
sort of posturing
most of what's out there
and what's winning is polyhybrids
that are operating
within a specific niche
of different genetics.
People are rocking the papaya.
People are rocking the banana.
The, you know, there are different
citrus washers that TropCookie
seems to be washing.
The fucking, you know
the GMO. All those things
are washers that people are working with
and for better or for worse
that's where the commercial market is going.
If you aren't interested
in those things and you're
more interested in the, you know
what people with the freedom
to grow their own herb and you know
as limited as it is for six plants
they can grow whatever they want
and those people can enter some interesting stuff
and like the Steve Urkel
I smoked some of that just like
a week or two ago and that shit was
fucking phenomenal.
It took second place and like
homeboy, he deserves mad
props for breeding and for growing
that Steve Urkel. That shit's fucking fire.
His name on IG escapes me
right now because I suck at IG handles
but like, you know
dude fucks with it heavy.
So yeah, go find that Steve Urkel
find dude, give him a follow
get his seeds because his genetics are out there
and you know
be about that. Just check out people
see what's on there that
sparks your interest but like
you know, don't get too
caught up in all the hype
because the awards have always kind of just been
a lot of a hype
but you know, it definitely
shows what's happening
where things are headed.
So
I found
Blaze Daily's question
so everyone hold
tight
we did not mean to ignore it
Yes
Simple answer, yeah
That was succinct
That was a succinct group answer
and I didn't see
any of the
other people
and I didn't see Blaze Daily
any other questions from you
so if you had other questions that I missed
I don't know
where it stops
or if it stops
that would be my question
like
what point does it change
like F22
F27, F144
you know what I mean
Is it like a logarithmic
like
F1 to F2 is like this
in terms of the gene
I'm sorry, I missed the question
Oh the guy just asked
if there could be an F8 in cannabis
and we're like yeah
there could be an F8 in cannabis
Oh F8, yeah
but I was just adding to
the question to make it more complex
like when would it stop
and what
F22, F106
like where would you
dictate the change other than
breeding population
like Toad was talking about
open pollination, land-raise type techniques
or single male breedings
or anything that's making them work
well there are ways that they do that
like so
at a certain point you're going to notice
that inbreeding depression
ceases
and so the overall
yield and deleterious
results that you're getting
from an inbred line
is stabilized and you'll not see
from one generation to the next
further deterioration in the line
in terms of overall yield and quality
and at that point
that's typically when they consider
something like
to breed
you can look at different charts
in breeding books
and they'll really identify
that point
as the point at which you've got an inbred line
it's stabilized
breeding material
then
like in cannabis you're reaching
that by like S3, S4
and then
anything beyond that
you're not really going to be getting much
more improved
homozygosity
another way
of looking at it
is just looking at what your inbreeding
coefficient is
and while it's a theoretical average
it still is going to tell you
about how many generations at which point
you're going to reach
relative homozygosity in your population
and again
by like F7, F8
you're pretty far
into homozygosity
and there's not
necessarily a need to keep on going
but people
have, like there's
breeding methods like
there's a
dude out of UC Davis
granted he was breeding
with barley which is an inbreeding
species anyways but like
he had an evolutionary
breeding program
which essentially looked at
inbreeding a population
in an environment
for up to like
50 to 100 generations
and when you
think like
theoretically that's
the thing that makes it so
you have an endemic population
that is specific to a
particular locality so
those particular
land race speciation events
that happened throughout history
that made differentiation
within the cannabis genome
that actually made
for morphological and specific
ecotype cannabis
was bred along those lines
and so like
in theory like you can go
add infinum
and can create more of a
ecotype and evolved
like specific
line for that area
or but
like that's not what we do in commercial
or that's not what they do in commercial breeding
commercial breeding is much more like
what's the fastest route
to accomplishing X goal
and so it's typically
like let's self this shit
or like reduce variability
as much as possible
but that breeding method
is you know
that's the thing that produced the diversity
and the
very specific
ecotypes that created the
germplasm that
we all you know
that came around back in the 70's
that we were talking about at the beginning
of the show or when I hopped on
you know so it's definitely
I think you hopped on
during our grub segment
yes
you came in and it was like
full screen grub
close up
but yeah so
I think that there is
no end like theoretically
if you have a population and
you want to increase
and you know there are different
methods for maintaining a population
and breeding one
or maintaining an open population
or open pollination
population but
there's a lot of really good books
and like graphics that kind of
show all this shit and like
Robert Allard I think his name
is he's a
UC Davis professor you can find
a lot of his papers they show
how these population genetics work
and
really UC Davis did a bunch of work
in this sort of field
and it's very interesting looking at population dynamics
Colleen yes
yeah UC Davis seems
like a
I keep reaching out to
like professors there to be like
do you want to come talk to a bunch of
cannabis growers
about what you're most knowledgeable about
I've taken a course there
and I can tell like just
from my experience they love to talk about the topic
but they are also really like
what do you do
like they are afraid of cannabis
just because of their
federally funded titles
and positions like
they're totally down to talk about it off the record
at least with us
like at the
breeding seminar that I went to
they were very interested and excited
to talk to cannabis breeders
and people who are growing cannabis
because it's new
and it's exciting
and it's something different than their daily jobs
but they're also like
yeah like if we knew
you were a pot grower you may not have been able
to like get down
with the program
like that's not really
they can't really get down with it
and this was like back in
2015 or
2016 when things were even
a bit more stringent
but I think they have
like the hemp specific
program right?
no they've developed more
with hemp coming online they're much more open
the person to talk
to about that honestly would be Bam
Bam did
additional seminars afterwards
and he probably
has some
connections with the
folks over there
I think it's like John something
John
sorry I'm looking
John
anyway I'll find that dude
but uh
is this true for autos?
like going to F9 to
make sure that it's always an auto?
F9 they usually will take an auto
if it's already an auto
it's not as far along but if you're
crossing it to a
photo period you need to make
a F1 and dig through
the F1's to make F2's
the F2's will start to show some
of the auto flower trait if you're not going to go
through genetic sequencing to find out
which plants are actually carrying it
if you're going to take the time to do all the breeding
they usually go back to an F4 and then
just feminize that plant and offer
you the seed from there and it's going to give you
auto flower traits out of there
if you want regulars it's going to take
a little more work
depends on what you're starting off with
Fuli autos or
auto to photo
that is the typical
method another way that you can do it
is through
essentially this is
outlined perfectly in essentially
every breeding book you've got
here that you will pick up
look up the
method for recessive fat cross breeding
essentially what you'll do
is you'll do a back cross
if you take a true
auto you
breed that auto to something
else then
you do a back cross to
the original thing you find the
auto trait in the offspring
population you breed
that back
ok you
do the back cross
you do the F2
you do a back cross you do an F2
so after every back crossing
you're going to do an F2
to try and lock in that recessive
trait so that it's not lost
just through the back crossing
and if you
do this and breed
a true breeding
homozygous recessive
auto
continually
selecting for that pollen donor
every time
then you're going to be able to lock in the traits
while also essentially
breeding out all of the
undesirable auto traits
in that line while
breeding in as much of
the desirable recurrent parent traits
for whatever you're breeding it to
so if you're trying to create
a
cookies auto
or a gorilla glue auto
or insert strain X
auto this is the breeding
you would do
and the way that you maintain that recessive
allele is by doing
the S1 or the F1
after every generation
typically in
most breeding schemes you'll see it done
as an S1
but for this you'll probably
have to do because you're going to be selecting
a male pollen donor
you'll be selecting for a male pollen donor
that is displaying
auto traits and
you'll be making sure that you maintain that recessive allele
throughout the entire population
all the way down the line
while selecting for the ones that are
most likely
mother plant in the population
so that's how
ideally that's how
you would be doing it and yeah
it does take about
that many generations
to do it
you're looking at an F9
F8 sort of breeding scheme
it's definitely more involved
because after every backcrossing
you have to do an additional
inbreeding between the siblings
to maintain that recessive allele
Tyler
counter argument and go
I'm joking
John Yoder was the guy
at UC Davis that I was thinking
of I've reached out to him he's like the hemp
I think he runs like the whole hemp
program I may be totally
wrong on that but
I'm going with it
I've reached out to him a bunch of times
no responses
ever but there is this
other guy at UC Davis who did
nematode research and he was
like I'll give my nematode
presentation so I need that was like
eight months
yeah
alright so if I got
someone doing fruit tree research
would you join us?
sure
I would like you to
talk to our house fruit tree
expert who has some questions for you
about your research
I'd love to
listen and ask some funky questions
about what they're doing
I want to talk to
the guy who did
have you guys eaten the cotton
candy grapes?
yeah
they're delicious
if I were like my six year old
self like my two daughter
I'm just like I don't know if you guys know this
but like we had one kind of grape when I
was growing up in the grocery store
with most you know
it was either a red and a white
or
red and green
yeah green
I got the finger
I got the lady finger ones going this year
I got lots of funky little grapes
California Concord
there's a perlet white
like growing in your yard?
yeah they line
yeah yeah yeah
I can bring you some grapes come out in the summer you're gonna love me bro
we got
but I got this year the first year
I'm actually gonna hopefully see some of the fingerling
or the lady finger grapes
are they the long ones?
yeah yeah yeah
we've eaten those too
so as soon as the cotton candy ones aren't under patent
and like trademark and there's like actual
like a place that I can like
snake some budwood
I mean yeah man we're you know
we'll hook you up
but is that I don't think that's gonna happen for a long time
yeah they'll keep it on lock for a while
you know but I mean you know
maybe there's somebody who's got some of that
at UC Davis or some place
and you know they'll cut us a little sliver
just sneak it out the back door
maybe I'll go somewhere in my travels
and do some investigations
I go to lots of different commercial farms
we do grapes I do peaches neck greens
there's all kinds of weird stuff
sometimes I'll go to a place where there'll be
heirloom trees
150 year old heirloom trees you don't see anymore
you know different companies
like Dave Wilson and old Ellie Cook
before they went out of business
didn't replicate very often or if at all
I'd always take budwood of those
and do some grafting
and some stuff at my house to kind of keep things alive
and plant one or two
of those trees at one of my good
friends houses or one of my people's places
so that I would have a budwood
source to make more
if ever needed or
you know all those things so I'm always snaking
little snippets out of this
and stuff in my pockets full of plants
I'm always planting out of my pockets when I get home
you know for sure it's weird
alright so when that dude
at UC Davis
slips you a cut of the cotton
candy out the back door
you'll
how long
would that
how long
would that take before you can actually
fruit it like is it year
one or is it like year four
so by the second season
we should be able to see something on there
if it's a rooted cutting from
an old plant and it's rooted and ready to go
if we gotta root it you know we might add
season three and we can start
seeing some fruit but
the way we get it is if the dude sneaks it out of UC Davis
he's not gonna grab like a whole
plant he's gonna be like
the guy who snuck the rubber tree
out of South America
or whatever
G13 great
or no wait where was the rubber tree
first
what was it snuck out of
was it in Africa or was it in
South America first
some sort of rain forest I would imagine
the rubber tree is an 80 foot it's a ficus
80 100
100 plus foot grower
you know what I mean
the root system is insane
10 times that
it's a bad mamma jama dude
that is a bad tree
we had one at the old nurse we had two of them
the trunks were like
have they wear the face of a
of a
way they they had to be over 100 feet
O
when they get real old they'll start leaking these roots off of the old
branches and stuff they'll start sagging roots will be hanging off of them some
some of the cultivars and stuff which is crazy so like the big branches up top
will actually have shit growing off of them and and it's yeah man they always
yeah they always got killer feet sitting in the soil you can like eat your lunch
on some of the root systems and shit it's pretty cool dude. There's some
pigeon ones dude. At the San Diego Zoo you can see a whole bunch of the wild
animals.
Yeah, you'd start to Google does not do them justice.
They're no like epically huge or pictures of epically huge trees.
I'm gonna remove big as my adjective and I'm gonna put in dinosaur rubber tree.
So dinosaur rubber tree was unsuccessful but let me show you what it did show.
Ficus.
Can you see all this stuff?
Right but they're all close-ups none of them are.
So Ficus so there you go there you go in Bermuda large rubber tree in Bermuda
yeah there you go right there that's it. I got one right here as a small one but I got a
rope. There it is right there that's what I'm talking about with those roots and like the
crazy-ass shit like the thing you'd see in like Avatar like that is the tree man.
Buy that at Home Depot man. They've had to take out so many that like get into
sewer systems and like crazy stuff because Ficus like like most most trees
in general the root system will want to reach about as far as the branches reach
you know the drip line of the tree you hear it called or whatever that's where the kind of you
know the most active root systems will reach and they'll go out as wide as possible for
stability and the rainfall animals poop and die and that first two foot of soil as wide as possible
as wide as their canopy kind of will let them you know but Ficus most Ficus not all but fucking
damn near maybe all of them but most of them their root systems like I don't know a hundred
times their their their width of their branches so if your branches are friggin 100 feet or 50
feet you know wide and you got this crazy-ass canopy you know you got you know at least 50
times that length and distance and crazy-ass root travel and root distance and those things they
are insane they'll get into everything and crawl into all kinds of stuff and they're really cool
but you don't want to plant them like right next to your house or something that house will just
start to like rise as the roots yeah they look like they could just like like push conch like
cement around and yeah yeah the bus block pick up sidewalk smash the street up like you know get into
the sewer systems I mean they're just they are they're the real deal and they're you know they're
gonna it's like that and star pines are like the two things you could buy at like any place that
sells trees or stuff like as a house plant but if you took them outside and planted them they would
turn into like the baddest tree ever you know so it's pretty funny and that's why their house
plants because they're tough you know as shit what's that oh look at that yeah there you go
there's a rubber tree right right yeah yeah yeah he's a prisoner of the inside man that's awesome
what's up so if anyone's tuning in from Colombia I would love seeds to grow coca I think that'd
be cool to grow and just like yeah chew the leaves yeah yeah I'll put it in there as rubber
we like border like the post office like government some some government fucking parking lot or
something and like it was our nursery and the nursery had been there since the poor time
again and like the two giant rubber trees back there they were like twins they were seriously
like redwood trunks man some of the biggest trees I've ever seen you take them out and rip them down
I wasn't there that day man it was it was it was sad to see when I went back and saw all those trees
gone but they had to pour up the entire fucking everything the entire parking lot was like because
those things had been there for so long fucking shit up you know so yeah it was rubber trees are
that and the chat the chats bringing the topic even I think we were talking condoms on another
fuck yeah for hot plate and viroid yesterday condoms have been a theme lately gotta stay safe
I would like to try this nope nope I saw someone so chocolate what's the what's the tree that it
grows on yeah yeah that's a safe word yeah I say so it's not you can't really cuz I was like that
would be cool to grow yeah they have a hard time growing here you have a hard time growing chocolate
successfully they like they like the Florida they won't be able to tolerate the cold temperatures
you know the word that we kind of experience for that even that short period of time they like the
hot humid summers yeah like there's a couple trees like sapodilla probably like pronouncing
that like a terrible like you know redneck man but there's sapodilla there's like even the
jabota cabas will grow here really well those are fruits that produce these killer little gems on
the trunks of the trees I have a couple but they're you know they have a harder time you know
that something there's you know some lychees will kick through but those are you know those
Chuck the cows and then like traditional coconuts you know coconut pines or palms I always wanted
to be able to grow some coconut palms but we can't we just can't do it here and we can't do the cacao
properly which is kind of a bummer but you know you have to do you got to do a ton of stuff to
that to the chocolate to the cacao you make chocolate you know the hell of a processing tree
and I got a macadamia nut and just cracking the shells on them macadamia nut when you got
friggin bags full those like this that's a tedious you know thing I don't know how much I could do
with the cacao you know process you know I like to take my fruit off the tree and fucking eat it
I want it ready to go hold on I was trying to know you fucker hold on who told you my nickname
told you my nickname can you run some of my gear you can run some of my gear in Maine sure
someone earlier asked there it was like what of yours should I get but I can't remember
there was probably more to it than that yeah man you're still if you're still watching
someone had a question about what you have available I just sent some stuff into you
that be there any day I'm waiting on the space cheese testers to come back from people and then
I'm gonna be sending some of that stuff to you because well everybody wants tested shit so we
gotta get it tested before you get them out that's what I'm with Lisa I've been having everybody hit
me up asking for some of the new stuff well we got gift of the gods all depends on what you're
after I had to do with it yeah you had to do with it because there was nothing else more stuff coming
the post office takes time you guys like rain sleet snow and all the other shit but none of
it said and the toad like I'm what's slowing them up when I take my crippled ass down there
like four or five days late so sorry guys shit was supposed to be there last week and I got busy
I do have a direct contact if you guys can reach out to Peter or me you can hit me up on philly
what hold on give me one second our way oh hold on that's that's what I was trying to do there's
an eerie similarity got the monkey and a motherfucker right there did up the monkey
do any of us have a vision of crisper being able to edit there's some new shit out now instead of
crisper to call what's it called um man I mean that was supposed to be more like it let's see here
oh well that's where breeding is going when you guys decide to make it descheduled and regulated
cannabis is gonna go on the way of genetically breeding and even if it doesn't become genetically
modified a lot of people think because they're taking sequencing and reading what's actually
happening and then putting that into a more efficient form of breeding as a way of being
genetically modified because everybody wants to do it the old-school way and the old-school way
just keeps what we're after hidden we got a dick shit and if we combine the old-school way with the
new school way we end up with more efficient medicine with the plant it's gonna breed more
efficient it's going to grow more efficient for what we're after if we want to have a special
stuff that's a secret and you know wide open we can still do that but what's coming is they're
gonna be breeding through using crisper and other techniques because that's that's how you get it
done faster and more efficiently you can't they don't have time to waste money when you've got
million-dollar facilities you cannot waste a year trying to breed for some some trait that's just
not in the cultivar that you're looking for that exact phenotype does not carry what you have
to breed for what you're looking for with that particular plant's a waste of your time and money
so you got to put your money into that stuff that's just where it's gonna go
yeah as soon as I started testing for like CBD and CBD and really when I started testing my
males for like friggin cannabinoids and different stuff like that man that's what really kind of
gave me more of a steering wheel and able to do it you know even on even on a you know a smaller
one-man show scale you know so it is it is helpful to a point but there's an art to it man and you
know there's a guy's got to find a way to combine them both in an elegant way you know but I like
using all the tools man I can use I'll use all the tools I possibly can and good etiquette
telling that new the new shit they're using is called talent it's from the University of
Illinois's new gene editing technique up to five times more efficient than CRISPR
that's what's coming with plant breeding I mean we may not like it but that's what's coming
I feel the same way and like it's it's not affordable to any of us in our hands you've
got to be rich as a son of a bitch to do it so this is what removes a industrial commercial
cannabis from people saying because that's what's coming then no one's seeing it the next
revolution and the Industrial Revolution this is the next one we like to say the Green Revolution
that's really what's coming it's gonna reclassify shit with the amount of income that's gonna
transfer hands if you know how to play the market man this is like betting on fucking Bitcoin a few
years ago right now you're guaranteed if you put your money in cannabis in the correct way you're
gonna come out on top of shit you can't lose with cannabis unless you stick to hustling it and
dime bags and shit and looking for the strain that just stinks through your pockets that you
remember in the old days you start breeding for specific reason that the market is after if they're
looking for CBD you got to quit breeding with an OG line unless you just want that terpene profile
to that and start doing back cause bringing that Sungrow meds was talking about here or what I was
speaking on it's the only way you're gonna introduce these what would be recessive for what
you're after into that line so even if an OG say breeds dominant with most lines if you're trying
to introduce that to something that's born to it it's now going to be the recessive genetics in
that line you're gonna have to bring into it and then back out of it back into it just to get what
you're after on the chemotype level and phenotype level and it's so much work and you don't want to
do that guessing you just don't want to especially when they start asking you like on here you have
to have your lines produced if your line has to produce less than a certain amount of THC you
can't just guess on that shit and start getting sued you know you're gonna get your ass sued and be
fucked for real right now they ain't suing nobody but as soon as this stuff becomes rescheduled and
they can start reinforcing patents and shit you're gonna get jazz busted by somebody claiming that
your line only produces this much CBD and then they grow it out in their state and they lose
so much money and they're you're screwed somebody's gonna come get you you then you're just sitting
there like this plant fucked me and it was you and yourself because like the talk big yeah don't
certain states test like at the farm and then others for CBD at the 0.3% and then other states
tests like in the lab where you can kind of be like oh shit it's a little hot like let's bring
it down you're like okay state regulators like test this yeah hundred percent a hundred percent
every state's different that's what's wrong with testing so somebody here like they ask me what
line should they grow in their state for a true commercial cannabis seed seller you have to know
what state they're in what laws they go by you have to know when the testing period is you have
to know what your line does at a specific time or like I said eventually you're gonna get your ass
sued you're gonna get in some kind of form of trouble legally because that's what comes with
de-scheduling and reinforcing regulations on a plant that's what comes with a period I mean it
works with every product once it becomes fully regulated in any form so we've decided that's
what we want because we keep deciding like when we had 215 we could have made 215 the rule of the
land everywhere and then we slowly go to a proposition 64 and then you get to every state
that's now got a different version of how to fuck the small grower out of getting cannabis for free
and trying to figure out a way for you to get screwed by paying for the tax the packaging the
testing and all the shit that you never cared about when you were just getting her off a homeboy
out of a microwave on the back street right like you do want clean weed but does it really matter
if the packaging see-through like like keep it from kids easily there's ways to regulate shit
but we just keep regulating it to death and making it to the point where we each get sick
and tired of all the regulations and wish it was just like the way it was we can't go backwards
so we got to be we got to embrace what's here and go with the flow you know if you're really
gonna be a breeder and that's what you want to do as a job like commercially you have to know
how to take CRISPR into account because that's gonna be what's used by other people to get ahead
in the game period yeah I agree with that I also believe that right now like look at napro look at
these other entities that are doing this type of work right now in this space napro's demonstrated
an actual success you know other people like phyllis like phyllis basically as we all know
just did a crowdsourcing fucking they cross first their samples and their funding for their genomics
library to then sell that and pitch that to investors they didn't actually really produce
anything and they haven't produced any results on the commercial market with plants at least as far
as I know and granted they're operating in the hemp space and I don't really operate in that
space but that is where a lot of this type of work is being done because that's where economies of
scale are operating right now so people that are operating in economies of scale are dealing with
the regulatory issues that were mentioned earlier with having hot batches hi you know having to meet
regulatory compliance for him all of that drives the needs of that market and makes it so breeding
with genomics marker assisted breeding is economically feasible you know there's not a
lot of people operating in the drug cannabis sort of recreational market that are using marker
assisted breeding to the extent that they are it's people who like mentioned earlier I don't
know dudes actual name you mentioned it Peter but Jamaican lion the guy that read that like he is
Jeremy Jeremy yeah but if you look at gun genetics at gun genetics on Instagram he's a dude who out
of his own pocket paid for sort of a preventative patent genomics work that he did Kevin McKernan
check out his website a canopedia when Toad was talking about Skywalker earlier I looked up on
canopedia they've got the Skywalker sequenced and they have an interesting sort of like their own
phylogenetic tree that they've created through all their different sequencing that is kind of
like a counterpoint to the one that was created by phylos with their galaxy and so it's still
rudimentary it we haven't really gotten there to the point where the economies make sense for this
type of technology however the technology is rapidly increasing in the costs are dwindling
it used to you know sequencing a whole genome used to be tens of thousands of dollars now it's getting
down into the thousands and so it's much more reasonable but when you're talking about trying
to do sequencing and identify traits and really build out the trait library from scratch you're
talking about a huge huge multi-year tens of thousands if not hundreds of thousands of dollar
investment just in R&D and for most people that's not feasible for a whole host of different reasons
that said one of the most interesting things when I was at the UC Davis breeding seminar that I went
to and participated in was specifically about breeding with genomics and one of the like
prefiguratory or like earlier like seminars or fucking lectures was specifically about breeding
methods that essentially give you the same sort of tools but are just using traditional mathematics
because essentially that's all we're talking about when you're doing large-scale breeding
ideally you're going to set stuff up into a randomized experimental trial you're going to
have it so that you're going to do a large-scale population and through that large-scale population
and through tracking traits when we were talking about that earlier there's a specific paper I'll
I'll throw it up on my Instagram but it's it's from a Ukrainian group and it looks to use a
specific set of like standards for tracking and categorizing phenotypic variation throughout
their like phenotype tracking of the different growth stages and so if you were to take this very
systematized way of tracking your plants through a large population over the entire growth cycle
and you were to breed through multiple generations tracking your different population distribution
segregations and things like this you would essentially be able to do what you would do
through genomics at a fraction of the cost it just requires a lot of advanced statistics and
the advanced statistics just requires you know one thing they stressed constantly throughout the
course the value of genomic data is only as good as your phenotypic data that you've gathered and
the input of that data relative to the markers so the more data you collect the more detailed data
that you collect on your plants you know as things become more computerized and people's
growing environments become more you know people have their different mango tech and different
shit like that you know like if you've got your sensors and you're growing in an environment where
you're able to track all of that shit and you're able to input that data and collect that while
also putting in phenotype data to track the different variations you're going to be able
to see your gene environment interaction and how that different environmental fluctuations are the
difference in the results in the phenotypic results that you're seeing relative to those
which are heritable traits that you're able to see that are genetically determined and not
environmentally determined and being able to discern between that gene environment interaction
and really know what portion of the traits that you're identifying are actually heritable and
controlled by genetic mechanisms as opposed to those which are strictly environmental
will give you incredible amounts of data and essentially right now just looking at your plants
studying your plants knowing your populations tracking that data and then looking at it
from a population level and doing just basic statistics and seeing how it either segregates
into a divided population that would be a traditional Mendelian trait that you're finding
or creates essentially a bell curve where you're dealing with more of a quantitative trait
and a quantitative trait so quantitative traits are going to show a range of variation
and the qualitative traits the Mendelian traits are going to cleanly segregate into discrete
populations particularly as you go through in breeding the line into the F2 and F3 generations
and so that right there is really like if you just breed a line and track the variation in that line
and do the math on it you'll be able to say oh that trait is a Mendelian trait
it's controlled by these mechanisms oh this is a quantitative trait that's controlled by multiple
mechanisms and there's a lot more variation within this population and my selection is going to
determine whether or not I get the really good bangers the mids or some fucking bullshit and
that's where your selection process is really going to shine through and that's where people
like Tom Hill were talking about you know picking those five percent outliers those few within the
population that are transgressive segregants that are way outside of the norm and the range of the
rest of the phenotypic expression that you're seeing for the desirable traits that you're
selecting for and you do that with just some math and you don't necessarily like we as a community
without really even like you know there were the Tom Hills amongst us there were plenty of
brilliant people who come before us and you know who we've all benefited from learning from but
like those cats really they brought that information into this area and were kind of like
doing it by the seat of their pants until they really dive in and brought that information into
the community and so that's something that you know people were able to do all of this without
advanced genomics and a lot of people without even fucking genetics or breeding textbooks but
all that information is there and all we have to do is take the methods that are outlined in those
different books that have been explained on the forums by different people from Vic High to
Camara to Tom Hill to Dave Watson to little skunk man Sam on the forums to all the other cats who
have really laid down breeding and explained how to do breeding the information is all there and
we can use that in lieu of and we've had proven results of doing that in lieu of genomics granted
molecular genomics is going to be the future we have to be ready to play there and recognize what
people like NAPRO and those interests are doing in that space and you know just buckle up and like
I think mostly this community like the people that I see engaging on this space and who hit me
up out of here like it's all about preservation of the genetics that we have it's the heirloom
varieties that people have it's the land-raised genetics it's really about making sure that we
preserve those and I think we have to figure out and really like delve into figuring out ways
to preserve those genetics because the market forces and the like regulatory forces and the
prohibition forces like none of those are our friends in terms of that effort they're not like
market we've seen what it did to every other crop species we've seen what prohibition has done
and these regulations that we're seeing suck everywhere so it's not like any of these are
really geared towards or designed to preserve the genetics and those of us in the discussions that
are happening in this community like this all on different channels and different forums are really
the mechanism and like we're the people who are going to do that and are doing that work so I
think that's where our focus should be first and foremost and to the extent that we can do
breeding with genomics and move into that space that's awesome and I support everyone who who
does that particularly from the from a traditional sort of cannabis background but right now we just
got to make sure that we open pollinate populations store preserve populations keep those things like
the pam isolated and unique I mean like that's that's the business so you know that's what I
think about genomics don't fuck up the pam Tyler uh so Trevor someone asked uh there you go what
to look for in the doce uh 88 g13 cross oh look at that yeah um what I've mostly looked for in
those crosses is because I like the 88 but um I really have liked the outliers the things I mean
the 88 can just dump on things that's something you'll find with a lot of inbred lines they'll
typically dominate crosses that's why Bodhi um kind of moved away from the deadly g because like
it just stomped all over everything he crossed it to but um I feel like if you're able to find
those doce phenos that are in there that they're going to be really unique because the thing that
the 88 really does is it it massively increases potency like it's it's classic heavy gany like
it's some potent herb um I've known known smokers who don't like smoking it because it's so potent
and it's one of those and so I personally love it for that reason um the doce you know I mean
it was the connected cut supposedly and so from what I saw with the just the doce growing out
and the few fucking phenos that I've seen in reports back if you're able to find the doce
pheno it's the one and otherwise you're going to get some very potent herb it's going to be
incredibly frosty it may be a little leafy because that's one of the traits that the 88g13 kind of
passes on it's definitely not got the best like no it doesn't have the bag appeal of a lot of you
know the hype stuff that you see these days so you know that's one thing that people may not like
about it but it makes very frosty very potent herb and if you can get those doces it's just
going to add another fucking level to the potency on that doce and otherwise you know you should
have that nice peanut buttery cookie sort of thing that's going with that doce and uh I'm going to be
seeing peter pretty soon and I gave him a few other things so um I know he should have some
more of the 88s different crosses um I think he's got some magnum opuses and if everything goes
according to plan those should probably be up maybe 420 or something like that it's good timing
all right well should we uh call it a night on that
midnight ish for those with kids who are gonna wake them up at a specific time very early every morning
yeah that's right occupy the normal system
as they get old like jemma if she sleeps in till like 7 45 i'm always just like fuck yeah
valentina's up at like by seven every single day just like stirring around in her crib
yeah you know i got a couple i got i got i got a lot of munchkins and they all wake up at different
times so you know it starts early and then we've got school that's just gotta happen you know what
i mean you know shortly after eight so we're up and that's for sure that's different yeah they're
back in school next week here in la yeah they're starting to open up some stuff and yeah i'm very
psyched for that yeah i'm like what i can drop you off somewhere for five hours that's amazing
have fun i'll see you later bye-bye no more kindergarten for me you know it hasn't been
bad man it's not a bad thing to run through that again you know got to do first grade
kindergarten all that fun stuff one time one more time i mean it could
be so tomorrow morning uh we're gonna talk redox and then also on wednesday
the exact same topic so nice but thanks for jumping on uh rob will make it one of these days
when he doesn't fall asleep on the couch uh so yeah what is it midnight yeah it's just before
midnight west coast which is where we all are thank you everyone and so trevor you're you're
coming down end of this week yeah okay yeah excellent and i'll be seeing you soon myself so
maybe we can all hit tom's house i'll be like tom
they're like six of us coming over to your house right now
all right see you everyone thank you
