cut someone off and remove them from from a space and to do it tactfully and
well takes a little bit of time and and skill and you're doing very very good so
you know just keep on the path brother keep going. Hello everybody on Clubhouse
and Future Campus Project on YouTube having another discussion with the rest
of the breeders here in regards to a topic that's very close to my heart
which is going to be Dutch and American influence on global cannabis genetics
and what we potentially do by bringing work genetics into some of these lower
inhabited regions that have been growing and selecting cannabis for different
purposes for literally hundreds if not thousands of years. Most of the time when
most of us are selecting something we're also selecting for purpose you
know what does well in the geographic area that we live in are we going to
have access to water are we going to be able to you know see this plant you know
day in and day out or we going to have to plant this thing and kind of let
nature run its course and then come back towards the end of the season and do
things like dry farming. Dry farming is something that most of us don't do in
the United States but once you get outside of United States or your
developed countries you start seeing more cannabis. I'm going to go ahead and make everybody a moderator that's on here so that way everyone can bring up others that they want to that might be in the crowd
friends or other people that you respect since we don't know everybody so I just
wanted to welcome everybody and you have any questions just to let me know and
we'll reset the room probably like once an hour just contingent upon who jumps
in and then who leaves and so on and so forth so with that if anyone wants to
start up in or I can actually go with with what my personal thoughts are if
you guys care. Okay so for me at an early age I was born and raised in Hawaii but I
lived on the Big Island but because of what my mom did for a living I had to
move up to Alaska then I lived in California for a while so I kind of
lived and now I currently operate in Oklahoma but besides that I've also
worked in the cannabis scene in Amsterdam for a little while but once I
graduated from culinary school I decided to go to Jamaica because it was an easy
access for me to be able to source genetics while still making American
money in an undeveloped or you know at the time I call it a third world country
but I don't know if that's the correct terminology anymore but what I found
whenever I went to Jamaica is at first you know being an American that nobody
really wanted to really show me much more than just the standard touristy type
stuff where they sell you stuff at the airports and then all the touristy areas
but you know I was after seeds and genetics you know I wanted to go to all
the Meccas I think I had a High Times magazine you know like the best of
Jamaica at the time so it's like I was trying to find these particular spots I
didn't know anybody while I was there I was working at a Sandals after working at a
Sandals for a while I met some friends and was like hey you know I want to
start finding some of these seeds and then all the grows that I was being
taken to had some form of influence to most of these cultivars and it was to
either increase you to increase structure to increase potential potency
but I had a hard time actually acquiring the genetics that I thought would be
indigenous of Jamaica and would be easily accessible but I had found in the
early 2000s which this was 2000-2001 when I was doing this so obviously you
know 20 years goes down the road I would imagine it's even more challenging to be
able to find a lot of those untouched cultivars and I feel that Arjun and the
strain hunters you know they kind of fast-tracked this whole practice by
taking some of their genetics into some of these remote areas and giving some of
these guys seeds which I always post on his Instagram stuff about how I respect
his work and how he's working other lines because outside of the United
States most cultivars are named after the geographic area that they're
derived from and not necessarily you know a boge or a trendy or a hip cool
name associated with them so for me that's a problem because I know that
most of the time you know everybody looks at trying to grow cultivars
they're going to fall within that Goldilocks zone which would be ideally
you know under a you know an eight-week flower time but the reality is that most
of us grow stereotypically eight to ten week cultivars and if anything is over
ten weeks most people don't have any desires to grow equatorial lines because
they have that production issue and another problem that I also see is I
wish that cannabis was sold based upon how many weeks of flower it takes because
inherently we all know that the longer it takes for something to flower the
more risk you have because of pathogen pressure the more you have in labor to
take care of that plant the more water you have potentially in that plant the
more nutrients you have into that plant but at the same time you know nobody
gives a shit about one of those plants that you know takes 14 16 weeks to grow
because you know they're only worried about the new barracks so any thoughts
hey Chase yeah amen to that definitely you know what you said is so true
because I mean most people they're looking for is you know something that's
very productive as something that can be grown very fast as well but it's
always there's always a trade-off and if you just focus on these strains then you
miss out on a lot of you know characteristics and unique medicinal
properties and flavor profiles so yeah I agree
once your first group basically is harvested now you're just pulling stuff
out every half of the time this will allow you to get into some cultivars
that most of the people out here that are trying to get into high production
fast flowering lines will never even dig into because just the time period on the
flower so in my flowering rooms for folks that want to find out that there
are better cultivars for maybe someone specific medicinal purposes besides just
how big a plant grows it's an easy way to for them to get into that yeah I
think this topic this is really really good topic because there's a lot of
different avenues we can go down with it there's the the basic concepts of
centers of origin and biodiversity and it was an idea that was developed by
Babalov and he was a really important Russian botanist who went around and
collected different plants from all over the world and he had the Babalov
Institute in Russia and they his work was really focused on the wide range of
biodiversity around the world and how certain areas are particularly diverse
and those areas he hypothesized were the center of origin for the different
species a lot of people have hypothesized that Central Asia is the
center of origin for cannabis partly because of Babalov's work and after him
an American named Harry Harlan I believe was pretty influential in developing
some of these ideas about like a gene pool specifically in the importance of
preserving wild and underdeveloped germplasm and gene pools which for a long
period of time once the like modern industrial sort of approach to farming
came into being and more advanced forms of breeding the focus was always on the
characteristics that you're talking about increasing yield increasing
productivity and as a result from basically from like 1920 to about 1970
if you look at the academic literature on plant breeding it's almost all
focused on methods of breeding particular crops to increase particular
agronomic traits or improve particular agronomic traits that were desirable in
commerce and for farmers to increase yields and productivity and then in the
1970s people kind of started to go back to Babalov's ideas and start to worry
more about the loss of biodiversity and start wondering about just quantifying
it and figuring out where all of the biodiversity for different crop species
was located and trying to create some sort of safeguards for protecting these
species ironically and this was kind of touched on by Chimera last week at
pretty much the exact same time that the international community woke up and
realized like hey biodiversity is important these centers of origin need
to be protected we need to protect biodiversity around the world the
international community at the same time was also implementing prohibition
through the single I think it's the UN single convention and a number of
different drug treaties that pretty much outlined a plan to completely
eradicate cannabis and eliminate that germplasm from the world to the extent
possible and so those kind of like contradictory elements are you know
that's a very important part of the history of what's happened here and on
top of that at the same time period you also have the hippie trail and the
international commune movement that emerged I wrote about that a little bit
with old-timer last week in the beard bros column and so from the 1970s to the
present through the international hippie community that really kind of started
collecting and gathering and seeking out these genetics and distributing them
putting them into much more of a cohesive international network was kind
of like the the seeds for what became the American and later Dutch hybrid
movement that exploded and now is one of the primary threats to biodiversity so
on one level we kind of protected it and became a sanctuary of people like going
out and seeking these genetics to preserve them but also you know through
our deal with the reality of prohibition you know we had our own
impacts on the gene pool and we caused genetic drift we had low selection size
we selected for a particular and didn't necessarily use the most you know the
best breeding practices from the perspective of preserving the gene pool
and then because it's become so much of an international commodity in trade
those hybridized gene pools are now filtering back all over the world and
introgressing into centers of origin and now threatening all the original land
race varieties around the world and so you know there's this is a huge topic
and it's important that we discuss it and there's some really good literature
other than what I just mentioned there's also a great paper by Ernest
Small and John McPartlin it was released last year I think it's called I can't
remember it off the top of my head but I'll throw it up on Instagram and try
and get on YouTube and throw it in the chat but the McPartlin small paper is
really good and the supplemental materials even better than the paper
itself so I I really recommend reading that as kind of a starting point for
understanding where we are right now in terms of the threat and risk to cannabis
germplasm around the world. What's up everybody? Can you guys hear me good?
Cool yeah just interrupt me if there's a issue with my service but um yeah that was all
great great info Trevor you know my take on it you know with Dutch and American
influence I like the story from the cultural standpoint of where a lot of
modern you know genetics originated from and I write for skunk magazine and was
able to take over writing the the breeders diary column where I get to
kind of interview a breeder who I respect and admire or you know think
their story should be told and what's cool is I've gotten to speak with some
of the older guys that were you know working in the 80s and in the 90s in the
Dutch scene as well as kind of old-school American folks and the story
is kind of like a full circle you know because I don't have much experience you
know I wasn't growing weed in the 80s I was born in the 80s but of all the land
race genetics that were brought you know originally to the Netherlands and in
Holland and worked you know eventually there were three dominant varieties that
basically became a blend of everything that was common and marketable in the
early 90s in in Amsterdam which was eventually Afghans hazes and skunks and
so what breeders have told me is that while Amsterdam and the Netherlands was
this haven for breeding where they had all these really nice you know Venlo
greenhouses and we're doing big you know plant selections and there wasn't much
enforcement most of the folks that were bringing all these incredible genetics
to Amsterdam and the Netherlands were mostly American travelers I always
thought with the whole hippie hash trail that it was Europeans and people from
all over the world collecting the genetics but the stories that I heard
that it was mostly American hippies who selected unique genetics and might have
worked them in parts of the US and then brought them to Amsterdam and Dutch
breeders started to get their hands on them and you know 10 20 years later
everything kind of became some mixture of the Afghans the hazes and the skunks
and then eventually Northern Lights and then eventually you had the widows which
were really combinations of different genetics with the Afghans and the skunks
so those those three things really became a staple of Dutch genetics and I
think that's when for those who were really you know into that whole scene
and researching and you know reading about what was going on that's when I
think we see a lot of Dutch genetics start to get watered down and so what I
meant by full circle is you know American travelers found these
incredible genetics that were so vibrant and and new and work them a little bit
in these unique land race varieties brought them to Holland where they
became you know the most popular things and were worked by the Dutch for
generations
and what you have this is the full circle and then all the sudden
ours started buying all their seeds from the Dutch then all these hey Dan you
start to cut out pretty bad buddy
California in Humboldt County
how about now yeah hold on let me try something okay sorry guys I'll finish up
real quick and anyway in the not in the 90s all the growers in the end and so
they would have jail time but they lose their work and that was very common
throughout the 90s less so in the 80s it sounded like from the people I've talked
to and they the main difference or the main issue with Holland was that very
very few Dutch people smoke cannabis just pure straight cannabis most of them
smoke hashish mixed with tobacco and aren't really that interested in the
flower itself and you'll notice that a lot of the really good breeders and the
good stock that came out of Holland came from people who were actually heads who
did smoke flower obviously Neville Simon is another good example of this and I
think that's something that like one of the differences is like America has
maintained for the last 40 years people have been growing cannabis selecting
initially imported quote-unquote land-race varieties from all over the
world taking these and hybridizing them and those early hybrids really took
advantage of the what's known as a wide cross in genetics so because these were
very divergent gene pools that have been isolated for hundreds of years in their
own places of cultivation and then they were introduced and crossed together
that then created a hybrid bigger effect out of these crosses and that's
why some of these early crosses were really incredible in the early
selections were so great and then Americans just kept selecting for
whatever was good if it came from Holland if it came from some other place
of origin no matter what people throughout America have always selected
for very potent very high quality cannabis and the Dutch not so much and I
think that's one of the main reasons why people talk about how the the Dutch gene
pool really fell off there was not that many different varieties and you can
kind of see it was skunk northern lights and haze is the foundation of pretty much
everything and anything that happened after that was an introduction of some
new germplasm that happened subsequently Shanti Baba coming in with
his varieties Adam Dunn and the some Americans coming in with their varieties
DNA and other Americans coming in with their varieties it's like every new
introduction and new life that was breathed into the Dutch seed world was
always coming from American germplasm and hybrids that were selected here and
then taken over there what about the the opposite side of that where US
genetics are going to some of these building block areas of cannabis because
what I'm ultimately hearing from the conversation is that you know everything
that's really worth a shit at one time or another didn't come from the United
States that was just grown in the United States we've just optimized things not
necessarily you know done things for the right reason just because I know
outside the United States people select for how it's going to do and its overall
sustainability within the area versus aesthetics so you know a lot of times
selecting is done for completely different purposes in the United States
versus some of these other places in the world yeah you know what Trevor was
saying the Dutch in my opinion were probably not selecting for the same
traits that Americans just collect for and the early breeding work happening
there in the 80s you know at that point indoor was very new and you know in the
Netherlands they have a cold wet you know rainy and short season so they were
likely selecting for things that we're going to do good with mold resistance
and in finishing time is like I think their main focus on the early stuff and
a lot of potency and terpenes are probably you know weeded out yeah
absolutely because the climate is not the same at all and in the in the
Netherlands you know people were a lot more indoors and in California or other
places in the US the climate is a lot better so people can grow outdoors but I
would say that it's also the reason why usually the strains that come from the
Netherlands and Europe they're more sexually stable indoors because you know
it's easier to stress test the plant indoors whereas you know outdoors the
conditions everything is more natural so the plant does not you know undergo that
much stress so it's easier to just cut out the the harms when you grow indoors
because you can spot them more easily oh no I don't know if you guys if you guys
have noticed it my my environments a lot like like it is over there it's really
wet here and and I've kind of taken a fucking nice royal whooping over the
last handful of years digging through genetics and typically stuff that people
give me that is like from places that are further north like I'm on the 49th
parallel there's not really a whole lot of people in the United States that are
higher than me kind of you know but when I guess I've gotten some stuff that
that's from up north and in wetter climates and and it's really hard to
find the really really good stuff I'm just kind of like backing up what it
would Dan was saying in my experience here and me running through stuff that
can actually make it through it's been like five years and I've just basically
been opening up big lines trying to find a few things here and there and this is
the kind of the first year that I've seen some success with about four or
five different varieties and they're you know two or three years that I've
been running them back-to-back and I think it's just really hard to find
stuff that really really is really loud flavor taste wise and is really potent
in these climates you know and you have to look through a lot of genetics and
then you know I think the conversation is everyone that's this putting in is
it's kind of hitting on the right things you know that the the lack of desire
that pretty much the rest of the world has to push for the absolute best
compared to the US we are gluttons we are rich gluttons and we love to push
for and in all these categories of our life you know and so why wouldn't we do
it in weed and of course we have and it's pretty fucking cool in my opinion
you know so you know one thing you know having chimera last week and kind of
getting into the discussion about Canadian genetics I think Canadian
genetics and breeding should also be a part of this discussion because the way
that it kind of went for a while the Dutch were the industry leaders and then
all of a sudden you know towards the the mid late 90s the Dutch are just getting
busted left and right and a lot of the big scale breeders position themselves
over to the eastern side of Switzerland where you know the Swiss are pretty
pretty progressive and there there's no illegal plants and you know people to
just get regular you know business licenses and Swiss bank accounts with
partners and operate legitimate business and pay off labor and grow whatever they
wanted but in between you know where the United States is now obviously we have
so many people breeding a mace and into the early 2000s you know Canadian
breeders had a more relaxed government you know I remember you know back in the
day everyone I met from Vancouver grew weed and you'd read about like you know
landing in the airport in British Columbia you know you see lights coming
out of everybody's chimneys and one of four people grows for their head stash
and Canadians have a higher percentage of the population per capita that smokes
weed than anywhere else in the world and so there was a lot great breeding done
with Dutch genetics brought over to parts of Canada all over in the 90s that
created a lot of incredible stuff that also filtered back down to California
and American growers and back to Holland so that's another important part of the
conversation very true Aladin what are some of the cultivars that you are
working with that are landrace varietals that we see on like your
your Instagram and stuff like that so yeah our team is working with a lot of
different cultivars and you know we do two different things preservation and
also breeding so while doing you know preservation run then we sometimes like
find a plant an outlier a very special plant that we then you know want to
stabilize and use for breeding so we are currently working with the Moroccan
media which is the Moroccan landrace and it's a very very special strain that is
semi auto flowering and it it doesn't take a lot of nutrients at all so it
doesn't drink a lot either so it's very very low maintenance as opposed to a lot
of you know modern strains that need to be pumped out full of nutrients and they
need to be watered very often so you know by using these you know very
special land races pretty sure it's possible to create new hybrids that
would be easier to grow and that would not need as much care you know as the
modern strains that we have right now we've also been working on some Afghan
Afghan strains and these are usually very mold sensitive so there's very very
interesting you know turbine profiles and properties and things like that but
as far as mold resistance it's very low so that would probably explain why you
know a lot of hybrids today are mold sensitive so it's hard to grow them in
humid climates because of that what do you guys think about it
those Afghans pick up that mold ended up being introduced to the Dutch breeders
and to even the Humboldt area here once they came here they started to have
issues that's why I believe a lot of them were out cross to the hay sides and
to the skunk sides to try to introduce some of those other equatorial genetics
that were in those lines to try to get the power from the Afghani they were
after and the pest and pathogen resistance that came from the other
genetic lines the other more tropical versions the more equatorial stuff like
the hazes those things can go through pretty much anything without having any
type of mold issues you could add that to an Afghani and through selection very
easily find something that you can use in your brooding projects that can bring
Afghani style traits with some haze traits blended quite well to it tame the
time the flower timing on that Afghani side and once you get into California
that's what starts happening here you get large areas of open land that people
are using to breed and to grow cannabis on the outdoor scale and until we ended
up getting into the indoor side of growing cannabis in California in the
United States do we start losing that selection ability and ended up getting
down to the founder effect locking into our more bottleneck genetics and where
we start to lose out and end up having to start to reintroduce genetics that
are being bred in other areas of the world where they have a more open or
more lenient laws on how people are going about growing their cannabis
that's why now we start seeing it going over to Spain and eventually is going to
start coming back to the United States or going over to Canada as it starts to
become more legalized and the treaty that Trevor was talking about earlier the
UN Gas that becomes ratified and they start changing laws worldwide we're
gonna start seeing cannabis breeding going to a whole new level than we're
looking at right now because the way we're breeding cannabis these days we're
having a more negative effect on it and why bottlenecking so many genetics than
in the earlier days in the eighties and nineties or even the sixties and
seventies when we first started getting introduced into these genetics from
around the world from travelers all around from different wars the hippie
trail we start seeing more genetics we start to introduce them to each other
when they would never would have seen each other in the wild and we start to
open up the gene pool large populations and then we do the opposite as we bring
it into indoors and have smaller populations we start decreasing the
genetic frequencies that were popping up and we start locking in specific traits
that we may or may not want in the original purpose and because we only use
a small population of parents we end up what has effect causing the founder
effect on the genetics that were running and we just have to introduce outside
genetics to end up opening up that population once again yeah I couldn't
agree more with that because you know you talked about bottlenecking and it's
definitely happening a lot and that made me wonder you know with land races you
know there's a lot of people a lot of cannabis connoisseurs that want to
preserve them but it's very challenging because you know to preserve the
landrace cultivar as it is you need to work with a pretty large population if
you only have a few plants if you just start with a few seeds it's very hard to
preserve it because you create a genetic bottleneck so yeah that's also a problem
for land races if people want to preserve them they have to know that you
need a large number of plants to work with and not only that that a lot of
those landrace cultivars aren't the prettiest in the bunch you know I've
smoked a lot of you know feral equatorial type lines and they weren't
the the prettiest thing I mean if I showed a lot of those flowers to people
in the states that they would almost ask you know what is that because it doesn't
even represent what you know US cannabis is and I think that that also boils down
to what the purpose is with some of these geographic areas because you also
have to keep in mind that your areas like Afghanistan you know that it's hard
to move from one part of that country to the other so obviously most of the
material is meant for hash production more so than anything else just to be
able to simplify the process so that's something that obviously needs to be
taken into consideration when you know selecting cultivars but I agree with
what everyone's saying absolutely that you know it all boils down to large
populations of plants and just because you pick something doesn't necessarily
mean that it will do well outside of that natural area that it was selected
from yeah I think another way of thinking about this is that everywhere
along the way from the initial point of origin we've cannabis as a species has
undergone different founder effects so when cannabis was taken from one from
Central Asia assuming that's the place of origin to other different places and
when it was introduced into particular cultural context where like you mentioned
hashish production in Afghanistan or there were dual use systems where there
was sort of a hemp type use as well as a drug cultivar use so they were dual use
cultivars and then you have strictly hemp uses and how the different germ
plasm in different places got selected and shaped over time both by the culture
the geography and the movement of people is something that's really really
interesting about cannabis and also we can learn a lot just by studying this
history I posted up in the comment section the McPartland and small paper
and I really encourage people to go and look at it the the supplemental material
is over a hundred pages and it's really really in-depth informative and really
kind of tells the history of cannabis throughout Central Asia you get a very
in-depth explanation and historical record of cannabis in Central Asia or
excuse me in like Afghanistan and Uzbekistan and Jin butchers that I'm
sure and so those types of records and really understanding these baseline of
how cannabis was selected and developed over the millennia generations decades
etc really helps to inform give us an understanding about germ plasm today
even though it's been all hybridized because when we look at these traits we
can still say okay these wide leaf drug varieties even though they may not
produce this same morph or same chemo type a chemotypic expression they're
still going to have a lot of the same morphological and agronomic traits and
characteristics and we can learn a lot by understanding where cannabis comes
from I was talking with cascading grower quite a while ago and he was
talking about I often times get people's IG handles wrong I apologize but a
cascading was talking about how he was trying to match his particular
environment to different environments in South Asia because that's basic they're
very similar and so he's trying to find genetic stock from that area because it
will be more better adapted to his area and that's just it's something that we
can really by studying this make practical use of it is anyone working
any type of land-race cultivars right now within their they're either
commercial or their medical gardens at their homes within this group I've only
been trying to get some old Afghani stuff that I have in my collection to
pop that are from some very old stock given to me by some old hippies up in
Humboldt when I used to own a hotel and fishing lodge up in that area but I
haven't had any successes of late with getting them to pop so that's as far as
I can say that I'm working with any at the moment I haven't had any other than
the Chinese stuff I ran a few years back but there was highly intersexed the Hubei
province seed lines that I was running I do have some Vietnamese stuff that I was
thinking about trying to look through this year but besides that I don't have
anything in the cultivars directly in my garden at the moment I I'm not really
sure I get confused on the definition but I'm I got some gifted some bulk bulk
from Afghanistan a bunch of Afghani stock from from Jodhuri two seasons ago
maybe and I opened them up and was able to find the bulk and a Hindu that worked
well and I took two females and two males and and remade the line and then
open pollinated both of those the the progeny and so I'm just now germinating
the the progeny to look at and see what they're like but in the bulk it was it
was typical any stock you know as it's described it there was a lot of
licorice and nice I was really excited I crossed some of it with the with the
the mean mug Jackson's root beer GMO cross those are a couple that I'm I'm
working on and just trying to make them you know if I tried I selected the ones
that worked in my area and then I open pollinated from there to preserve the
line and so just kind of going through that process and see what I come up with
the reason why I ask is because I think that a lot of times that for me the
unknown is really interesting and really scary at the same time just because you
know I know that I'm forced into the same challenges that most commercial
operators are where you know we're you know kind of determined by the calendar
and how many months then how many cycles even you know with a perpetual grow all
those things matter unfortunately yeah they do and so you know I'm I have a
weird quasi I'm a commercial grow but I have no employees and I basically use
the whole thing to breed and so I'm pretty much a commercial hobbyist you
know so like that that gives me the ability to look through populations like
this that may end up being nothing you know and using all my square footage for
looking at shit that I throw away a lot of in combos a ton of it and and I do
just make cash and you know but my real goal in it is to look through you know
when I when I open up a general pack I want 72 but when I want to look through
line it's usually around a thousand eight hundred to a thousand so it's not
insane but I'm trying to I'm just I'm trying to find the stuff that works and
it's in like you know I'm I've been on this property since 2016 and so now just
just coming to this year I found two or three varieties I'm like damn that is
some pretty fucking exceptional herb that came down and this year for me
we've gotten probably like seven eight inches of rain in the last three or four
weeks like a lot of fucking rain it's been wild and so for stuff to withstand
through that and still have flavor and coverage I'm just like holy shit it's
been stiff and dense and just like pushing the rain right off you know I'm
pretty excited to work with that stuff going forward you know doc I think I
interrupted you earlier hey everybody hope everybody's having a good afternoon
brother I think I'm like the most that I pulled out of retirement was this 74
Afghani hippie trail that I brought back when I came back from overseas and my
buddy Brian's been keeping alive forever in a fucking day but anyway we
revitalized it and reintroduced it into a lot of our genetics over the last
three years and it's you know that true old-school cat pee frickin Afghani and
I'm super excited about how it's playing out in the garden right now with
a couple of crosses that I've done the buds are as big around as a softball at
the base of them and you know they're 18 24 inches or longer in a lot of places
and they're really just really nice colas that just smell divine and you
start
looking at
the
pretty
structure
the whole
everything
it's short
compact
you look at
the
multiple
plant
four, five, six or seven foot plant
I mean, my thing is, I'm not entitled to an opinion on that
because I don't know those farmers.
I don't know their regions.
I don't know Arjan, but the way that I see it,
that's just evolution.
For all we know, the genetics that he was bringing there
might have 8% higher returns on the keef that they're making.
Maybe those farmers' livelihood just went up tenfold
because they got hooked up with genetics
that made their quality of life improved.
You know, who knows?
Those guys were definitely building schools
and water systems, and I'm sure they did it for business
and marketing, but they did some good.
But, you know, I'm not entitled to an opinion
because I don't know, but my take is, you know,
it depends on how it impacted the farmers' lives
in their communities.
You wanna go, Tony?
I was just gonna say, if the folks around the world
are looking for genetics, it's like America
would be like the last place I would think
they'd wanna go to.
There's far better, more work lines
if you're looking for genetics.
If you're looking for hype, America's probably
the place you'd really wanna come after because
There's better shoes than Nike.
Just across the books.
You know?
Oh, there definitely is, but I'm just talking about
when it's coming down to a plant,
that you're after a medicinal property.
Like in China, they go after specific plants and animals
for medicinal purposes.
They don't go after shark because someone told them
shark is better in the West.
They go after shark because they've been told that
historically in their own land,
that it does a specific thing and they've learned that.
So it always came to me as odd that people would go
after a plant because they read about it in a book
somewhere instead of finding out that their ancestor
used it for a specific ailment for a amount of time.
When it comes to clothing and jewelry and shit like that,
that's just shiny shit.
So I pick up shiny shit whenever the sun bounces off
correctly, but when it comes down to medicinal properties
and the reasonings why man used cannabis for so long,
we were using it for cannabinoid, terpene, fiber.
We weren't just using it because the next guy told us
that it was cool.
That's where the modern day breeding and buying of cannabis
genetics has went astray, I believe,
where people are just purchasing it because they heard
it's supposed to do something and there's no backing of it.
Back in the day when a tribe in Afghanistan held
a specific cultivar for hash production,
that fucking plant produced hash.
It just had to, or it wasn't going to be left in the stable.
Or if a plant was used for particular seed production,
if it's a plant that wasn't able to produce males
and females in the population through intersex traits,
it was not kept because of not holding the traits
that it was needed for.
So with cannabis, it's always struggling as odd
to why the modern day buyer started to buy into all
these lines for traits that none of them have any proven
history of being able to give to anybody
other than hype behind it.
Now that's such a-
You know, Tony, you're 100%, man.
Like, you know what I mean?
Like I'm agreeing with you, but it doesn't make sense,
but like it's the consumer.
And I've heard this a number of times from people in India
and all these different remote spots.
And they're just like, we get this amount for this,
you know, whatever, it doesn't matter.
And then we get, if it says, oh, gee, gosh,
if it says cookies, it's like triple quadruple, you know?
And it's nonsensical, like it's unfortunate.
And so that was my kind of comment was not,
it doesn't make sense, but it's this weird desire
that marketing and culture has put in, you know,
and we've all grown up with it, you know,
and it's fucked up, but I don't wanna,
that's what my point was.
I don't blame like a guy like Arjan.
Like I blame the marketing and the culture behind
the whole whatever, you know?
I'm 100% behind that.
I don't blame him himself.
You can't blame a man for using a product
for the way people are asking for it to be used.
It's not his fault that somebody wants to have seeds
from Morocco or from another place
that they're not able to get to.
So they look for someone that has access to it.
I 100% believe that also.
It's not his fault for the way that cannabis consumer
wants to consume cannabis.
Someone's gonna always try to bring you what you ask for,
no matter, they don't care who brings it to them, right?
It could be him, it could be me,
it could be any one of us on the panel
and somebody's gonna do it if one of us doesn't do it.
That's capitalism in a nutshell.
It just comes down to why is it the guy
that has never grown anything in his garden or as a hobby,
why is he the guy dictating to a person
that's spent his lifetime, someone like Arjan and Franco,
searching the planet for cannabis and breeding it?
How come that guy's dictating where that person's
putting his breeding practices into?
That's the odd part of the cannabis these days
and what's causing the issues with all the breeding
that we're talking about, the Dutch and American breeding.
Like the American breeders here these days,
the main purpose for breeding is to sell that seed
to as many people as you can and not to get the plant
to produce a specific cannabinoid.
So we're not looking for a chemo bar,
we're looking for a cash cow is what we're looking for
in America at the moment.
Like we're putting out pre-sales
before we've ran a test on anything,
before there's a terpene analysis,
before we can prove if that parent line
has the ability to produce any kind of F1 offspring.
Like we could drop 500 packs of seeds
from specific companies these days
and no one's even seen a picture of the parents.
We just heard about them in magazines.
It's very odd phenomenon that we're going through these days.
Back in my day when early or late 90s, late 80s,
we didn't have the internet to show us pictures of anything.
All we had to do was to research the areas of the cannabis
that we wanted to go after.
Like what the people told us about all the cannabis
they smoked in Morocco.
We'd read about Morocco as much as we can
to find out everything we could
about the clients from that area.
Or if someone told us that the best weed they smoked from
came from Africa, we start reading about Africa
and try to find any references to cannabis
by any kind of like tribal people knows specific...
A hype with it, with any commercialization
without any pretty pictures.
That's the part that I miss about the older days of cannabis
where the plant only could sell itself
based on what it could actually produce
and not what the guy that was giving you the seeds
was telling you that it was gonna do for you.
Yeah, man.
To do it.
I just, I think it's,
just to kind of throw another thing on this,
I think that we did in America, the West Coast,
we did a really cool thing with cannabis.
We've all necked this shit in some ways for sure.
We turned up some shit in time for sure.
And now we're in a state where there's a bunch of people,
a bunch of people that are breeding
for a bunch of different reasons.
Some for fucking just the money
and they're following maybe just flavors
or just names.
There's people that are, they're breeding.
I don't know.
One thing that I got to say for the current time
and the legalization movement
is that we're having this fucking conversation right now.
And we've been having, thanks in big part to Peter
for hosting so many countless hours of conversations
on his multi-platforms
and all across all these other platforms,
these conversations that different breeders
are getting to learn and grow.
And it's a fucking cool thing.
And I think that the world is gonna really open up
and the genetic pool is really gonna open up.
And going forward, we're gonna see folks
that are gonna get passionate about really narrow aspects
and they're gonna tear through that shit.
And by the time I'm 40, that by the time I'm 70,
we're gonna have a lot of people
that are gonna be like,
by the time I'm 70, we're gonna have some kids
that come up with some really cool shit and all this.
So one thing, I just think that we've done a good thing.
We've done some good, we've done some bad.
I liken it to like all the booms and lots of industries.
If you look back at wine or beer, hops,
I talk about things that I kinda know about,
but you can see how it got bottlenecked in regions.
And then it moved to another region
where they turned up this little aspect.
Yeah, I really agree.
Or sorry, go on.
Sorry, man, go ahead.
So yeah, I really wanna echo that too.
I think that for all the mistakes
and the onus for all the mistakes
should be put on the law enforcement
and the state and prohibition,
because essentially they denied us
all academic institutions and research
and the ability to really engage
in scientific crop agronomy and botany.
And it got left in the hands of a bunch of people
who they were hippies on the hippie trail,
they were war vets coming back from Vietnam and other wars.
There were a bunch of different droughts
and particularly in the counterculture.
And all of those people did incredible things with,
you can see the genetic gains
that have happened in cannabis.
If you go back and look at those old high times,
compare the wispy 70s sativas,
granted we've lost the good parts of those genetics
to a certain point or certain extent.
But we've also had other incredible gains
in terms of shortening flower times, increasing yields,
increasing certain cannabinoid content, terpenes, et cetera.
And so we have done incredible things.
And I do think that in each one of those
sort of founder effect bottleneck events,
even though that has happened,
it's not necessarily a bad thing.
In typical hybrid breeding,
you're going to create bottlenecks,
you're going to create inbred lines,
and then you're going to combine them
and create hybrid vigor out of those.
And mostly what we've done is recurrent,
we've done a recurrent selection for cannabis for years.
We're all selecting for specific set of traits,
reducing flower time,
making sure that it's acclimatized to our environments
and increase the potency.
Incredible gain by having enormous obstacles
and the inability to operate on population scales
that any other crop has been able to operate on.
And that makes it all the more incredible
cannabis breeders have done.
To your question though, or comment, Chase,
I do think, I don't think it's worth
telling anybody specifically, particularly Franco.
Franco was a giant in the industry and the cannabis community
and he's given a lot of good to the cannabis industry.
We all have to give respect to the dude
because we've all made mistakes.
I lost tons of genetics that were cool and neat
and probably should have been preserved,
but I was just some kid growing herb off the grid
and didn't have the ability to back up everything
that I started.
So that was my fault.
And so every one of us has made mistakes along the way.
I don't think it's a good idea to actively go
and introduce foreign genetics into places.
And the global cannabis trade,
there are a ton of reasons why they would be selecting
modern hybrids.
And this is the true of every other crop.
Every other crop, you see that there is an introduction
of high yielding, high input varieties
because in global commerce, they produce and yield better
than the alternative.
Now that said, there are drawbacks and it's really,
it's the dedication and the passion
that so many people have that right now,
particularly in the absence of institutional
and international efforts,
it's all of us who are doing it.
And yeah, we may be selecting on too small of a scale
and creating bottlenecks.
And there's undoubtedly a massive founder effect
whenever you're popping a 10 pack,
but intensive selection and dedicated hard work
can create incredible genetic gains,
even with those limitations.
Sure, let me, I guess, take a second to,
I have nothing but respect for Arjun and Franco.
I think that overall those guys have done way more benefit
to the cannabis community than most people, including myself.
So I'm not trying to attack those guys by any means.
I just use that as an example
because everyone knows what strain hunter is
and most people can understand what it was
that I was talking about.
My whole thing is though that,
when we bring genetics into low inhabited areas
and these things that are growing there,
either naturally or whatever they're selecting for
in these geographic areas, there are certain cannabinoids
that we have not isolated out yet.
What if one of these particular plants
is completely rich in one of these things
and it's literally the only plants
on the face of the planet that does,
but yet we bring something in that it gets spread out
because it wasn't commercially viable, it wasn't pretty,
it wasn't the cool hip name.
It was that scraggly, wispy, nasty looking stuff
from the 70s that we can almost giggle about
in a high times magazine, but at the same time,
nobody wants to grow those things,
but at the same time also,
since we're still in a relatively low understanding
of the plant as a whole,
what are the potential consequences of doing these things
and is there a way to be able to protect
some of these geographic areas where we can,
and I don't know if it's even possible to do that,
but is there a way to protect some of these low inhabited
areas that have very unique cultivars
and plants that they're working that no one else is?
Yeah, it's very important to preserve
some of these cultivars because they're, like you said,
Chase, there might be some medicinal properties
or some flavor profiles or some things
that could be very, very useful
and that have not been discovered yet.
So yeah, and by trying to breed for THC for so many years,
we've lost a lot of things along the way
because with breeding, there's almost always a trade off.
And if you focus on something, you lose something else.
So it's great that these highly refined hybrids
have become more productive and have a great bag appeal.
But now, nowadays, it's possible, fortunately,
to look into land riches because they are still around.
They've disappeared in some places,
but it's still possible to find them.
So it's possible to find some very unique things
and use them for breeding and get these unique properties
and create some amazing hybrids using the modern genetics
and the ancestral cultivars as well.
Guys, I'm gonna have to go.
It's getting really late here,
but thank you so, so much for having me on
and have a great day.
Peace out.
Thanks.
Thanks, Aladdin.
Later, man.
Thank you, Aladdin.
One thing that I think is kind of lame
about the way that everything is right now
with cannabis breeders,
somebody mentioned earlier,
there's so many people putting out
so many different varieties.
You know, the formula, having a seed,
you know, being a breeder.
You know, the formula is,
you get a bunch of really popular clones.
You find an even more popular clone.
You do a reversal on that popular clone,
or you start with like a fucking 10 pack
of somebody's random seeds,
and then you outcross it to like 20 things
and have a seed release, right?
And so a lot of the most popular
and successful seed breeders in the cannabis industry,
that's their formula, right?
That's how they do it.
I'm trying a little more into that.
I personally, just because I like to breed unique things
that are my creation so that I can smoke them.
And so smoking them is the thing
that I was gonna bring up.
Somebody mentioned before,
how are these people testing all their genetics?
And the answer is in most cases,
you know, they're not,
or they have somebody grow them.
I think that if you're gonna be putting your name
on something and putting your stamp, your brand on it,
you better know what it is, right?
So I think it's really important as a breeder.
First of all, you have to smoke a ton of weed,
especially in West Virginia.
Just, you know, fucking talk about seeds
and what makes you tick.
And you know, the fact that we all like to smoke
what we did first,
just makes me believe that it's been a true path
for a lot of real craft breeders
that we wanted to smoke our own flowers first.
And we thought we would, you know, can we do this?
Yes, we can.
And you just keep going and going and going and get failures.
And I don't know who said that.
How many have I lost over the years
that I wish that I kept, you know?
Those are the things that I regret in this,
but I really am thankful to see an opportunity
because we're in it right here, right now.
Somebody talked about, you know,
this seed collector project.
And I'm sorry that it is Dutch guys that are doing it,
but they come in and place an order for, you know,
a lot of different genetics out of here,
out of Southern Humboldt,
and they're buying millions and millions and millions
of seeds of all of it.
It's a way for us to protect our craft
and hopefully pass on our legacy, you know,
and keep fucking doing it for the rest of eternity.
So anyway, Doc shut now.
No, Doc, it's super cool to hear you talk
and get to know you, you know, like,
and the whole thing, like, I think, you know,
like when Dan and I, whenever Dan and I ever got to link up,
which is just, you know, in person,
it's probably been three or four times, you know,
but there is just such a passion that is very obvious
in Dan and the like-minded folks, you know what I mean?
I guess that was my whole comment is like,
whatever, wherever we're coming from, you know,
it's a fucking blessing that I am in the era of,
you know, in my forties, I'll be 41 in a few months,
and I have a commercial license
and I can grow as many goddamn plants
as I can fit in 10,000 square feet.
And it's a fucking blessing, man.
And this whole thing, like everyone said,
it started because we just fucking love to smoke weed.
And I smoke a fuck ton of weed.
I smoke a fuck ton of hash.
I really am just after that thing.
And, you know, my whole point, I guess,
is whenever you meet someone that's as down, you know,
or remotely as down,
you're just, we always latch onto each other, you know?
And I felt that way the few times I've hung out with Dan
and Doc likewise, you know, and Tony and everyone on here,
Trevor, you know, Chase, Peter,
everyone's just like fucking down.
And that's what's gonna continue to push this shit.
And I think that that's that tree, you know,
kind of what I was saying earlier.
I think that tree is gonna branch out, you know,
and the sativas are gonna start rising up
and people are gonna start getting into some weird shit,
I think, and it's gonna be fun.
What's up, London?
I see you coming in here.
Yeah, hey, sorry,
it just bounced a little bit back and forth.
I was getting the book club set up on my other account
with my wife and then just hopping around
and listening to your guys' conversation.
I jumped in earlier with the question
of everybody's opinion kind of towards
the whole introducing genetics,
Adrian going around the strain hunters and stuff like that.
I am a big fan of his and what Franco and them
have done over time with developing culture
and stuff like that.
I didn't mean it as a negative point.
I just wanted to know everybody's kind of general
or thought opinion.
It looks like we've got some pretty lively conversation
on that, which was really awesome.
So yeah, thanks.
I'm just, I'm multitasking between two spaces.
So thank you guys so much for having this stage here
and having this conversation.
I'll jump in and out when I can
and make sure to add a little bit more value here and there.
Thank you guys.
I know that I openly try to source genetics
from outside of the US primarily as well,
just because for me, I find that,
you know, I'm not always trying to mess
with the next best polyhybrid.
You know, it's funny that I use sites like seedfinder.eu
and then I actually start looking into
some of the pedigrees of today's commercial flower.
I'm just like, holy shit.
It's like, you just basically just took a big dump
and threw it all together.
And you know, now you have like a mud pie
of all these different cultivars.
No wonder why it should be good.
No wonder why there's not a funky taste to it.
But at the same time, you know, I see more cultivars
are prone to pathogenic pressures,
more cultivars that are prone to intersex issues
with a lot of these things than I see
with some of these heavily worked lines from other areas.
And obviously that's the difference in working a line
and not working a line.
But at the same time, I just,
I wish that there was a way to advise people
to be able to grow some of these things
where it was justifiable in today's market.
Because again, you know, if I try to use the tactic
that it took me double the time to sell this
or to grow this equatorial line,
then it did this, you know,
northern of 30 degrees latitude line,
then, you know, most people are gonna look at me
and be like, okay, so same price, right?
That's unfortunate, but that's the world that we live in.
Yeah, I think that's definitely an issue
that's gonna take time.
I know that people have mentioned
that there's a general feel that consumer education
is starting to shift and people are starting to understand
the importance of different land race varieties
or just different varieties in general,
given how similar most of the modern hybrids are
at this point.
And a lot of that, like, you know,
just in my experience from the late,
or 96 to the present,
smoking cannabis from when I was 12 to now,
there was a lot more variety,
even within the modern hybrids
that were produced 20 years ago.
And there was a lot of different reasons for that.
There was less selection pressure,
there was less of a cohesive, you know,
not everybody was on the internet,
the elite cuts weren't getting traded around,
we hadn't gone through the decades
of the California medical market
that allowed people to access clones a lot more easily.
And so back then there was a lot of variety,
early days of the internet,
you'll see all these different breeders
going down their own lanes,
experimenting, doing their own shit.
And now it's definitely,
in both major economic sort of like commercial hubs
of the last several decades,
be it Dutch or America,
in Holland, you've got, as Dan was mentioning,
the skunk, the Northern Lights and the haze.
And I'm using Northern Lights
just as a catch-all for the Afghans,
because Dan mentioned Afghans,
but it really boiled down to those three.
By the late 90s in Holland,
if you were buying from a Dutch seed company,
you were probably getting some combination
of skunk, Northern Lights 5 and haze.
And in today's modern American scene,
you're probably getting some variation on the purples.
So Purple Urkel, OG, Chem.
That covers a lot of the bases.
There's a few other things,
but a lot of those other things are just derivatives
from the Northern Lights 5 haze skunk era.
And so not to say that certain people
didn't keep their own unique things going.
There's certainly that as well,
like Doc has been mentioning and other folks as well.
But by and large,
that's the vast majority of modern germplasm
comes from those six varieties.
And even there, those six varieties,
some of those later ones are probably derivative as well.
And so that's really the bottlenecking effect
that the market has had,
but there's always been the hobbyist
and the people with the passion.
And it's really linking up these two things.
Like we don't have the academic institutions.
We don't have the public institutions
that will do the sort of germplasm protection
that is necessary.
But we've got people like Dutch Bloom
growing 10,000 square feet
and getting as many plants as he can get in there
and doing the bulk.
We've got Kevin Jodry doing his things.
I've done very minimal experimenting.
I did an open pollination with some Malawi gold
that I got from Bodie, which came from African Seedstock,
which was a seed company that was operating
in the early 2000s and authentic Africans varieties.
And that's, even though incredibly bottlenecked population,
it was a 10 pack of seeds.
It was six total plants that ended up getting pollinated
and collecting seeds from them.
That's still something.
And the more people,
if I were able to link up with other people
who also have Bodie's Malawi gold,
I would be able to pool those resources with somebody else.
And then collectively, we may be able to do something
that could help offset the low population size
that I personally was operating with.
While that bottleneck will have happened,
we can still expand the population in the next generation
just through meeting up through forums like this.
And that's why it's so important to do the open pollination
at whatever population size you have
and preserve that entire population
and all of the allele frequency that is in it
before moving down this bottlenecking path
and keep those in cold storage
and keep those in cold storage
with a mind for long-term preservation
and linking up with somebody else
who also has done something similar
so that you can expand your population
because the bare minimum,
you're gonna need 172 individuals according to,
there's a whole bunch of papers on this.
Tony's posted a bunch on it over the last couple months
and Cascadian's also talked about it
with the founder effect,
but you need at least 172 individuals bare minimum
to capture the allele frequency within most populations.
That's not, it's an average,
it's not a guaranteed method
for capturing all of the allele frequency,
but that's where you wanna be targeting,
172 or more in a single population.
Open pollinate from there or...
Oh, sorry, go ahead, man.
I didn't mean to interrupt.
Oh, no, I was basically wrapping it up there.
So that was what I was trying to get at.
The more we can do open pollination
on large populations, the better.
Yeah, that 178 number, that sounds pretty reasonable.
My biggest challenge is scale.
It's like I've got my farm in Humboldt
and in order to pay the bills, we have to run production.
And I've been growing less and less big seed plants
every single year.
And we're working harder at selecting production clones
from our seed lines that we know are gonna be marketable.
And so what I've done is I've branched out
and partnered with larger growers and larger nurseries
where I can now see the full plant populations.
And so now what's cool is where I'm super limited,
where if I wanna grow a couple hundred of something,
at best, I have to grow them in really small pots
and then they're not gonna get the same treatment
of our production gardens in these little R&D sections.
But by partnering with larger cultivators
that have fucking 10 acre spots all over the place,
now I can go walk through a field
and see 2000 individual plants.
And what's really cool, I've never had the opportunity
to do that with any of my lines before.
And I would say that in several of these lines,
I was expecting to see like the most diversity possible,
but I think just about everything you're gonna find
is gonna be covered within,
two to 300 individual plants from my perspective.
And then you see a lot of repeats
and you can see the different groupings of phenotypes.
But yeah, I'd say that 178 is probably a good
kind of average number of what it takes
to grow out a population and see just about
all the variation that's in it
of something that's at least been worked a little bit.
And then I was gonna add to that,
with all the Dutch genetics eventually becoming,
the Afghan, the Hayes and the skunk in the late 90s,
they came out with the white widow
and the white widow had whatever,
some land raise or something worked in Brazil.
And then that probably crossed into like
in Northern Lights, Afghan Hayes hybrid.
But once that became the craze,
everything just like happened in the US market.
Once everybody found out that the white widow
was the next craze, they started crossing it into everything.
So now every single already,
combination of the Afghan, Hayes and
with the 798 and that's, it's kind of thing.
Once something is really popular,
everybody's putting OG into it.
Everybody's putting purple into it.
Everybody's putting cookies into it.
Everybody's putting the sherbet into it.
So it is the same family groupings that led to most of it.
And the other one to probably also list is
the blueberry varieties from TJ Short,
which have a lot of influence and a lot of stuff,
potentially even in the purple lines
that became really popular in the 90s in the US
and in Northern California.
See, when you say some of these things,
when I look at white widow,
I mean, isn't white widow nothing more than
a Brazilian sativa?
Well, what it was is it was somebody,
I forget the name of the person or the story,
but somebody brought this hybrid of Dutch genetics
with some supposed Brazilian land race,
but it was a unique variety that was frostier,
more compact, shorter flowering time,
and was checking all the boxes
for the Dutch market at the time.
So every single seed company in Holland
started crossing white widow into all of their lines.
Yeah, there are two stories with it.
There's the Shanti Baba story that Shanti collected
different varieties from around the world.
He collected Brazilian, Indian,
and also had the Muluwembe Madness,
I'm probably pronouncing that wrong,
which was probably a haze variety or similar to a haze,
even it may not have been directly derivative
from the hazes, but it was very similar to the hazes.
And so his story is that he brought,
I believe a South Indian and a made a hybrid,
and that was white widow.
The other story is from a guy named Ingmar, I believe.
And he claims that he had bred it in Amsterdam
over a number of generations
and that it had won a early cannabis cup
in like 89 or something.
And that's the Shanti Baba and Arjan separated.
That became kind of the Arjan Greenhouse
camps version of events.
And then there was the Shanti Baba and Mr. Nice,
their camps version of events.
I wasn't there.
I don't know which one of them is the accurate story,
but if you go online,
there was definitely a lot of talk of it on IcyMag,
on Mr. Nice forum,
and I'm sure on the Strain Hunters forum as well.
But that phenomena happened with everything.
So it happened with the Northern Lights,
the skunk, the haze.
It happened with the bubble gum.
It happened with the blueberry.
It happened with pretty much every introduction
of something new ended up getting grabbed by everybody
or anybody in the Dutch seed industry
because it was the new new,
just the same as it happens now.
And those genes and that got incorporated
into the mishmash of polyhybrids that are getting sold.
And a lot of times,
whatever the original unique characteristics
that made it commercially a thing
end up getting lost in that process
through poor selection, small population size,
and those dynamics.
I think that it's obviously worse in Holland,
and that's why people speak so derisively
of a lot of these days,
but I think that in the United States,
we've gone through the same process
just with a more intensive selection
for high quality outcomes.
And that's probably though going to shift
and change the more commercial
and large scale commercial interests
determine what the market looks like.
And to the extent that it's up to individuals
like us with passion,
like everybody's been saying on the panel,
it's really, that's going to be determinative
in a lot of ways.
The reason why I bring that up
is just because I look at, for example,
skunk number one being a Afghani
crossed with a Mexican crossed with a Colombian.
So, I'm trying to figure out if it's important
just to be able to take some of these,
supposed feral lines and just start crossing these
and working these only versus actually taking stuff
that's already been put into production
and then incorporating something else into it.
And you guys are helping me to kind of steer
the direction that I'm trying to figure out
where I wanna go from a breeding standpoint.
Because for me, I just look at it as it's important
to have the building block cultivars,
meaning that you have to have Afghani representation,
you have to have Mexican representation,
you have to have stuff from Brazil,
stuff from Africa, stuff from Asia,
either being Western, Southern or Southeastern.
So, those are all things that you guys are helping me
to help make these decisions on.
So, I appreciate it.
Each one of those breeding purposes
would have to have a different reason
for the parents to be used.
So, if you're gonna be doing preservation
on say an Afghani line, you'd wanna collect
as many versions of Afghani genetics
that have been bred through large populations,
either through heirloom and land raise,
or if you can find some wild ecotypes that are available
and then doing your own open population
on all of those together so that you can just increase
the amount of genetic possibilities
that are available in that line,
as opposed to trying to find something
from one farmer in Afghanistan,
collecting say 100 seeds from him,
and then trying to repopulate the Afghan genotype
through a selection that he used
that came from a selection
from someone else's small selection.
So, we're basically at a point now
to where everything we're using is a bottleneck version
of a name that we've heard of,
because nobody's out there collecting enough germplasm
from specific areas and then open populating those
to offer what was actually in the original gene type
to the masses.
The rest of it, we're just trying to get a name on a package.
That's part of our problem.
We need to have these very large populations of breeding.
We need to have 10,000 plants in an area of Afghanis.
We need to have 10,000 Chinese strains done in an area.
Otherwise, we're just doing our own small bottleneck
selection and trying to bottleneck what we selected further
to another filial generation,
instead of just forgetting about what filial generation
it is and remember that.
There's genocide happening with these plant lines
because the man that's collecting, the man or woman,
the farmer collecting the seeds and doing the breeding
has decided that it needs to fit into a specific market.
It has to be good for hash.
It has to be good for THC.
It needs to be a CBD cultivator.
Instead of realizing that if we just get all this germplast back,
we would have all that available through further breeding.
If you need CBD, you'd look for those cultivators
through genetic sequencing and then do your breeding project
that takes you directly into CBD instead of selecting it
through a plant that you believe is pretty
with a mutated leaf that shows pink calyxes
at a specific time during flower.
Div right into the genes that you need by checking
what's actually available in that actual cultivar.
If we could start doing sequencing on those
and then have a micro or even some form of cloning facility
that would let us dive into, say, we need to have an Afghani
that's high in CBD, that's also great for oil production.
So we'd look for that through the sequenced genetic coding
that we did on these plants.
That's where we really need to start diving into instead
of just each guy deciding that what he's looking for
is special without ever backing it up
with any type of testing.
Well, then that takes us back to the place
that where do we get all of this done,
where it's either not monetized, where everyone can feel safe
doing it, or it's a business model that
is going to be conducive to being able to allow
everyone to essentially bank their stuff
for the benefit of the whole industry
and not just the individual or business.
That's going to be hard, I believe.
It comes down to we all have to quit
being selfish with the plant and decide
that the plant's more important than our own personal benefits
at the moment.
Well, we can do both.
If we'd be willing to put our own germplasm
into some form of a bank once it's been proven or otherwise,
once it's in there and saved, that's the most important part
because eventually someone's going
to want to do the work that the guy right now doesn't want
to do or can't afford to do.
If you can't do a genetic sequencing on the plant
to prove that it's homogenous for a specific set of traits
or cannabinoids or chemovar status,
eventually someone's going to come along
and want to do it because the plant,
it's the new green revolution.
This is the new industrial revolution.
This is going to make and break classes.
This is going to take someone that had no pennies
and stack up all the pennies they can hold
and as many pockets as they can have woven, come to them.
This is what's coming with this plant.
That's where the capitalization of cannabis
has got to be quantified along with the actual purposing
of saving the germplasm because the more legal it becomes
and the more they want to breed it for specific purposes
of what it does, does it help someone with seizures?
Does it help someone with MS?
Once they find one cultivator that does it,
they're going to want to try to stay with that cultivar
and start to introduce it to other cultivars,
which again, starts to just bottleneck it
because we're only using one side of a gene pool
and never introducing fresh versions of that gene pool
because we're only about the money side of the plant.
We need to be about both sides of the plant
because we can profit off it as we research it.
And we can research it in a smarter way
than the way we used to research things
because of the way we understand this plant today,
the amount of people that have put hidden hours
in basements and in tents and in fields
that were hidden in forests.
We've done this different than every other plant
that's out there in every other industry.
We alone have spent lifetimes doing something
that was never going to be profitable to us on a legal terms
until very recently in historical times.
Everything else like baking bread or being a hog farmer
or growing wheat,
these are things you will be able to do for millennia.
Cannabis was something that we weren't going to be allowed
to do on a commercial scale almost anywhere.
It's been so long since cannabis was used
as a form of industry
that we don't know what to do with it now.
So we're all looking at it at very narrow minded ways
of how we only see it instead of looking at it
as a way to rewrite the history books.
That we can change the way everybody else did stuff,
the way they got it wrong and introduce those wrongs here
as a way to not do things so we can get this correct.
We don't have to fill off half of the germplast
because we're only looking at something
for tomorrow's market.
We've got to realize that there's a market past tomorrow
and even the day after that.
We've got to know that our children's children
are going to be looking for stuff at this plant
that we barely understand that we can see
through the stained glass
that we're looking through right now.
Eventually there's going to come a point
where they start breeding these plants
for specific cannabinoid profiles
to serve these very narrow purposes.
And without the germplast that makes that available,
we're going to have a very hard time doing that.
Yeah, and that kind of work is happening right now.
And there's also, there's so many different things
that like we had prohibition,
which obviously was essentially
all of the governments of the world
deciding that they were going to make a concerted effort
to eradicate this germplasm
to the point where like literally hundreds of millions
of plants have been eradicated
by the United States federal government
over the last 30 years.
Most of it fucking ditch weed
in the Midwest, which it turns out
are feral escapes from cultivated industrial hemp
that recent genetic studies have shown
is connected to Chinese haplotypes
and essentially genetic groups from China.
And that makes sense because early hemp breeding,
some of the first hybrids were,
I believe it was called Kentucky hemp.
It was bred by a man named Lester Dewey
and who worked for the United States
Department of Agriculture
and who actually did his work
where the Pentagon now stands.
There was a experimental farm
that the US Department of Agriculture operated
on the grounds that became the Pentagon.
And there was hemp that was grown on that experimental farm.
And so he bred the early hemp varieties
and the earliest hybrid was a European hemp variety
crossed to a Chinese hemp variety
that he bred over a series of years
and created inbred lines
and then crossed those inbred lines
to create an F1 hybrid.
And then that was grown throughout America.
It was grown in Wisconsin,
particularly up until the 1950s.
And there's some good documents about that.
I've got it stored in my stupid Dropbox
that I can't access or can't share at the moment.
But that hemp ended up escaping
and has survived in a feral state
or in an escaped state throughout the Midwest.
And the United States federal government
did spend decades eradicating millions of those plants.
And it was a unique gene pool
that has actually preserved
some of the earlier American hybrid work
that was done on breeding hemp.
And so it's quite valuable germplasm.
And it just shows how completely insane things were
and still are.
And there's all sorts of things
that are going to happen under regulations.
California, for instance,
you can't introduce new germplasm into metric currently.
If you don't have clones and or seeds
that are already in the system,
you can't try and introduce those into metric.
So they can't come into the commercially regulated market
in California.
They're blocked for whoever knows how long.
And as long as the stupid fucking metric system
continues to exist.
I mean, there are certainly workarounds,
but they're not kosher.
It's not something that state regulators are okay with.
And I knew somebody who specifically requested
the ability to introduce six plants into metric.
And because they were legacy cultivars
that they've maintained for years.
And the response from state regulators
was that California nursery operators
have lost millions of dollars by people
factoring genetics into the system.
And so essentially their response to the need
to preserve important germplasm is,
fuck that our nurseries are more important.
And it's just ridiculous.
Like in theory, you're stopping
theoretically $60 worth of fucking clone sales.
It was six clones.
Like it's literally no money.
And beyond that, there's also efforts
throughout all sorts of different states
for certain interests to limit what cultivars
are allowed to be legalized.
I know the Charlotte's Web people,
the Stanley brothers were behind efforts
involved in trying to create
Charlotte's Web only type legalization.
And those types of schemes are really going to continue
to fuck up germplasm.
And it's up to us, like Blake, I've been saying
and others have been saying,
it's really important that we link up
and that we do this stuff together.
And yeah, we will use smaller population sizes
than is ideal, but there's still ways
of getting around that operating cooperatively.
I know over on Overgrow, they do big cooperative grows
where yeah, they're all doing individual selections
with however many seeds they have,
but it's many different people working the same line,
doing it together cooperatively,
sharing their experiences with the line,
showing and demonstrating the variations within the line
and doing preservation work with it.
And I think that model is something
that all of us can start to adopt.
And Peter, he's got the clubhouse and the YouTube channel,
but also the educational forum that's online.
I think that that's really something that we need to do
is use these tools, all of the different distributed networks
and decentralized sort of forums
and continue working on this.
And also I encourage everybody to go out,
join the different forums and just a lot of them,
you can figure out ways to get to the earliest posts
and the original beginning of the site.
And explore it, really like learn the history of it
because so much has been gone over.
I know Hybrid was talking about this stuff decades ago,
along with other people, Skunkman Sam,
David Watson's always been talking about low population size
in modern breeding, closet breeding.
So these topics have been discussed
and it's just, there's a wealth of information out there.
And I think it's through this cooperative
sort of network of growing and sharing information
that we're gonna be able to continue doing this
given all the fuck you're up,
regulatory hurdles and prohibition framework.
As I could just jump in,
cause I didn't hear a little bit of that.
Cannabis is kind of like, when it comes to,
when you have a new person growing cannabis
in your backyard, it plants a little bit more than roots.
It's like mycorrhizal and fungi,
it just spreads through everybody around them.
And I think it creates like a great community around it.
Like you can have one person growing,
it's now all of a sudden all my friends around me
are growing cannabis and they have now friends
that are all growing.
And it's just like, I'm here in Canada
and we're allowed to grow our legal for it.
I can just see it just slowly overtaking
and growing and developing further and further,
which is really exciting.
I hope the Canadian market doesn't screw around
with the availability of seeds
because they've kind of done a weird little left step
when it came to legalization.
But I think it's super important that it,
and that we continue to help develop the growth
and education of everybody.
Like the more plants that are in gardens,
the more people are gonna understand what a terpene is,
the more people are gonna understand that,
it doesn't have to be the highest THC percentage,
that you can have a lot better of a thing,
that you can have unique plants and varieties
that have amazing flavor and amazing texture
and amazing everything that are unique
and loose and not shaped like the stuff
that you find on the shop shelves.
And I think it's just the best entry point of moving
is like if you look at organic and healthy living,
the first way that they got into people's homes
was through their garden and through that kind of culture.
So I think as cannabis, we have this awesome way
to be able to do that and step forward
and help share and grow together.
Sorry, just wanted to jump in there.
Thanks guys, appreciate it.
London Dunn.
I know this is completely off topic,
but it brings up a point London was talking about
where he was having neighbors growing cannabis.
And I support everyone growing their own medicine,
but at the same time, it completely terrifies me
because I can only control what happens in my backyard.
I can't control the fact that the next door neighbor
was lazy and didn't pull his mails
when I'm growing my medicine in my backyard.
So does anyone know what the definitive distance
that pollen can pollinate a nether plant
either in the wild or just being exposed to nature
from your neighbors?
Pollen can drift miles, man.
I'm trying to find my paper here
that I have on my hard drive, but there's a thing,
I don't know how many people have heard about it
called seeds of wind.
And it's the fact that pollen can travel on wind drifts
high above the atmosphere
and go from one continent to the other
and actually be a way of pollinating plants
from one spot to another that would never ever
be able to pollinate themselves
in ways most people would believe.
I'm trying to find this here
because I don't want to be alone.
That scares the death out of me, Tony.
That means that people can pollinate state to state.
Well, it's gotta be specific types of weather patterns
that do that, but just natural pollen.
I'm trying to remember what my paper here says on here.
I wanna say three miles is the length
that they've found pollen pollinating
in the native environment.
But you really don't have to worry about someone
in Hong Kong's plant pollinating their stuff
up in Humboldt for sure.
But pollen can...
Since we're all farmers and a lot of us
are in our own gardens growing and messing with males
or females, our own breeding projects.
And then we go over to our friend's house.
What we really can't regulate is did that person
just come to my garden with pollen on them
after leaving their own garden with the amount of breeding
that people are doing these days.
A few years back, it was as prevalent
of a thing happening, but I used to work at a collective.
We had 4,400 members.
I was a consultant with 27 different collectives
in the area.
They used to call me up and have me go
to every fucking place in the county.
And since I knew all the owners with all these collectives,
I'd go into some of these collectives
and they'd have live males in the collective
in the back room and the flower room
where the patients weren't allowed to go,
but was part of the environmental system
in the building.
So they've got pollen running through their system.
They don't have any hep filters in there at all.
And you've got every gardener in town showing up
and they've got pollen hitting them,
which is just pollen drift.
And then you go back to your garden
and the next thing you know, you've got some seeds
in your flower, you don't know what happened.
I've seen this happen so many times, man.
Like a couple of places wouldn't even let me come
to their buildings anymore because I was telling
the patients what was going on because I was consulting
their patients.
And I'm like, you guys gotta be careful
when you go down there, there's live pollen
in the place that you're going to.
And then you come home and you think you don't have
any males here and the next thing you know,
you've got a pollinated garden.
So in the modern day, pollen can travel as far
as a person could go in a vehicle.
So it's a reality that people have to be careful with,
especially when the more deep you get into cannabis,
the more you grow cannabis, the more you start talking
to people doing the same.
And the next thing you know, you're surrounded
by a group of people that could possibly be
the contamination source of your breeding project, right?
So it's something that you have to be really aware of.
I used to take, one day I took 10 showers
from going to one consultation spot to the next
because I couldn't risk contaminating one guy's garden
with what the last guy's garden had in it.
Because the reason I was over there consulting truthfully
was I was there for either, most than likely,
three quarters of the time was a problem in the garden.
And it was either bugs or my plants are morphodited
or can you come tell me if this is a male, right?
They've got questions they don't know about
and don't wanna come into the shop and ask
because someone else will know they're asking.
And then that comes down to the fact that you're not as cool
because you don't know what you should know
because the cannabis community,
once somebody knows something about you,
everybody knows something about you.
And that's why people in old days didn't talk, right?
That's the reality of what we're in.
And that's why you don't let everybody know your business
and what you're doing.
But when it comes down to it,
you have to be really hip to this kind of shit,
especially with more hobby grower your friend is.
Like the more that guy's asking you,
how do you spot a male in my garden?
What's a morphodite?
The more you need to be careful
around your breeding projects
when you're consulting with these people.
It's just a reality of the life that I led
when I was a cannabis consultant.
So how far reality, how far can pollen travel?
As far as your friend can travel in a vehicle.
Well, I say that from the standpoint,
but that's different between like a commercial operation
because for me, the way to neutralize pollen is water.
Yes.
So I look at it from the standpoint
that if you were in a breeding project
that you should have some type of mister
that you walk through,
you should be using like a 91% alcohol
or actually probably something like closer to 70
that has a higher water content to be able to neutralize it.
Obviously changing your shoes,
changing your clothes and stuff like that,
makes a difference.
But for me, it's more about like,
if I am going to be doing a large population of plants,
most of the time that usually involves
someone using a hoop house,
or they're doing it outdoors just because,
most people are limited to infrastructure capacities.
So, from that standpoint,
that's what I'm more worried about is,
that person that lives a couple of blocks down the road,
that's just growing it in their backyard.
Because again, you can kind of Google earth,
the surrounding area,
but who's to say that from the last time
that that picture was taken,
that you're in a state where someone can grow plants.
So that's the only reason why I asked,
just because, again, this is something that I worry about
because we've all had that one range of plant
that had seeds that,
you check to see if this thing hermed out anywhere,
or if anything did,
or if it was just one random plant
throughout a random flower that you might've missed,
but at the same time,
how much of that is potentially just,
the luck of the draw,
where it was a plant or your own population,
or it was potentially just that random gust of wind
that could have potentially spread it.
So I think here, this is saying 10 miles
in the Massachusetts State University write-up
that pollen can travel with hemp plants
that they've studied.
Trying to get it to fully load here.
My internet is slow.
So yeah, 10 miles in there,
in a Mississippi State University paper here.
I know I've got more than that though in my hard drive.
Yeah, I can definitely go 10 plus, five, 10 plus miles.
They've done corn studies and stuff where it's traveled,
damn, damn long distances.
Trying to think, Canada,
the legal system there has a specific amount of miles
that a hemp farm can be from another farm
based on the pollen drift in that area.
And that's what I'm trying to find in my paperwork here.
But this comes from the 2018 Farm Bill,
it's actually Michigan State, not Mississippi, I'm sorry.
Michigan State says that they're finding 10 miles
to be the limits that they're finding
that industrial hemp pollen can fly
and end up pollinating another garden.
So 10 miles, that's more than down the block.
Where I'm at, depending on where you're at,
that can be the next county, man.
And then again, it comes down to practices of the farmer
that that pollen's in there.
And like most people don't know,
a single cannabis male flower
can produce 350,000 pollen grains.
So it only takes one homorphodite flower on a farmer
to have enough pollen to come produce
350,000 seeds in your garden,
just from one pollen to one stamina flower on one plant,
one stamina.
These come from that same study from the 19,
or the 2018 Farm Bill study that they did
at Michigan State and the Upper Peninsula
Research and Extension Center.
The over 60 year study,
they found that the 10 mile was the limit
on the hemp pollen drifting.
Thank you for pulling that up.
Yeah, man.
The study by Stokes, also conducted in 2000,
showing that cannabis pollen comprised up of 36 per total,
36% of total airborne pollen counts in the Midwest.
Cannabis pollen that had been collected in the year of 2000,
36% of the total airborne pollen count was cannabis pollen.
So that's in the, what state is that in?
That's what I'm trying to find.
It's just saying in the Midwest.
So that's a whole section of the United States
that 36% of the total pollen found in that area
was cannabis pollen.
You got pollen from everywhere,
just pollinating everything.
Oh man, that's crazy.
So it's from the same paper.
What's up, Brian?
Welcome.
Is there any certain cultivars or geographic areas
that if you guys had the choice
from being able to select from right now,
what would it be and why?
I've got some of the Kandahar, Murph, Marth, Murph,
saying, you know, probably saying it wrong,
Murph Red that Irizing from Indian Land Race Exchange
picked up, we're running a bunch of those
and do some open population stuff on that
and play around with the dead body turps.
So that's why I'm excited a lot about that.
We're doing some Congo stuff too.
So yeah, weird stuff.
Sorry, all my mic was not giving me access.
Just kind of catching up how y'all doing this evening.
Doing good, glad to see you back on.
And nice to see y'all too, thanks for the invite.
Hey, what's up everybody?
Hey, I got to take off, but Peter, thanks again
for inviting me to join you guys.
Sorry, I missed you, Dan, hope you're doing well.
Thanks, buddy.
Right on, till next time, peace everyone.
Take care, Dan.
So yeah, I don't know if you caught the earlier discussion,
but it's covered a lot of ground, Ryan.
We've discussed as the title would indicate
the Dutch and American influence
on global cannabis genetics.
And we've gone rabbit holes, looked at
or discussed population size and the importance
of large populations for preservation,
the problems associated with the introgression
of hybrid gene pools into quote unquote,
land race varieties.
The about the different selection pressures
that have happened under modern hybridization,
how the constant introgression of whatever's sort of new
and hype and how that's constantly happened,
where it was the Northern Lights, the Hays, the Skunk,
the Blueberries, the Bubblegums, the White Widows,
the OGs, the Sours and on and on and on.
And how every time some new hype
enters either the Dutch world or the American world,
it just kind of gets incorporated
into the overall hybrid gene pool,
the polyhybrid gene pool that we've kind of created
with all the modern hybrids.
We've also discussed the importance of some of the work
that people like DJ Short has done
and other people who have kind of stayed
in a particular lane and created more of an inbred variety
that can then be used as breeding material
for creating new hybrids.
And yeah, so just in case you hadn't caught
the first couple hours, but that's what we covered.
And any of your insights on any of those would be great
because you've, you lived a lot of it
and did a lot in those different areas
and have discussed these topics for years
with the best and the brightest amongst us.
Yeah, very cool.
I mean, that's all really interesting stuff
and it's obviously led to us where we are now.
We got lots of respect for DJ's work,
but I mean, he's a great example of,
I think what's been happening kind of since the beginning
of time with cannabis is since humans
started interacting with it.
Cannabis is what we call like a wild weedy complex.
And so there's this question about whether
there is actually even wild cannabis that exists today.
And there's a lot of species that have been developed
and turned into crop plants that just,
they don't exist in the wild anymore.
At least they don't exist in the wild anymore
in the way that they did back then.
And cannabis is out crossing nature,
this wind pollinated anamophilous method of breeding
where male plants can shoot pollen into the air
that can easily contaminate gene pools
that are within like surely within 20 miles,
but maybe even within like a hundred miles.
They've done all these studies about estimating
the size of the hashish crop in Morocco from France.
And they collect pollen from the air
in like the South of France,
which is just on the other side of the Mediterranean,
obviously from Morocco.
And just by capturing and measuring
the degree of cannabis pollen in the wind currents,
they can kind of estimate the size of the crop in Morocco,
which is pretty wild.
But I think that it also proves the point
that cannabis genes move around.
And I guess since we've been taking these plants
and bringing them into cultivation,
those genes and those choices and the bottlenecks
that we make in our populations within our fields,
that actually influences what happens in the wild
because those genes and all the bottlenecks,
again, they move back into the wild population
and essentially contaminating them
and changing them from what they were.
So I'm sure you guys have already said all this stuff,
but that degree of like genetic return
and contamination back into the wild
has changed what existed at the very beginning
and to the point where it's definitely arguable
that truly wild cannabis untouched by the hand of humans
just doesn't exist anymore.
And so DJ's pools are really interesting.
When I talk about DJ's work,
I kind of look at it as one family.
The impression is that there's all these different strains,
but really when we were doing the seed production
for them up here with the F13 and the true blueberry
and grape crush and all,
flotica, all those other lines
that came out of that same thing,
it really, it was kind of eye-opening to me
because really that was all made with one male.
So one pollen type fertilized
all those different mother plants,
but essentially all those different seed lines
are really half sibs, right?
They're same father, different mother.
All those populations are derived from same father
with different mother.
And so as much as they're different, quote unquote lines,
they really are like half sibs within a greater family.
So I kind of treat all of DJ's stuff as one family.
And it's got some really interesting stuff
because again, like you said, he isolated that population
and he bred within his own families
without ever, everybody else, well, not everybody else,
but a lot of people, I think the majority of growers
and breeders, the kind of the method is like,
take this year's Cannabis Cup winner
and cross with last year's Cannabis Cup winner
and then make something.
And the next year you take the Cannabis Cup winner
and that gets crossed into the hybrid.
And so it never really goes under
like a tight inbreeding scheme.
Rather it just makes these kind of,
not open pollinated, but continually outcrossed hybrids.
Which is, I guess in a sense,
the outcrossing nature of cannabis,
that's kind of how it has been since the beginning,
but usually that outcrossing happens within a population
or at least a, I don't know if land race is the right word,
but a geographically isolated population.
So we talked about like Hardy Weinberg,
one of the assumptions or postulates of Hardy Weinberg
is that the population is closed
and there's no gene flow from outside populations
kind of being brought into the mix.
And that kind of goes out the door
with the way that we've been doing things.
Whereas like DJ, he kind of took a different approach
and he really stayed within his family
after he made his top crosses.
Everything was inbred, kind of intersemitics, right?
Which is cool, but if you grow it out,
if you've grown any substantial amount of DJ stuff,
you'll also see that there's,
to me it's pretty, I consider it a pretty inbred family
and it's got some pretty deleterious traits
like that curly trait or the kind of crinkle trait
people call variegation.
To me, that's pretty weak trait to have in a plant.
Like it's not really,
it's kind of problematic when you're a grower.
I remember I used to work in a head shop many years ago
when I was in university and we sold seeds
kind of under the counter thing to the people in the know.
And back then you certainly weren't walking around
with plants out in public.
And I remember this grower came in with a box of plants
and they were all crinkly and messed up
with that weird leaf formation, that curly leaf formation.
And he was just livid that we had sold him these seeds
that had, that they all came up with this really
non-productive or non-beneficial trait.
Like if you're a grower and everything else
is coming up normal and then this whole population
that you had spent 250 bucks for 10 seeds on,
he was understandably upset.
But the shop that we were working in,
well it was a retail shop,
it wasn't, they weren't producing the seeds.
So what we got was what we sold.
And really you're just passing on what the creator
or the distributor provided.
So we obviously gave him another pack of seeds
and sent them on his way.
But it was pretty funny him showing up at the shop
in this prohibition area with a whole box of plants.
But anyway, the point is that there's consequences
when you do those type one-to-one breeding schemes
over multiple generations,
you're creating quite a significant bottleneck
even if you are using one male
crossed to all those different females.
And there's consequences to that type of bottleneck.
And so when a variety like that achieves the popularity
that it did, and we all know the popularity of blueberry,
I mean, look at a whole bunch of my lines,
they have blueberry in it.
I did a whole bunch of joint projects with DJ.
And so I think that it's like, it's kind of undeniable
the influence that he had on the pool.
But the consequence as well is that
as we were all bringing all that stuff in
for an interesting hybrids,
there was also, it was a pretty narrow genetic pool
in itself.
And the same thing happened back in the day
with Northern Lights and Skunk.
And now it's happening with Camel, Gia, Cookies or whatever,
which are kind of their own, within their own,
I'd say that they're within their own family as well.
So yeah, it's good to be aware of the consequences
of where we've come from,
realizing that like the past 30, 40 years,
we have done a lot of probably not great things
to the gene pool as a whole,
as we've been incorporating all these small
inbred populations kind of throughout the whole line.
Right, I mean, this happened back in the day
with I don't know if you know the history
of like cytoplasmic male sterility in corn,
but when they figured it, back then it was like,
they started realizing that hybrid corn
produced a lot more than inbred corn.
And so how, because corn produces both pollen
and pistils on the same plant, it's kind of,
I don't know if dioecious or monoecious is the right word,
but it's those plants produce both structures.
So if you had a line that was male sterile, for example,
that line couldn't be putting out any pollen.
And so if you planted rows of that
cytoplasmic male sterile line amongst another hybrid,
the hybrid, or sorry, not another hybrid,
but another pure line, for example,
that pure line, when it pollinated,
it would pollinate itself
and that would reproduce a pure line,
but your male sterile line would receive pollen
from that line, creating an F1 hybrid seed, right?
And so that was great.
Everybody was like, wow, this is a fantastic way
to produce hybrid seed.
Let's do that with everything.
And so they crossed that line into everything.
And then the next year came along and they planted it
and lo and behold, that phenotype was actually,
one of the gene for that trait,
one of the next door neighbor genes
or the genes kind of call it on the same block
of the street was extremely susceptible to a type of mold.
And that mold susceptibility
essentially became introgressed into everything
because everybody was using the selectable marker
as the male sterility as the selection criteria.
And so the next year's crop had massive,
all the way across the US had massive susceptibility
to mold and it actually, they had a huge problem
where it caused a, like essentially a famine.
Like there was, it just, all the corn
of that whole year got destroyed
because this mold came through
and ripped through the crops all across the US.
And there was a huge glut in the market.
So I think that point kind of proves
that it just kind of shows that there's consequences.
Again, we've talked about this last time
but there's consequences to the choices we make.
And when we all get on board and do the same thing,
we might come to find
that there's consequences to our actions.
And another example of that is like,
this Cush craze that we've gone through
over the past kind of 15 years,
a lot of Cushes are very susceptible to powdery mildew.
And by crossing Cush into everything,
we're essentially introducing susceptibility.
Yeah, we're putting that really nice Cushy OG,
gassy flavor into a lot of stuff
but we're also introducing powdery mildew susceptibility
across the board.
So again, consequences to our choices, right?
Consequences of our actions.
Yeah, no, that's all, that's very good info.
And that's something that, you know,
I encourage everyone to research the history
of maize breeding because, corn breeding,
because it is really interesting and you really do.
You can see how inbred lines and lobe
is what kind of limited
as well as the sexual reproduction system
that you just talked about.
All of that really limited the application of hybrid corn
for about 20 to 30 years after it was first discovered.
And it wasn't really adopted until the 1960s.
And by the 1970s, the Southern corn blight happened
and completely wiped out the corn industry
throughout America.
And that's really kind of to a certain extent
helped lead to the revolution in transgenics
and things like that.
Because one of the reactions in modern industrial crops
where there has been intense bottlenecking,
where there is a lack of germ plasm
for introducing resistance alleles.
One of the only ways to introduce resistance alleles
when there are none in any existing population
is through transgenic manipulation.
And that's kind of like, if you follow the story of maize,
you can really, it's a cautionary tale.
And it definitely, it speaks to the importance
of why we need to do preservation on a massive scale.
Quote unquote, feral, wild.
I understand the issues around there being no wild cannabis
in existence, but all of the feral escapes
that have introgressed with wild populations
and all of the places of origin
are still gene pools and reserves of genetic resources
and biodiversity.
It's very important to protect it.
And this is really the reason why I'm super glad
you came on to help crystallize and clarify that point
and give some real examples,
both in the cannabis breeding world
and in the traditional agricultural crop sense.
Yeah, well, that's what we do, right?
When we, again, we talked last week
or whatever it was about unintended consequences
of our choices and making mistakes.
And because again, none of us can see the future.
When we make a cross or we have an idea in mind
and we're following a breeding program,
we envision all the good things that are coming out of it,
but it's also hard to think ahead
about the potential consequences of our actions, right?
Because we might not understand the gene interactions
that are gonna be created or through complementation
or whatever the genetic interaction is.
We inevitably see these weaknesses going down the line.
And that's why what Kevin was talking about last week
about open pollinating, being as a first step,
is it's again, again, it's about gene capture.
It's making sure that we capture everything that is there
so we can shove it in the freezer for later.
Because those populations become
what I call repair pools, right?
Like we can go, and exactly what you're saying, Trevor,
we can go back to the natural lines
that have been still breeding
under the natural breeding system of cannabis.
Again, it's like, I keep coming back to this
over and over again with discussions with people like this
because it's so important to understand the consequences
of the breeding system that is cannabis
being an obligate out-crosser, right?
And it's really very, very similar with humans.
In order for humans to reproduce,
you have to have sexual recombination
with a member of the species of the opposite sex.
And that, if you're not, excuse the analogy,
but if you're not fucking your sister,
you're not inbreeding because you're essentially,
you're reproducing with a member of the same species
that's not within your immediate family.
And hopefully it's not even closely related to your family.
And that's always been done through people
from different tribes kind of marrying between the tribes.
And there's good things that come from that
because we prevent inbreeding,
but what it also does is we don't ever purge alleles
from the population.
And so that's a good thing for the positive thing,
for the positive alleles and the positive traits
that we all carry in our genomes.
But it's a bad thing because,
I think they've estimated in the human population
that every individual has like six lethal alleles
in your genome or somewhere around that figure.
I'm actually not exactly sure what the number,
but we all have what's called a genetic burden
or a genetic load.
And when you tightly inbreed,
we talked about increasing homozygosity
by 50% per generation,
but we're also, when we inbreed,
we're fixing those negative alleles.
And so they went through this with wheat and corn.
I've got a, there's actually someone
that's in the cannabis community.
I'm not gonna say his real name
because I'm not sure he's out in public yet,
but he wrote these articles back in the day
and he went by the name of Chief Seven Turtles.
And he was kind of the first guy to publish on
a method called reciprocal recurrent selection or RRS.
And that got bandied around the boards
kind of in like the early 2000s for a while
as a possible method or a potentially good method
for producing hybrid seed.
But he worked through this process with corn and wheat
and these other species.
And he was saying that
they kind of went through the same thing, right?
Because those crops are also out crossers,
they also had a genetic burden
or a genetic load of these deleterious alleles.
And you kind of have to go through a phase
and tomatoes have done it naturally because they're sulfurs.
So because they've gone through
hundreds and hundreds of years of selfing,
if a plant is heterozygous for any given trait
and one of the alleles is deleterious,
when you inbreed,
like we said, 50% of the,
you increase homozygosity at 50% by every generation,
but half of that 50% or 25% of the overall pool
is just those two deleterious alleles becoming homozygous.
And if they're homozygous and really deleterious
or even lethal to the plant,
they actually get purged through the population.
And so that's kind of one of the tenets of selfing species
is they've been able to purge these deleterious alleles
through many generations of selfing
to the point where what they're left over with
is now, sure, it's inbreeding
and there's not a lot of variation
that's left in the population,
but they've managed to purge all the crap.
So those things can then,
those individual lines can then be taken
and using the pure line selection method
that we were talking about last week,
they can then be used to create plants
that are gonna be true F1s with increased performance
on a whole bunch of different traits.
And anyway, the point is, is that like,
I think that we're about to be in the stage
of our breeding system where we're gonna go through that
with cannabis through selfing.
And it's gonna be a little bit of an ugly future
for a short period of time,
but in the process of like kind of trudging
through the snow or like working our way through the mud,
when we get past this point,
hopefully we'll have been able to purge
a lot of these lethal alleles.
And obviously now we have the benefit of genomics
to be able to aid our selection in that.
And like you said, Trevor,
like using the lessons that we've learned
from other crops and our genomes,
I mean, again, genomes are highly conserved
between species, right?
So we can take lessons from other species
and directly apply those things to cannabis
because the sequences,
everything's evolved from the same point.
Like, we hear this thing,
obviously you probably heard banding around,
like chimps have 97% of the same DNA as humans.
And that sounds like really close,
but to kind of put a calibrate that scale,
we also share 50% of the genes from like Saccharomyces cerevisiae,
which is brewer's yeast, right?
And so it kind of ends up being that
most of the genes across all of these different organisms
going way back to like, you know, like I said,
Saccharomyces, which is a yeast, right?
It's a fungus.
It seems like, sure, we share 50% of the genes,
but those genes are really just responsible
for like the basic function of life,
like cell division.
And we talked about DNA checkpoints last time
and all that kind of stuff, right?
So a lot of these pathways that we have between plants
are really highly, highly conserved.
And that's why we can use things like Arabidopsis,
these model plants, learn things in these model plants
and then go and apply it to, you know, our other plants.
Sure, cannabis has all these specialized genes
for secondary metabolites like cannabinoids
that don't exist in other species,
but most of the other genes, they do exist in other species.
So all the lessons that we learn in maize
or in, you know, wheat or whatever, whatever crop,
we can then take it back and apply it.
And so, you know, as much as we're coming out of this like
situation where prohibition has really been quite hard
on cannabis, I think, because again,
we've been forced to take this like large population species
that open pollinates on large scale
with lots of individuals.
And we crammed it into closets and small growing spaces.
And unfortunately, a lot of us bred it one-to-one
where you, you know, formerly you'd have hundreds
and hundreds of individuals mating amongst themselves
freely and we brought it down to two plants
being mated in the closets exclusively.
Like that's one hell of a bottleneck.
So we've surely lost a lot of stuff,
but that just, again, it emphasizes the importance of,
you know, the wild populations that you're talking about,
or at least these wild weedy complex,
semi-feral populations that have at least managed
to maintain their breeding, their natural breeding state.
We can go back and hopefully find some genes in there
that are gonna fix the problem
that we've created through this tight end breeding
that we've done over the last, you know,
like I said, 40 years.
Yeah, totally.
I was, it's funny, after we talked last week,
I hopped onto IcyMag and searched out
all of Hybe's various user accounts that he's had there
and had booted off because essentially every time
he would get into it with Gypsy and other people
about this very issue,
about the importance of preserving the gene pool
and doing as much open pollination,
at least like you've said for years,
on that first generation, you need,
you get some genetics, whatever the population size it is,
you need to do that first open population
to capture that genetic variation that you have.
And so whatever you have isn't lost,
and then we can move forward.
It's, and it's, you know,
it's one of those things where it's been a double-edged
sword for better and for worse.
Like, you know, Neville made some incredible selections
with some of those NL5 hazes and different things
that he selected over the years,
or the haze males that he worked with.
But then because we didn't get open pollination populations
from the stuff he had, so much of everything
that happened after that was just based off
of those founders.
And they were, you know, they were certainly bangers
and helped to really create a lot
of the foundational genetics that got used
over the next couple of decades.
But, you know, it's been unfortunate.
I realize David Watson has a lot of these genetics
in cold storage, but so many of us over the years
have been, you know, thirsting after some haze.
I know Todd has been releasing them,
the hazes and the skunks and stuff.
And Greg McAllister's dropped the Northern Lights 5
on different people.
I saw in chat, somebody mentioned Caleb's working
on an open pollination of the NL5 that he got from Greg.
So these things are really exciting.
And I think you're right.
Over the next, you know, 10 years,
the fact that these different varieties,
be they classic heirlooms or the interest
that so many collectors and cultivators are showing
in land-raised varieties, all of that really happening.
We're all interconnected on the internet.
And while still, you know, prohibition
and the regulatory systems are all sorts of messed up
and not facilitating germplasm production and preservation.
But so many of us right here, right now
are working on these different networks
and platforms are really, really doing that work.
And that's, it's really beautiful to see.
I look forward to see all the,
all that comes out of those Northern Lights 5
that people are growing.
Well, is it Northern Lights 5 though?
Cause I mean, Northern Lights 5 was the clone, right?
That was selected from the Northern Lights population.
And I heard both stories that it was selected in Holland,
but I've also heard that it was selected in, you know,
near Seattle or Washington state or wherever it was.
And that the clones were moved over to Holland.
So it's kind of, you know,
is it really Northern Lights 5 pure?
Because if Northern Lights 5 was a clone,
nobody was selling back then.
So is it a hybrid of Northern?
Like, you know, it doesn't really matter.
It's just kind of, you know, an interesting thing
for how we're going to label it moving forward.
Because again, as we all know in the cannabis industry,
everybody likes to slap a label on something
because it's popular and that maybe think
that it has more appeal in the marketplace.
But I, at this point in my career, you know,
I think the most important thing is about us being honest
about the populations that we have.
Because look, we're,
we all like to think these lines are ours,
but the truth is, like David likes to say, you know,
we stand on the shoulders of giants,
meaning that we're really custodians that have benefited
from all the work that has been done
by the people that came before us.
But we have to also realize
that we are also just a link in the chain.
And we're going to be the people that came
before the people that come after us.
So let's be honest about what we got
and the methods that we use to get there
so that the people that come after us
can make responsible choices
and do the best thing for the species.
Because I really do believe that like, you know,
Hive Gypsy, everybody, really, we do this for love.
I don't think that there's really anybody out there
that is purely doing it for money.
Sure, there's some people that are highly money motivated,
but, and are going to take shortcuts and whatever
and lie about the results so that they can make more money.
But, you know, we are where we are
and we can't go back in time.
So let's be honest about what we got, where it came from,
what were the methods you used to develop them
so that our, you know, the people that follow
can make responsible choices.
And it's kind of funny when you talk about like,
you know, Gypsy and Hive going back and forth.
Hive was, you know, really cut and dry and very blunt
and didn't have a lot of love for Gypsy making,
you know, essentially encouraging
all these home seed makers that are, you know,
and I agree with them to a certain extent.
Like a lot of people weren't doing things the right way
and he was facilitating the sale of their genes
or their seeds for profit.
But, you know, and again,
Hive was like very anti one-to-one breeding
and he was kind of the one that raised that in the community.
But let's also be honest, he's now selling, you know,
an STS type spray, facilitating that same behavior
to people all over the world.
So the use of STS has allowed
the inbreeding depression to occur, right?
Or even to maybe even be sped up.
And kind of, I look at that, like, again,
like I use the analogy of the gamblers last year,
like who's at fault,
the people that are providing the access to the gamblers
or the gamblers themselves.
Look, everybody's complicit, right?
Like, let's just be honest and open
and recognize where we are now.
And the reasons we're here now, you know,
it's like I said, like, you know, I've said this before,
but it's like, even just look at this room,
there's seven of us on the stage.
We all took different paths to get here
and we all brought our own experience and choices
and everything that comes along with it,
but we're all at the same table.
So really it doesn't matter how you got here.
The thing that matters is that you're here.
Let's put all our cards on the table and talk about it
so that the people that are gonna continue on following us
and will become the next generation of custodians,
it's our responsibility to give them all the information
and knowledge so that they can take the tools
we're gonna leave them to build better cannabis
for the future.
Can I?
Maybe that's unpopular.
Maybe that's unpopular.
No, it's all good.
I'm sorry for taking a break, but maybe that's unpopular,
but it's like, again, like we, I think we just gotta be,
you know, it's basic science, right?
The first thing in science,
the first step in any scientific method
is recognition of a problem.
So let's throw our cards on the table,
recognize the problems and the limitations
that we're facing and together, knowing where we're at,
then we can decide on where we're going.
I agree with you a hundred percent.
It's kind of how we got to where we are today
with like the integrated pest management stuff
where folks like myself who got stick with cannabis plants
from pesticide use of other folks,
suddenly went from thinking I was a joke
when I used to post that stuff to suddenly people were like,
dude, what was that stuff that got you sick?
Cause I don't wanna touch that kind of shit.
I don't wanna risk it, right?
So it's the same thing without admitting that there's a,
quit making the same problem over and over.
Ryan, you also bring up a good point
because it just brings us back to the very beginning
of the topic of this whole conversation.
And for me, my understanding is Norman Lights
is nothing but a true Afghani.
So I might be wrong in my understanding of it.
That's what I thought about that point.
I think I was just gonna recommend
that folks should go listen to the Matt Riott podcast
where he interviews Greg McAllister or Seattle Greg
and they get into it.
And he's Seattle Greg or Greg McAllister
was part of the group in Seattle.
Maybe the more vocal part of the group
that did all that work.
So he's kind of the authority on it.
But it's a really good podcast.
Folks, you should go listen to it.
I think no matter what you think about whoever,
it's a pretty good series.
Yeah, I totally agree.
And I think that it's important to really like,
everything you said, Ryan, I agree with.
And I think that it's important
that people put the information out there.
Let us know the claims about the Northern Lights.
I've followed all of Todd's posts about it.
I've looked at, Greg posted as Seattle Greg
on Mr. Nice Forum and in a couple other places.
And you can track down a lot of his posts.
And they were all connected to a grow shop in Seattle
and like a Pacific Northwestern scene of growers
back in the 80s, 70s, 80s time period.
And if you track down the history,
you can find out a lot about it.
Even Murphy was one of the individuals involved.
And he wrote a number of books on indoor cultivation
that were some of the earlier publications
on how to grow indoors.
And Todd's posted pictures showing his plants
that he's grown out next to those ones.
You know, tiny population just based on, you know,
a picture in a book and a picture out of Todd's garden.
They look, you know, similar.
Independent, they look, what he grew out
in the sample pictures he put up looked lovely.
I'm excited to grow them out.
I think also it's important to like really seek out
all that information and really verify it.
It would be best if everybody, you know,
you find out how the breeding was done,
what the population size was,
how the, was it a clone only, was it self,
was it like the information you gave earlier
about all of the DJ short lines
from the 98 time period being half sibs.
I'm roughly estimating that
or approximating that time period.
But the fact that those were all half sibs
and that everything from those lines,
the F13s and creches, et cetera,
were all, you know, half of the,
I forget the number on it, the B130,
I think I could be wrong.
A particular male that was selected at that time period
crossed to all of those different inbred females
from the different select lines within the family
that DJ was working with.
And like those details that would give
so much more clarification to the whole process.
And that's why I personally have started geeking out
so much on this.
And I know there are a lot of other people
who are out there who are also doing similar work
in this area.
And I encourage everyone just to like
seek out that information,
seek it out from as many sources as possible.
And to the extent that you can go to the primary sources,
hear from Greg, hear from Neville, those folks.
And that way you can-
No, thank you.
You know, yeah, you can-
I was just gonna say, great encouragement, man.
I actually have a line to John at Stuber's.
I shop there and it's a family run operation.
And I got on the phone with him the other day
or about a month or two ago.
And he's totally down to go and have a beer lunch with me
and talk genetics and stuff.
And he's a whole, he's kind of the,
like you alluded to the beginning of that whole story.
He did a ton of work.
So thanks for just saying that
because like that's something I've dropped the ball on.
We were on the phone maybe a month or two ago.
I need to get on the phone with him
because he's kind of a recluse, to be honest.
Yeah, and that stuff's really important.
There's a lot of cats like that.
I mean, Lauren Longbottom Leaf,
he lives out in my neighborhood, neck of the woods rather,
not necessarily the neighborhood, but he's out there.
And I didn't know for years, I had no idea.
He was like literally 30 minutes away.
And the fact that I found out and got to meet him
and hang out with him and hear,
just sit and talk to him for fucking hours was a privilege.
And that's something that,
particularly with the older generation
and the folks that are really getting up there in age,
I cherish every moment we get on here with Doc.
Like that's great times hearing him give his perspective
and everything he's worked on
and all the years that he's been growing cannabis
and working with his buddies, doing things.
You know, that's really,
that history is incredibly important
because it's like, it's interesting.
Like everybody's posting and I love the quote,
the Mr. Bob Hemphill,
people tell stories, plant tell the truth.
That's certainly true,
but I also love the stories people tell.
And that's something that I think
that we should all just seek out
and try and get right now as we can document that stuff
because it's important history.
And if we don't, it'll be lost.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm really, you know, I keep bugging David to try and come in
and maybe I'll get him to come in on Clubhouse
when I'm over there or something one time,
because like you said,
all that stuff's gonna get lost to history
if we don't document it.
And I think we already are already losing it.
And, you know, people remember things the wrong way,
but it's like,
or they may be remembering things from their own perspective
and, you know, maybe they forget how things happen.
It's like, I kind of have to take that
like kind of Hans Blix approach to it,
where it's like, trust but verify, you know,
and we need to think critically as we hear these stories,
because like you said, people like to tell stories
and probably people like to tell stories
that paint themselves in a positive light, right?
So I'm not like using that as an example of, you know,
Greg McAllister, I don't know that guy at all.
And actually I haven't even listened to the podcast,
but I'd love to.
Matt offered me some of those seeds as well.
So I'm definitely gonna like get into those
and check them out.
But again, I question like,
is it really Northern Lights Five?
Like Northern Lights Five was a clone.
Nobody was selfing seeds back then.
So how do we have Northern Lights Five seeds, right?
Like there's a little bit of discrepancy in that story.
And I think as we go back through history
and listen to a lot of these stories,
there's always gonna be questions.
Because again, like, look,
our responsibility here is to the truth, right?
Like, this is not about a circle jerk
where we're inflating people's egos here.
We're trying to get to the bottom line,
because again, like I said,
like I think that we really all do love cannabis
and it's not about like painting ourselves as heroes.
We need to be providing real information
to the people that are gonna follow us
so they can use that information
to do the best by the species, right?
Well, and then people's memories,
people may have the best of intention
and memory is what it is, right?
You remember the bad stuff and you remember the good stuff.
And like, sometimes the bad stuff was worse.
And it's just, it's all over the place.
So like, I totally hear you, Porn Man.
There's a whole segment of science about this,
about like, memory reliability
and how it pertains to like court cases
and stuff like that, right?
Like people, memories are fallible.
And ego is a real thing.
And I don't even mean like, you know, like ego,
it's just, it's part of the human brain, right?
So again, I'm not like trying to paint anybody
in a bad light or blame anybody.
It's just, you know, it's kind of like
that old history, like, or that old saying,
like, you know, history is written by the victors, right?
And it's okay to challenge people, right?
It's okay to like evaluate what people say
and see if it's internally consistent, right?
Like that's completely okay.
There's nothing wrong with that.
It's not like being a skeptic means
that you're being an asshole or you're, you know,
you're trying to take somebody down.
That's just, we're trying to get to the truth, right?
And all these stories need to be backed up by, you know,
we're really lucky now that we got all this,
these tools that are really come down in cost.
You know, it used to be millions of dollars
to sequence a genome.
Now you can do it for like less than a thousand bucks,
right?
So there's a lot of information
that we're about to roll into that can back up
and verify these stories, or maybe say,
hey, you know, the story doesn't seem to be true
because the truth is, is that the tales of what happened
are written in the DNA, right?
So it's cool because it's like, you know,
we've got this big hairball mystery,
kind of like, you know, like Sherlock Holmes style.
We can get going and use DNA
to help figure out what happened.
But I totally agree with you.
I mean, I got nothing but respect for all the old schoolers.
I love sitting around with Jim Goodwin
or, you know, David or Rob Clark or Ben Drucker's, whoever,
like all the people that were there,
they've got stories to tell.
And I've got a lot of friends, you know,
I'm much younger than them,
but I've got a lot of friends that are in their seventies.
And I love getting high with them
and sitting around and chatting and questioning them.
And, you know, even when I got to know David too,
I mean, I was like, he had a lot of really
outlandish stories, right?
That were like, you know,
I thought to myself on more than one occasion,
like, is this true?
But you ask more questions and you dig in
and you do your own research and you can start to,
you know, like a lot of the stuff that David says,
I just, I have a lot of faith in what he says
because it's internally consistent.
And, you know, you might read about things
people say online that, you know, try to discredit them,
but it's like when you talk to them in person
and you know, you get critical of them,
like it doesn't, his stories don't fall apart, right?
And you can cross check it with like, you know,
McPartland or Rob Clark or whoever,
all these other people that were there
and like, it comes up.
So, you know, I totally support all the older dudes
that are, you know, that have done it all
and done a lot of things and learn from them
because they got a lot to tell, you know,
and they might not even understood some of the things
that were happening back then.
But, you know, we've learned a lot since then
and we can take all the stuff that we've learned
and go back and evaluate the past and really learn.
And again, it just puts us in a better position
to like move forward.
So that's what it's all about for me is like,
we are where we are and no judgments to the past
and it's not about taking anybody down
or lifting anybody up, you know,
like let's just recognize where we are.
Let's let history be what it is
and make good choices moving forward
for the best of the species, right?
Yeah, yeah, definitely.
I think it's one of those things where
if we can understand kind of the thinking
and the logic behind what a lot of these breeders
of the past have done,
it helps to one, inform breeding strategies
and explain like, you know, going through DJ's work
and explaining it in a context
and then applying that in the context of maize breeding
and giving examples to people of, you know,
inbreeding depression and the fixation
of deleterious alleles that like,
that's something that from my own experience
has just been what the community like.
On Instagram, if you put something up that goes in depth
and explains breeding and genetics, that's the content.
I mean, my fucking shit got shut down today
because people are just thirsting after this information.
And so I think that that's something that,
you know, for better and for worse,
like we need to know and understand the good parts
and the bad parts of all the breeding that we've done
over the last 30 to 40 years
and understand kind of like the underlying logic,
how certain people,
because I kind of see it as a,
we're a knowledge community
and we've shared knowledge with each other.
And it's happened in, you know, disparate ways.
And some people were way ahead of the curb
before other people.
And other people came with backgrounds that, you know,
Neville had his background with pedigree breeding.
David had his background with, I mean,
just his collecting and his,
the foresight that he had with regard to,
when you read, it's not super explicit,
but when you read through a lot of the documentation
about how breeding for single cannabinoid varieties
and why they were doing it in response to Maranol
and the synthetic cannabinoids and how 95% pure.
I think that's the number, I could be wrong,
you know, probably better than I do, Ryan.
But that breeding strategy was way ahead of the curve.
And like his operating on a population scale
and doing mass selection and then doing test cross
to check the general and specific combining ability
is like, that's breeding breeding.
And it's just, it's so interesting to see how somebody
who small scale in a closet doing pedigree breeding
Neville style goes down his pathway and does what he does.
And then somebody like David with his background
and his genetic resources goes down his pathway
and everything in between.
And, you know, all those,
all the people that have emerged in this story
is really something that I've found incredibly interesting.
And I just, I really appreciate the opportunity
to share with all you guys and to hear from all of you.
So I've said it before and it's kind of cheesy,
but again, it's like, it takes teamwork
to make the dream work, right?
It's not what one person has done
in this thing we call breeding cannabis.
It's like the collective whole, right?
And what we all do together that really matters.
But it is interesting to understand what people have done.
Talking about blueberry,
I mean, I remember when I put my blueberry hybrids
at the den, a lot of people gave me shit.
They're like, oh, these are just simple F1 hybrids
or not even F1 hybrids, they're just hybrids.
And there was no work put into them.
It's like, oh, fuck, they are what they are.
I mean, they are what you make of them.
DJ's populations are quite inbred.
One of the reasons I put all those different
diverse lines out is because you can individually use them
to cross back into blueberry and widen the blueberry.
Blueberry suffers from inbreeding depression,
let's be honest, right?
It's got some really interesting traits,
but you're probably not gonna grow a pure blueberry
or F13 line in a production setting.
People might grow a few plants in their closet
or in their tent or whatever at home
or their small grow room.
But are you really gonna put up 60 lights
or a 5,000 square foot greenhouse of blueberry pure?
I wouldn't.
It's just that they don't perform that way.
So taking hybrid cross and breeding it back into blueberry,
again, it kind of acts like a little bit
like a quote unquote repair pool, right?
Because you're introgressing some of that genetic diversity
into an inbred line, right?
And you can create a precombinant inbreds from it
that are better performing, right?
So again, it's just about recognizing
where we are, where we are.
And Anthony mentioned poisons and stuff too.
And it's like, look, I've talked about poisons in the past.
There's posts of me on IC
recommended people use mouth stocks for powdery mildew.
Because I didn't understand the long-term consequences
of that or that those things would end up in the flowers.
Pre-testing, we all assumed, I assumed,
I'm not sure everybody assumed,
but I definitely assumed that you'd spray these things
on clones and get rid of pests
and nothing would end up in the final product.
And they do end up in the final product, right?
So people said, hey, you gotta take those posts down.
I was like, no, it's more important than leaving up there
to recognize where we came from and just say to,
hey, look, I did this.
I recognize now that it's wrong.
And that's kind of the way I feel about,
like not just with the poison stuff,
but of the breeding as well, right?
Like the history is what the history it is.
I'm not trying to rewrite history.
All we can do is be honest with where we're at
so that everybody that comes after us
can make better choices.
What is everybody's thoughts in regards
to naming a cultivar
that someone could have potentially already made?
And what I'll use, for example,
is say that somebody crosses
we used the forum cut of Girl Scout cookies
to a male blueberry.
And essentially you create a blueberry cookies,
which obviously there's already a blueberry cookies
for that.
So how would you navigate around that kind of problem?
Or would you just go with a completely different name
to be able to get away from that comparison
or step it on someone's toes?
Well, to me, the strain cultivar discussion aside,
and I'm gonna talk about humans
and often people find when we talk about breeding humans,
like people think that it's offensive,
but to me, I'm not trying to be offensive.
I'm just trying to use it as an example.
It's like, look at Tiger Woods, right?
Tiger Woods had an African-American father
and an Asian mother.
That specific union of those two individuals came together
and they gave Tiger Woods the genetic preposition
to be what he is.
Can you cross any Asian woman to any African-American man
and not the same result?
No, you can't, right?
So as long as you don't call that cross Tiger Woods,
to me, it's who cares, right?
Again, just be honest with what it is.
To me, the deception comes in
when you start saying this is Tiger Woods
or when you cross a haze to a blueberry
and you call it Blue Dream.
It's not Blue Dream.
It's a cross of the same two parental pools,
but you don't end up with the same thing.
Why?
Because those plants are still incredibly heterozygous
and there's all this genetic variation built into
both blueberry and haze.
And just, you're not recapitulating the hybrid.
You're not reproducing the same thing
just because you bred two plants
from the same two pools of origin, right?
So I don't know.
That's kind of how I think about it.
Climate and culture and history
also play a huge role into that, right?
Like if Tiger Woods was a twin,
I'm gonna cut this up because I'm busy working,
but all I'm saying is there's been research in humans
where they take twins and they separate them
and they have such similar genetic makeup,
but they have different cultural experiences
and that actually changes the way that their DNA expresses,
their phenotype expresses,
and people can get all sorts of sicknesses
and different things based upon the life that they live.
The same is true in plants.
If we take the same genes
and they live in a different climate
and live in a different life over a generation
and clone generation after clone generation,
then you breed with them.
It's gonna be a different thing.
So I'm just backing up.
I think it's all cool.
You just gotta be truth in what you have and what you did.
I think it's, we see in the vegetable world,
we see the same varieties sold in different catalogs
all over the place.
How many Cherokee purple tomatoes
are in how many catalogs across North America?
And they're all different regions and,
you know what I mean?
So I'd just throw that out there.
I understand that.
Oh, go ahead.
Oh, I was just going to explain why I asked that
is because whenever you get on certain sites,
like say SeedFinder, for example,
and you type in skunk one,
you'll literally find a hundred different breeders
that all are,
and I don't know if they're just doing it to knock it off
or like who has the original one.
So that's where it becomes problematic
from like trying to source stuff as a fellow breeder.
It's like, how do you even ever know
unless something is being sequenced,
whether or not it is what it is,
because yes, you can go and see this plant being grown out,
but who's to say that that original seed wasn't,
you know, what it was.
So, you know, that's the reason why we're doing that.
Right, no, it's crazy.
Like programs like that kind of fuck it up, you know,
and, you know, I don't blame like any programmer SeedFinder
it's just the way that it is, you know,
like, but right now we have word of mouth provenance,
you know, like Tony sent me the ChemD
and now I have that ChemD and whoever he got it from
that we have a provincial line and we can,
Tony says, this is the ChemD as I remember it.
And I say, this is what I think is the ChemD is,
you know, and we have a sort of line
and then maybe two or three down the road,
someone else will verify that's the ChemD I remembered.
And we can kind of like create a package with our,
even on these shows where we were able to do such a thing
and talk about it and talk about the different expressions
and lock down and be like, oh yeah, that's the thing,
you know.
Yeah, and through us sharing the same cut,
say the ChemD, my breeding shows provenance
through what Dutch's lines will show.
Even if he uses different males to breed to the same plant,
you're gonna see some of the genetic
that come from that ChemD.
And then my line shows them same traits
that come up in some of the expressions.
The guy that I got it from when he did some breeding on it,
the same thing, it gives provenance of breeding
that makes a plant also an elite.
This is some reason why a lot of breeders will use a plant
that someone else has used like the Chem.
It's been used for so many years now, guys.
It's like the 91 Chem, it's been here for 30 years,
years of breeding, smoking, pictures, stories
that you can't just go back and change.
Now, some guy brings up a brand new line last year
and now whatever he writes about it
is what everybody's searching for in it.
Instead of us getting what was found,
like it was nobody in the old days was trying to find
the terpene profile out of the Chem.
They were telling you what they found in it.
When we're being told we were supposed to look
for that stuff, it was being held so tight
that over the years, that plant gave a specific
terpene profile, specific type of high.
And then we started seeing pictures in the magazines of it
that come from grow houses that are growing it
on massive levels.
You can see the pictures of the plants
and how it presents in the pictures,
how it shows itself, the plant structure that's there,
the color the plant produces.
So now when it starts to become commercially available
and you possibly get your hands on it,
now you can start looking for traits
that you had read about it before,
that your favorite breeder that you started to read about
when you were coming into cannabis started to talk about
why he was using it and his crosses,
the medicinal profiles that could come out of that plant.
And this happens through any cultivar that's out there
that starts to get a profile.
And it's also worked through the parental lines
it came from.
So it's got its traits from somewhere.
So that's where you come through,
like with the blueberry using the tie.
There's a reason you start getting those colorful
anthocyanins that pop out of there
from some of the breeding that's done in that plant.
It came from the parental lines that are in it.
Same thing with the haze, you get the thin leaves,
the long flower times,
you're gonna get specific terpene profiles
out of those properties.
You get these lines and combine them together
to start to get the basis of what we have today.
So everybody's tired of the hybrids we have today.
And there's the possibility of diving into skunk lines,
even though they may not be what was here in the seventies,
they have been so true bred and bottlenecked for so long.
You can take a large population of skunk seeds
and do an overpopulation to repopulate that genotype again.
Do the same with hazes, take seeds from me,
from Todd, from Positronics,
from everybody you can find a original haze of,
open populate that whole line
and then start to do selections
for live breeding out of that,
or to do continued open populations
from each flu generation,
along with some back crosses on there.
So you can breed in multiple directions at one time,
but just do it in large populations
with as much as you can
and stop worrying about trying to just steer it
in the direction of one male and one female.
And you can open up your genotype as far as possible
with what you have available to you.
Yeah, well, we also,
like for example, a lot of those seed lines that Todd has,
I got the same seed lines from David as well.
And a lot of them, they still sell to breeders retail.
So a lot of these people can also get the same
populations as well,
because what we're all doing is we're taking what was there
and then each of us are bottlenecking it
in a different way, right?
So one of the ways to reverse that bottleneck
is to take everybody else's stuff
and cross it back together.
As long as you can actually verify that it is bred
within the same population,
as long as you can actually verify that it is bred
within the same pool and it hasn't been outcrossed,
you're essentially just rewidening the pool
and they got bottlenecked.
So there's that.
Oh, I wanted to mention something to you
on what Dutch was talking about, about the twins.
I mean, this is the age old
nature versus nurture discussion, right?
Like how much of variation that we see in a population
is due to genetics,
how much is it due to, like you said,
the life that the individual or the plant has lived, right?
Which is essentially the environment.
And in plant breeding,
I'm not gonna get into it today
because it's pretty technical,
but maybe Trevor and I could kind of prepare something
one day and kind of present it
because there's a lot of math involved
on a different occasion.
But there's all these formulas
that you can actually use in plant breeding
to be able to tease apart what variation is due to genetics
and what amount of variation is due to environment.
And you can account for those things
and integrate that into your statistical analysis
with stuff like QTLs and everything else
that we talked about last week.
I mean, there's so much untapped science that we know about
that we've learned from other statistical analysis
of other crop species
that has just never been applied to cannabis.
You know, I'd love to do a thing
on even like linkage analysis, right?
Like that's a pretty basic thing.
But, you know, it's actually really not that hard.
It's pretty simple math.
Anybody could do it
and we could all collectively do it as well.
Like, you know, in different groups
could be growing out the same seeds
and observing the populations and scoring traits.
And you can take all those different sets of traits
that are scored individually and add it all up
and actually start figuring out,
hey, look, these traits are on the same chromosome.
They segregate together or they don't.
Or like, you know, these two alleles, for example,
are inherited together.
Then you can look like, you know, phase relationships
or like, you know, what,
it's kind of weird terms,
like the cis and trans alignment of like alleles,
how, you know, different alleles
for two sets of traits are linked together.
All this stuff is like
actually relatively easily calculated.
So it would be really cool if, you know,
if people started incorporating this stuff
into their selections,
because we could actually make some like
pretty significant gains
with relatively simple mathematical tools
that are just based on observation of traits, right?
Over a couple of generations.
I would love to work on something like that.
It was really when I did a breeding seminar
at UC Davis back in 2016,
and it was a genomic seminar.
And interestingly enough, the final presentation,
well, there were two presentations
that I'll talk about briefly,
but the final presentation was presented
by a professor from Ohio State,
who at the time was actually the president
of the American Plant Breeders Association.
And he basically broke down
after we'd learned all this stuff about genomics
and, you know, Illumina sequencing,
this type of sequencing, you know,
how to use this type of marker to do this type of thing,
when you want to do this,
like all the different ways you can use genomics
in breeding.
And he gives us the
best linear unbiased predictor,
and essentially just lays out
traditional quantitative genetics,
and says with no more than a calculator
and a piece of paper,
you can get these types of gains
and started showing experiments and studies
that demonstrated how just through exactly
what Ryan was talking about,
how essentially traditional,
how plant breeding was done before the advent
of modern genomics and sequencing,
how you can do the math and map the chromosome
and identify the different alleles,
their linkage relationship,
and their impact and the heritability of the trait
relative to environment or to genetic mechanism.
And that all of that can be done
with just a math or just, you know, pencil, paper, calculator.
You don't need genomics.
And somebody on here who,
well, I say here on Instagram,
Coop, he, well, he goes by Gnome to Foom on Instagram,
but he went by Coop on Mr. Nice forum.
He was somebody who also brought up that point
where it's like, you don't need,
genomics is awesome and it will create massive gains.
And once it becomes more readily available
and economically efficient,
like it's gonna make, you know,
leaps and bounds types of difference,
but just with a calculator and paper
and, you know, your type of knowledge base
in terms of it being able to explain this.
And I try to present this information and cite sources
and I don't have the technical background that you have,
but I do try and find the primary sources
and present those to people
and help build out our knowledge base.
And if we do build out on, for instance,
Peter's education forum,
this type of framework for actually scoring traits
and doing cooperative breeding,
it can help overcome some of our small population issues
and other barriers that we have to breeding on scale.
Oh, and briefly, real quick,
the other thing was that the very cool presentation
that was presented also at Davis was on animal breeding
and the incredible amount of data they have
and how they use that data to do phenotypic scoring
and breeding scoring for particular traits
and how that's developed over the last, you know,
50, 60 years and the gains that they've had there.
And I would also encourage people to look
at animal breeding because like Ryan's mentioned a number
of times, cannabis is an obligate outcrossing species.
Most animals are obligate outcrossing species.
And so the breeding patterns are more similar
and there's more of a, I can't remember the term off the top
of my head right now,
but inbreeding is less likely in those breeding dynamics.
And so that's a way of understanding
how this heritability happens
and how you can use this type of mathematics
to actually achieve these types of gains.
Yeah, sorry, if I can just say,
the mating system dictates the results.
Like that can't be underscored enough.
Like it really can't.
The breeding system dictates how the genome
is gonna be shaped.
And that's just like, that's just a fact.
And I actually kind of really liked that you said that
about the animals and the obligate outcrossing.
I never actually even really thought about it
in context of other animals, but you're right.
Most animals are obligate outcrossers.
And I think people tend to think of cannabis
as just another plant.
And they think of it like tomatoes or, you know,
some other flower species, most of which are sulfurs.
But the breeding systems are very different.
And therefore the consequences are very different.
You can't approach a cannabis breeding program
the same way that you're gonna approach
a tomato breeding program.
They're just not the same thing.
And like you said about the, you know,
you talked about the calculator and, you know,
for example, determining linkage.
The kid that figured that out was like, you know,
we call those things the distance between genetic traits,
centimorgans, or they're also known as genetic map units,
but centimorgans is essentially the word
that has really kind of been, it's caught on.
And that's derived from the principal investigator
in that lab, his last name was Morgan,
which is why they're named that.
But the kid that figured out was one of his students
or undergrad students or grad students.
And they were doing all these crosses.
I can't remember what crop it was in,
but they had all these observable phenotypes, you know,
sorry, they had observed phenotypes of various traits
over a series of generations.
And they had a bunch of numbers associated with like,
you know, these traits seem to occur together.
And the kid just took them home and was like
playing with them at home and looking at the data,
you know, this is well before computers.
And he was just kind of like mulling them over
on a piece of paper and trying to figure out
how they went together.
And he realized, like, you know,
he came up with the method for determining linkage
linkage analysis, what we now know as linkage analysis.
So, you know, this wasn't like information
that was a divine birth, like, you know,
reached down from God and handed it to somebody
like somebody figured this shit out
without even understanding the rules.
So now that we understand the rules,
we can very easily go back and apply that knowledge
to crosses and learn a lot about, you know,
what, like you said, what traits are linked together
on a chromosome.
And as far as genomics apply to the linkage analysis
and all that kind of stuff, we got a lot more tools now,
but it's just a different way of looking at the same problem.
It's kind of like taking a photo of something
with like a color lens or using like UV film
and a UV filter on your camera and taking the same picture,
you're gonna get different information,
but really you're looking at the same thing, right?
So you can overlap those two pieces of info,
those two separate pieces of information
and gain insights that you couldn't get from either,
you know, either individually, right?
So we don't, just because genomics is around now,
it doesn't mean that it's time to like throw away
the old ways of doing things.
There's still tons of insights that we can learn
from the old way of doing things.
There's tons of insights that we can learn
from the new way of doing things.
And there's even more insights that we can gain
from putting those two things together, right?
So.
Yeah, no, that is such a great point.
And that really, it jogged my memory.
And that was like the message they,
every seminar that they wanted to hammer home
was the amount of quality information
that you're inputting through traditional methods.
I mean, granted now through precision ag,
there's all sorts of crazy ways of doing things
with drones and with cameras and, you know,
phenomics and high throughput phenotyping,
those sorts of things.
But they were just saying that doing that traditional
hard work of going through and looking at a population,
assessing that population and scoring that population
using these traditional methods combined with genomics.
The way you get the results and the best gain
from your investment in a genomics type strategy
is through having done this type of large scale population
and traditional data analysis
that just really requires being out there in the field
with the plants going through them,
identifying the traits, scoring the traits,
growing up the populations in different, you know,
population structures, be it through back cross or selfing
or however you're setting up your test experiment population
to try and figure out the chromosome linkage of the traits.
And you go through those experiments
and you do it in a systematic way.
And that's how, you know, giving everybody these tools
to be able to start doing this is really
what's gonna make it so that if they are able
to access genomics or once they become able
to access genomics, they're gonna have that phenotype data
and they're gonna have some of that genomic data
already done through just traditional analytical methods.
What I was going to get at is there any type of software
that is able to be used for breeding and breeding specific?
I know that obviously the rest of vertical integration,
they have an operating system or something
that tracks everything through the whole cycle
from seed to sale, but there's no software
that is really geared towards utilizing data
on a breeding project, are any of you aware of that?
There is a lot of data or a lot of programs
that like in an academic setting,
there are a whole number of different programs
and some of the seminars that I went to dealt specifically
with figuring out and using those types of software.
It really was a lot of data input
and like bioinformatics is huge in the breeding world.
And so there are in the like traditional ag
and academic sort of setting,
lots of different programs for breeding
in the cannabis space.
I don't really know of any programs necessarily
geared towards that.
I'm sure Ryan would know better than me
on both accounts though.
Yeah, I actually don't know a lot
of those different software systems.
There's a whole bunch of different ones.
When we were at NAPR, we started to develop our own
just to integrate with our own data recording,
but that was proprietary, so it's not really available.
It's kind of moot point.
But again, like just the point that I wanted to add on
is that again, like those things are additive.
They're not either or, right?
And like you said, when you start combining the phenomics
or the phenotyping or just the regular walk around
in the field and scoring traits using a standardized sheet
that you define your traits and then you walk the field
and you're like measuring stem height or flower length
or the length of the corollas or the color of the pistils
or whatever, right?
Whatever set of traits that you record,
all that stuff can be used and combined with the genomics.
And then because you have both sets,
it just becomes more, your tools become more powerful.
So yeah, I think in terms of finding the right software,
it's really about using, what works within your system.
And I don't know if we're at the point in time
where there's like a standardized thing that really works.
But I just, I don't know.
I need more information on that, I think.
Yeah, I agree.
I know people have talked about trying to set up
different app-based platforms.
And one thing that there is a,
there's a Ukrainian paper that Coop gave to me a while ago,
Noam Dafoam gave it to me, but he,
or this Ukrainian paper, there's,
I can't remember the actual name of it,
but there's a international sort of system
for categorizing like phenotypic stages
or like vegetative or growth stages.
And it seemed like a very systematic way
for analyzing and scoring a very wide range of traits.
Now, not all of those traits
are going to be agronomically important,
or traits that are the type of traits
that we're selecting for, but having all of that data
and being able to score your phenotypes
from using a really like rigorous,
systematic format like that.
And you can literally, I'll find the paper
and throw it up on my Instagram,
but you could, I did it in spreadsheet
where I just took the, all the different categories
or the sections or cells for different traits
that you will score throughout the entire growth stage
of the plant and inputted all of that data
into a spreadsheet template
and can use that for breeding programs.
And so that's something that while it may not be
commercially available yet,
it's not very hard to build that out in house
and just using Excel or some other spreadsheet.
Yeah, I remember looking at,
evaluate a bunch of these systems.
And when I got down to look at them all,
it was kind of like they all had strengths
and they all had weaknesses.
And it didn't make a lot of sense to jump in
to any one of them because once you choose,
you're kind of committed.
And going backwards doesn't make a lot of sense.
Jason's jumping in, it sounds like he's got something to say.
Yeah, yeah, so fantastic conversation tonight.
I appreciate everybody's knowledge.
Just from a data collection and standpoint
and data systems in general,
it's something I've spent a lot of time on in my career.
So the main thing is, and I think Trevor
was getting into it is you need to understand
what you wanna collect first.
Every software package,
doesn't matter whether it's for genetics
or for point of sale or anything,
every one of them, you'll go and you'll buy
a software package and these guys will come to you
and say, our software can do anything.
What do you want it to do?
And you'll spend a whole bunch of time going back and forth,
trying to figure out how do you fit your stuff
into their system?
When the reality is, you just, you first need to figure out
what are you trying to collect?
If you spend some time upfront figuring out
what are the data points, what is important to me,
putting them into just some basic spreadsheets
or just basic writing them down on a board,
whatever those aspects may be, that's the first step.
People pay hundreds of thousands of dollars
to have consultants come in and help them figure this out.
In corporate America all the time, I know,
because I've been paid to do it
and I've seen it happen multiple times.
But the reality is, if you don't know
what you're gonna collect,
you're going to have a problem upfront.
So you need to think about what are those traits,
what are those aspects of data collection
that are important?
What are the things you're trying to gain insight into?
And then just having that whiteboarding session,
that conversation with you and your team
to think about what is important to us
will save you a lot of time down the road,
but will also, that conversation alone
will take you down some avenues
to give you a deeper understanding of the data
that you're trying to work with.
And then from there, once you have that basis,
that understanding of what you're trying to capture,
then it's easier to go and talk to a company
or look at different systems,
or even for that matter, put together your own spreadsheets,
because you already have the very basics
of what you're trying to collect.
And then you can go into the field
and collect your information.
And then after you're working with it
and understand what's good and what's not,
that's the time to go and talk to a company
and look at software packages,
because you'll know what the, as Ryan was saying,
you'll know what the strengths and weaknesses are,
but you can't go into it hoping and relying
that that package is gonna guide you.
You really need to think about
what you're trying to accomplish up front.
So this is Jason, and I hope that's helpful.
And I'm always happy to help people understand
the data they have and the data they're trying to collect
and to think about different ways to do that.
So hopefully that's helpful.
Yeah, very cool, man.
That is very helpful.
I mean, it kind of reminds me of that Simpsons episode
where Homer gets to design his own car
and he just goes into it and starts doing a bunch of stuff.
And it's too expensive.
Yeah, the car has to be ridiculously expensive
and that's not doable.
But it's like that very much can be the way it is
when you jump into one of these programs, right?
Like you try to force a square peg
into a round hole that's never gonna fit.
The other thing is your software
needs to be somewhat adaptable,
because obviously as you go along,
you learn that there's other things that you need to track.
So you need to be able to expand it, right?
So there needs to be some kind of variability
or potential for variability built into the system.
So I gotta run folks.
Thanks for the chat.
I'm gonna definitely go back and listen to the rest
of this one.
Sounds like you guys had some great information exchanged.
And I'm looking forward to chatting with you again soon.
Thank you, Ryan.
Great talking to you, man.
Yeah, always nice to chat with you too.
Cheers guys.
Cheers, Ryan.
Thanks for jumping in.
So yeah, following up on the comment I made about
and really what you just mentioned about data,
the history of the United States Department of Agriculture's
economic indexes for dairy cattle is pretty fucking crazy.
In 1971, they looked at milk and fat production.
Like those were the two data points.
Then they added protein in 76
and they scored those for different values.
By 1984, milk production as a economic index indicator
went from a score of 50 or 52 to negative two.
And so like it's basically not even evaluated anymore.
Now it's evaluated on a totally different set of metrics.
And there's quite a few metrics now that are evaluated
as of 2014 when this graph was made.
But it's like, you can literally see from 1971
all the way to 2014, how the dairy,
the US dairy industry essentially scored data
from phenotypic data from dairy cow production.
And the amount of records that they have is insane.
They have 71 million or basically 72 million
pedigree records, a million animal genotypes.
They've got lactation records that date back to 1960
where it's 132 million plus lactation records,
daily yield records date back to 1990.
And there's over 600 million of those.
So like the amount of data that is kept by the USDA
and by the cattle industry for dairy production
is an incredible amount of data
and how they've scored and evaluated that data
has shifted over time.
And I'm gonna post this on my Instagram,
but you can really see how everything that was just said
is demonstrated in the data and in the system
for evaluating phenotypes in dairy cattle.
And-
Yeah, I was gonna say there's roughly 2 million
registered farms in the United States
and that's just registered farms.
Has nothing to do with all the neighborhood farms,
local farms and all those things
that don't even get on the USDA's roadmap.
Yeah.
I personally think that the reason why I had even asked that
is because I'm trying to figure out if it is advantageous
if you are able to have in-house testing
just to be able to try to absorb as much data as possible,
even though you may not be utilizing it at first,
just being able to store it in a manner
that you can at least know what that data is
that you're collecting.
So that way you can apply it towards a breeding project.
You can apply it towards a refinement process
or building a new SOP for a new technology
or a new product that you're making.
So, I don't know what states are able to have the umbrella
of vertical integration where obviously I know
that you can't have third-party testing
for your own material,
obviously because of conflict of interest,
but there are some states that you can have
complete vertical integration underneath one roof
and you're also able to obtain a research
and a testing license on top of that.
And obviously there's nothing that's stopping anybody
from being able to afford to put this equipment
in their facilities if they can afford to.
That's where I was going at in regards to what I said.
Data storage and keeping things over time
is extremely important.
We live in an age of cheap storage actually,
which is great.
I think storage on the Amazon cloud's like $3 a terabyte.
So you can store, storage was actually something
that was extremely expensive,
especially in a computer standpoint for a long time.
And so today storage is extremely cheap
and I definitely recommend people finding ways
to store that information as well as create backups
of that stored information so that if something happens,
they don't lose it,
and you have some disaster recovery plans.
It's also important to secure that information as well
to think about your passwords and encryption
and those types of things so that that data can be protected
and safe for you to get back to and use again.
There's a lot of good online companies
that do backups and retention and long-term storage of data.
So those are good ways of doing that.
And then if you're doing things on paper,
scan those documents, have them,
bring them to a bulk scanner or something along those lines
and then get them scanned and then save those,
save them electronically so you have those notes
and that information for the future.
Very rarely do people regret storing stuff like data.
It's usually the opposite.
It's them not storing it that they regret.
Well, sure.
I know that, I mean, I know that probably everyone
on this panel is probably guilty of doing this,
that back in the day,
if you were keeping any type of ledgers,
if you made a spreadsheet
and had some type of law enforcement involvement
that you would have to risk the possibility
of having some type of an enhancement.
So just all the notes and data that I've had to throw away,
just through selecting and all those other things
that have to be burned every single round
that unfortunately I am that cliche cannabis user
that my short-term memory isn't quite what it should be.
So just all that information that's lost.
And then on top of that,
I know that I'm not somebody
that is extremely computer savvy.
That's where my wife kind of fills in.
But not everyone has the ability
to build their own spreadsheet
to be able to put all those things in
where it's literally print out a sheet every day,
put all of these markers in as logged
and then log them into some type of a way
to store all this information.
So that's where some people like myself
want something that I can kind of plug and play
into like an Argus type system
or like a GrowLink type irrigation system
where I can literally mainline everything
so I can graph out everything.
I can utilize everything to optimize obviously each plant,
but at the same time,
optimize the whole operation
because now instead of trying to take
all these random data points
and figuring out how to get them to mesh together,
they all are kind of in sync with the whole system.
Yeah, you're getting into the custom area
because there is no such thing.
No system can do it all.
In general, systems are very niche.
They're meant to do one thing and do it really, really well.
You can connect these systems.
So you may try to find software packages
that work with your existing stuff.
If you're on metric and you wanna use all the tagging
and everything else that you already have,
which is a data collection source for all those plants
and all the numbering and all that,
you can export out of metric and take that data
and import it into something else
or just export that out of metric and you have your list
and look at that data set.
But in many cases, you're gonna tend to pay a consultant
to come in and help you connect those systems.
It's no different than every other
corporate system out there.
I was at Staples and Staples had
2,100 different applications.
2,100 applications.
None of them worked together and they had a fleet of people
whose job it was just to try to make them work together.
So these connected systems are not,
it's not even a problem just because you're a small guy.
The problem is that many of these systems
are specific to the business and the people
and the types of connect of applications you're using,
that jigsaw puzzle, so to speak, of systems.
So just like every lighting system
doesn't work with Trollmaster,
although a lot of them do now,
and every once in a while,
they'll come out with a new patch and go,
oh, well now Lux has a partnership with them
or oh, now Science has worked out a partnership with them.
It takes time to develop all of those
different little niche tie-ins
because there are all of these systemic differences.
Like none of these cultivars are gonna be the same.
None of these systems that are designed by different people
are going to be the same.
So what I would recommend is
working with somebody like your wife
who has some computer savvy skills,
but to build those systems or work with them
to help you connect the systems that you're already using
or to work with them to help you find ways to capture
and store this information.
There's lots of computer professionals out there.
Definitely find some college kids.
That's probably gonna be a great thing.
Find the local college kid who's going into the dispensary
or getting cannabis from your buddy.
He's gonna be the perfect guy
to come and do some spreadsheet work for you
and get that stuff knocked out,
would be my recommendation.
But again, the main thing is to think about
before you put anything into a system
or start worrying about how I'm gonna connect
all of these things,
think about what you're trying to accomplish first
and write that down.
Just write that down.
I wanna take the data from this system.
I need to use the data from here.
I'm looking to collect these six data points
that I can't collect right now.
I wanna connect these two or three things together.
Write all that down first.
Understand what you're trying to accomplish.
That will save you time and money down the road
and may give you some ability
to do some of these things cheaper.
So that's my advice there.
That's really good advice.
And I think that so much of what is like
to the extent that if you're gonna do this,
like, yeah, you're gonna have to build it out
kind of in-house and it's doable.
It's definitely doable.
Figuring out how, and if your wife is like tech savvy,
figuring out how to integrate environmental information,
all of that, getting passive input
from all of your different environmental sensors,
combining that information with your population data.
And there you're gonna need two different components.
You're gonna need your phenotype analysis
and you're gonna need your lineage or genotype analysis.
And to the extent that you don't know it right now
for certain cultivars,
let's say you just have two random plant A, plant B,
you make a cross.
Then after that, you self or you back cross
or you F2 or you half-sib.
You're going to now create a population
that's an inbreeding population.
You're gonna have some segregation in the population
and you're gonna have to be able to have data input
that can demonstrate to like some sort of data
digital format for integrating that population structure
and that history and combining that overall
genetic information and lineage information
with the environmental information
and the individual plant.
That is on boarding or passively onboarding
a bunch of that data would also be awesome.
But like figure...
Do a winter run and have shitty yields
and have lower THC percentages
and then do a full term
and have much higher yields and percentages.
And so you're gonna have to account
for those environmental variables
and recognize that some of the heritability in your trait
or the expression in your trait is due to the environment
as opposed to the actual genetic mechanisms.
And then you're going to be able over time to map that out
and see how the traits express.
And this can help you both on a propagation side
in terms of optimizing yields,
seeing what cultivars produce best
and what climate conditions,
but also then producing information that you can use
and put into things like once you have all this data,
you wanna be able to use this data productively
to do the type of equations that Chimera was talking about,
like the breeders equation,
which is a way of estimating
and calculating genomic gain for quantitative traits.
You're gonna wanna be able to determine heritability
and these sorts of things.
And really just with those three data sets,
the lineage information, the phenotype information,
and the environment information all put together
in a coherent system.
Ideally, right now that's honestly not that hard.
You could do it with a spreadsheet,
but the real issue is the amount of labor,
like the man hours, person hours of going out there,
doing that phenotypic data,
capturing data and then inputting the data.
That's a huge amount of work.
And then taking the genetic information
and the lineage information,
you're gonna have to grow out multiple crops
in multiple generations to be able to map this out.
Then all of that factoring in the environmental barrier
and then doing the equations is really like,
it's a massive undertaking.
And somebody or who builds out that NAPRO
already built out their own proprietary system
that does essentially that,
but that's a very, very valuable system.
The inconsistencies and the variables
that you have from grow to grow in itself
would be extremely challenging.
Just even with an automated system,
say that you have a meter that goes out of calibration
or something very simple,
or you have a pathogenic problem
from one round to the next.
And I think that that's where the consistency aspect
also is another potential bottleneck
just because it's really hard
to be able to duplicate something
exactly every single run.
Yeah, you gotta collect even all the sourcing information,
like where did you buy all the cocoa that you used
for each one of those runs that you did,
or where'd you get the soil from,
or all the inputs.
Dates are gonna be a big thing you wanna capture.
You wanna make sure you're capturing dates
with everything you do
and that you're saving
some of that other correlating information.
What was your water meter?
Information going that month,
there's a lot of data that can be captured out there
that it's, again, you start getting into labor,
you start getting into additional systems
for capturing information,
like what were the weather patterns?
Did we have a colder than normal winter
so we had to use additional heating in the facility
which caused more drying,
so we had more humidity?
There's all those different,
you were saying capturing that environmental factors
that were going on
that aren't necessarily gonna be the same
from season to season or run to run,
and the inputs themselves that went into that system.
Did you use the same soil?
Did the soil come from the same place?
How do you guarantee that that soil was the same?
Did you use the same insects for your IPM strategies?
Did you use the same schedules for all your spraying?
Sure, all those things are gonna cause variabilities.
Everything that you capture,
the more you capture,
the better you're gonna be able to triangulate things,
but everything you capture
is also something you have to store,
is additional maintenance requirements on that data,
just like there's maintenance requirements
on a piece of equipment.
I got a peace out, guys.
I've really enjoyed the conversation.
I gotta go, so good night to everybody.
Thanks for having me on.
Take it easy, Dutch.
Take it easy, man.
Thank you, Josh, as always.
Take it easy.
I'm gonna have to peace out to everyone.
It's been a great night, great conversation.
Thank you, Peter.
Thank you, everyone for Chase, for, you know, great topic,
both this week, last week.
Really love what you're doing.
Peter, love everything you do, man.
Thank you.
Take care.
Jason, really good to be on a panel with you.
Great information.
Really, really great to talk to you, finally.
I've listened to a lot of the podcasts and things you did,
so appreciate all the work you're doing.
So thank you.
Likewise.
Thank you, man.
We'll talk more in London, Tony.
Thank you, guys.
Yeah, Trevor, man, you take it easy, brother.
Word.
See you, man.
Thanks, brother.
Well, why don't we,
does this seem like a good wrapping point?
That's for me.
Sounds good.
Let's do it.
During that conversation, I cooked dinner,
ate dinner, finished dinner,
hung out with my sick kids with the sniffles
and snots running out their nose,
watched some Red Sox.
Blasphemy.
That dinner thing's a theme with you on these podcasts.
Yeah, no, I time them into dinner,
and I can, with the Clubhouse stuff,
I can cook dinner and listen.
Thanks again, Peter, for giving me an opportunity
to bring up a conversation that's very dear to my heart,
and look forward to doing it again.
Yeah, and just quickly, for a long time,
I couldn't, when I was speaking,
no one could hear me in the YouTube,
so I figured that out,
but Josh touched on kind of what my,
the original topic was kind of like
Dutch and American genetics taking over the world,
and for me, what Josh said was kind of my thinking,
which is it's more recently that the American stuff,
through cultural influence, is starting to dominate,
and I was hoping Aladin could,
obviously, he had to jump off,
because he's like 10 hours ahead of us,
but I was hoping he could talk about
what he's seeing in these local communities
in terms of what the young growers want to grow
or feel like they have to grow to survive,
because I feel like that's kind of the American hype,
which is the new wave,
whereas the Dutch stuff was 25 years ago,
15 years ago, 10 years ago.
I do know one thing,
my nephew and his friends
that are in the cannabis scene these days,
they don't even know some of the cultivators
that we hold dear,
like they don't know anything about Kim Dog,
or the story that comes with it.
They don't know anything about Super Silver Haze.
They never heard of Cat Piss.
Like the only thing they know about
is that there are all these brand new,
what we call hype strands.
So when they become our age,
these are what's gonna become
their old school strands for them.
It's just a crazy circle that we're in these days.
We hate what's new and not around,
and we love what we remember,
and that's just the story on down the line,
it seems to be cannabis.
Yeah, and I know firsthand from whenever I was in,
granted, it wasn't that awful long ago,
but 2000, 2001, you would have thought
that it would have been fairly easy
to obtain Jamaican heirloom genetics
that didn't have Dutch influence.
But at that time, everything had white widow in it.
Literally, the Dutch would come over there
for their holiday,
and they would bring genetics over there.
So that way, the next time that they would come,
the following year, that they would have flowers
that they thought were of better quality.
And it took me going to very remote, janky areas,
and even having to sort through the shit
to be able to find those.
And then on top of that,
I had to pay significant money,
which I think I ended up paying 100 US dollars
for as many seeds as I can shove
into a cigarette piece of plastic.
But that was the only thing that I had on me at the time.
But 100 US dollars is what some of those people
were making in a month.
It was extremely challenging to be able
to find those things.
And that's what I'm afraid of,
is the further the time goes on,
the less access that we're going to have
to some of these cultivars
that I think are the ultimate backbone.
Because what I hear through a lot of breeding projects
is that ultimately, they're looking for the same
terp profile that came with the parents,
or they're just trying to improve on
the terp profile that was from the parents.
But ultimately, they're choosing for the parents
and not choosing for the sake of just mixing it to mix it.
So, yes, there are exceptions to that.
Cool, well, Chase, do you want to close down the room?
Yes, sir, everybody, have a good night.
It was nice talking with everybody.
Talk to you guys later.
Thanks so much for the space.
Peace, everyone.
Respect, guys, thank you.
So, thanks, y'all.
All right, let me...
Thank you, everyone.
What's tonight, Monday?
Oh, yeah, sorry, we have the Dank Hour tomorrow.
Wednesday, we got some stuff going on at 10 a.m.
Jota Erb at Thursday, or yeah,
Thursday, we got Brian and Leighton.
And then Jota Erb on CalMag Thursday night.
But, and anyway, this is some...
This is Gemma drying my three kids.
So that's Gemma, Valentina, Carolina.
As teenagers, which is a nightmare,
I have daily three girls, teenagers.
So anyone, anyway, everyone have a good night.
Thank you.
And with that, we will end the live stream.
