Woo woo! Back in our life! Future Cannabis Project, FCPO2. Thanks everybody for
joining us tonight. All those who were enjoying the show, The Book Club with
London, that is an awesome show. Those guys have a lot to talk about and I
appreciate them kind of seeding the airspace for this show. Be sure to catch
that one every week and I hope you guys got a pee break because you're not gonna
want to miss any of this. We got seed collectors tonight and I'm gonna start
from the bottom. I don't know how it looks on the YouTubes yet but oh wait
let me just interject. Dave, I've joined the Root Beer Club! Woo woo!
Welcome aboard. Alright, thank you. Shout out to the ranch for these, the
burgers and beers. Grab that one on Doggedout Garden if you want. But we've
got a new guest to the show this month. Below on the cam, I'm just gonna call
him Cam. How you doing buddy? Thanks for joining us. I'm doing great, Chad. Thanks
for having me, man. I'm super stoked to be here. Yeah, it's totally my pleasure.
I forgot, you know, I think I saw you talking in chat and I was like, oh we
need to talk to this guy. I forget exactly how it happened but I've enjoyed
our conversations. You definitely have a fun perspective on seeds and you're
actually kind of bringing a new element to the show tonight which we'll get to
in a second. I'm excited about that because we're not just seed collectors,
we're also seed poppers. So before we get into some of that, I'm gonna see go up to
our upper corner Mr. Stacked Deck. Dave's not there himself. How you doing tonight,
buddy? I am wonderful. Happy to be here. Thank you again for having me for the
third time. I don't know how you guys keep dealing with me but I really
appreciate you having me on. Hey man, it's a great conversation every time. I
love it. So thank you for being here and yeah, woohoo. Kind of like I was saying,
we're gonna do, you know, the first volume we really kind of talked about, you know,
some of our experiences with finding seeds, the sources, some of the pitfalls,
you know. Is it cash? Is it money order? Is it Bitcoin? All of these different
things. And what we've also kind of, you know, explored through the other episodes
is there's a lot of really awesome breeders out there. There's a lot of
wonderful people that we've heard of and we see their work and we know people
run in their gear and that's awesome. I definitely love to support those people
but there's also that person who has just kind of been doing this and doesn't
really realize the Internet's a thing. They just love the plant and they love
giving it out. So some of those packs finds their way into our hands as well.
And I also love to highlight that stuff too because we can always learn, learn
something new and hopefully find a new breeder giving us the, you know, the exact
kind of stuff that we're looking for. So tonight, like I said, we're gonna kind of
start it off and I want to shout out to Cam. We'll kind of let you go first here
buddy. But we're not just seed collectors. We're seed poppers as well. So what I
wanted to do was kind of take some of these, you know, some of our favorite
packs. You know those ones that you have the in the glass break in case of
emergency or if you really want to smoke the good stuff. Which ones have you broke
the glass on Cam? And could you tell us a little bit about your experience with
them? Oh it's funny. So the glass breakers are the ones that I always end up saving
two seeds. Like I have this little pet peeve where I think that if something's
super worth it and it's gonna be valuable later to me, I'm gonna save at
least two seeds just in case. And you know, let's just say they're male and
female because that's what we're hoping for, right? Right. But those glass breakers
man, I'd say definitely the local skunk as you can still see. I still got a
couple in there because I mean put that up those. But this was, I actually met
Duke and those guys at Indo Expo a few years ago before he got in his trouble.
And dude, this has been some of the heaviest smoke I've ever had in my life.
If you're like a sour diesel fan, this was definitely just one of those sour
diesel plants. And occasionally you get some of those hash plants that popped
out of it. But oh my gosh man, really just, I mean not as much on like the skunk like
you would think like the roadkill skunk or anything. But as Chad and I were
talking about, a lot of those sour diesel profiles kind of leak that skunk smell
when it's like kind of humid outside. So definitely one of those ones that I was
so excited to pop it. I still have actually a mother of this and I do a
good bit of breeding with this as well. I found a really stellar male.
Can we see the back of that package real quick? Because that's something that I have
about Duke's work is look at all that information. He's giving you flowering
time, lineage, morphology, all of the stuff as a grower you want to know. And having
that information ahead of time, it just makes for a better grow. I mean look at
that stuff. There are people out there doing it like that. And I just want to play on a
bad pun here, but speaking of out here, Duke Diamond is free man these days. So
that is something to celebrate. That's a recent development. I think Brian kind of
broke that news last week on the Living Soil Show with Layton. But yeah man, look
at just the information on the back of those packs. That's an example
for breeders to kind of maybe aspire to in my opinion. And that also tells me
that he grew the plant. He knows what that plant does. And I think what's cool
about Duke too is he's such a transparent person. He's so honest. So you
see on the bottom line there for resistance it shows no hermaphroditic
traits. Which you know, he'll still give out seeds that have hermy
traits if they know that it's worth it. But as long as you're honest with it, you
know what I mean? That lets the buyer know like okay I can expect this. So
that's one of those things I really respect about Duke. He's very transparent.
I think they're called cookies. Oh low blow, low blow. I said it, I said it.
So one of the other glass breakers is actually my probably my favorite smoke
ever man. And that's from our buddy Lucky Dog. So this is the dog patch. That
was the Chem D cross to the Chem 91 BX2. I found a lot of Chem D plants but I did
find one that kind of was middle, like a little middle ground there. A little more
on the gassy rubber side. But I could still get a little bit of that lemon pine
flavor. But uh dude, everyone that smokes my dog patch is just like, it's a
knockout. I've seen people green out on it. I actually entered this one into the
Chem Comp as well. Which I'm not sure how I did. Everyone after third place we
kind of just guessed how you did. But this one here man, yeah every jar that I
brought with me, I brought to the Chem Comp too. Everyone was stoked on it. So this is
my glass breaker. I love the dog patch. Nice, that's really awesome. And from how
I understand it and kind of seems to be the consensus, Skunk VA is the person to
get really good chem genetics from. That you know are, you know, they're not
crossed with other things which is still great and dandy. But the chem, the chem
lines, he holds those. And yeah that's cool that you say that because I right
now in the third week of flower I have some of the twin peaks from him. Which is
Chem 91 times Chem Cis back cross 2 I believe. And that's that's the start of
my chem hunt. That was graciously given to me. Thank you very much sir. And I've
got some new chem crosses as well to add to the hunt. So I'm excited. But that's
cool you pulled that one out and you had such a good result with it. Because I'll
be there in oh a month and a half hopefully just going whoa. Yes you're
gonna love the twin peaks man. That's like super frosty too. It's like chem
isn't always the most photogenic bud. But everything I've seen at the twin peaks
I'm like oh my goodness. But as far as other glass breakers go. So this is
probably my most favorite deer plant to me. This is one of my closest friends.
It's looking a little blurry there. But there we go. There we are. Oh the goji
goji from Bodie. So I found a good couple phenotypes. I didn't find anything
I didn't like out of it. So that's the Nepali OG across the snow lotus male
that you use. So the snow lotus can lend a little bit like this trash flavors a
little bit of like hot garbage. So I found a lot of that in there. But the
Nepali can lend a little bit of strawberry flavors which you can find
in like the mother's milk and things like that. One of the more I just say
special plants is I actually found a semi semi auto flowering plant that
lends a very strawberry cream cheese flavor and that's actually my favorite
one. So I hold the goji very near and dear. She's just always been there for
special events and special points in my life. I seem to always have a jar of it
for some reason. So this is one of my my favorite special ones. That's awesome.
That's a pretty it's it's one of those strains that I'm not sure that I've ever
had. I've had some labeled it but again it was wreck. Yeah. But the goji-oji is
pretty darn famous. A lot of breeders and you know heads I guess talk very highly
about that strain. There was a lot of magic to it. I don't know was Dave I
know you you've got some of the Bodhi seeds as well. Was goji-oji one that you
picked up or have have tried? I've yet to try it. I have the strawberry milk.
So I have that og Nepali that he's talking about. Yeah nice. That's awesome. A lot of the goji
crosses that you'll find on the market are generally from the cut that kind of
circulates which is called the pine saw cut which is a little more like that
lemon og. It's very typical kind of like the SFB style where it's it lends a gassy
flavor but it's also got that really kind of like harsh lemon-y-miss pine
flavor to. I found one of those within the females that I have but that's the
if you find goji crosses in the market that's what generally you'll find out of
those. Okay that's awesome. Yeah I didn't I didn't realize that there was a kind
of delineation there between the cutting and then a lot of the the seeds but that
makes absolute sense now that you say it. So good info. Gold nugget. Dropping on
people's heads. Yeah I mean those are probably my favorites that I have out of
the out of everything here that I've kind of gone through. Other than that
I'll say on a production level so I actually I work with a Medgro in
Maryland and then I actually consult for a Medgro in Delaware and both of those
guys grow they grow the wedding punch and this is from Sea Junkie J Beasy. So
this was the purple punch cross to the Triangle Mints 63 which ended up
becoming like the I think that's what he ended up becoming the Cush Mints or
yeah the Cush Mints. So this it's just it's the most beautiful plant because
you get those purple plant like purple punch looking plants but the power of
the the Triangle Mints comes through and it actually kind of gives you a kick and
it actually has a little bit of legs to it so it outlives that purple punch kind
of you know nobody really likes it it doesn't stick around it's the new blue
dream kind of thing but you get a little bit out on the nose but you really get a
lot of the triangle and the flavor so that's where this is a really special
one and it's really great for a commercial setting. Washes really well a
lot of the like concentrate companies always want to make good distillate out
of it or whatever they do with it over there in crazy places but it's also just
a beautiful plant to grow I mean a nice dark purple midnight leaves kind of like
the typical cookie but again just fantastic smoke man I really like this
one I found a fantastic plant out of it. That's awesome because yeah you're right
you know purple punch was kind of one of those strains that I don't know if that
was like the the original Instagram weed or not but a lot of people grew it
because it was so pretty and a lot of people also said it has no punch to it
I personally like the strain I grew it for a while it wasn't the best producer
for me so I actually just cut it out of the rotation but I can also handle stuff
that's under 20% THC and still be happy so maybe maybe that was the deal but
that sounds kind of like the dream marriage there because that really
addresses the issue that people were talking about with purple punch is like
looks great but there's no not too much substance to it exactly an animal mints
hits so yes I said that too exactly and I think what's cool about that cross too
is that it really does like I said it hits on the market but it really just
has like a good medicinal profile to it on a COA it actually hits really high on
awesome mean which you don't really see like a ton in the market and awesome
really good for like those anti microbial anti fungal type deals so I
don't know that's a really cool when I think for a lot of different reasons but
I think that's a one of my special glassbreakers so to say other than that I
think recently in the past like year the I've got the sour best shit ever across
the ancient OG from green Bodhi and Bodhi the collab they did for the Dalai
Lama and this is one of the more fantastic smokes I mean it's just like
typical old-school G and this reminds me of like the master kush but it
doesn't stack quite as much the flavor on it I mean just the actual it literally
tastes like a pine tree so that's one of my favorite flavors obviously you can
kind of see how everything I pulled out so this was kind of a match made in
heaven with that one the plants really funny though it looks like it's real
ratty it's real dark green like spinach so I call her Oscar the grouch but
fantastic what's the back of that's a really nice nice packaging too I don't
know maybe it's just the shininess but that's that looks awesome I've green
Bodhi has been a guest on future cannabis projects you know a handful of
times and I've always enjoyed listening to him I've enjoyed his approach to kind
of philosophy I guess that's a better word he has a farm down in Oregon and I
go to Oregon fairly frequently and was able to try three of his different
strains there and I was definitely impressed so that's exciting that that
collaboration happened to I remember hearing him talk about it and I like
many other people were confused on who exactly Bodhi is there's Bodhi and then
there's green Bodhi and the two you know instead of having kind of egos about the
situation be like I'm Bodhi they kind of laughed and said hey we should do
something so I thought that was a good story and kind of kind of fitting to the
personalities from what I understand yeah absolutely I mean especially with
the ego part that you're saying there they literally put it aside and then
literally devoted that money to the Dalai Lama exhibit so that's that is far
from ego pretty much pretty much that's awesome I didn't know that backstory
either so that's awesome to share too yep some of the proceeds went to the
exhibit that was just opening up that year so that was really cool you know to
feel like you were a part of that as well yeah yeah we you know a lot of
times say vote with your dollars and a lot of people doing this work don't have
the nine-to-five so it's it's really voting with your dollars makes a
difference in this community a hundred percent and with that being said some of
the packs that I should show aren't from like guys that actually cost way
over a hundred bucks for some good seeds or anything like that this is my good
buddy Dan Kizzeh out of New Jersey so he had made some next generations on the
Mendo breath doing some fantastic selections and he sent those my way it's
kind of working a little bit of a Mendo breath breath project so I got a
original f3s from gauge and then he sent me some f5s he did his selections on so
one of the more special packs do where we ended up boothing up together just
because he sent me these packs and we've just become good friends over the Mendo
breath so that's one of my more special packs as well too I get really stoked
that I pop these and found a really stellar male actually that I still kind
of hold around I'm actually gonna send him some pollen here soon so one of my
more fun I guess I wish I had found a female that I was really stoked on
everything kind a at the time I was testing stuff with bugs and it just
wasn't working out with the ribs and then so no no fortunately so that was a
really cool one I think I ran through the male I still it's a gorgeous purple
pollen sacks on it so one of those like more special males that you see pictures
of it's like not not really interesting to see pictures of males but that one I
like to look at yeah it's a Mendo breath is really Mendo breath was my 2019
strain of the year it hadn't quite at least on the west coast broken out yet
but yeah I tried some of that and I was just like good Lord this is this is
great yeah that's cool that he's he's worked with it and he's taking it
further to maybe kind of you know stabilize in a seed form something
closer to what to what we smoke from a clone form yeah absolutely and and and
Gene always talks about me and Gene always has a good segment where like he
doesn't get pissed if you make next generations on his seeds and you can
just hold them around or that you can give them out to your friends and stuff
like that you know I think it's actually super important to do that kind of stuff
or else we're gonna lose stuff you know yeah oh yeah we've lost a lot just even
in the time at least in Washington of the rec market there's a lot of strains
that you know they're probably around the country still but there's a lot of
things we just don't see here anymore and you ask somebody they're like yeah
man what happened that one so it's that's super important yeah absolutely
man and something like on that one is a the black lime reserve f2s that I got
from my buddy elegant excellence is his name on Instagram hard one to say out
loud especially with cotton mouth right now but the black lime reserve f2s is
really fun because as most people know the f2s really opens the lineup so I was
finding a lot of really cool plants I found some lime popsicle stuff I found
some lime dryer sheet I found some almost kind of funky garlic stuff with a
little bit of some lemon on the back end so a really cool fun one too I
really enjoyed going through this for a sift yeah that says you know gosh I keep
saying yeah that's such a bad habit I start every sentence with yeah I'll try
to stop that but but God I almost did it again and now I'm distracted oh yeah
phenotypes when you're going through a lot of these like the those f2s are you
able to plant you know just like a couple and kind of go through them
slowly that way or are you able to you know if it's a 10 pack you're popping
eight because you're holding on to those two seeds so it depends on what it is
and it also depended on the time period so I got those quite a few years ago
before I was like I should start saving some of this stuff so I popped all of
those and that was a trade I did with him so he sent me like it was a little
over 20 I think I did 22 is what I sifted through so not the largest sift
but large enough that I found some cool plants I actually the three females I
was stoked on I was actually the most stoked on the male that I found the male
was the best male out of anything I've ever found yeah what go ahead I think
you're answering the question I was about to ask yes basically yes so it had
a ton of vigor it literally it had that stem rub that everyone talks about like
it just reaped of just like it gave off that secondary metabolite a mess of
skunk but it also had that like a body odor funk like typical to kind of OG
flavors and things like that but man it was one of those males it just never
wanted to pre flower on you which is super important I think that uh you
should always take your males to clone because the clone is generally gonna be
the one that wants to show you the tree flower more than the seed version would
have shown you so I took it to clone and that I'll be damned that thing didn't
want to show flower at all until I gave it that cycle so I really loved that
male a lot nice and that's that's good information too I was gonna you know
kind of ask you know what what about the male that's something that we always
hear you know what about the male drew you to it but the vigor and then also
the appearance is kind of what helped you make your selection there yeah
absolutely and the female that I liked the best as what I actually matched it
to is why I originally kind of started to send it into the flower and then
after that I was like oh wow I actually really just enjoy this male so I just
kept the cuts around that I had of it I made my f3s on the female that I really
enjoyed that it matched so that just kind of worked out in that sense it was
awesome male to have around for a little bit too so you're you're not necessarily
disappointed when you pop seeds and you have a male pop up some people are just
like no other people are kind of like well there's potential here what kind of
goes through your head when you see males popping up in your garden I think
it depends on what it is genetic wise if it's something that I'm just kind of
like for example like no no offense Mike like Ron's buttons like I literally just
grew this one out for the market just because I was like everybody wants runs
so if I found a bunch of males and it knowing that Ross isn't the most stable
genetic to kind of work with I was like I'm chugging males there's no way I'm
working with with males or anything like that so I just shifted for a female that
I just would use for smoke so that one was kind of for that particular purpose
but for the other example of like mean jeans work or like the pina it's like an
f4 I found a male in that that just was fantastic it was also kind of similar in
that sense that I liked from the black lime reserve or had a ton of bigger it
actually shit stayed short and squat even though it was kind of bred outdoors
for an indoor plant which I was stoked on and it truly passed the pina over so
it just depends on what I'm gonna save so again knowing that this was f4 it was
gonna pass something pretty stable along I was like I should probably use a male
on that and I should probably make some next-generation in case I do enjoy the
smoke so that that's kind of my method of thinking generally that's cool and we
had we had kind of talked about the pina a little bit too in discussions because
I picked up and actually still on I just have the site up dog at that garden I
had that black lime reserve f2 showing up there but also we did a kind of one
of the dog a duck garden breeder highlights the other week with the ranch
and the ranch has some exciting crosses with the pina f4 as well what why are
you trying to come at me like that son I love this game but all right all right
nobody flexes on Dave son of a but um yeah so that was kind of exciting and
our conversation you know I'm glad that we had it because it gives me kind of an
expectation of what I might find from some of these cultivars and the kind of
the flavor profiles that you had mentioned and also that we talked about
with the ranch yeah that's right up my alley right now and and actually oh it's
so perfect I've got mr. toad had blessed me I've got I've got some stuff to pull
out on on you guys too but I'm really kind of hitting both both of my areas of
interest right now you got kind of like the sweet and fruity and then you have
the just kind of funky chemi gym sock armpit type stuff and that's a weird
dichotomy is not the right word but it sounds intelligent so I'm gonna use it
you can spell it you can use it di a ch-tai ka shit okay anyways all right
you're out of that one buddy I know I'd have to write it down I can't do this in
my head no oh yeah the pina's man you'll be stoked dude you'll find a lot of that
caramel apple cider flavor that he was talking about I ended up he actually the
number four he bred it for the purple stem to find it like kind of be
consistent throughout the progeny and I found a ton of the purple stem so like I
was saying to you and in our emails back and forth it's super consistent I
mean he just did a great job of locking that down and like I said I actually
grew that one out indoors and it just it behaved extremely well he's on a lot of
the he actually put some coas of people are finding some CBD profiles on it too
so one of those ones that I consider like a true med genetic as well that's
awesome that's what a lot of us are after I don't I don't know about you I
started you know it was recreational when I started but I didn't realize it
was medicinal it's kind of been medicinal the whole time for me and you
know as as my knowledge progressed as my body progressed I definitely appreciate
that the medicinal aspect of it and I do enjoy my CBD was that or actually I know
you're into CBD but but was the medicinal approach kind of what lured
you to cannabis or maybe even growing for me I was actually I was just a young
kid I was 14 years old and I just was like dirt poor so I was just like dirt
poor skate rat and my buddies and I smoked and eventually we were like dude
we can't really afford to keep like buying weed maybe we should try just
growing it so it was really funny like we the first packs I'll never forget it
I got they were greenhouse seeds man it was a g13 brain cross brainstorm haze
is what it was like and I was lured to that because it was just like a
beautiful pink picture and I was like this young kid I was like pink weed are
you kidding me and and then I got the citrus skunk so that was a I think that
was from mr. nice but man I just remember like I just was kind of lured
to that just for the aesthetic and I just kind of was like I have to do this
like for this to support my habit essentially but it's funny it just it
made life easier for us like poor ass kids that were just you know like
skating around this town like in the town that we live in so we're about two
hours from Baltimore area and it's it's almost just as rough as Baltimore so it
was just like our way of like we didn't realize it but the same as you were just
explaining like we were recreationally smoking with the whole time we were
medicating like it was helping us kind of get through these like weird times
that we were growing up and you know so I've just stuck with it and it's just
ended up becoming my passion and a lot of my buddies quote-unquote grew up and
all that kind of stuff because where we live it's it's super prohibition so it
just was like insane for me to kind of keep running with it but so here we are
today you know explaining all the packs I've kind of in the past few years I
just started saving my packs but there was a ton more before this in a time
where you couldn't save your packs and there was no fucking way I was having
empty packs of seeds laying around my house yeah no there's been times where I
had to go somewhere and there's no way I was I was keeping any packaging with me
as much as I wanted to for just like the awesomeness of it the memory of it
packaging was in the trash can man so I feel you there and like burn it up right
get it out of here rip it up into small enough pieces so you know because they
all go through your garbage and put shit back together we all know this we've
watched TV every single one of us they're watching us leave guys yeah but
it's funny you say um you're talking about the CBD medicinal side of it so
that was actually my venture this year so other than working with those
med grids I decided I kind of you know I'm gonna probably piss some investors
off here I was tired of growing booth and wanted to go off and grow some craft
of my own and I ended up doing some hemp because that's all I can obviously get a
license for mm-hmm and I grew some stuff from high alpine genetics some CBG and
some CBD profiles and dude I was blown away I'm gonna be honest with you you
know you see a lot of CBD flower like in your like local head shop and stuff like
that it's all been like grown and like cut down with a combine and all that
bullshit yeah man when it's grown right and you treat it like crap flower just
like you would good weed like dude I love smoking and I smoke it every day
I'll blend a little bit on some of my like real hard heavy weed so it's ended
up becoming like an extremely medicinal smoke for me and so I recommended that
people that are like hesitant of growing like a full CBD plant like just fucking
dive in just grow like one or two definitely check out like high alpine or
Hoku those guys have amazing genetics amen to that are you able to pull like a
wide variety of flavor profiles off of that because I mean if we think about it
a lot of people at least in like the CBD market they have no problem smoking like
a sour tsunami which is usually 1% or less of THC so it it's essentially hemp
100% yep but but are you able to get you know like the different flavor profiles
like oh this one's maybe a little floral or a little gassy what I find with CBD
profiles is they're generally all extremely mercy and dominant just like
you kind of see in like a cannabis coa but to the extent of you just really
smell a lot of citrus on a lot of things and then the more purple that you find
out of like CBD varieties you can really smell that kind of miss anthracite in
flavor works on this a little sandalwood you almost that's where you can find a
little bit of changes I think it's the degree and I miss like that anthracite
and where I'd saw in the Pink Panther where really dark purple buds were super
woody smelling like your typical hand which I'm not a fan of but the more
lighter shades of purple I was getting in this bubblegum flavors on the mango
flavors which was fantastic and then some of the more lighter green profiles
I was actually getting like still mango like I said very heavy in your scene
but I was a mess getting like a bodega like like the bodega bubblegum where you
must actually get a grape on the back end on some of the Finos where now it's
just like a great bubbly sure a big league chew you remember a big league
chew oh yeah oh yeah so it like I said it really everything was very mere seen
dominant but depending on the degree what I saw from the purple plants I was
finding definitely some really different cool flavors awesome I mean I
need to get Dave involved here cuz I see him talking to mr. toad and chat and
buddy I am mr. toads I know I know I don't divulge please please show us I'll
get into it I'll get into it I'm gonna start I'll start with gosh I don't even
know which one there's they're all winners here okay I'll shout out to
cheddar Bob who's probably not in chat but the Bob's cheddar this is this is an
awesome one this is a focus focus focus focus no focus okay no focusing there
Bruce Banner number three times space cheese and this one I believe is on the
Dagadoc Gardens as well but this was you know something that he worked with well
he did the work on this cheddar Bob did some testing they relayed information
back and forth and this is what we have today and it's kind of cool it's like a
two-for-one it's like a it's mr. toe but B it's also kind of cheddar Bob so it's
fun when you can like look in your garden and kind of see your friends I
don't know some some yeah some sometimes grown with that but yeah Dave did you
have some packs that you had kind of you know you were breaking in case of
emergency your glass packs there well one of the my all-time favorites was the
the Cindy 99 here from from Duke Diamond secret vault that was just it finishes
super quick about about 59 60 days and it just the most wonderful tropical
mango hints of pineapple in there sorry my cameras kind of screwing up there but
just absolutely delicious the structure very stout very stocky just delicious
you can't go wrong another one that was a classic oh for sure it's so many
things nowadays another one that I was a really big fan of cats who seeds his
black lime Bubba just even though it had it had more of the pre 98 Bubba
structure it still had that pre 98 Bubba stone with that nice limey
chemical flavor in there the best stem rub I've ever had I'm so upset I lost
this mom but this is why you still keep I still got two seeds left you know that
old two seed bang that we were talking about I do that I do that too that's
kind of awesome another staple in the garden still is from I read genetics the
the Mac arise Mac wanna rise that his arise which is golden goat and
Daybreaker it just a great sativa high with a nice easy easy growing structure
not too stretchy that combined with the Mac flavor a real knockout and I fucking
what a winner no no does Mac Mac kind of leans and and I know people are gonna
be upset that I'm gonna use the word indica but doesn't the the Mac like the
stone on that kind of lean indica whereas the arise is kind of leading
sativa what what kind of effects were you getting off of something like that
and did you see a variety in a couple different ones they honestly were very
similar I was able to get I did five of them and two of them did not even pop
out of the soil the one of them was a just a total mutant out of there and I
happen to get two ladies on the on the last two that were just basic mirror
images of each other they were definitely leaning more towards the Mac
in their their profile as far as their bud structure their their smell and the
high though was a good combination of both on both of them they were they were
really similar to each other I was taken aback how close they the sisters really
were twins and that's the that's the point really of you know good breeding
and working lines is for people like us on the back end to be able to get a pack
to put five seeds in and get five very similar expressions on a commercial
level that's absolutely imperative you can't or you don't want to pheno hunt
with different types of plants in a big room so sometimes you know at home we we
do that or like on a craft level we do that it's fun that's kind of how you
find the next thing you're gonna work with but I also appreciate when you have
a limited space and you're planting you know five of something that it keeps
kind of a level canopy for you too so that's good to hear I read genetics can't
I've heard I've grown them myself I've been impressed and I've always heard
good stuff about them so you're you're kind of having the same experience to
that school another one I was a big fan of that I even actually used to make my
own seeds I brought this to F2 and I'm gonna continue further in the lines my
say you know it on its own but this was a katsu jarro from a mean gene using the
katsu baba kush and the jarro which is pretty much a mirror it's very close to
the root beer itself you know the only difference being it's using sour diesel
as opposed to the headband with in the root beer you know hit with the
Hollywood pure kush and the Hindu black affee that's that's what makes the jarro
the sour diesel Hollywood pure kush Hindu black affee but you take took that
to F2 and I've got a bunch of seeds and I'm excited I'm flexing on you is
something that's probably very familiar to your hands and label maker yeah so I
don't know much about the jarro I've heard about the sky jarro but I don't
know much about Jarrett like he's got there the line pop kush guy jarro f1's
there you go oh wow so the sky jarro he just threw the same skywalker that's in
the sky color cushion to the mix I think he threw that on the male jarro that he
had so that's the f1 that he uses the male on that line pop kush that he likes
to use so really excited to get into that one at some point this isn't this
is an f1 so you know find a little bit of both and maybe hopefully something
between yeah he's got cool packaging and on top of that he's got excellent
handwriting he does do doesn't he I said the same thing actually and it's
consistent too because I've seen it on many packs and I'm like that's the same
handwriting and we were talking about mr. toad there so I got to show my respect
man oh hell yeah oh the haze for days I'm a sativa lover so I'm stoked to get
into these that's gonna be awesome that's definitely a crowd favorite the
haze for days it's it there's something about the hazes man that just it's just
one of those iconic strains I guess but it does give you kind of like a
particular profile and like headiness to it in my experience sure sure and I yeah
and I said sativa so he's probably tearing me apart in the chat already but
I meant to say thin leaf I'm sorry no I don't I don't see it but that's great
yeah yeah I know I I said indica you said sativa Dave's gonna come in with a
hybrid and blow the show up but uh speaking of thin leaf actually so this
was what I was kind of speaking at chat a little bit about so I literally just
have a few left so I was crazy enough to convince my wife actually we were gonna
go on a seed trip to Sri Lanka to find some thin leaves Wow so I found a really
good contact and then we went out there I actually went to the mountains for a
few nights and was able to collect some seeds from some Sri Lankans so this is
the thin leaf that I collected up in the highlands and then while I was out there
they don't really smoke much flower out there they smoke a lot of hash right but
the flower that I was able to get was from India and that was the kerala gold
which of course I was more excited about the seeds than I was the dirty nasty
black mid-grade that I got so I was able to smuggle these back to the States and
I've done a little bit of breeding with the kerala I've had germination issues
with the Sri Lankan but the contact that I have there we actually are back and
forth and we actually trade postcards and we send each other nice letters for
the holidays and things we've been really good friends through the years so
because of kovat he's not been able to send me the seeds there's been a lot of
crazy stuff going over there in that country but when things clear up I think
he's gonna send me some more fresh seeds that I'm gonna go through but otherwise
I'm not gonna pop these I'm gonna wait until science can come along and
hopefully do something with these that I can't just in case it ends up being some
of the last of what they have so really excited about some thin leaf since we
were talking about it here there's a few that I have you know I started with
probably 50 C's and I might be down to 30 or less now that I've never had a
germination off of they were from a person who passed away that did really
big stuff in the 80s and who knows how they were stored over all these years we
we came across them and we're cleaning the garage out so I'm like you I'm
waiting for science to maybe kind of catch up because I there's got to be
something awesome in there I don't know what it will be but you know is this it
would be something cool and even if it's nothing crazy it would still be
nostalgic and it'd be something meaningful to you which and that's every
pack of seeds that you pop that's what you should do anyways hopefully find
something special not necessarily just the best right like yeah definitely and
let's see here oh Dave's popping something on there I was gonna ask real
clear actually let's go up to Dave he's got more of the sky jarro crosses there
okay so Josh D which is a which is a cush OG cush he just laughs at me he
doesn't answer anymore I think I might be having to maybe is my cut out okay
looking good I'll come back to you let me know when it's going good for you I
did have a question for you to a cam you know with with those I've never gone to
India and grew out a first-generation seed was there anything that surprised
you about like the morphology or maybe the flowering time or a unique flowering
time it's the shortest flowering plan I found out of it's been 22 weeks and
I've grown plants that have gone 26 to 28 weeks like 26 weeks was I think the
longest I've gone and I knew it needed to go at least two more weeks I was just
going away so I couldn't I couldn't do it I was like oh fuck man I expected
this to be done a little while ago yeah but you had crazy plants dude like the
most bigger plants I've ever grown they obviously don't like to be indoors
definitely found summer like hermit rates so the ones I selected out of
those the mail through her me like super bad so I just had to cut him so that's
what I actually that black lime reserve f2 came into play that killer mail that
I had around for a while I hit that with the corolla that way I could preserve
some of the seeds that's one of my favorite crosses to grow out and what
was cool too is it kind of tamed the flower a little bit I'm finding a lot
more of those kind of 22-week flower plants so every once in a while I'm
feeling a little gutsy and I know that I've got some time I'll throw those out
there but they're they're definitely a very crazy plant to grow the smoke is
very very trippy like it's not like a very typical like kind of like short you
know broadleaf plant for sure it's very like you're not sure if you're stoned
as you're smoking it and then you stand up and you literally feel like two feet
taller than you are like it's almost kind of hard to walk and it must feels
like you're like super drunk but you don't feel sick you know what I mean
like so like sometimes like so I'll smoke in my basement and like going up
the stairs dude it's like a fucking trip like it's like I got a hold on to
the handrail so like I've heard people describe like some land race or heirloom
weed basically as like a tequila high so I think that's how I like to describe
it but a very woody it definitely tastes very woody I had a few that kind of had
like that island kind of like tropical mango profiles that you get like this
high in your scene but definitely like woody is what basically pops out and
then everything that I find in the corolla black lime reserve it's all
corolla like no black lime comes through at all it's very very dominant it's cool
that you're able to have both sides of the the lineage individually that you've
kind of grown out to see where some of the expressions are coming from because
that you know that could be a crapshoot for some people you know they're trying
to they smoke a plant and they're like you know I really liked this about that
and then they tried and this is just something that you know at the shop that
I would advise people of it's like you know if you if you find something that
you really like learn the lineage of it because then you could also try the
parents and see if what you liked about that particular cultivar was expressed
have you know more readily by one parent or the other and then that can lead you
on to other strains because I like to and I think a lot of people do it kind of
switch up the the cultivars that they're smoking on a regular basis just to kind
of a you know you get a little bit of variety in there but I also think that
they kind of interact with your endocannabinoid system a little bit
differently so it's like IPM we don't say spray with one spray we say spray
with at least three because it's gonna hit all the notes to get rid of the bugs
but there's always that one that you like and it's just like you were saying
it's like there's always that one thing like there's that one family of lineage
that you like like that you're like I kind of always seem it's like stick in
that realm like for me it's always chem dog or toji yeah like chem dog I just
like oh gee it's just what it is yeah yeah me me it's me it's the the chem 91
that's why I was stoked about the twin peaks cross and that's why I'm stoked
about toads 91 the chem 91 times the ghost og times chem dog special reserve
oh you're getting pop you are soon so I mean I'm excited about that one too
because again that's something that I haven't had access to sources that I
could be like well yeah that that probably really is the chem 91 type
stuff you know yeah you're very like the lucky dog stuff and then I mean you
can't trust anyone more than mr. toad you know what I mean that guy on it yeah
Wow dude and then I'll say the one thing I don't know much about is that chem dog
reserve like or that is that the the one from Leo I assume the pollen that was
done I think it was Jean and then Leo I'm not exactly sure on that maybe it
looks like miss okay Dave's got it actually Dave you're you're piling up
there it's you're like a blizzard of seeds what is going on up there yes I
kind of want to put a pole out there because I've got some some space open it
up and I want to see what people think I should pop here let's uh you know let's
see if anybody in chat you know that purple unicorn dude you should get into
that for sure oh that's that's high on that list
especially with gelato 33 cherry limeade male that's just a fire producer that's
that was what I was gonna throw out there too the the runch cherry limeade
or the runch gelato 33 cherry limeade and that was just one of my absolute
yeah what a champ did you find like some variation in there because I know that
runch typically tries to take over with a lot of stuff honestly that cherry
limeade seems to dominate Wow really it really took on a lot of that gas a lot
of that not so much of the cherry definitely more of that lime gas in
there but just with a little bit of a roundness of almost like a doughiness
okay sure sure Wow I'm glad you say that actually I'm waiting for Ben to send me
those cherry Royals that those guys just found that re-release that bolt that they
had I missed the first release of it but that's that the cherry limeade cross to
the the Royal I think it's the Royal eight it might be the Royal ten actually
think it's Royal ten yeah I know it's one of the Royals I could be specifically
I'm not a hundred percent sure but I know there was even a few of them that
were left out there today they were trying to help move out because somebody
didn't pay for him yeah yeah anybody that's hearing this right now live I
recommend getting in there for sure dude
there's some good stuff here you got the sky color cush ogo G Jaro with the pure
cush black lime number four these were from a Ozark nation who gets a lot of
stuff from mean gene this is mean gene sending this to Ozark and him blessing
me with them but that's that's one I really think it's gonna get pop these
two this this nl5 oil can coca-cola root beer from lime rising Nick Nick Risen
that's something that's definitely gonna get pop I know that's special to his
heart using the L nl5 oil can for me gene same with this black lime reserve
f2 coca-cola root beer that's that those two are definitely gonna get pop so we
don't even need to worry about those good yeah I'm definitely on the top of
my list in the new tent well on on the list the shortlist of getting popped is
is some of these burgers and beers I've got a dive into that I've not
experienced a root beer turt myself of course I've never been handed get out of
here I've never been handed the flower before so I'm eager to see what it
brings well it's funny so like us guys over here on the East Coast that live in
Prohibition land we never get to try any of the fun good cuts that go around or
any of the straight from the source things so I was actually lucky enough to
actually try some G of O from skunk foot farms that's what won the chem dog comp
actually so when he won he walked around and gave everybody a jar like a little
bit of nug and a bunch of seeds so we were talking about earlier I kind of
stick in that chem dog in that og realm so this is day record headband sensei
star across to the chem 91 vx3 is the male on that GMO that he won with so I'm
super stoked to get into these man oh yeah that's super cool there and to pull
off that competition it's funny that you mentioned that but yeah there is a
lot of regional regionality to some of these strains and when they break out
how they break out it seems like GMO has been a thing on the East Coast at least
in Michigan for many years I would say at least to the to the recreational
market it's really only been around on the West well Washington for a couple
years now if that so it's funny how that stuff happens and like the you know the
East Coast a lot of the sour D guys a lot of the chem D guys is official you
know it's almost like the that's the calling card sometimes so to have that
competition and to win that competition over there it's pretty damn impressive
yeah and I he actually won first and second place too so he like smoked it
you know to eat right yeah same different cultivar obviously but yeah
yep yep and I'm not sure what he entered for the second place by the time at the
end of the contest man everybody was so high off chem dog dude yeah that that you
know I I don't use this saying often I kind of hate it but it's the knock your
dick in the dirt type of stuff it totally is that's the best way to
describe it you were talking about the twin peaks earlier so I'm excited to
get into these guys the Kim Flay goes nice yeah so that's the sour band
across to the chem 91 BX 3 I'm obviously I'm a huge fan of the sour like the
headband series to man like that's always a big one for me I just love
those profiles so on top of that chem neck like male that uses oh my gosh this
is so such good stuff waiting to happen now for for somebody who hasn't grown a
bunch of chems out like myself is there any piece of advice you could give me
maybe like you know thin it out top it early stake the branches definitely
stick them up a lot of the stuff that he works with where the chem it's if it's
the BX 3 a lot of the stuff stacks so generally you want to stick like stake
it up no light leaks like if you have any kind of weird timer lights or weird
like surge lights or something that don't have those around because it will
kind of do weird stuff for you but other than that man just don't go too crazy on
the feeds I feel like old-school plants in general don't really respond well to
a lot of the feeds that people kind of pump them with nowadays so that's one of
those light feeders I use a super soil with that one you're like generally and
that works really well just a basic organic super soil I don't go too crazy
with that recipe usually I like to hear that cuz I usually feed pretty light too
so that's good that's just a water Chad yeah yeah this is true to quote the
great Layton Morrison don't be a moron so speaking of putting more on though I
see Dave Dave you're laying out the the root beer package that is just one of
the funnier graphics I've enjoyed that one and just like that he was gone that's
the GMO root beer back cross root beer back cross to that's that's out there a
lot though there's a lot of mean mug crosses out there right now okay I know
Dutch blooms I believe had some some crops absolutely oh there we go
he's got coffee bugs yeah see I don't I don't have any Dutch blooms yet but I
will take some mail he was just talking about it's the the GMO root beer back on
the root beer basically the BX and this was thrown on the female highest coffee
that's from I think Pacific Pacific Northwest is what he goes by super
stoked again into this man I love some coffee flavors nice nice and what else
with the what is the time see this this bag up okay he's got which Dutch blooms
is that Congolese root beer so Congolese isn't that like a kind of wild long
flowering sativa yes it's the he's the Roberts Creek Congo the the one that was
hunted out that particular one you probably have some Roberts Creek Congo
and some of that mr. toad possibly did you say Roberts Creek Congo I believe
you did yes sir I knew it was coming
mug number one and you've got Catholic schoolgirl and mean mug number two this
was Dutch blooms as well cookies gold mugger yeah black bop gold and the mean
mug mother tree conservatory was asking they said the dog liquor was really good
so I guess I'm lucky I picked up some well nice I had to write that one down
because it's a mouthful of elves but that's the dog walker on his licorice
line that line buying Testerosa why I'm super excited getting that one too man
yeah I've heard some good things about that one I think even mr. trees had
grown that one I could be wrong here guys so don't don't quote me out but I
think mr. trees had grown some of that or he was there when their conversation
was happening but I've yeah I've heard some good things from good growers about
that cultivars so you know it's gonna be gonna be hidden oh for sure I saw
someone asking about oh geez in the comments I'll say out of all the ogs
that I've gone through my favorites probably the Hells Angel like I just
something about the Hells Angels cut that's like my favorite I don't know
what the real story is on if the biker gang had that cut or whatever but one of
my favorites for sure and I definitely enjoy the ghost as well the ghost is
killer I actually in the packs that I went through I found a killer ghost in
the pine fruit from dungeon vault that was I think that was the ghost og on his
purple vapor mail and found a ton of just og profiles and they're just
fantastic and then one cool little fun fact for my bode my bode heads so a lot
of people weren't sure about what goes into the Napali og he was gifted that
clone from someone and no one really knew much on the lineage I see a ton of
comparison on my og cut of goji cross to that also a very similar lineage to that
pine fruit so I really see a lot of the ghost in that so I'm assuming that's
maybe a Napali land race on maybe the ghost og female or something like that
but just one of my little things I've been thinking about lately for my bode
heads yeah that's another that's another guy that one day I will get some of his
gear and try it I really want to meet him I heard an interview with him that
he did many many years ago again I kind of like the vibe that he put off but he
talked about like music and and how it was important to him and how he loved
bass music and it's like that's my whole background and like I have this one bit
ever since I heard that I'm like he needs this particular mix it's yeah and
I want to run into him one day and I want to give him this mix and I want to
hear back from him in like a week and just be like bro it changed my life just
like one of those guys just start with a hug and he'll love you for life I'm
telling you gotta be one of the greatest people on earth man and miss B
too she's a fantastic woman as well she worked super hard for that seed company
so I love both those people man that's cool that's cool to hear but uh so yeah
I'm really excited uh back in my chem dog craze so I actually grew a little
bit of these out found a Herm's I didn't really go back into it but this is the
the chem 91 on the black triangle which is the black triangle from Bodie is the
TK on his 88 hash plant male that he uses so just potent potent weed right
and and when you say you know you found a Herm was it like one or two little
sacks on the very lower spots like third week of flower or was this like popping
up on this will every branch like even just one but multiple locations I popped
two seeds and then one didn't germinate at all so the plant that came out looked
like a male I was just kind of playing around with it to compare it to the dog
patch you know the chem D on the chem 91 to see if it was kind of similar in chem
profile and I saw a pistol it's coming out of that sack yeah yeah so it was it
was that's kind of funny because we always picture it the other way we
always picture like the little pistol it's and then the balls dropping but no
it can go this was I thought it was a male and a little all of a sudden white
hair popped out I was like oh shit and that was actually on similar experience
that I had with the corolla funny enough that I say that out loud I didn't think
about it but yeah I saw the the male sacks first assuming it was a male and I
was all stoked I was like alright cool put all the females I like we'll do an
open pollination on the females essentially and then I saw the the
pistol it pop out of the bottom rack like yeah right when you're excited
you're like alright cool there's no pollen soon and then BAM you know
disappointing yeah that would be disappointing but that's the funny part
about running 20 plus weeks at Eva's is I had plenty of time to put another male
in there yeah right oh my gosh I can't eat I've never run a strain that long so
I can't imagine the commitment to that I'd imagine it would have to be a big
container I hate to sound like an old stone or something but you should try it
man I do in the corner your flower tent right I do I have us I have a Santa
Marta Hayes which is it's supposed to be like a 15 week flower and I've kind of
balked at that that's that's only three-quarters of the way there but I do
have that and honestly if I if I had an outdoor environment that gave me that
length of time I would have done it by now but I don't and so I've really kind
of held off on those types of things but it's on the checklist yeah and it's like
for my indoor growers that are interested in growing like thin leaves
and stuff the best way to do it is just as soon as you germinate those seeds you
get to that third or fourth inner node that you're generally like starting to
look for you know pinching or anything like that just flip it right to flower
just go ahead and send it right to flower and don't be scared to prune that
sucker when it goes into flower this first two or three weeks you know so
that that was my experience at least with the corolla and then I also ran the
golden tiger from a seeds I actually still run that cultivar actually in over
in the Maryland grow she finishes about 16 weeks so it's a lot more tamed but
again you really have to basically send it right into flower after you put your
clone max out so that makes sense and that's yeah I would probably have to do
that and I would still probably like I'm gonna run out of room but that the lemon
arise or lemon sunrise from iRegenetics was one that I'm gonna absolutely grow
that again outdoors but it took over my small little space and the you know the
buds were rewarding so no complaints but it was it got a little bit bigger than I
wanted to because again I try I try to I worked in a commercial facility so I know
how tight you can actually pack these things so I tend to do that you know I
tend to do that as well see what's Dave's got yeah there we go the lemon
Jeffrey times your eyes that's a good one right there yeah and then what was
that other the the mosque you had up there too I didn't have a mosque up
there I don't actually have any mosque seeds are you talking about the snow
high the earth snow high the the there we go sorry I confused the logos there
yeah yeah no worries no worries it's Jamaican blood not that Panama read
Jamaican land spread cuz that does not sound like a fast flowering but no no
that's gonna be at least 16 weeks of flowering yeah that's what I'm expecting
yeah the snow I've got his devil's poison it's just basically a derb BX so
I imagine that's hopefully gonna go really long if it goes less than 14
weeks I'd be pretty suspicious but I really have no idea what to expect out
of the snow cap Delta PK cross to the Uzbekistani
Uzbekistani's new territory for me man I've got a couple myself the narrow leaf
Afghani Uzbekistani black Congolese
well he says please make more now do either of you guys know maybe a little
bit more of the story just like behind the breeder or how they source some of
these genetics because a lot of these are you know to to borrow a popular term
they're rather exotic oh absolutely it depends on who it is I think as far as
snow high goes I think he just has like good sources like overseas and he just
kind of keeps in contact but as far as like Bodhi and stuff like that I think
a lot of his stuff as he goes to the source and then of course you know
everybody loves Bodhi so if someone travels like hey Bodhi I got these right
that's yeah that's a good a good reputation lands before you do speaking
of which I think I'm pretty excited to get into this this is two birds one
stone we were talking about Bodhi and some thin leaves so this is the
destroyer across to Wookiee the destroyer is a very interesting plant
it's from canobiogen so that's the mio tie cross to a Colombian Mexican that
apparently is a pretty early flowering sativa so I'm not exactly sure what to
expect and then you know Bodhi's Wookiee is pretty pretty awesome male so it's
gonna it's an f1 so I'm excited to see what I get most of Bodhi's work is an f1
I mean Raver Dave I almost feel like I have to have that myself yeah I guess I
got to send you some of those donut days we have we had one vote there for
you we had the do the devil's poison from evergreen 408 says that's an
excellent one I will have to get in there then huh what kind of profiles
refining in there yeah let us let us know in the chat evergreen let's see
trying to keep up there and in the chat failing what do you got up there now
Dave chocolate tie times the keyed cherry kush
Keeds cherry kush what I'm not familiar with the Keeds cherry kush do you know
it's a very it's a cherry ak-47 I believe okay yes it's it's out of
Michigan I forget though there was an og male in there too that's escaping me
but it's a proven cherry turf profile male that that that does pass it on so
I'm intrigued to get the the chocolate tie combination with that and that
cherry a K I know is in this cherry headband with the black lime reserve
that should be another excellent yeah and I think like I just actually heard
the story on like I'm not sure if this is the same exact cherry a K but the a
K was like a thousand seed sift and like it was you know it's just afghan kush it
was like everything they were finding was like earthy gassy profiles and out
of a thousand seeds they found one that threw off these cherry profiles so I
don't know if that's the same one but I had just heard about that and I was like
that's fucking insane actually no have they ever tested that one for CBD
because I remember way back and probably still to this day Adam Dunn would
swear up and down that CBD has a cherry profile to it and for a minute through
suggestive like bias I was kind of like on some of my CBD strains I'm like yeah
I could get a little cherry there so I don't know if that has anything to do
with that one or if you guys know if there's any CBD in it I'm not sure on
that but what I will speak on it for the CBD Rome a lot of the hemp varieties
derived from a genetic called the cherry wine so I wouldn't doubt it man I mean
that makes good sense to me okay yeah when you when you put it in that context
totally and I mean like literally like I think it was 80% of hemp cultivars have
the cherry wine in it somewhere it was one of the first like when a lot of the
pilot programs went online it was like the mass producer like there were just
cuts and clones of it everywhere it was the saturator basically for the market
yeah that's that's exactly what as far as what I've seen into it as well okay
that's definitely those cherry profiles now what in cam in your state what is
the differentiation of hemp to cannabis in Washington it's a point oh three or
a point three THC which I think they're raising to just like one point zero THC
yeah that's what it is in Maryland as well man it's a point three oh and
actually I work with a farm in Delaware as well and it's the same regulations
point three oh okay and it actually now that I think about it is that just
through the federal hemp bill I believe that I stay exactly yeah I think it's
just kind of the figure the federal overall kind of regulation okay yeah I
think it was like farm bill of 2018 2019 something that opened the doors to a lot
of hemp production which is awesome multiple uses for it and the flowers
getting better it's a kind of a win-win there I almost I'll go off on a tangent
here but there's a lot of countries over in the EU right now that are
eyeballing these types of things and I'm telling people dude set up a hemp
operation and then just switch the plants set yourself up now so interesting
I mean if anything it's just a fun interaction like to learn to grow even
if you just like go through I know it sounds like a pain in the ass to go
through the paperwork and stuff but even if it's just to go through that to grow
yourself and like your friends a couple good plants like it's just worth it to
have in your arsenal I try to tell people you should always have fun plants
and unique plants in your mother stock you know like rather they're different
cannabinoids different terpenes or just weird fucking plants like I worked with
the freak show a little bit just because I liked it it's just a cool plant so
kind of what I was speaking to you earlier you know just when we do these
sifts like a lot of people are like well I want to find the best plant I think
their goal should always be to find a special plant like something that just
were like you like it it's worth it to you to keep around and regardless of
what it it does for you for whatever reason you know sometimes that shit just
works it just does it for you for whatever reason you know I like that I
had fun with the freak shows I only grew well I only got two seeds and so I grew
them both both females and I think I have to left Oh snaps yeah yay stoner
brain but two seeds man I'm telling you guys save the two seeds that to your
point that was a fun one to grow I wish I didn't clone them because they were
slow I wasn't gonna work with them in my head but after they matured I really
wish I did clone them so maybe I'll maybe I'll get back to it but have you
found any Dave any freaks in your kind of growing experience whether it was a
labeled freak or something that just popped up out of nowhere honestly the
most mutants I've come across it has come through the Mac that's it's been
some some mutant offspring in there I haven't grown any of the freak show or
any of those ago Australian bastard cannabis any of those really exotic
looking or duckweed I haven't grown any of those yet but I'd love to but I just
have it yeah and did you have a favorite cam of like the freaks or something that
you know we might not have seen yet or been like familiar with some weird
mutation we've all seen the earth a fasciation right yeah it's funny you say
that I think that as far as like the freak plants go like the smokes always
kind of like a little like this sounds bad on this lackluster to some of the
stuff that I really like to smoke but as far as one plant goes the cluster
funk that I grow from Bodhi that's the chem 91 quote-unquote JB's cut which I
think is actually just like the chem 4 is what it is across to his 88 hash
plant and whenever I clone like so I just I have a clone mother of it at this
point I don't have the seed mother anymore but occasionally you'll get that
trifold where you'll get that weird like it has three like fan leaves popping
out of one inner node and then what's cool is that little area itself the
inner node will space out from the fan leaf like a quarter to half an inch so
like it's hard to explain that but think of like like the fan leaf itself is like
three or four inches well above your intern where you know generally they're
connected at that that interconnection on the main stem it's a weird morphology
super weird plant but again it's a chem plant so in a hash plant so it smokes
great so even though it's a little weird I like to keep it around it smokes
fantastic the one thing I really appreciated about the freak show there
wasn't a whole bunch of foliage on the top so that thing practically trims
itself I'm like this is this is a winning like I just have to go and it's
trimmed almost I wish one that I did notice I had some funkiness with was the
Jack the Ripper I had some miss some f2s of that and it ended up growing three to
four branches at the no at each node that that that happened a lot and that I
saw that on multiple he knows and I actually I ran some blueberry cookies
with Jack the Ripper and that also showed the same exact morphology world
phylotaxy whatever whatever the exact name is it was just an awesome awesome
mutation to have you know what Dave you might have just bridged a lot of
questions people had so like I guess that whole chem dog family like it kind
of seems to share that profile then what was some someone had mentioned like a
while back I think it was like usually they had a question on if the chem dog
had any tie in or something like that and that tie does that trifle it's from
my understanding the me oh tie so I wonder if that has anything to do with
it boys I wonder if the me oh ties in the chem dog that would be interesting
speaking of chem dog I smell OG can be time space cheese
boneyard booyah I'm getting good at that he was just talking about the Jack's
cleaner so this was gifted to me by an old head local this is the Jack's cream
he says that some old guy he's like 50 years old just keeps making next
generation stock on these seeds so he just hooked me up with a bunch of them I
think I gave him a bunch of the magic melon from humble like a bunch of those
seeds and he hooked me up with this Jack's cream I know absolutely nothing
about it other than that has Jack hair and then don't know what the cream side
of it is but I think it's pretty cool if anybody in the comments knows I would
love to know the cream side that's cool the Jack's cleaner the Jack's cleaner
too from TGA was the first like for lack of a better term professional breeder
that I ever got and I picked up seeds and like I loved that strain I actually
have some I grew some out recently for the first time in a in a while and so
I'm like super lemon like this this stuff it eats the it'll eat the rubber
on the rim of your jaw right yeah it'll eat that rubber on it it's it's so like
lemon cleaner I love it it is like the perfect wake me up daytime smoke it's
I've been missing it again I was like I've been doing a lot of like funky and
like gassy ogish flavors lately and I'm like I miss I miss my Jack's cleaner too
I miss that lemon and I'm so happy to have it back and I've still got it going
and yeah I really is spot-on with the flavor too like it is a cleaner and it
really it just has that lemon profile like a cleaner you know yeah yeah and
again I've never I've had other other strains that are super you know a lot of
turps to it or just like it oh gosh like I guess a cleaner profile to it is
stringent profile but I've never had them eat the rings like that strain does
all the time yeah rest in peace you know mad respect to sub yeah I think the
first thing I grew from sub was actually the agent orange man I really
loved that like I think a lot of the stuff that he bred was real turkey and
I like that was spot-on a bunch of oranges that was the first professional
breeder seeds I actually picked up was the agent orange TGA was in the
Washington medical system in the dispensaries there thanks Jake proof big
ups to that guy for that but yeah I mean that's how I got started with that stuff
so that's cool and those are to see those are the fruity like they're the
smack you in the face type of flavors like there's there's not gas in them
they are what they are and there's no mistaking it like if somebody were to
hand you a jar of agent orange you go you know if it's agent orange and what's
cool about that era and time too is like all the good names for genetics weren't
taken up you know so like they could name it spot-on to what the flavor was
you're like oh hell yeah man definitely like a lemon cleaner you're right dude
like back when names meant something yeah right oh geez okay sorry I don't
know I froze on my end here I don't know if you guys experienced me freezing or
not but I froze and I lost we figured we could let it go let it go let it go
sorry let it be let it be no but speaking on the fruity flavors man what
you got it over there super fruity Dave yeah some 87 Cali Oh to the Apollo 11 f3
from Bodhi so what what kind of fruity profile are we pulling on that one the
orange you're gonna get a lot of orange from that that Cali Oh is the basis for
so many things like tangy if you've got orange turps that's probably delineates
from that there's also the one of my personal favorites which I still I still
keep the female to this day I absolutely love it it's the DJ short
blueberry to the Apollo 11 f3 classic yeah oh my god what a winner just the
absolute my absolute favorite turf profile is that blueberry it's something
I grew up with back in high school and I just absolutely love this yeah
I think it's oh go ahead dear Kim speaking of the blueberry so like I said
I'm a the goji I'm a goji head this was a trade I did with a guy who on the
opposite side has an awesome goji male so he did DJ's blueberry to the goji
goji male so this is what I'm super excited to get into this is from my
buddy defiant seeds is what he goes by so thanks dude nice that's a good
combination I think it's really cool that we're still able to pick up the
original DJ shorts blueberry from DJ shorts still oh awesome right and and
all that like stuff that he's doing out crosswise to man like you're finding so
much good blueberries like the new berry like the new light all that stuff it's
so good I had so confessional time so I you know I come from a music background
I DJ'd for many years and a lot of people are just fucking dumb DJ's and
they like name-drop they do all this stuff and I had a couple of seeds that
were DJ shorts blueberry and I'm like who's the DJ short like dude you're
stupid like why why you got to put that on your we I didn't understand it lost
them that's before who I obviously understood who DJ short was I was like
oh it's not a DJ yeah I obviously still kick myself about that but I think when
I was introduced to about DJ I was like I think 18 or 19 and I looked him up and
I was like oh man skies old shit man he didn't kind of do good music I don't
know if I'm into this DJ but actually I'm into that DJ guy he does really well
really good work at what he does yeah yeah very much so and I'm glad that you
know I could still go back and pick up a peck again that that goes to what
we're saying earlier just like taking the time to do a proper breeding project
to extend it out to really lock in the traits that you want to get that reliable
expression from you know nearly every seed and that blueberry has been that
for long long time and that's the you know that's really cool because again
there's some there's some strains that you know we'd pick up and it will be a
crapshoot if you can actually hit what you were smoking with the flower so I
appreciate that about DJ short for sure for sure and with what you were just
saying to with what we were talking about earlier you know like he's at four
I think with that blueberry on the releases so for anybody who's just
really loves the blueberry profiles you know you should get that now and hold on
to that like we're kind of seed hoarding over here just in case or at least save
those two seeds if you pop them but you know DJ's work won't be around forever
so you know it's gonna be up to us now to kind of preserve the blueberry and
the flow and all that stuff so you know pick it up all top right right well I
guess speaking of preserving and I'm kind of surprised I know what that is
already I haven't asked you this one yet Dave but this is for both of you guys
how do you store your seeds is there anything special that you do I hope
they're not in a freezer because they're out thawing right now rice desiccants do
you guys do anything special to preserve them or yeah so I'm more so
with my males when I preserve the pollen so this is the pollen I have stored
right now I do I wrap them in paper obviously you dry out your pollen and
then I put them in paper I write on the paper what it is the date and then I
throw a dry bag of rice in there so this is some sky color cush pollen some f3 and
then this is the men do marriage you know from roundtable selections though
I'm that's how I store my mail pollen and then my females it depends so like I
make a lot of my own seeds that stuff I store in the fridge just because I'm
actually a firm believer in stratification so whenever I give
people seeds or people buy seeds from me then I generally can assume that they're
gonna have a good germination rate and truthfully I've actually seen really
good results from that all the stuff that I buy from people I don't put in
the fridge yet because I worry about situations like what you had just
mentioned where I pull them out to trade with people or to you know show people
like oh I've got this do you want to have some and all of a sudden they're
sitting out in the warm air when they were in cold air so it just depends what
I'm I have and what I'm doing with it cool good good answer there
stratification to that's important to look up Dave there's you've got this
okay what would you what you do man go to footlocker and go through all the
boxes come on I got a shoe fetish too okay I mean but I'm like by a show of
hands but no I'm sure we all have a shoe problem too I got a shoe problem
according to my wife which is another statement in itself is it more of a
problem to have a shoe problem with the wife or a seed problem that'd be really
good advice for me she can see the shoes she doesn't see the seats that's me
that's really good point I hope she doesn't watch the show statement she
sees the bank statement either way yeah it's screwed oh crap so what else did
you pull out oh these are just I think these are what I've decided on that are
gonna be popped for the pop okay for the question this is this is what's gonna be
in the next round okay now what are you expecting as far as uniformity because
you've got six different strains there do you have the ability to you know keep
some under like low light some under highlights or absolutely okay okay
there's definitely gonna be lots of variation in there there's no doubt
about it but I'm okay with that I like playing yeah yeah and then you got a and
you whittle them down to that way you know I was thinking about setting up
just another little tent to do a few almost like see a green just kind of
like short plants to see how they're to see how they do initially obviously I'll
grow them out until I'm able to take clone off them I'll kind of audition them
at that point with the flowering and then decide what to do with the clones
from there so that could be another easy way to keep things a little more
uniform you could tell which ones really bolt and which ones don't so yeah I'll
be looking for some some males out of these too so I definitely want to get
some always definitely wanna yeah of course always a few years ago I didn't
think that way yeah I think for for me what I'm definitely gonna be popping
here next I was fortunate enough to get some stuff from doc D so I a good buddy
of mine's been growing the outer limits for a little while now which is sour D
across to the Afghani cross the Pakistan x18 it's fantastic smoke dude like it's
sour diesel with a little bit of like a sweeter kind of diesel profile to it
super potent but on this is actually my first time picking up the seeds myself
he's just been giving me jars of it and I fucking love it so I had to get some
seeds and then Doc's actually not going to continue with these anymore so I was
very lucky to get these when I did and then the black energy which is what I
was talking about earlier Bodhi's black triangle across to that same Afghani
Pakistan that was used in the outer limits if you haven't got a hold of any
of Bodhi's black triangle crosses oh my gosh it's an amazing example of the TK
on the hash plant doesn't really burn through it like a you know hash plants
can be a little lackluster in flavor at times but they generally they'll always
add a good yield to it so that black triangle is fantastic you can find a
good cross with it yeah you're definitely gonna get some good gas with
that that TK is great a lot of people you know one name that comes to mind
right now Brandon rust we're have been using that TK as like good breeding
stock kind of putting in that into a lot of stuff all the TKs fantastic so
actually what's what I was kind of showing you guys to you as I'm pulling
all these seeds away I'm obviously a seed collector but I also collect
memorabilia from all the special events that I do so you know obviously we like
to travel and go to our smoking events to go see your buddies and things but
one of the the prints that I'll show you guys here at the end the one that had
all the stuff I have popped is from TK origins he did a couple of good prints
himself he's actually really into printing like pictures of the TK he
hand paints him himself and then he'll do like a couple releases and we're both
surfers so we like to just kind of shoot the shit back and forth and I ended up
buying one of those prints from him and just one of those more special things
you know we collect seeds but it's also like pretty important to know where this
came from so mass respect to our buddy TK origins on that TK so what kind of
you know what kind of advice like I'm sitting here and you know I'm just like
hearing the stories and looking at the seeds and I'm not a you know haven't
been a huge collector for long what is some advice you could give to people
that are maybe listening maybe again of just like kind of how you source them or
maybe kind of how you build some relationships or you know we kind of
covered how you store it but a lot of these things aren't exactly common
knowledge or open to the public I mean don't give away your like secret hiding
spot of lotteries or whatever but you can if you want how do you guys go about
finding some of these things for somebody who says oh I really want one
of those is it a wait list what is it well I can see the same thing as Dave
kind of runs through with his collection you find a theme among people that you
trust and I think that trust is the big thing you know if you can rely that the
stuff in in the cross is what it is and the person did that work and you know
that's that's all that you should really look for at the first part of it is who
you trust and then after that go from what you like what genetics you like
I'm a chem dog OG kind of guy so I'll generally you know I trust Bodie I trust
me Jean I trust Duke I know those guys like so I'm gonna buy their OGs and
their chem dogs because that's what I want you know what I mean so that's how
I go about it and like I said I kind of see this similar kind of packaging along
Dave where it's like he kind of sticks in his breeder realm you know what I
mean like he definitely has a similar respect for the same breeders that I do
so it's cool that you got that same my Dave I respect that yeah you definitely
nailed it you definitely nailed pretty much what you're looking what I'm
looking for you know you find someone you trust and you try and build the
connection with them if you can't build a direct connection with them you try
and build a connection with someone who has the connection with them that's and
that's a great answer it makes so much sense once you say it because that's you
know how I you know like buy flower and so many other things in life it's you
find you find the person that has the goods and that can back it up and
delivers every time and you guys were able to find these people but how did
you find out about him was it through a forum was it just watching a podcast
like one of these and be like oh who's this you know mean gene from Mendocino
wasn't here wrestler in the 80s it was Peter serviary Peter did it all
no it just through the years you just kind of you hear the stories and the
people that around you that are growing in the community you ask them where they
get their seeds from or you hear about the hot cuts and you're like well I
wonder who bred that hot cut and you know it kind of goes from there and I
think for me it was really special I think the first time that I made the
connection was I took a little trip to the west coast and like I think it's
like 2015 or so and I think it was like Portland or somewhere in Oregon where I
came across a jar of goji-oji in one of the dispensaries and from there I was
like wow this is fantastic and I came back and I was just raving about the
goji to everybody I was like guys this flowers fucking awesome like I wish we
could get this here and just so happens an older guy here had a bunch of the
original packs of the goji so that that was how I got that was through a
community kind of thing I had no idea who Bodhi was I just knew I liked the
goji-oji and I raved about it to this old man and I gave him a jar of weed and
he ended up was like hey actually here's some seeds so it's one of those
things where it was kind of serendipity for me to just realize like oh wait a
human being bred this these didn't just exist oh okay sure so from there I just
made the connection like maybe I should follow this guy then if I really like
the goji maybe I should try some other stuff from Bodhi so fortunately for me
Bodhi was the first breeder I got hooked on which is a great breeder to you know
follow along with from there I've just kind of had to figure out who else I
jibe with and who else I trust you know you just got to pop the seeds and you
got to spend some money and sometimes you lose some money sometimes you you
gain awesome genetics so it just kind of depends on who you roll with it does it
does now I guess the flip side of that let's go what what is one of the times
where you just got burned where you're like man that was boof because it's
gonna happen to everybody so I'm assuming it's happened to you or maybe
you you know you got the the auto flowers or whatever oh incoming sorry
Wow yeah burned and turned oh no sorry Leo I hate to throw you on the spot man
but that fruit vomit was awful yeah just not not your cup of tea at all with the
end result no it was you know nothing like the purple punch it really had no
so the magnum opus is just royal so it really had no royal and it just it had
no real fruit flavors to it which I was kind of looking for out of that one I'll
be honest man I know I'm gonna probably piss him off I reached out to him told
him and he didn't really hook it back up so I was like all right dude well it is
what it is but um it was more I actually went to the Emerald Cup that was my
first time at the cup that year and I picked those up and actually got
reimbursed by the facility that I ended up like growing that out at so it wasn't
really a loss on my end is because it's you know obviously a really expensive
pack of seeds but man yeah that was one I was pretty upset I was burned I was
like wow dude it's such an expensive pack of seeds I expect like something
really fire out of it and yeah no fuego no good yeah especially when it's kind
of in the name but that okay yeah you can't can't win them all that sucks and
yeah I don't have a pack I don't have a pack of it anymore but it's from this
particular breeders I have a different backroom it's a mass medical seeds it's
great pupil was just dicks everywhere just I know in intersex and it what you
could say in environment all you want it was a hundred percent genetics because
everything else in there was fine yeah there were there were just balls and
dicks everywhere and dude you're not alone one of my best friends he also
grew out those pupils and he didn't I found some herms and the smoke itself
it's just very much reminds me of my CBD it was I mean super purple gorgeous you
know what I mean but um it very much reminded him of just smoking some of my
CBD flower dude and that was the the great pupil and then I also grew out the
Panama pupil which was not a Panama land race across to the pupil and I
actually wasn't very stoked on that either so that's unfortunately been my
experience with mass med I mean I'm sure he's got some really good stuff but I
haven't had much luck with him yeah the only one of his that I grew out that I
was okay with was the the prayer pupil and that had the the prayer tower sativa
from Bodhi in there that was decent that was actually decent it actually had some
of the punch but you're you nailed it with it just lacks any any potency it
it's it's a shame because it's beautiful beautiful flowers or aside from the balls
everywhere yeah what a color but to have it to have it just not have the potency
and just really be booth was terrible and I'll say so I mean my buddy had that
experience but he's still we were curious about that turbulent juice that
he runs which is supposed to be a very orange citrusy flower I've heard it was
really really good but I didn't pick any up if I hear really good things in the
chat hopefully then maybe I'll give you a chance there mass med now to kind of I
guess flip the script on that and it'll be interesting to hear because you know
like you pointed out cam you guys kind of both fish off the same pier I'm the
analogy came tonight what are the some of the positives that you enjoy about
the breeders that you frequent and that you support and you'll happily and
blindly just you know like buy on site like don't know what it is don't know
lineages but I know the breeder boom here's my money what are some of the
things that you enjoy about those people or look for I think for me oh yeah yep
exactly Dave consistency man like just to know that what they're working with
is what they're talking about and then the consistency by you know the
homogenous growth or consistency of like it's fire every time it's fire it's me
it would be it's fire every time that that is more of what I meant by it
because I know you're going to have some genetic differences you know not every
especially with certain f1s it's just it's going to be all over the map or a
certain f2s you know when you get down to it so to me I just want something
that's going you know he's working with fire or she is working with fire and
they consistently produce fire every time yeah I think that's super important
just being able to find like at least what you're looking for out of the
cross if you're like hoping for something but I do like the random stuff
too and I think that's why I kind of balance between like f1 breeders and
some of them were like consistent filial breeders like like I really like you
know I ran to that Pena that f4 like I said everything was so consistent but
then I love back like going back to Bodie or I love going back to some random
guys are doing some f1 work just because I really do like finding the random
stuff that's where the unicorns are yes yes the unicorn you know the unicorn the
unicorn hunt is I'd actually kind of be curious I almost threw out a statistic
there because we all know 86% of all statistics are made up on site but I
wonder what percentage of like people actually consuming these seeds what what
is their priority are they looking for unicorns or are they looking for
uniformity because again we're not talking about commercial grows we're
talking about even people with you know large hundred two hundred plant counts
but I wonder I really wonder what it is it's it definitely depends on your
market and like where you're at like I was just in Virginia hanging out for a
small event out there in the mountains and everyone was looking more like very
just want to ease of grow or it's because they're such a rudimentary state
they just went legalized for rec this past year as far as being allowed to
grow their own plants so everyone's just like I want something that grows fast I
want something dank so I think it just depends on like what your market is when
you're kind of looking for stuff but you know that makes sense how about you Dave
I think he pretty much yelled again you've been pretty spot on with
everything you're saying camera depends on what everyone's looking for or what
specifically looking for I think the home grower you know who's just getting
into it like you said he wants that ease of growth the more experienced growers
definitely gonna be looking for something unique I would hope that
they're looking for especially if they're looking to breed or looking to
maybe basically just just stand out or something right you know yeah have a
unique culture you you want to have the cut that everyone wants the cut that
everyone wants to work with and then yeah it's like in like that rudimentary
market like they pretty much just wanted auto flower fans you know I mean they're
just like we just want to throw it outside and hope the birds don't eat it
but speaking of unicorns actually this was given to me by a good buddy the
unicorn milk from Bodie does anyone this I wanted to pull this one on here
because I know nothing about the puff three male does anyone know anything
about that Bodie puff three male and then also you can see my buddy he's a
clever one he said that I should add two cups of cow man I want to do cups or two
gallons probably both might as well be saying we're awesome I just read a from
smiley smiley's garden in chat he's probably feeling my vibe tonight because
he came in with the awesome pun what's poppin big ups big ups I love it it
totally is the theme of the show theme a theme of my my experience off putting
giving I don't know what I'm saying but I am almost 50 milligrams deep on this
edible so it's pretty fun make me want to get back into my goji jar here soon
he's got a jar of it so I've got to ask Dave you got any old Tom Hill crosses
dude I've become like a big Tom Hill fan recently I had some good deep chunk from
a buddy and then that same body actually sent me or not the same buddy but guy
out of the same area sent me these guys because he had heard that I like the Tom
Hill stuff this was from Oni this was the 91 skunk VA chem dog cut cross to
the Tom Hill Hayes cross to the trop cookies so it's gonna be Hermes central
but the plan is gonna come out super cool at least in the any of the thin
leaves you know I was just gonna say I've been an interesting flavor profile
but go for it Dave I was gonna say for me I've got the the deep chunk
Pakistani sativa over here snow high working with the old Tom Hill I might
pick up some x18 but it depends on how expensive they are pure x18 is hard to
find I'm sure hit up doc D though I know he's got a lot of good x18 crosses
I'm not sure if he has anything pure but if you ask him he might have something
yeah I'm definitely looking to him that definitely sounds good I do have some
Tom Hill Hayes but that's with the Cherry West BX and that came from Jimmy
Toucans oh wow and he's working with that coca-cola root beer right now he's
got me real excited what he's doing with that too I believe such an
interesting profile I have not found the root beer in anything I've ever ran I
have found like a mango coca-cola flavor which I run that consistently and that's
out of the GT Hayes the ghost train Hayes cross to an overflow which is from
archive which is the flow cross face off but yeah other than that I've never
really found soda profiles that root beer one's quite elusive I hear hey
that's that's why I want to really pop them because I'm running I got a few
clones I've got slushy beer and chocolate cola from skunk tech so those
those have that pro the root beer in there so I'm those are things I have
flowering pretty much right now so we'll see how that they turn out that's why I
want to run these two coca-cola root beer get that see see what it is see what
the hype is if it's good luck with everyone's yeah best of wishes over
there with that one speaking of the soda this was from my buddy Marilyn masher
he's a local guy as well he did the chop cookies f2 cross to the Seattle soda I
guess he found a male or he might have reversed that male or the female Seattle
soda cut that goes around he's big into making his own reversal spray so that he
might have did that but yeah the soda profiles man I'm interested to get in
there myself I think it's super cool and I can't wait to see what the smoke
is on this mango coca-cola I love the flavor profile of Tropicana cookies
actually it's got a really really good strong flavor profile as well it's
something that again it's it's kind of hard to mistake it's either there or
it's not it's heavy tangy from what I hear I've actually not had straight
drop cookies but yeah I mean tangy anything's gonna have a ton of flavor I'm
sure yeah that would be that would be a good description of it some some drop
cookies that I'd like to get some recognition out there for for Nick again
lime rising this guy he's I've seen some amazing images of this I have yet to
grow it myself but wow does it look just so fucking good if you check him out his
Instagram yeah Nick's Pam looks fantastic man he has a ton of good like
cuts and seeds from people to you know everybody you know he's just such a good
guy it's easy to give him stuff so I know he works with a lot of gene stuff
too and that's really cool to see speaking of that I know that the Royal
line seems to be what works for him and his lime issues that he has so I
actually myself picked up some Royal 10 from Ben over there at Emerald Mountain
Legacy so these are the 10 BX I can't wait to get into these oh wow it's cool
packaging too yeah they do a great job over there man and that's all respect to
you know Mandelbrot I'm not sure if he had much to do with any of this kind of
wood style box packaging but respect to that family man they do a great job over
there and you said you had a lot of collectors items too as you've gone
around to the different shows that you've been part of as well do you have
any one that stands out in particular as like your favorite packaging whether
you still have it or not or something that you've seen out there oh that's a
really good question not not to man it sucks because it was that that one that
got away man Leo's packaging is gorgeous yeah right it is I mean like the wax
seal the official cards and everything like he does he does amazing packaging
work other than that I'm a huge fan of roundtable selections to he does the
large seed packs and those are gorgeous cases that he does which one was that
again I'm sorry so that's roundtable selections I don't have any of the large
case myself I've only gotten the small releases but he does large case releases
where I think it's like maybe 50 seeds to 100 seats something like that and
gorgeous packaging but yeah I'd say this aficionado the original packaging it
came in it was actually like almost like a wedding ring box it was like clip
open kind of thing and it had you know the official seal and all that good
stuff so I'd say that's probably the most beautiful packaging I've seen it is
that is pretty damn sexy packaging he has there it's it's the total package
too and you know a lot of times when I you know if you see if you're spending
money on that it's nice to have the that little extra like feel-good value to it
you know yeah anytime I show someone something like that like oh my gosh that
was probably the best weed you've ever smoked I just kind of look around a
little bit and I know I asked you that question before Dave you have you have
and that's okay we can we can show off some of my so you talked about it before
but but mean gene and skunk tech they have this awesome packaging with the
there between the mean mug there and there's also the the pie scream I scream
someone in chat was mentioning that one earlier to they're like best packaging
ever yeah the pie scream it's just so good it's that it just makes you laugh
and he means are addictive enjoy responsibly but I'm always being a fan
of the Pacific Northwest roots packaging the interesting I simple box and how
could you go wrong with a fish a fish on there that's awesome fish food what
is that drunk it's chicken trees are mint apple fritter and cushmins and
chicken in a lemon tree holy hell I don't even know what to say
other stuff too oh please do show it's almost like looking at like those like
they weren't the garbage pal kids but they were the funny like label the
wacko labels or whatever if you remember those what a great name two
birds one stone Oh God Larry bird 33 what's your favorite name out of
everything you got right now out there Dave let's let's just like the name
that's catching oh that's a good question
yeah do you have one off the top of your head cam geez that's why I asked the
question so that I wouldn't get asked a question come on guys I see what you do
there smart I'll say I'm uh I wasn't a big fan of the gauge guys for a while
there I really enjoy the high school sweetheart something about that name
I'm like that's a really just kind of catchy name like who wouldn't want to
smoke a big jar of high school sweetheart you know yes yes amazing
flower I mean if you haven't had the high school sweetheart it's fantastic I
haven't had that directly but I know funny enough I put his comment up here
earlier smileys garden he had worked with the high school sweetheart and
there's a high Mac and a high punch cross that he had sent me to try to see
see see what I could do with that so I haven't actually tried the high school
sweetheart itself but I will in that format so that's kind of cool to hear
because I hadn't honestly I hadn't heard of that one before and I believe he had
actually got some cuts or seeds I can't remember now and I see him listening so
he's probably like dude you're fucking up the story but but I know he's grown
some of their genetics and he's been impressed and he has his own channel as
well and he documents all his girls every week and it's really awesome to
kind of watch that and follow the progress cuz yeah you should check them
out smileys garden so yeah yeah the high school so I actually ran f2s of the high
school sweetheart itself which I found some really fun profiles I actually found
a really cool mail that's but actually used on the freak show and gave that to
my buddy he's growing it out he's calling it the freaks and geeks really
cool plant like some of the families are showing some weird structure not exactly
like freak show but then I myself grew out the grape stomper OG crossed high
school sweetheart and I found a lot of both profiles in it ton of gas but
really anything with the grateful breath and it's fantastic work dude it's super
good I actually am waiting to get into the Zephyr from my buddy blue bloods
grow up in Boston which is the grateful breath back to the grape stomper on the
opposite end of things so just really good I enjoy any of that grateful breath
work I enjoy the mendo breath work a lot too but I think the grateful breath work
actually speaks to me a little bit more now how that isn't one that I've seen
out here or heard of out here what what is that or how does it differentiate
from the mendo breath is it after that in the line is it across a mendo breath
or how so the mendo breath is the og KB as the female and then I essentially I
think oh shit the male or sorry it was breath work was mendo breath and that
was an og KB in the cross and then I want to say that the high school
sweetheart is a similar cross but it's the cherry pie instead of the OG KB okay
yeah they use the CPK a lot the cherry pie coach okay interesting interesting
that popular popular one to mix in there I could see why they did that yeah and I
don't think there's really any like cherry profiles to that stuff it's just
very gassy it's very typical to just a good OG is what it is actually I did a
podcast with theater I think maybe two years ago with the gauge green group and
we talked about the mendo breath and even those guys were saying that they
enjoyed the grape for breath a little bit better than the mendo breath it
landed a little bit more on the gas side and it was a little bit more on like
the like fun plant to grow it wasn't as typical as the mendo breath but the
mendo breath just what people like on a commercial setting because it's very
much like a stable plant and all the crosses like you always find mendo breath
which most people want you know purple plant short squat easy to grow and have
now that sounds awesome I'm totally gonna have to hunt that down because I
am a huge gas person which which oddly I'd get a huge gas profile off my free
chose which I didn't expect but it's damn purely like again I wish I did clone
it but I did so yeah I'll have to search out that grateful breath for sure as far
as gas goes in my arsenal I don't have the pack but from obsolete I'd run the
Irene apparition so that's the Irene OG across to his alien technology and that
it has to be the gaseous thing I've ever snowed in my life pretty close to what I
would also say like the Holly weed from Bodhi which is that Hollywood pure Kush
crossed his 88 hash plant both of those just are the most insane gas plans I've
ever had so if you're ever in that kind of really looking in that range I really
recommend those PK crosses or any of those they say the Hollywood but I also
think it's goes by the Topanga PK as well okay there's I do have a couple
crosses from South Bay genetics that's got Topanga Canyon in it there's a
Topanga Canyon and animal mints shoot there's a episode 2 I've show I put all
of his packs up so that's another one that I kind of am vaguely familiar with
I'm familiar with the name because of jungle boys were working with it or to
pick a canyon camp comes from them doesn't it no yeah that makes sense yeah
so yeah are you a Dave are you are you a OG guy as well is that something I'm a
gas man I love I definitely this is one of the gas things I've run the East Coast
Saurdey Romulan it's called space fuel it's a cat sue and Romulan genetics
collab this is like early packaging before they did all their fancy
marketing but that's absolute gas winner I'm running some TK bandana which is a
triangle Kush headband that's a skunk tech cut that I procured that I can't
wait to finish actually he just dropped some some fem seeds of it as well I was
able to grab some of those so those will be coming soon you'll see more Instagram
shots of those damn it he's I'm getting another cut from him this week blue
mountain gas which is his cut his cut of sour D it's a hit with i-95 okay oh wow
the i-95 is classic man there's a lady I can't I don't know where she's out of
but she actually does a lot of breeding with the chem dog stuff and she has a
bunch of i-95 f2s they go by chem labs if you guys are looking into that I 95
f2s man there's some really fun stuff in there I'm sure that's that's one that
I've heard of before but more so recently doing a show of Brian and Marco
actually every Wednesday at 1 on the future cannabis project channel but he's
from that area so they're talking about you know I 95 and that was the corridor
that was the freeway that if you were going from Florida up north and bringing
things that that was your stretch of road that you had to take and that
presumably is kind of how that that strain got its name it was more of a the
east coast thing does anybody know anything about that that's exactly the
story dude yeah I 95 sketchy man and the speed limit gets more drugs travel
through I 95 than any road in the country yep exactly Wow the Florida the
Florida to the New York or the main Florida to Maine all the way up to Maine
you know wasn't it wasn't that cannonball run there were definitely
runs made yeah right speaking of gas I think the favorite thing gas you I say I
like this too that I had earlier but I think the the motor breath 15 triangle
that was a I found so much good just og typical profiles in there and a lot of
more a little bit more vigorous than your typical of G2 so that was always a
really nice surprise that's awesome you brought that up that was the one that I
was gonna ask you about was the the motor breath 15 we have that out here
and that was something that actually I will pick up if I see it at a rec store
from a particular vendor that's a solid choice yeah and I think there's I think
there's two other phenotypes that float around too but the 15 is the only one
that I've been able to actually enjoy myself and then seen crosses up to you
yeah I've only seen the 15 motor breath 15 out here and then I also found some
really fun stuff this is from alien genetics they don't put a ton of work
out but whenever they put stuff out it's always worth looking into but so this
was the demon sweat which it's not one of my favorite names like super just
like kind of cheesy in my mind but again the Hells Angels OG one of my favorite
ones cross to that sour apple IBL which I remember you guys were talking about
last episode about the IBL lines so this was probably my favorite to kind of talk
about when it's IVL's everything I found in this was a variant on the gas profile
but everything had a candy apple background so it's really cool to see
that inbred line really pass a little something through but they weren't
crazy dominant like they didn't take over everything I still found like two
different varieties I would say as far as smoke goes but I'm just a really cool
one where the IBL just was a really awesome you know plant I've never really
grew any other IVL's so the sour apple was really awesome to taste that would
be I can't say I've grown a ton of IVL's either the closest I've got is a lot of
genetics from Amsterdam it's interesting there's there's a total transition
between thought processes for breeding almost and granted there's there's you
you can't say one thing about such a wide group there's there's always going
to be individuals but in Maine a lot of the breeding over there is built on
reliability that you know the European customers can just buy a three-pack they
know what they're gonna get they'll come back next time buy another three-pack
and pop it in whereas it almost seems like stateside it's it's kind of pheno
hunt centric so really the probably the closer to IBL's that I've worked with it
just been the stuff that have been coming from Amsterdam old established
kind of classic lines yeah absolutely yeah that's a very interesting point did
you bring up man because it does seem like it's more of the American breeders
that typically advertise that their IVL lines as opposed to like your Dutch
breeders and things don't really ever really mention that but it's kind of
like a given right yeah yeah it's just kind of that's you know the Dutch way is
like well that's what it should be that's what it is right so yeah that's
how it should be. It's funny you say three seeds that's like such an odd number but you know I'm looking down at one of
these cards and I do I from Humboldt seed organization I got three seeds of
the Bubba 76 just like a really nice I guess at some point I was feeling a
little lucky. Nice and I can't I do I do have a three three pack here but I can't
flex too hard because Dave knows what it is. Booyah! This is something that I've
been after dog shit for a long time and to learn the kind of what old family
purple and T1000 what that actually was got me even more excited about it so
yeah here's the is from Humboldt CSI too so you know it's good you know it's good
this is you know again you guys were talking earlier about trust, reliability,
consistency, those those type of traits the Humboldt is something that a lot of
people get that from but yeah so I'm I'm stoked on this one but Dave's not
impressed. He's like yeah I had that. I just want you to pop them and enjoy them that that's all I can ask.
There you go. That's something you're looking for. Yes I'm after that dog shit. You find some
lovely dog shit that's special to you Jan. Man it's I mean real quick it was
back to the 90s around the Pacific Northwest when we were smoking that I
didn't really believe that was a real name because many of them at my point in
that journey didn't have names. I always joked it was either got some or don't
got some so when they said it was dog shit like yeah whatever but it really
did it smelled like he stepped on dog shit and didn't know and it's on the
bottom of your shoe and it's all over the house now it was bad so that's what
I'm looking for. Man it's interesting I know Mr. Toad's gonna tear me apart in
the chat on this one if he didn't do it earlier but a good buddy of mine from
New York just dropped a jar off when he was visiting of I it drives me nuts
because obviously I'm a big chem dog fan but it was chem D-A-double-G that he
got from I can't remember the name of the it was a Dutch company dude it was
cat piss like it literally was cat piss in a jar man it smelled like someone's
like when you would go buy mids from somebody and you'd go in their house and
they like stains on the ground you're like I'm definitely getting some good
mids here like that's what it smelled like and then the flavor translated a
lot more to the chem dog actually it actually had some really good like kind
of like a piney kind of gassy like that rubber profile in the smoke but the
smell in the jar itself man that was straight cat piss and I was like wow
man this is totally like not what I kind of hear from those profiles okay
usually it's like a haze that puts that off so I was like wow some random Dutch
company did a chem D-A-double-G that puts off some cat piss it's probably a
haze anyways it's probably exactly right like it's definitely just a haze and they named it chem dog to sell the seeds because that was hot last year right
wouldn't be the first time the European seed banks don't ever do anything like
that I mean I'm not gonna lie it was great smoke though like it was fantastic
smoke but what it really was I have no idea but I definitely smelled like just
like rug piss like it was pretty nasty. Rug piss? That's even more specific. I'm gonna use that now but what kind of cat piss? Rug piss.
Like the rug style you know not like the tree on the tree like on the rug yeah
but yeah funny enough that was another one of the strains back then around the
same time that you know I do kind of long for these days and who knows if
it's you know just biased from from days past and I'm remembering something
that wasn't even really there or I'll never find again but who knows I'm
looking for it and I do I do smell cat piss every now and then I get hints of
it but it's also in an ammonia smell which worries me a little bit sometimes
because you're like did you cure this right bro is there like is this moldy or
what's going on here? They over cleaned right like it's just like they did what
like bleach and alcohol or something like that you know. Yeah let's see here
Gorski in chat dog shit times fire OG equals miss shift night lol October 30th
devil's night another flaming bag of poop again don't put it out with your
boots Ted don't tell me my business devil woman okay back to your regular
programming. He called his shit poop. It's the best night of my life. Oh let's go for speaking of bad smells I'm gonna pop this and this isn't
actually something that he's gonna put out this was just a cross that he did
just to see what he got so I'm gonna play around and see what I get here but
an RKS from it was AG seed Co I believe which is Mel Frank and Todd McCormick
and then the space cheese so that's another one of those old smells that
I've been looking for that I'm kind of moving on now I'm moving into the the
the cheese and the chem side of a hunt away from my RKS. Yeah the only
authentic genetics I have the Todd McCormick that you're talking about is
the original Hayes the skunk one and then the skunk one that's that and that's
that's the the sweeter skunk so although he said he went more with the more of
the accurate selection on the phenos but we'll see I still haven't popped them
they're in they're in the long line of the endless collection I seem to have
that you keep adding to you add to it faster than you're able to pop it's
funny you talked on the skunk one being sweet so out of the local skunk so
that's uh it's basically it's diesel across to the cuttlefish hash plant to a
sour diesel IVL across to the skelly hash plant on the super skunk one male
so it's funny like out of random like out of the f2s especially you'll get
these little mango kind of like island funk profiles and on a COA those
profiles actually test higher than the actual sour diesel kind of like fuel II
skunk profiles so that's one of those ones where I try to tell people that are
like in you know try to understand like COAs when they're shopping and things
like don't let that fool you because even though that was a higher THC
percentage quote-unquote man you smoke that sour diesel pheno and you're gonna
be feeling a lot different I see somebody mentioning in chat holy grails
oh let's see here you got a Dominion skunk up there keeps bringing out that
local skunk I'm like no man that sounds so good dude let me know Dave I've got a
ton of f2s that I made and then actually a good friend of Duke his name goes is
he's Patriot farmer he actually had sent me some f2s as well in his selection so
you've got options dude hey we might have to make a trade you know I've got
some some f2s or some catsupu bujaro that might be of interest if you're if
you're looking I would actually love that that'd be fantastic and speaking of
that same guy that Dukes buddy he just recently sent me these I'm really
excited about so Duke's crew holds close tight the Va Beach Gany the Virginia
Beach Afghani for the millions of people have never got to try that Gany you
definitely won't get to it's held really tight by those people and the
flowers fantastic it really reminds me of like a Christmas tree with almost
like kind of like you know that zebra gum that old gum when you're a kid that
loose flavor real quick fruit stripes yeah like imagine the green flavor on
top of like a good cush like pine flavor like it's just a very unique Afghani but
he put that on what he calls the head scream which is the screaming eagle
across to something called free bird eventually essentially just a bunch of
chem dog and sour D genetics and then he threw the same male on the chem D how
about the that same Virginia Afghani skunk the Virginia Beach Afghani with
the skelly hash plant super sativa seed club skunk one oh wow and those are both
kind of from the same group right yep yep absolutely yep okay so have either
of you guys grown or well cam you just said you have but smoked that Virginia
Beach Afghani I did it's so good man it is it's potent it's very heady like it's
not your typical Afghani that's just like sedative like most people assume
you know not your typical broadleaf but uh dude yeah it's fantastic smoke it's
very potent in the heady sense of like it sticks with you with legs like it
actually two or three hours you still feel it really nice but again it's not
that like take over your body type of like like most broadly if indica
Afghanis we talk about fantastic smoke dude I was in love with it I actually
was gifted by the angry Korean which is one of their close friends you guys
should look him up on Instagram really cool dude he's actually Chad you would
like it man he's a DJ as well he's a collects vinyls he's super cool nice and
then he has the Bobby's Danny so you should really make good friends with him
but I totally get down totally get down with them yeah but the flowers fantastic
man it's a very unique Afghani I've never tried it myself I love everything
you're saying about it though you've sold me you sold me yes we've all got to
try that someday what what is probably cam for you you've probably shown many
people's Holy Grail tonight what what is a Holy Grail for you though oh man
geez it changes every week it does okay yeah is there is there a profile to it
or there's definitely a keema type I enjoy like I was saying I really enjoy
those chemin oh geez like those sour profiles so when I say Holy Grail for
me it's generally got to be potent it's it's got to have a really good mouth to
it it's got to have good flavor it's got to have some bag appeal as far as like
when I open that up the whole rooms gotta be like damn dude that's some good
ass weed cuz like I said you know like how I grew up and stuff like that we all
just like wanted the baddest bag of weed that we could because we just couldn't
really afford the other bags of weed so for me now even as an adult I like to
just open a bag of chem dog and sees people's reactions so for me the Holy
Grail it's just some real stanky weed that's gonna keep me high for three or
four hours so I don't have to keep going back to the bowl you know that's yeah
that sounds great man that that makes me reminisce right now that's that's kind of
the way that's what I'm hoping for when these Twin Peaks flower out I'm hoping
for something that yeah you open up the jar and everybody just turns around like
the last time I really smelled something super skunky that I was looking for
decades ago but it was in a snowboard parking lot and I found that from like
the opposite side of the lot to like holy sh you know so the best friend jar
everyone's your best friend well but I was like dude I got a whole jar here I
just want one bud just give me one yeah you'll definitely find some really
stanky weed in that Twin Peaks man and then what I so what uh skunks working on
right now he's working on a goji-oji cross to that can be X that's gonna be
fantastic weed I didn't get to smell he just showed me a few pictures but it
looks super good man and it shows a little bit of that pie it's the pine saw
cut of the goji like I was talking about earlier so it's gonna lend a lot of that
lemon just gas that pine flavor you can get out of both of them so I'm really
excited for when you drop that one dude so if you like the Twin Peaks keep your
eye open for that goji cross to man oh yeah that sounds like it's got it's got
attractive parents I could definitely try that yeah the goji throws down to
it's it's one of those like random plants that man every Fino I found just
like they're very thick plants you'll find some that are leafy but other than
that man they all know now I've heard you say a lot that you found a lot of
strains that have a really good pine expression I got a buddy Eagles garden
he has been searching for pine for a long time and there's big people who
have had you know something that expresses like pine maybe in their
environment but he gets it to where he's at in Michigan and he just can't
find it do you have one that might maybe break through the ice or something that
I could be like dude check check this one out for your pine because you know
it's like reminiscing about old things good cuz I'm starting to feel bad for
the guy dude that sky color from Jean dude that's probably some of the
pineus weed I've had in a long time and then that motor breath crossed into
bodies black triangle was super piney I found a lot of real hard gas profiles
but there was a real good pine in there too but I also have noticed Chad to like
some people's definition of pine is also a little different for me when I think
of pine I must think of like limonene on a different scale like you know like and
I think that Kevin Jodry kind of put me onto that we're like some people smell
lemon and mistake it and it's actually pine is what they're smelling so now when
I smell lemon profiles I'm like oh it's actually kind of piney but then there's
that Christmas tree pine too where it's just like a lot more on the sweeter side
so I think it just kind of depends what you're looking for if he likes more of
that like lemon kind of like harsher pine I was talking about that sky color
cush is fantastic or you'll find it in any kind of TK out cross as far as the
Christmas tree stuff goes me a lot of that's really hard to find I think that
Bob Beach candy is my best bet with it but I don't really know many with that
one yeah does doesn't sound like it but I and I think that is what he's after
two he's after the the alpha pining representation yep yep yep the beta
pining a little more earthy but yeah that the alpha the pine tree smell and
and coincidentally that's what I get off of a lot of blue dream is that's where I
tend to pick up I'm like it's got the Christmas tree vibe to it yeah which I
recommended to him he's like but he's he's tried a lot so that's cool I wrote
those down the sky Cuddler from Jean and then the motor breath 15 with a black
triangle and who was the breeder on that one again was it Bodie so on the motor
breath black triangle that's actually a guy named buds buds it I know it's a
great name I get whichever one has two D's I couldn't tell you but it's buds
buds with an underscore in between the names if you can find them who would
definitely trade you for something good he's got a lot of really really good
stuff what do you think about the the pine tar kush from Pirates of the Emerald
Triangle there for me that's see that's a good one too because pine I think for
some people is almost like almost pineapple because like I think the pine
tart kush to me has like a pineapple kind of flavor to it but I think that
you know that's that's also me where I was like I think this I don't know I've
also heard the opposite was like oh yeah this is like Christmas tree pine
you know I think you're trying to take a pineapple hmm I haven't I haven't grown
it or tried it myself I was just wondering because that was one uh
people have asked me that too and that that's that's one that I've wanted to
try just because of hopes of finding that same with the 79 Xmas bud yeah so
that that exactly go before so the 79 Xmas bud um I've kind of traced it
around a little bit I think it has something to do with the sour best shit
ever if you're able to find any of like the original sour best shit ever stuff I
know it's not a very loose clone I think like roundtable has it I think green
Bodhi has it still but I want to say that it's self pure might have more of
that Christmas tree maybe but I haven't had it pure I've only had it with the
ancient og which is an Iranian on og what is probably one of the if you know
well nobody knows how old it is really but what as far as like land races you
had some from India that were straight from the source do you suspect that's
probably some of the older oldest genetics that you've tried yourself cam
oh for sure definitely yeah this is like ancient stuff like these guys were
talking about they it's always been there basically um yeah I'd say for me
know what what kind of stories did they have because I imagine that they probably
have a little bit of a history or a culture around that as well in there
yes it was funny so like I said I actually did the seed hunt in Sri Lanka
but the weed that they were getting is actually exported from southern India
the Kerala region so what's interesting enough is there's a racism between the
Sri Lankans and the Indians where like they just don't like each other and it's
like Sri Lanka is actually an island off of India so it's very close very
similar culture but they're actually going through like a little bit of a
religious bout with the mainland Indian and like the Sri Lankans so me having
Kerala gold weed they weren't happy at all they were actually really pissed
about that and they kept trying to tell me like oh the Kerala golds poison it
turns into a bad person it'll kill you and so like it was very interesting to
see how they treated cannabis it was very much like it was very personal to
them you know what I mean like and again it was almost like offensive that I have
the Kerala gold and that kind of thing so it for them yeah the stories were
really like ancient like literally down to like the wards that they're literally
going through today so it was really cool to kind of see that contrast it's a
whole other side of cannabis culture that any most people with an Instagram
account don't ever think of you know the hills in Afghanistan India a lot of
these places where you know origins I don't want to get too technical on it
but a lot of origins are traced back to these regions and yeah there's a cannabis
scene there as well but it's much different than what we think or what we
know and have here today current yeah it's very sacred in a lot of places you
know we do take it very much for granted here in America like it's a very much
fun pop culture to us but it's a way of life for people so they take it very
serious the Sri Lankans believe that a god named Hanuman it was basically a
large monkey essentially collected the seeds in Sri Lanka from the cannabis
plant and then brought them over to India and then along the way essentially
he was actually going to Nepal to the Himalayans and he dropped those seeds on
the way when he was crossing through India so that was their belief is that
cannabis actually started in Sri Lanka science you know indicates probably a
little differently but I have no idea but there people believe that and I
thought that was a really cool story too and ever since then like I've kind
of looked into you know like the Hanuman stories and things like that and it's
just a really interesting side of it it is it would be fascinating and I'm glad
that there's been a lot of a resurgence of interest in a lot of that I know you
had mentioned in one of our conversations just kind of preservation
but I'm glad that there is a lot more of that and I just see a comment from
James Chrysler in chat says you know land races land races will deepen the
genetic pool y'all potency chased and ruined everything
damn chem dog got me but there's a lot of truth to the statement there so it's
cool to see that kind of resurgence because again I do love the chem dog you
know knock you in the dirt type of stuff but I also sometimes describe
myself as like a sipper you know I'll kind of just like little toke here you
know a little toke there and I don't necessarily want it to be super potent
because I'm in the middle of doing something but I still want that you know
relief or effect whatever I'm getting from it to still be there so yeah like I
said earlier at the show with the purple punch I don't necessarily mind strains
that are less than 20% I'll just smoke a little bit more so it works out do you
guys ever see like THC percentages printed on a lot of the strains that
you're purchasing or is that something that drives your purchasing decision it's
like a THC percentage or you more after like potential turps from the lineage
well fortunately I'm a long time oh I'm sorry what was that Kim oh I see
unfortunately for me I haven't bought weed in a long time but if it's gonna be
off of percentages it's always I look at terpenes first I mean I know what
lineages I'll stick in and then I'll kind of look for like maybe a better
terpene percentage but yeah I mean it's it's like I was saying earlier I know I
know what I like to stick in so it's got to be something Kim or it's got to be
something or G if I'm gonna go in the shop because even if they do a bad job
it's still gonna feel decent you know right and I'm thinking and I'm thinking
kind of more in the terms of picking up seed packs to like is that a factor that
you look at when you're never okay and Dave is that something that you actually
see you printed on like I again I don't shop as frequently as you guys do says
that you never see it really listed on any packaging sometimes a certain website
like a seed bank might throw it out there just because people do look at
that I mean not me personally you know like Kim was saying it's it's more about
the turps it's more about knowing what the lineage is you know if it happens to
be there like here's something from from roundtable selections he put on there 32%
sfv og cam so that was one that tested at 32% and he hit it with a bog sour
bubble now that wasn't like the the the key factor for the reason why I got it
at being the 32% I just love that combination of the sfv og cam and bog
sour bubble I think that's just that's gonna be a winner
it's like duh why do you yeah definitely and I see a real quick I see Miranda
family farms in chat and I actually had a question earlier somebody was asking
about Jack's cleaner to wondering if that was available still or if you might
know where I know he's got a good kind of source to a lot of the TGA dank
genetic stuff so if you're list if you hear that let chat know Jack's cleaner
too because we were talking about that one so you want even even Dave doesn't
have so even Dave so Dave are you a land race guy since we were kind of talking
about her do you end to kind of grow in that wild variety I'd like to get into
it more it is sometimes tough to be able to dedicate you know 20 weeks of your
tent to something but just to stick something in a corner and let it just
run in your flower tent the whole time why not I'd like to get more into that
considering I keep this seem to be picking up more and more land races
it's becoming so much more available you know I I've actually got a really good
source now through Angus over at the real seed company and he's doing
fantastic sourcing and then he himself does a lot of the traveling to but I'm
really excited to get into like this is the crew and like this is the poor
part which is from Nepal an interesting story about her bar today that's
actually the female goddess as well for like fertility and things like that I
think that's going to be probably a special plan this is the kumani I got
from him as well and then the many Perry from Nepal as well so a lot of cool
stuff that are you know I think it's really awesome we're starting to be you
know the availability to kind of get into that stock now like someone's doing
the work for us I guess it's up to us for some of us kind of start popping
some of those seeds and seeing what they're doing you know I think the
African stuff I think I'm having an issue sourcing well I was able to get
katama some Malawi stuff some squazzy gold but that stuff is extremely
difficult to grow honestly what well yeah because they're being grown
outdoors and they really love that climate so I can imagine that there's
gonna be a difficulty but as you're mentioning all these names it's it's
awesome completely fascinating but I know I can't go to leafly and find out
the flowering time I know I can't find out you know what I should expect how
does something like that work in those situations do you just have to go
through it once to figure it out or is there I think that's a good start for a
lot of people but I think a lot of it too is kind of educating yourself on the
regions so anything 0 to 20 that's generally gonna be a little bit more on
that kind of like one stretch side it's gonna be a little bit more of a longer
flower period generally because that's just the longer days on the earth the
farther north you go it's gonna be a little bit more tamed as far as able to
maybe bring it inside as like a shorter you know easier variety to grow usually
a less flower time but that that doesn't always speak for what we were talking
about earlier about like hermit traits and things like that that's all where
you just kind of got to grow it to figure that out but as far as like if
it's gonna be a manageable plant to grow indoors or outdoors you just kind of got
to do a little bit of research on what the regions like what the conditions are
like generally anyone doing land race research to their they're all about
taking pictures of the plants so you should definitely look into what they're
seeing that's all the great advice because I honestly I wouldn't have known
so that does make sense look at the region good advice there appreciate that
it worse comes to worse you can even talk to the breeder get their knowledge
on what they've run that definitely always can help too that's the best way
Dave I should have jumped right to that well that's not always an option
especially for when you get some of these long long you know far away land
races but you know you're absolutely right Dave yeah talking to the breeder
that's a something that a direct message from toad is gonna help me grow these
better and the DMT is the direct message of the toad with Icarus og times
the ghost of Port Royale I just had to throw that in there that was a good one
that was a good one segue of the year so far Chad I got yourself pat yourself on
the back for that one all right but but I've got nothing to follow that up with
so I'm gonna blow your screen up Dave and you can tell me about this new pack
oh this is the Malawi I got from from land and air I have yet to grow it just
hearing cam talk about those African land races maybe I remember so go yeah I
happen to have at least one meet not quite the the selection of land races
that cam has but that's okay dude the Malawi plants are awesome though I think
you'll really enjoy that one I mean they're extremely untamed for indoor
environments but I ran it outdoors here on the eastern shore like we're actually
technically hurricane season we're below sea level like we're sinking sandbar
that we replenish the sand every year so crazy humidity and man that thing dealt
with it like a hoss like it had no PM issues I found like a lot of grape
profiles like that typical kind of like land racy grape and then I found a
couple purple plants which were gorgeous I would love to run it outdoors but it
there's no way I can where I'm at I'm a little further north than you it's a
it's a big plant I'll say that for sure I didn't find one that wanted to stay
tamed even after you prune it it goes at least three times its size and veg Wow
yeah well um so speaking of kind of the random stuff Dave you got any old
bag seeds like you got anything that you kind of kept around or anything from
like your friends or something where you're like yeah I should maybe hold on
to these just in case I always do for years because that's that's honestly
what I how I started was just collecting the if I had a really good bag or a
decent bag and there happened to be a seed in there and it was it looked like
it was gonna be a viable seed hell I threw it in a baggie and then collected
those for years and that was how I first started growing I just took the best of
what I had popped all of them and only maybe like ten of them actually popped
and there was only one female out of the whole tent so it was it was it was
meant to be and I ended up running that plant for five years Oh Wow how did you
identify that on the package did you write on there like what you enjoyed
from it for like the smoke or where did someone actually give you the bag and
like hey man this is this is Irene alien or this is Irene og and you know I had
no idea what it was it was back in the day of hey this was there's some good
weed it was either brick or or you had the occasional good connection so if you
got the good stuff and I found a seed in it I was gonna hold on to it later on
you'd get told hey this is blue dream hey this is whatever they were calling
it at that time I would never believe it because you just it was hard to believe
any of the people I was grabbing any of them from back then it's hard to switch
over from like we were getting random nugs like in one bag to like you get a
nugget oh gee get a little bag of purple in there too you know I mean like you
get random nugs it was never like a bag of OG or anything so if you found a seed
and it generally wasn't the same thing that you were gonna smoke at the end of
the bowl or the end of the bag you know mm-hmm that's a good point too I
definitely dealt with that a lot only a few times there was only a few times
where I was consistently getting good sour diesel and that was definitely
coming from New York City and it was the bomb that that's the first that's
personally what I chase and everything gassy I'm looking for is that exact
profile of that earthy just gas combination and I still haven't quite
found it exactly I've come close but I'm still still searching always searching
yeah the sours legendary man I have some really fun East Coast stories about the
sour honestly but as far as bag seeds go man I need to get into this one
actually you were talking about the early 2000s that's what it's labeled
that's awesome yeah there's just some random ones in there they look pretty
good there's some dead ones in there the good the bad the ugly but you know one
of those ones again if I can't pop anything out of it hopefully science
will find something cool out of the the good times of the 2000s right that is
hilarious I have a film canister that says early it was good times man I got a
late 90s and an early 2000s well so here's my other one this is from a shout
out to my buddy Maryland organic but this was some bag seed that he's been
saving from some point in 89 and somewhere from around the 1998 era so
not sure what I'll find in these but Maryland 89 to 98 we usually was
probably pretty good you never know you look at Tyler from family tree seeds the
Pam he has was found exactly in an old bag seed collection that he had okay now
how did he handle that because I'm curious how breeders handle that other
than saying proprietary have you seen breeders come across and it sounds like
mr. trees is but that just straight-up says like you know it came from a bag
seed of cherry pie so cherry pie bag seed times Pam how do breeders handle
that or do they just say cherry pie times Pam or whatever Dave I would say
that depends on the ethics of the breeder some of them might not even
mention it but like I know in Tyler's instance he doesn't even identify you
can't identify what it's even from as far as saying whether it's like a cherry
pie back seat or anything it's just random back seat but I have seen other
breeders say that this was from a back seat found whatever cross it happens to
be so it I have seen that out there okay cuz yeah I don't you know again I don't
know what the the ethics on that one would be I would say you know mention it
but then again bag seed also gets the negative connotation of well everything
coming from it is gonna be a herb but then again at the same time one of our
favorite strains Kim is a bag seed so exactly I thought I put that up there so
yeah lots of good things come from bag seeds I've just never really heard that
addressed by we can direct that question to our buddy burner I swear I got a knife
around here somewhere no I'm just joking I'm just joking but I think Dave's
spot-on man it's an ethics thing like I don't think that you can't work with
bag seed or anything like that if you don't know what it is it's not a big
deal as long as you're honest about it and let people know I don't know what
this is I just know it's really good weed yeah I see okay someone well I guess
that kind of answers it Sunnyland grow and chat s1 I don't know what does that
satisfy the masses or is that kind of a not the whole truth but a partial truth
yeah I would want a little more okay I agree just asking especially if you're
gonna grow it out to like what created that s1 like why did this plant decide
to self itself like it was good did you let your grow get too hot is that
something I shouldn't do like if you're honest and you're like hey this looks
fantastic but if it gets hot in your area you might see some manners or hey
man if you let me leaks through you might see a little something extra so as
long as you're you're honest about it I mean even a bag seed bread plant can
still be super good like you're saying the chem dog man we're very blessed with
that bag seed yeah and now has there ever been a breeder and this one Dave I
don't even think I've asked you yet but has there ever been a breeder you know
we're looking at the Duke diamond stuff and I mentioned how awesome his
directions are on the back but have either of you experienced a breeder or
frequent a breeder that provides that level of information that like
confidence of like yeah you tested it in a bunch of different variety or
environments you can tell me those little things like don't let it get hot
or don't over water is there anybody that sticks out to either one of you
guys or both of you guys that that fits that description and just Duke really
yeah like you're saying that he's been like the only one that I think has been
super like to the detail this is what the plan is gonna look like I mean even
the ratios that he described as far as like the stretch from veg to flour have
always been spot-on so I think he's if if there's anyone I'm not thinking of
he's at least my favorite I would have to agree with you he definitely gives
you the best description the best information right there on the package
it's it's there everything you could possibly need to know it's all gonna be
there I do recommend Ross the Jeff with irie genetics although it's not on the
packaging if you do look on his website he gives great breakdowns as far as what
to expect he even does podcasts on his grow from your heart podcast dedicated
specifically to certain strains he's run so he's he's another great resource as
far as someone who puts the work in and you can you can see what he's doing and
I'm a fan definitely a fan yeah super accessible guy to like both of you said
earlier you know if you can go to the breeder go to the breeder very helpful
well guys should we do should we do a little bit of a finale or do you guys
have any questions for each other because again you were all collectors so
it's really fun to get together and kind of talk but you guys both you know again
like the shops from the same store so please feel free to go back and forth as
well my only real question for Dave is do you want to trade thanks again I
really appreciate you having me on here Chad this has been super fun man and
David your knowledge is impeccable man I really love to see what you got going on
over there you definitely know what you're working with and you definitely
know your breeders so I really respect that I the same to you brother you've
definitely shown me some interesting things I've really appreciated hearing
what you had to say thank you it's been it's been awesome cam I really appreciate
you coming on and hanging out with us and definitely you know I hope we keep
the conversation going because I'd love to learn a lot more about the stuff
you've done with hemp a lot more about the CBD you're you know you're a great
source of information for that as well we didn't even really touch on any of
the other awesomeness we just kind of are talking about seeds tonight but yeah
you have a lot more to offer people so let please take a moment just to kind of
let people know about yourself or where they can find you and kind of what you
have going on because you're doing some pretty cool things please for sure still
you can check me out a cabron the cam is my main Instagram profile but I also
have a company called the free thinkers conservation so essentially it's just
like funding my seed and have it it's me making seeds from my local community
helping people like we're at a very rudimentary market here in Maryland so
people don't have access to really good genetics and they don't know what
they're looking for so that's a lot of my drive is just to supply the local
people around us with good seeds and then from there I actually ended up
developing into kind of a clothing company to just to kind of like help get
the seeds out to people you know like sending out orders kind of like Bodie
and those guys do where you buy a couple t-shirts and I'll send some seeds out
kind of thing so that that's pretty much my deal man I'm just a guy just trying
to keep along and grow weed it's my passion ever since I was a kid so I work
for a med grow now I'm one of their head growers essentially and I'm leaving
them the first of the year to take the free thinkers conservation a lot more
serious and to kind of get out of the booth from the whole factory side of
it's getting to me so all this kind of stuff is it's great man it's been super
fun and I'm just really stoked to be here that's awesome man and good luck
and congratulations on on that change and moving forward and just driving with
the passion so I appreciate that dude thanks again man yeah no no worries my
definitely my pleasure and how about you yourself Dave what have you got going on
in the garden what are you working with what is what is your excitement for the
future at the moment other than the mailbox you can't mention the mailbox
well those those cuts I have I'm really excited to see what that TK bandana the
picket og that's GMO cherry pie from from that's from Nick Risen that's
something that really has me excited I can't wait to work with that and then I
want to find some males and definitely hit to what's in that flower tent now
and because I'm gonna keep those that chocolate TK bandana slushy beer I
really want to continue working with those and then see if that profile is
everything it's cracked up to be hype wise but as far as if you find me on
like Instagram and stuff like that you got Dave's not here spelled like you see
on the screen there with the underscore I've even got a discord where I've been
doing some some auctions and stuff like that for some of my own collection that
I know I'm not gonna get get to or even some some breeders like the the ranch
you know that's that's another guy who I got my eye on and somebody that I'd
like other people to get their chance to run with it so yeah there's that's
that's something you know fine find me if you want an invite to it because it's
it's out there that's awesome and I was gonna ask you mentioned Nick Risen and
I'm seeing you know you have some of his genetics there and I'm seeing a lot of
those pop up lately see that's one like I had no idea it was it was going on or
it was happening it was a thing until I saw you with the packs and I assume well
it's Dave so okay it's this Dave but then I saw some other people with it I'm
gonna Mike wait a minute the peasants get these two really catch catch what
since you know is it is it just a IG thing is it a website thing what I mean
just follow follow the right people on Instagram and then you'll know when the
time is yeah that for those these particular packs it's follow follow him
on Instagram and be there for the right time he has dropped a couple of them on
a few sites but it's very limited amounts and they generally sell out
pretty quick so you they are accessible you can get them it's definitely
available he saw honestly somebody you should look into having on the show at
some point yeah we you know we have a email stream going back and forth he
actually wants to bring on a person who I'm not going to name and that would be
cool if that worked out so hopefully you know we have it in the works I just don't
email him too frequently just because I know he's a busy guy and he's got a lot
of things going so he's about to be a new father as well so I figure he'll get
back to the email when he gets back to the email but yeah no good good
suggestion because I would love to get him on kind of a more of like a one-on-
one basis he came on with Dutch blooms a few weeks ago when they were talking
about the regenerative conference that they're doing and the for regenerative
conferences that they're doing early 2022 so he was here for a minute it was
this kind of one of those notes Kevin Jodry dropped by as well so I'm like I
talked to Kevin Jodry but you know it's cool he wasn't talking to me he was
talking to them oh yes a good one to talk to man because Nick has such a good
perspective on it where he's like one of those guys that was just he'd really
like smoking good weed but he's also got the medicinal side of it that he needs
to so he's a really good one to talk to about genetics man like he's got a
really good hand on what people could use and what people just kind of want to
you know that's always kind of a different thing yeah and and now that
you mentioned it totally I just saw today he posted up that he got the DEM
certification which for people growing for health reasons is a pretty big deal
the dragon earth medicine certification which basically you have good growing
practices if you have that so yeah you're the best of the best in natural
farming if you if you're getting the dragonfly earth medicine seal of
approval yeah Josh and Kelly he's also other people oh definitely he's also had
experience with dog breeding that's that's something that I find has a
correlation with with cannabis breeding you know lemon Hoko who's a breeder out
of Washington same same deal it is amazing how closely or how those two
relate but also that how those worlds have merged like never would have really
guessed and lemon Hoko used to train police dogs to of all things
lemons would have made me nervous y'all you got some right there
yes I love I love them yeah I got it I gotta shout him out he's he's you know
I'm from Washington he's from Washington that's always cool the same with Dutch
bloom so I always root for those dudes Wow you got a bunch of are those all
green beans or well it's it's lemon Hoko's the label oh okay I just thought
it was lemon Hoko himself and oh okay I get it the stickers are the strange
the lemon Hoko yeah see that's you know I'm a visual person I'm like everybody
else that's why I like purple punch you can say it it's okay he's he's a great
guy another wonderful discord if you want to look into getting a NW 47
discord a great resource for growing knowledge nice and hey I just want to
say thank you lucky Mike I saw the comment earlier about growing the chems
I appreciate the tip thank you buddy all right in I guess just kind of one
piece of housecleaning we've got as always a lot of shows on future cannabis
project in FCPO2 tomorrow on future cannabis project in the morning I know
we'll have the living soil conversation with Brian and Layton I'm not sure who's
gonna be their guest that's because I didn't look I will next time and then
Hota herb coming up at 6 p.m. but I'm gonna be back Friday talking some more
genetics I'm gonna be here interviewing doing another dog a garden interview
with yellow hammer genetics so that will be this Friday at 7 p.m. Pacific Standard
Time if you're like kazoo that is 10 o'clock on the East Coast who tried
watching this show at 7 on the East Coast today bless his heart I saw him in
chat so he made the double effort but yes thank you there I'll remove that now
but no again guys thank you so much for your time and the stories and just
sharing I'm definitely happy to connect you guys to and actually everybody's
Instagram is down in the comment section so anybody headed out to the
Emerald Cup this weekend enjoy yourself carry a big backpack and a little bit of
cash and hopefully you can be like cam and Dave to get some real good stuff
there yes yes I've heard stories of Bodhi just handing out buds untrimmed
with seeds and I'm when for seed packs at Emerald Cup so oh my gosh could you
imagine that oh man there's rough are you mean I had to dig this no okay
that's awesome but yeah everybody head into the Emerald Cup stay safe enjoy
yourself for us future cannabis project scp-o2 we're out another fun episode
guys you
