And wrap it we are live right now. That's what it says on the screen. Howdy to everybody in chat
Thank you guys for showing up
Fun show today. We are talking
automation in the home garden and I've got a pretty specialized person to do that with he is
Amazes freedom and he's been working on a pretty cool system and that's what we're kind of here to talk about and just kind of
Automating the growth system in general. So automation is freedom. Please say hello to everybody. Hi everybody
I'd like to say thank you. First of all the Chad and Peter for
Giving me this opportunity to come on here and speak to everybody and I'd also like to say thank you to everybody that
Puts out any YouTube
content all you guys
From all the different shows and there's a lot of you guys that I watch and I found myself
Not even watching too much TV anymore
Not nearly as much as I used to because I'm busy watching all these podcasts
And I really appreciate all the information that you guys have put out for free
So that those of us that are just getting into this can really learn
And home our craft so that we can be better growers and provide better medicine
that's clean and we know how to grow it and we know how to grow without using pesticides and chemicals and we can do it the
Organic way and I just want to thank all you guys and Chad, especially you
I'm a big fan of yours and and a lot of you guys out there
I could so just run off a whole bunch of names, but it's probably take me like hours
And and all you guys in chat, too. I want to just shout out to you guys in chat, you know a lot of times
I've been working so hard on this project that when I get home
From my 9 to 5. I tend to fall asleep about 8 30 or 9 in the evening and
I'll be out until maybe
130 or 2 maybe
230 at the latest and then I'll be up all day up until I go to bed again
But I'll be working because it's kind of like my quiet work time
And I just have like ego show usually on in the background
Sometimes I won't even I feel guilty like I want to get in there and say hi
Everybody I'll kill half an hour or 45 minutes if I do that and I need this
Be you know working on this thing because it's it's just a lot of rechecking and just making sure
Because when I get it in there and get all the wires hooked up, you know, and you flip the on switch
then
you know, then the testing really begins now the programming writing is just really the first start and
I thought I've been working with this system for a while and
I
So, I know that almost all of it is working flawlessly the way that I wanted to however I have
You know in my mind
I'm always kind of redoing things a little bit on how I want to change things and I feel like
My initial effort the environmental controls were spot-on but the watering
Needed to be better needed to be more intelligent
So my first crack at it
Was just a basic water manifold with just regular PVC valves that you would you know?
Just manually and then have it feed in equal parts
And I would do several runs ahead of time with just empty containers to try and balance the system. Of course
It's never perfect. And then you have
Even if you're running a whole host of the same strain of plants some may be
Heavier connectors than others, you know, so you may have some that are heavier feeders
So I'm still in there lifting up my pots and stuff
To see who might need a little extra so that my first attempt wasn't as
Ideal as where I feel like I have it today
It's you know, that's
Awesome, and you started out on such, you know, like a great tip and a great thing, you know, I'm seeing here
I'm gonna take take these off of off the screen real quick
But you know in chat already, you know tons of support
You know, I was gonna start out by saying, you know, you're like the growers grower
You mentioned that, you know, it's nice to get information for free. That's something that we're able to do these days
And that's huge. You know, it's it's channels like this. There's many other channels out there as well
But we are we're able to come together
We're able to learn together and I absolutely know what you mean about jumping into chat. Sometimes when you do
You're there for a while and it's fun
But other times you're in the background you're working you just got to get stuff done and you're listening even though, you know
They're not there
So, you know, I've always appreciated that about you too is you're you know, you're a growers grower you're not
You know some for I'm freaking actually wearing khakis at the moment
But you're not some khaki suited dude walking in, you know, he's never smoked a joint in his life. So
that's something that we always appreciate and
Like you said, you know, you've been working on this for a while we've we've had we've talked about this before we've had conversations
and I've actually had the you know, the
Opportunity to see this set up and to kind of see it going through the motions and the potential of what it can do
You know right now. It's your you said you're doing a little bit of retooling
So it's not something that we're necessarily gonna see the full setup today
But what you know?
Automation is something that a lot of people are looking for. This is
Something that is gonna exponentially grow as the amount of growers grow
Because you know, there's certain states that are legal. We might get federal legalization
There's a lot of people who can benefit from systems like this whether it's you know
Limited mobility or you go out on a fishing boat for four days a week
A lot of different reasons. So what?
What is kind of a good overview of what your system is set out to?
Accomplish what what is what is an end user?
Gonna benefit from how is it? How's it gonna bring freedom through automation?
All right. So for me, I'm still in my garden every day
Right, all of us are we always go down there every day and even though my systems all set up and running fine
I'll pop in there every day. Just check on things, you know, it's always good to make sure everything's running normal
and I think what it gives me is that it allows me to get in there and I want to become a better steward of
the soil and
understanding the plant itself and being able to figure out like where bugs hide and
So that I'm not just kind of going in there and just kind of looking over things. I want to I want to focus more on
You know how the soil is made and what's in the soil and being able to identify things and I
want to become a better grower in that sense and I want to be able to focus my time on that instead of
mixing nutrients together or
Is my pH correct?
Do I have to adjust my heater?
Do I need to worry about whether my timer is going to fail on me?
during the middle of light cycle
Or, you know, there's a whole host of things that can happen and then
But and I'm getting old
You know what it'd be bending over and lifting up those pots and you know it you know
Depending on how many you're doing and how big they are
It can get a bit challenging and then over time. I've
Discovered sip containers and I bought some from build the soil and I love them. I
You can see on my IG post. I posted some pictures not too many, you know, because I was just kind of testing out
My system then my my my controller, you know integrating it into it
this is when I thought this is I want to go a little more intelligent on my system than where I had it and so
I decided to integrate this
Sip containers and I love them because all you got to do, you know
They essentially do everything you just you just have to make sure that your soil is well and balanced and you know
When you're starting fresh, you know, it should be and even if you're you know
I just use like coast to main and I get some stuff from build the soil that I use and there's a whole host of places
That you can get some front even from our local growth stores here rough town, you know
They've got a Vermont compost and so there's a few other things that I can pick up to add
if I feel I need to but I've just been it's basically experimenting with the with the base soils and
Just adding a little bit here and now
Here in there and I like the fact of just being able to add water
And water is very expensive where I live boy, they just get you in the city, you know, I live right in town and
Whatever you got coming into your house, they charge a double because they charge you for what goes out, you know to the town
I suppose so you just get socked, you know, and so I learned that very early when I first started growing
you know, because I actually did try cocoa initially, but after trying to go through and what I thought was coconut I don't
Know that I was even doing it right because when I first started just five in
2017 is when we got this house and that's when I had my first opportunity to finally start growing and at that time I didn't
Have any real knowledge about growing at all
But I've always been enjoyed the plant. I've always
Felt like it's really benefited me even though I may not have known like I think I would be a huge asshole
If if I didn't have this plant, you know
And uh, it's it just gives me a better perspective and sometimes I'm able just to take a step back
and
just reevaluate things and
and you know pivot if I have to and it's just made me I feel like a better person overall and
and I just
Since growing, you know and getting on cannabis and that was like the first app
I found about where I could talk about pot and I met a whole bunch of great guys there
Captain turf and indica be and a whole bunch of guys, you know
And uh good people like indica bees from my own town, you know, not from my own town
But he lives in this state and he was two hours away, but we managed to get together a few times, you know
screw kovat, you know, we're just
It didn't matter, you know, it's like we're gonna get together and neither one of us are afraid, you know
It doesn't necessarily have to be puffed up past we can do that pop up and then
You know in each one of us
Still just being in each other's company and in each other's spaces. Yeah, it's important and it's healing for many people
So I'm glad that you guys were able to get together
Yeah, and yeah, we did we had indica be on and he was showing us his greenhouse just a couple weeks ago
Awesome, dude
I see him here in chat right now and he's definitely throwing up the love for you and
And throwing up love for the Vermont compost as well
Yeah, he gave that to me and actually I've got I've got a joint that he gave me two of some lemon Jeffrey my last
Thank you very much in the cup to be and I'm gonna be smoking here
tonight
At some point in time
There was a comment here in chat and it's kind of something you touched on
It's all automation should be used to spend more time in the garden gardening not leaving the garden to its own devices
And that's exactly
Kind of what you were reiterating. You're you're setting up this kind of automation to pay more attention to the plants
you
Look for any kind of efficiencies to you know, look how the leaves are growing
How is the structure and to really focus on that, you know to quote you instead of taking time to mix nutrients?
That's right. And that's something that's gonna benefit any new grower. That's something I always say, you know
I always preach, you know grow the plant naturally the first time
Choose an easy feeding regimen your first few times because don't worry about those things focus on the plant learn how to read the plant
Because once you understand the plant all of those other things that you do to it
You'll be able to read the results. So yeah, so that was a you know, Captain Terp
Thank you for the comment there and that's totally you know was accurate echoing what you were saying. There is
Automation it's not necessarily
a
Tool just to set it and forget it. It's a tool to help you learn more as well
That's right. It sure is and and believe me yours. You'll still be down there checking it
You know when you're home be the real benefit
Just the repetitive stuff and stuff that will happen overnight like you don't know when your plants are gonna
Be needing water necessarily, you know
And I mean it might be it you might not check it at specifically at the right time the water
you know the water is the key and
so I
After doing a little more thinking. I added another twist along with integrating the
sub-irrigation containers into my system. I also added load cells so that
The system that I hope to be able to show in about 10 weeks with plants
growing is that
This system is a hybrid system
So the one that I'm going to show you and I can run a load cell plants if I wanted to in a tent
I'm a tent grower. I grow in my basement and I have three three tents in there. One's a good size ten
It's a five by ten
The other ones are five by five and the other ones are four by four
But I'm very limited in space because my basement is cut
Not it's not shaped in a square
It's more like a rectangle and it's cut down the center of the rectangle and one side
It's for the first floor and I live on the second floor. So I'm on the other side and
And unfortunately, my my grow room is actually underneath my tenants
Bedrooms and so I don't like to make a whole lot of noise when I'm down there and you know
I'm real respectful, you know and try and clean up the air. So automation is real good for me
it's worked out really good and we have a good relationship nobody's been complaining or anything and and I
Automation I felt like it's really helped me
As far as my scheduling and stuff, you know
I can work around my daytime schedule and being able to have my family time too
And know and then finally get down to the garden
But in between all those other hours when I'm not in there
I know things are running good and I know because my system is set up the way that it is and I have
alarms that will be sent to me to my email so that
I can get notified if if I'm if there's something that I do need to pay attention to
The benefit to a system like, you know, I'm a married guy. My wife is not a grower
And and she
Tolerates my growing, you know, she's happy. It makes me happy and she has no problem with that
But in the beginning, you know when it got into well
We can't go to the whale watch tour because I gotta be home, you know, or you know real struggle
right, we're not gonna be able to go away to Maine for the weekend like we wanted to because
You know, I need to be home to do this so, you know the first few excuses that's okay
But eventually he was up. She was the reason that pushed me into this
I think I would have gotten here sooner or later, but
Because I'm a tinkerer, you know, I like
tinkering with things and my background is
electromechanical and I just lew it, you know in the Navy and just doing all this kind of work on electronics is
Just always followed me and I like fixing things I like, you know experimenting
so when I got into growing she said look you got to do something and
Because this isn't working out for both of us and you know, you're in a relationship. It's got to work out for everybody, you know
It just can't be all my way or the highway or I would be on the highway
you know, so
Well, I started looking into
Different
Controllers out there. That's what spurred me into this direction because I said well, there's got to be something out there
you know, so that's what led me down this path and
of course
Everybody knows troll master and there's a couple of little guys out there to smart be and something else
But I I just didn't like their systems want for one reason is that I felt like you had there was no like one
System. All right. Tell me if I want to do this this and this and accomplish those things
How much you know, what? What am I looking at for sensors? What am I?
going to
you know, what's the cost, you know, because that's always a factor right and then I wanted to be confident in the
In the controller itself like the technology, you know, and I I
Come from
Like I said an electromechanical background and I've worked out an industry
In the oil fields out in West Texas for phenol oil and chemical company and up here. I've looked at a place called
Milbury
Wait, so it was a waste treatment plant where they burn people's trash to generate steam to turn a turbine to
generate electricity
Healthy, I'll just throw that in there. But it was actually very clean inside and
And it was a way to get rid of trash
And then and then the ash was sent to the dump, you know to
Put away so I felt like they were doing that pretty good
So that so I worked around with what's called a PLC and PLC's are called
Programmable logic controllers and if you look up on Wikipedia, you know do Google
What is a PLC and bring it up on Wikipedia?
It's a real good description when when they started introduced them into
Replacing ladder logic essentially, you know and before you know in the old days you wouldn't you would have you would work with
Electronic signals would be sent to a pneumatic
I to P which would change the electrical signal to a pneumatic signal which would then move a valve or something and
It just it was a
lot of failures
You know a lot of so they came up with this PLC and it's it and I've worked with them as on the end-user
I was the guy that they said look
We've got a problem over here at this tank and we need to go out there and see what this normal couple
What why why are we not getting a reading?
You know, I might have to climb a tower that was 50 feet tall and you know, there were no safety protocols
You know, I mean I'm walking across four or five inch
Diameter pipes that are carrying who knows what through them, you know, because I'm working on the primary plant and I'm walking across those
Could be at night, you know, they winds blowing doesn't matter winter summer
So that's when they say you're fired before you hit the floor
So, but if you but a PLC so they made these PLC's because they were industrial-based they're heavy-duty there
You know, they're just reliable it's it's tough, you know, and it's not like a regular controller
It's not just like like any controller that you can buy off the shelf, you know, and I believe this is
That's what I'm using as my controller to from for this garden
Project that I built and it's and I feel like that I'm bringing that kind of reliability to the homeowner
All right, so when you buy one of these things, it's it's not gonna fail, you know
I mean I stand behind this product the the cards alone and the CPU alone have a two-year warranty
on them and I haven't had a problem since I've been using this and I've been testing it since I
Essentially started growing probably eight months after I started growing in 2017. I started tinkering
I started tinkering with programming it myself and working with this company and using their PLC's and
buying the motors and sensors and everything that I was going to need so that you can control your whole environment and
and I did this so that I could have that away time with my wife, all right, because
We went and took my son to
Gettysburg the 4th of July so we could see reenactments about four or five years ago
You know when he was and this is before I got into automation
But if I had just been a regular grower, I wouldn't have been able to go on a trip like that
you know because we're gone, you know five days or six days and you know, unless you really have a tight system and and
You know, I I wouldn't have had that going it unless you had that friend
you know if you got that buddy that you could paint your house keys off to and say
Here you go, you know take it over when I come back. I know my plants are gonna be healthy and strong
Then then you're in better shape than I I was or and even still today to this day
I'm still
Yeah, I'm still trying to figure out what I'm gonna do for the three weeks. I'm in the Netherlands
We got a person watching the house and they'll be here the whole time and last time we went to Amsterdam
They did and I came back to some plants that were so
Overwatered it broke my heart. They were still alive. But yeah, I'm already plotting in my head. I'm like, so do I?
Mess around and set up a dripper system give myself a little automation
Do I basically just take clones of everything and throw it in the cloner and let it go for three weeks? Trust me, man
I'm
Yeah, that is a big problem. So having a system that's automated that I can trust
Would be a benefit and also to you said that this is a system that will alert you so I could be in the middle
Of a coffee shop in Amsterdam enjoying my my joint and a coffee
I could get an alert and I could call up and I'd be like, dude
Go flip that switch, please now. Hey, Chad, you wouldn't have to call him
The good thing about this controller is whatever you like it comes with the touchscreen, you know
Seven inch touchscreen and there's screens on here that that you'll be able to punch and you know
It's touching and to manipulate whatever it is that you want to manipulate
In your environment in your watering schedule whatever it is that you want to be able to change you do it right here from
From this screen and whatever screen you see on this you'll be able to see on your cell phone as well
Oh, wow, so you will be able to control this thing from wherever you are as long as you have cell phone
You know connection so, you know, it's when I say it's automated
This thing is is ready and it's really just up to your setup like in my basement
I love using rainwater like I that way. I'm off the tap of my cities
I haven't used city water for any of my gardening efforts because my watering system. Thank goodness
there's a downspout from my roof that lands right outside where a
Window in my basement where they used to have a washer and dryer hook up down there
And so they left the dryer vent in the window
So I have a 55 gallon a nice decorative outdoor one to be a container water container
Underneath that downspout and that fills up and then I also in my basement have a 55 gallon
drum that I run that
hose from outside in inside through the through the vents in the window and
And I fill up that 55 gallon tank and since I've had those two big drums
I have not once had the resort to running out and getting water or
Yeah, you know if I had to I would use city water, but I'm glad I don't and it's clean
I mean I like when I test it
My pH is right usually right around where I want it to be around 6 7 and the PPMs are no more than 35
Usually around 27 right in that range. So and and I haven't noticed any negative effects from using it. So I'm
You know like an acid rain or anything like that. I haven't or any chemicals that might float over in the atmosphere
I don't I haven't noticed any of that and
But the system
Takes care of itself that way and I'm from the you know
and so my system starts from that 55 gallon reservoir that sits in my basement and
From there it pumps water into a six gallon container. That's real close to
Where my my tents are right outside my tents and on that, you know, there's sensor gate
Sensors on the six gallon container so that it lets the controller know. Hey tell the 55 gallon
Container I need you know to open up and give me more water, you know
So I've got that reservoir that would that would allow me to go away for that length of time
and on and only through
Experimenting what I know, you know, depending on how many plants I want to run fortunately in this state I can run 12 plants, so
If I'm if you'll have me back on in 10 or 12 weeks and I can show my system full of plants
I want to show you in my big tent my 5 by 10 10
I want to have six sip containers and in my 5 by 5 tenth
I'm gonna have
What what you're saying load cell
I'm making the energizer bunny. So what is a load cell or what does that mean in the equation here?
It's just essentially a scale. It's like a scale, you know, like you like your bathroom scale that you step on
Okay, but these aren't scared. They're just look that's what a bathroom scale is based on
You know what you step on it's it's what's behind the screen. So I bought one of those and I'm
I've got it all wired in and so I'm gonna set them up in the corners and I want to show that
Maybe you're not interested in having sip containers
maybe you would like to just continue with your five or ten gallon pots or whatever or
Seven gallons whatever you grow in and maybe you grow in hard pots like the Home Depot ones or maybe you have fabric pots
But the load cell allows you to sit whatever size you want on there and it measures the weight
So what you would do is you do your transplant into your final pot?
But before you go to water it weigh it you put it on then you put it on the load cell
Then you then you have an option on my screen where you would write in that number, right?
And then you water it how you would normally water it then it measures that weight
So
Do you physically have to move the pot on to this thing?
Or well, I'm just thinking like if you're in a Scrogg if you're in a Scrogg situation
Oh, oh, no, it'd be hard to move on it. You grow on. Oh, so the the planter itself. Okay
Okay grows throughout its entire cycle in this spot sitting on that square so just picture a
Square foot foot by foot. I
Haven't I'm using five gallon container. So I'm gonna see how they fit
On there, but I'm I can make them bigger, you know
Depending on the size of your pot and it would still be the same principle
So you so at the beginning, you know when you first start you're gonna put your pots in their spots
And then you're gonna put your plants in there
And then once you got your plants in there and your and your soils in there
Then the weight that you're getting is your dry weight, right?
Right, you would never let it get that dry, right?
I even I know as a basic grower, I don't want it to get that dry, right?
You would probably want it to get at some percentage higher than that, right?
Before you would have it kick on to where it would fill up again, right? So the way
I'm
Go ahead. Yeah. Oh, so the way my system works is
the very first time you go in and you you put you put your plant in there and then you put this plant on that
Square and then you're in touch with the touchscreen, right? You'll be able to walk from and see it
Then you you would type in that number
That's that's going to be displayed for that for that square on the on the touchscreen
and then you're gonna add water to it and then that number is going to change and
Then when you fill it up when you put in as much water as you would normally do you wouldn't change anything, right?
You're just filling it up. You've you've been doing this for years
So, you know
How much water you go from a dry so you have enough water where you're not gonna look at watering it
Again for a couple of days or whatever your schedule is, right? So you'll so that's your full weight
So then there's an on that same screen you have a dry weight
That's where you start you would put that number in initially then right underneath that it's another button and that's your full weight
Right about those buttons is the sensor
Displaced that tells you the weight. So so you put that number in there and then
You can change so like what I was saying with the percent like you might not want to let it go all the way dry
So just take 25% of that span right you got a high and a low now
So you take 25% of the bottom and you kick it up and then maybe 25% of the top and you kick it down
and so now you have your ideal watering range and
That would set up the sequence of when it starts to water. It won't water
until it
until the weight
Right, it's talking to the control of the controller then it tells the control. Hey, I need to be water
I'm down here at this weight. You've got to send my water my way
Right, but one thing you're gonna have to account for and I'm thinking this in my head and K Roman
I mentioned it in chat is you know, cuz I do the lift as well
And my you know
My dry pot in veg when it's a seedling is a different weight than my dry pot and flour when it has bud on it
You know, I'm thinking everything above the soil K room and comes in here is like well, what about below the soil?
So, how are you able to?
Adjust for that or a calculate that difference. I guess I'm
Like you could you can change at any time you can manipulate those numbers as the plant grows
I mean if you wanted to but I I guess um
I veg in my 4x4 and that one is not a controlled environment
Right because in veg you're you can be a little bit more tolerant like you can
Lower the light intensity down a little bit more so that they don't grow as vigorously
I'm gonna be going away like I'm gonna be going away for three days
And I've got some little guys and in there and I'm hoping they're gonna be still alive when I come back
Because it's not automated, you know, so I guess I should say that this is when I get my plants into flower
The sip buckets could could go from start to finish but I guess the scale you're right
I I
Would go into flower with those pots in there because that's the final that's the final pot
I'm gonna have them in
Right and transplant them into and then that's when I would use
this control
Where you would have the ability to
You can always change like you're right
You could when every time that you transplant you could you could essentially
Redo those numbers the high and the low because it's not it's not like once you do it one time
That's it. You can change it on the fly, you know like
So every time you transplant and you go into a bigger pot say you were gonna go from veg
All the way up into flower stage well, then
Absolutely, you can still do it because every time you up pot and you go to a bigger pot
Then you just do the same process that you started with again on the same load cell
It just knows those two numbers that you put in there
it does have a
It does have a
Data, it does have the data
Ability and you can pick and choose what data points you want to be saved like when your lights come on and off how many
times or
How much water are you using each time?
There's all these different data can get it can be really really involved depending on how much data you want to collect
But so I would say yes
This system could even still be used from beds through flower
Because you're still going to be transplanting from one pot to another pot
And then once you transplant into that new pot
Well, then you put it back on the load cell and now you're back to here's your dry number
So you just change that number and then when you water it again for the first time to get your full number
Well, then you change that number now. It's it's it's those are the new numbers, you know
And that's something too that I see over time if you're running the same cultivars
Obviously in the same environment with the same feed
You will kind of be able to collect those data points and almost pre-programmed I see Gabrielle in here I
Got the wrong header. But yeah, you'll be able to develop a formula for kind of the root growth rate
You can always create like a general one based off of you know, the means of you know, every plant you have in there
But also if you are running the same cultivar
time and time again
Then you would be able to kind of get those data points and then almost
Pre-programmed to okay, you know week five I need
One liter more of water or something to that effect does that sound about right?
You could I mean you could easily you could it wouldn't be used but it can be thought you can set up those
Those variables in the program mine's not like that. It's it's all based off of the weight
it's all based on the weight of your pot and
And you're right as though as the plant grows
Sure. Look, so let's just say that you're in your final pot
You did everything I said and and now we're in our final part our flowering pot
Say a five or seven gallon pot and we're on that load cell and we did our high lows
And but as the plant grows and it puts on a little bit of weight the root balls putting on a little bit way
You know, like I said, it's not a you would still you could still check things like you could still physically go down there and say
Okay
It says right now. I'm full of water
Nothing's holding you back from sticking your fingers into that root ball into that pot
And is it moist all the way around like I expect it to be and if it isn't then maybe I should adjust my weight
A little bit higher so that so that it it'll add more water
Like this is all based on the just the raw weight of the water
Disappearing like because your soils should remain the same
but so there is a growth in the root and so you will have some growth there and the root ball and in the weight of
the plant as it gets bigger, but
So it's acting differently than like a
Bluemont or a moisture sensor stuck into okay. That's right. Yes, that's right
Yeah, and that's what I didn't like I don't feel real confident about a soil moisture
I don't I don't want to put one of those in there because what if it's just sensing the first three inches around it?
What about the other side of my pot? You know, is it how's that?
You know, how does it know that that that that that area is dry, but this year is wet
And so I'm not getting watering when I need it right in this way with the weight
Once you set your dry weight
Then it once once as as the the plants going to get lighter as it as it drinks the water
Did that weights going to decrease you're going to see it because it's all going to get evaporated out of the plant
So it's going to get lighter and as that weight
Approaches your time to say okay. I'm dry enough that now's when I want it to start watering
It's going to water itself back up in steps because with my system you can tell it how many
Ounces I'm running this thing in ounces
Everything's measured like and I've got a calibration button on there when you first set it up
I'll have a video that would go out to how you set this thing up. It's very if you can run a cell phone and
You can read
You can you can run this system
It's it's not that complicated all the works been done for you
All you can do is learn to operate it and and it's not that complicated
It really isn't in my screens as you will see hopefully in the future a very basic. I'm not
You know, I'm not real good at graphics and stuff like that
I wish I was because I could probably make some really entertaining screens, but mine's like
Start time for lights, you know
In the month the day the hour in the minute that you want it to start and then it says, okay
How long do you want it to run? You know veg run time and then in hours, okay
18 hours the veg time run in minutes. So I give you that option now
It's very simple. You just add in the numbers that you want, you know
And and it's all like that and you really just break it down and even when you wire this stuff up out enough to your
just
Like it's very reliable. Like I the sip containers are awesome. I love them
I love growing in them because there's a new grower took the watering
Out of it because I'm just killing my plants, you know
and my problem is I'm such a tinker that when I got in there, I just
I mean, I'm in the garden, you know, I'm running around I got a you know, I'm you know what I mean?
Like I gotta get my hands dirty, you know
and so I want to focus that energy more now now that I've got all this set up and I feel confident because
When I grew in those ship containers and I looked at and you can look at my idea
I've got them. I mean I post a lot of stuff my idea a lot of personal stuff, but you you think back far enough
You'll see some gross stuff
But I've been focusing more on finishing what I feel like there's a real good system that is valuable and that is needed out
there
For a lot of guys that I feel like wouldn't mind the Liberty if they could get it, you know
I feel like some guys hey, man
There's an event going on this weekend a couple hundred miles away and I'd love to go to it
Maybe even spend the night and I wouldn't have to worry about my garden
you know if you had a system like mine you wouldn't have to worry about that and and
Maybe if you're just gone a short period of time, there are things you could do, you know
We said containers and stuff like that where you wouldn't you know, you could be gone that you could have that Liberty
You know for yourself and take that time away
And not hurt your girls, you know not hurt your girls, you know, but oh, yeah, and I want to tell you mine
Yes, my controller can
The one I'm building can operate two separate grow rooms. All right two independent
So the one I'm going to show is the hybrid model
I would be willing to offer and that is it can control eight sip containers on
One side and then on the other side it can control eight load cells. All right
Weighted pots. All right, or you could just get a load cell
I'm gonna I also have a load just a load cell model
But because of the limitations of the PLC cards that I'm using
That can only the highest thing go with them is 12 12
Total, but you could still you could split them up six and six into the two rooms. So all of these systems
Yeah
All of these systems control your total environment and your watering for two tents and when I go to show my system
We're going to show a watering manifold
It is outside of my tent set up between my tents and they share that watering system
So that the sip containers get taken care of they'll always get their fill when they need it
And I can always go in there and look over and make sure that everything's working, right?
You know if I have any doubts, but I'm telling you my sip containers
I ran just two in my test to make sure that I my controller was working, right?
I'm telling it worked flawlessly. I kept those plants and the beauty of it is I learned
one and very important thing and whether you go for a
Controller and a setup like I'm offering or you go somewhere else
I want you to especially with your sip containers because I ran across this little issue
Look at what they're using for sensors and where their sensors are
Because I had a sensor fail on my sip container and I was like, hey man
and I was I've had like three or four just near misses of being out of my room where my
55-gallon drum would have flooded my whole entire garden
types and I have
Improved my system each step of the way
Improving it
so that
those hurt those mistakes won't happen now and and one of them was with my
Sip containers, you know, the sensor hit fail and it kept telling the controller. Hey, I need water
I need water and it kept giving it one. Yeah, you need water
I'll give you all the water you want and then the question the question we have up now is definitely timely
It says, you know with automated processes involving liquids redundancy indicates reliability
So Matthew at SoCal is just kind of asking, you know, what are how are the redundancies in the system is, you know
Like double actuated double servo double pump double censored. How how
Have you planned for that? Because I know Bluemont the that watering system too. There's been
You know shit the post office delivers 20 million pieces of mail a day. They lose some so I'm not knocking the carrots
I'm just saying there have been instances where it didn't get the message and people have flooded their beds
And flooded the room kind of like you were about to say you were this far from doing it
So what kind of what kind of redundancies have you built into this and then you know, I would love
When we do have this set up to show everybody because I've had a sneak peek months ago
So it's pretty cool to actually see and to visualize as well
But yeah, what kind of redundancies do we have in there right now?
It's mostly all software like like I said, I had that
Sensor in my sip container
fail, you know and it was telling the control a I need more water and I just happened to be down there and I
Was and it was when I was, you know
Kind of first setting it all up and it was just a regular float switch
Like you would think most people would use, you know
Okay, I made a little hole in the side of my sip container and I had this float switch in there
But it failed right?
So when it failed and and I and I realized that because I was down there and I was
Counting how many times it was watering and I was like wow
That seems like kind of too many and I opened up the tent and I just saw water dripping out of the overflow
so I quickly ran over to my
My control box and I just hit an off right on the main
Panel on the front is five switches and
They're actually yeah, they'll be five right now on the one that you'll see I actually have
seven switches
but those are gonna two of them are power switches and I've decided that I'm just gonna have one power switch when
When just one and not divide it up into one tent one tent two
I'm just gonna when you crank it on because the PLC a lot of that is shared, you know
so I'm just gonna just put one power switch you flip it on everything comes on and
You don't have if you're not using tent number two or one, you don't have to have anything plugged into it
Nothing, nothing will work, you know, nothing's gonna run or be controlled in there if you don't want it to be, you know
Let's see, oh
Yeah, and then cheddar Bob was uh, what what sensors are you using on the sip container?
So these sensors that we're talking about right now
What are they where are they located in the system so the sensor so the sensor I went with all right
It's a little more expensive than the little float switch. But once the float switch fails, I was like, oh man
I how am I gonna replace that float switch? I'm I'm heavily into flower
What if I already had a scrog of right?
I don't grow in a scrog and but I still wasn't gonna I am a sip container
It's got 15 gallons of soil. What am I gonna do with that off and and then replace that thing?
How am I gonna get in there? You know, right? So I was like, oh man, this is never gonna work
You know when I when that happened, I counted as a blessing for me. All right, because it opened my eyes
That so I want to get right back to where I was when I first started whether you go with my controller
Anybody else's system look at these things take these things into consideration if it fails. What am I gonna be able to do?
How am I gonna be able to replace it? It's easy
so I went to a different kind of sensor and it's and it just
Slipped on to the side and they can work on any plastic container. The only thing it won't work on is a metal container
So if you're using a metal pot, I'm sorry for some reason it interferes with it's working
Don't buy my controller because it won't work but with the sensor
But but this thing is the bomb and I love it and because it's just held on by double-sided tape
You get to pick where you're gonna put it, you know
You got a range in there of about I don't know
So so many inches in your sip container and the important thing is in the sip containers
You don't have to fill it, right?
You have to fill it up all the way up to the to the two and three quarters gallon
Maybe you do if you don't have any kind of control
But if you want to say say I put that my sensor at halfway
I had it at halfway so that I knew it was probably only getting a gallon and a half
so it had a nice air buffering oxygen layer above my water and I had my water and allowed my soil and
My plants loved it and I never had to go in there and water it manually ever
That thing was kept topped off and I'm in and it just took care of itself
And that's the beauty. I love about my sip containers, you know
they they are
Without giving up too much of the programming but they they write they get sensed when they're full
So when it senses it's full it's full right so in your sip container
You're always measuring when it when it goes down and maybe you would want it to go completely dry
Maybe you're one of those guys that says I want
Like three hours of dry time before my plants get any water in that reservoir. I don't know if somebody would do that
I don't know like I'm not an experienced enough grower, but I'm an experimenter
So maybe one day I might try that one of my pots
So the way my system works is once the sensor sees that the level of the water has gone below it
Then it triggers a timer. All right timers ticking away and you're gonna see that on your screen
Like I said, this isn't a system
I didn't make this so that you could walk away from your gardening chores, you know, and they're not even chores
It's you know, it's it's a labor of love because I do enjoy being down there
I didn't you know
I made this so that I could feel confident if I wanted to go away for a week or two weeks or a month and
A half I could do it, you know because I'm getting to the age where I want to do some traveling, you know
And I'm getting getting to buy me a little RV and right around this country and also with my wife and and I'm gonna know
That my plants gonna be well taken care of when I get back here. Everything's gonna be just fine
I could check in on them on my phone and make sure everything's working, right?
You know, I get any kind of alerts that I want. So
Okay, so getting back to bringing me back
Starts right when you let me let me interrupt you again here because we're still we're we're trailing off. Oh
Hi calcium water. It's clause our floats to fail. How do you deal with calcium deposits and calcium rich water in your system?
and your sensors
Well, because because the sensor sits outside of the water itself see it's sitting outside
The sensor is only held on to the side of your sip container by double-sided tape
I'm gonna give you the double-sided tape
You just got a little square put it on the end of the sensor and you just stick it to the side
wherever you want you just measure with a you know measure so it sends some
Pulse through the plastic. That's right. Yeah. Okay. Are you able to do this?
I saw somebody ask, you know, if you were a salt grower
You were growing organically though. I am okay
a lot of organic people are gonna go for like the grass pot or you know
The three by three beds or anything like that
Is this a sensor or how would that work in that situation? Oh, yeah, like it wouldn't it would just it just works with a sip container
So, okay, it's either either you're going to be growing with sip containers or you'll be growing in pots, you know
So you could use if you if you grow in pots and you're dedicated to your pots and you'd want to go with the load cell
Style, you know, and if that's all you grow and then just go with your motel and and don't grow with sip containers
You know really the options here
It's like I said
I want to offer three different systems a hybrid system like the one that I want to show you
So that I can prove everything is working like I said it would and
Or you can get one that's just load cells
But you have to be limited because the cards that they make and I'm petitioning the company PLC company
I email them all the time
Put more analog inputs on your cards because they only put four and on a PLC you're limited to how many cards you can
Piggyback onto the CPU unit. Alright, so that's your limitations
So I max I would I what I wanted to do with my system was maximize it using
cards
to be able to run this in three different ways a hybrid system or just a load cell system where your where your pots get weighed and
And then a sip container system
Where you could do two rooms up to 32 sip containers
And that's only because they use different input and output cars
To to run a sip container that I'm able to offer it being able to run that many more sip containers
All right, so it's a hybrid system. It's just eight and eight
Yeah, so well, I thought earlier you said that with the load cells 12 was the maximum capacity
It is when you buy a system. That's just only load cells
Okay. All right, and and 12 is usually fine 12 is usually within the limits on
Various states that have set aside for medical or home grow use
So it's still still a good number in the one thing the benefit of this. Let's just say. All right
Well, I'm only gonna control two rooms and yet I've got let's just say you're a sip container grower
And and I and you have the ability and you want to go with all the sip containers
So you have 32 sip containers that you can control. Okay, that's generally more than you're gonna put
You know five by five or five by ten ten, right?
But maybe you're one of them growers that has a huge basement and you've got maybe eight or nine or ten tenths down there
well, you can control the environment totally on two of them and as long as you're able to follow the rule right as long as
You're your slope is a quarter inch for every linear foot, right?
You can make that water travel a pretty good ways if you have if you're in a basement and maybe your height
You're not limited by height
You can put your water container pretty high up there so that you can get a pretty good run
You can put those sip containers in other tents that you're already
Controlling using timers and other things and the watering will be done for you
That's you know, it doesn't matter where they are, right?
It's just um, it just it just means that you can't put them all in one tent, you know
I don't know
maybe you're in a room where you could put 32 of these bad boys all right neck lined up next to each other and maybe
You can and and if you can then that'd be great. This is this work out great for you
You know, it'd save you a lot of work having the water then plant looking down that hole everyone and really, you know with my system
Once that once the timer gets kicked off, right?
Once the water gets below saying I'm full that timers kicking it's it's running. It's gonna continue to run and
so when you first set these up and like I said, it's not a
It is a Senate and forget it once you get it set up, but you got to get it set up
Right, so that means that from the time you feel like organic growing, right?
I mean you're gonna check you're gonna check that water level initially down that tube
For the first couple of days until you see it get dry
And then when you see that it's dry in there
Then you're gonna go over to the controller and look and see where that time is
All right that time still cycling away every minute, right? So when you notice that it's dry, that's your dry time
That's the time that you would set up in the controller for it to know when to add more water again
And it'll fill it up to its full potential again. So like I said, you first have to set it up. It's not okay
I'm just gonna put this load cell this sensor here and then I'm all set
No, you know, there's still a little more work to be done, you know
Calibrating a system and that's you know, it is it's a system like there are many other systems
Yeah in cannabis home gardening as well. And you know, you got to find one. That's right for you
Your time commitment and abilities and you know, that's why I don't do you know, high-pressure deepwater culture. Sounds freaking awesome. Yeah
Great a lot a lot more to it than just the basics
So yeah, you know I could see this being a system that that works for people as well
Doing that
You know, I know some of these guys have grow spaces not necessarily in their home, you know
And so maybe they have a grow space. It's a half an hour away. Well, you know
And you have another job and maybe you have a hard time getting over there
This is where an automated system would really come in handy because then it allows you get over there when you can
Not necessarily because well look it's it's I got a water now. I just know it's that time
I haven't been there, you know that you know, all of us can use timers and if you want to rely on timers
I'm sure all of us have had timers fail on us. I have I mean I bought those push-button timers
I still have a couple of you know, not using them because I got my controller, but
Yes
We still use them, you know, and and just like a lot of old equipment. I still you know, have some blurple lights in there
Yeah. Oh, yeah
But it's okay
It just it gets you that ability is what I'm saying
so that you don't necessarily have to be there and it does do pH balancing and it is very accurate and
So with my system, you're not only getting the ability to water if you want a pH balance you can't and
It
You know, it's just you'll see it on my watering manifold how I had set up
And like I said when you first get this thing set up
Anyway, you'll be using like the testing tank feature. All right, so just picture
my water tank is is just a just under three gallon tank that shape and then a funnel and
And that's where the water gets pumped up into from my six gallon container underneath, you know, and that water gets measured
so if I want eight ounces to be in there at a shot and the good thing about these sensors is
You don't have to flood your medium all at once like your load cell or your
Sip container you get to you get to place in there
how many ounces of water you want delivered each time and it'll keep as long as the
Sensor is saying. Hey, I still need more water
It's still going to be open to receiving more water
So you can add you so you can do it in increments a little bit at a time
That's what I'm saying. You don't have to say
Alright, I'm thinking that I have a gallon and a half in my sip container
So I'm gonna put down, you know a gallon and a half to be delivered over there
So you can do like a time release then? Yeah, it's yeah like like a drink on the way. Yeah
Yeah, so but it'll just keep repeating itself, you know until it reaches that sensor being full so it won't be like it's delayed
Hours or days it we whatever is in in its priority, you know, whichever whichever in its list of priority
You know where to wherever it's listed in the controller, but it'll keep cycling itself
This program is it's just kind of like we reads itself all the time
And it's just taking the inputs from the sensors and if the sensor still says I need water
Well, then the next time the program cycles around and says, okay, I still need water
So you get a sense some over that way and it'll open up and what I like about this system
Too is each of those containers is watered individually
So you have a my watering manifold has
solenoid valves on there, right so that it they will open with the
Corresponding pot that needs watering and that'll be the pot that gets water. That's it
and
So
Anyway, I'm anxious
It worked really well when I did it with the two-step container
So I think you know just adding and I already have added for the eight for this hybrid model
and then I have
One system locks the other one out so that because they have to use different
You know one tent to set up on my load cell and then the other tent set up on my sip container
So I have to be able to know which you know, I have a valve at the end that says, okay
Well, if I want to go to my sip containers, I know this valve needs to be energized and point that way
The water is corresponds with the manifolds of water in that direction, you know
In my sip containers and not send water the wrong to the wrong place
so
but
So most of the redundancy is software and I do have like I have little gauges
Here and there and I also in my setup like when you first set it up because your biggest problem is going to be a flooding
That's what you're gonna worry about and if you don't have
If you let's say you don't have a tank
They say say you're in a house
Maybe you're in a basement and you don't you don't have the ability to put a drum down there
But maybe you have a spigot. Maybe you trust the water. Maybe you're on well water. I don't know
maybe you have some sort of filter that you filter your water through and then you use a hose and you go around watering the
System can still be made to be used like that. You're just tying that water instead of like on my tank
I just had my solenoid valve which is told when to come on and off by the six-gallon container
Just screw it into a garden hose spigot. That's it sitting at the bottom of my barrel
So you could take a hose and just screw it into
that
Solenoid valve and so when it's told that it needs water in the six-gallon container
which is over by your watering manifold, then it will open and the pressure of your
hose, you know
Having it be on would just automatically fill it. It would work like an automated system
the reason I don't like that, but you could do that is
Because you would have to have a lot of confidence in the hose that you use it and maybe if you got a braided hose
Like they use on the toilets, you know those braided hose that they don't have a break, you know
that would be something reliable and so you could make a connection like that, but
If you were going to order if you were going to do it that way
I would you would let me know and I would make sure to put a reducer on
The front side of that because it you wouldn't want any more than like five gallons or six
Between five and six gallons per minute to be flowing through there at any time
Actually, you know what? No, I'm wrong. I take that back
You wouldn't have to put anything from that because it's just going to the six-gallon container
So it doesn't matter what the flow rate is there the pump from the six-gallon container
Which pumps the liquid your water up into the mixing container is no is regulated at the proper
RPMs and gallons per minute so that it gets measured
Appropriately and like I said in the beginning you're gonna have to set up a few things and those few things would be
For the safety and the safety is so that you prevent yourself from getting a flood and that is to time
All right. I would have you say all right when you first start this thing up
I want you to time how long it takes from the time that that six-gallon container says I'm empty
Until it gets to that flow
So I want you to sit there with your stopwatch with your smartphone and time that time and get that time
all right, because that's gonna save you in the end because that number is the number that you're gonna put into a
Screen on my program and that and that's gonna be the limiting factor
All right, that will shut that system down that's your redundancy right there, that's your emergency shutdown
All right
So if that if that switch ever failed if your sensor at the top ever failed
Then that water is coming out, you know, and so that's why that's important. And this is a software fix
So the only thing that would let's you know
He's running. You're gonna be able to shut and so there's I give examples like that
I would give examples like that so that it would prevent you from
Potentially having what I would almost happen to me, you know
Let's see if I understood that right so, you know redundancy is a huge thing that we're asking about
That's right. You have a sensor on the pot that detects whether it needs water or not
Let's say let's say that this has failed the double-sided tape. It's fallen off. Okay, it still thinks it needs water
So it is sending water
So it is sending water, but your redundancy is in the software saying that you only fill for 20 seconds
No matter what the sensor is telling you
Okay, so there is a redundancy
Yes, that's how that works that's why I would ask you to do that, you know, okay like even in the in the container I have
In the in the in the funnel up top. There's there's a place to put a sensor up there as well
But there's also a limiting factor in how much you can put in there and I put that in the software like I always put
The max amount that you could fill that thing up is is with
350 ounces of water and I don't know if you would ever want to fill it that much
I guess it just depends on your system in the way that you want to run it, you know
Because you're the guy in charge and and it's gonna be up to you to run this system
We can give you all the tools to be able to run it
Remotely and
Automatically if you wanted to do that, you know, that's why you would buy a system like this, you know
But it's it's still incumbent upon you to set things up and I will help you out. I'll be here
I mean, I'm the guy, you know, you're gonna talk to me to the guy. You're not gonna talk to some sales guy
Somebody else can talk to me or my wife who will give me your number and I will respond to you
And I will walk you through getting this thing running because I want to be able to help you
I know and I feel like so many of us would like to go. I want to go to these events, you know
I'm like so tickled to death because I'm gonna go to Vegas next week
and the only way I'm going there is because my
Company that I've been working at for 10 years gives you a trip somewhere, you know
And I get to pick the time and then so I I wanted to go to that MJ
I want to go see Johnny can't see nothing
But anyway, so I'm going out there and you know
And I want to go see some of these trips and I'm getting to the age where I want to start
Traveling more around the country
I'm gonna be able to have that available to me because I will be checking out of the matrix soon
Firing and I may not be living like a king, but I'm gonna be happy
That's the way that's what we want and actually timely a good quote here simplicity simplicity. Our lives are frittered away by details
HD the row. Yeah, I just I just I don't know
I there's so many things I want to do and things that I want to see
I've never been out. I had been up to California once back a long long time ago in San Diego
But it's only for two weeks and I was for the military and I was doing some exercises and stuff
So I didn't really get to do anything and it wouldn't have been where I wanted to go
I want to go see the great redwoods. I'd like to see those sequoias, you know
this other beautiful my focus is seeing on you know, like nature things and state parks and and
Hooking up with all my bro me buddies. I talked to him chat man without a doubt man
I couldn't go through the estate if I'm gonna be nearby. I'm gonna stop by, you know me and my wife and my little dog
Fixie, you know, if you ever check out my feet on IG, you'll see she is a six-month-old, but she's down
She's down probably four lives. We do think that she's a cross between a feline and a dog
Because she does some of her antics now to toilet paper rolls
I saw her on the outside of the deck to a story up
With the system, you know, we spent a lot of time here
We've we've talked about watering and you know, how that can how that operates how it has its backups
How it differs from other systems and the scale to which you could do it now
Your system does more than just water, correct? That's right
Okay, because there's a couple names that I've already seen, you know, obviously there is pulse Pro
Yeah, we have Niwa, yeah, I've seen troll master in chat and there was one other one that I'm not quite familiar with
being tossed around as well, so what
what else can your system do and if you can kind of maybe compare and contrast a little bit because I know like pulse is
very
Yeah popular or they just have a good marketing budget because it seems like it's everywhere
No, I think it's very popular and I would highly recommend
Having redundancy like I believe in redundancy. I have you know, how many of us don't have these little guys, you know in our tents for the
Humidity, right? Yeah in the corners and stuff
Right. All right. We still use them and yet I have three of them hit sitting here right on my counter and
On my box and not all three of them are even shown the same numbers, you know
Maybe two of them are the same on humidity, but but they aren't the same on the temperature
So what I'm saying what I would like to say about all
Sensors, oh, I don't care. I don't care where you got from. I'm gonna have some form of
Arrange, you know, they're gonna have a little bit of a range
It may be plus plus or minus one or two, you know
All of them and I would highly recommend a thing like the pulse it. I love it
I don't have one
But I would certainly get one because it would do all it would help my redundancy
It would help me know if I other than my own redundancies and that I had built into the environmental
Controls that would allow me to know that one of my systems has failed
All right that in my system, you're gonna know but having redundancy is absolutely I'm all for it. That's why I got those little
TVs that's what I started with, you know
So I'm not gonna get rid of them they're still working I still use them
But just know that all sensors drip a little bit and they're not all the same and it's and so I follow all the rules
when plenty of
Circulation anytime absolutely so that you don't get any of these dead spots, you know, but but you'll be able to place my sensor
It's on a 20-foot cord and it's the temperature humidity and co2
So you're gonna get co2 and what you get with mine is everything is PID controls
all right, you're gonna get a co2 controller so you don't have to buy that separately and I'm and I'm buying the
The you know the part that hooks up to your tank if you want to use it that way plus in my environment
I have a coal fan right everybody. We all use coal fans
Maybe you won't use co2 and in my basement. I found when I first started growing
Before I even tried co2 and I'm just experimenting. I didn't even know if I'll stick with it
The plants seem to do well enough as long as I bring plenty of fresh air into my tank, right
So I so in my controller you could set up your coal fan as a timer
Like like you wouldn't normal fan timer so you can design that you can put it up in there and you could say
All right. Well, I want you on for this amount of time and then off for this amount of time, you know
And so you set it up just as a timer and you could set it up on that feature if you wanted to or not
You it's like a switch you just you put a one in the box if you want it to work that way
Well, you just leave it as zero, but it will always be working. So if you're in a sealed room, it works as a
temperature
or
It works as a if you're out of range
It's going to come on and empty everything out of your tent and turn off a few things at the same time
For the length of time that you get to choose to have that come on for so let's just say I'm in a 5 by 5
10 and I'm running
I don't know if somebody could do the volume on math right length time width height and then you got it
Maybe around a hundred and I don't know 60 cubic feet or something
So your coal fans are all rated for so many cubic feet per minute
So, you know how many minutes you got to run that thing in order to clear it out completely, right?
Or maybe you want to run a little bit longer
So for as long as that fan is running your heater will be turned off your AC unit
If you're using that it's going to be turned off your co2 unit is gonna be off because I don't want you to waste all that
These are these are all things so
When it's set up running in the over mode, there are there's a screen right with the screen
So you would put in there how many temp like how many
Degrees Fahrenheit you want to allow it to go above like say I set my set point at 82
All right, but I'm gonna set my overflow for 88
So if that if it reaches 88 in that tent that cool fans coming on and it's gonna come on for I don't know
Whatever. I want to set it for
And if and at the same time if I'm using a heater during that stress that heater will get turned off
You know, so it and if it happened too often, right?
Because you can set that up on a notification if you kept getting it hot then it would all right
Well, I gotta look at something because something's not really working right here
You know, I keep getting these all these overflows keep kicking on, you know
And they're little light indicators that come on now let you know whether you know
Which one has been triggered, you know, whether it's a heater that was over maybe it's your co2, you know
You just a high limit for your co2
You're gonna be able to set your set point and then you're gonna be able to put a high limit in there
So so maybe you you want to run co2 and you've run around 800 or a thousand
But if it gets 1500 you want, you know, you want it to shut off, you know, so
That'll that'll happen that coal fan will come on
It's gonna empty out your room and then it's gonna shut off that coal fan. I mean the co2
So I'm one I'm one of those people and there's many other people like me that
Specifically spent more money on their brand of fan because it has this type of ability I could set you know
Emergency clear the room speed the fan up. I can do all that now. I spent more money on that
Intentionally
With your system I could take the basic entry-level fan
That's right plug it into the outlet and then your system actually does
What all paying me extra money for on my fan exactly. That's right. Okay, okay
Okay, and and and you know when I when I first started thinking about going automated and I hadn't really you know
I had my own tent and I found a few automated systems that were like hydroponic, you know
and they got they had everything in it with a little like 10 gallon reservoir under there and a
Refrigerator size grove space, you know with a little LED built into the top and everything and I thought but man
I already spent my money on my tent. I got my heater. I already spent money on a little air conditioning unit
I spent all this money on all these
Tools to help control my environment dehumidifier, you know stuff like that. I'm like, I got a nice light
I don't even know if that's a good light, you know
You know if you're one of those guys all you need is my controller, that's it
It'll control everything, you know from your lights and and if you're running to 20
You can I'll hook it up for you
But to 22 if you run your lights on to I'm when I set up my hybrid
I'm gonna have one rock 110 from my lights at 220 and on the other side
I'm gonna have it be running a 110 just to show that it can be done
You know
And if you're in Europe and you will need everything done at 220
I'll wire the whole thing up but 220 and all the outlets that you need with mine
you're gonna get you can plug in everything like
If you if you had a if you wanted to
Like I always know that I use certain devices during certain times a year, right?
I I don't necessarily need to use my air conditioner during the winter time, you know, right?
I mostly use that in the summertime on
And maybe in the winter time. No, I wouldn't even use it then because up here in New England
It gets cold enough, you know
So that if I want to allow my nighttime temperature to drop but there's a block in there so you put your daytime
Temperature set point in there and then you just write in there your nighttime set point so that when it goes dark
When and it knows that because darkness to it is when the lights are out
All right. Okay, well that's and when that happens then that's then your tent is gonna transition
Downward, you know to or whatever up where you want to set it. Let's let's see. Let's see if I get that, right? So
Let's say I'm running an HID. I'm still running HPS in my tent. HPS is notoriously hot
so I've got my air conditioning going on during the day and
This monitor is able to see that it's hot. So it needs to turn on my air conditioning
It also needs to turn on
My fan unit so it's now controlling two separate things. My HID goes off my temperature falls
it knows to
Switch instead of me walking into the grow room to turn off the air conditioner and to turn on my heater
It this device will actually do that without me being there based on the predetermined
Levels I've set so so really you can
Program the ideal
atmospheric conditions
Humidity and temperature. That's right into the device
And as long as you have the basically the toy plugged into the power strip, that's what it will regulate that
That's correct. That's right. So on my box
Nine outlets, right? So I got nine outlets on one side. Well nine outlets
One side it will have one more outlet than the other because one of the outlets is for a mixing
Bubbler, which I'll give you two you can get the bubbler that that once once the water starts flowing into the mixing tank
you know the the
Gravity fed so my systems all gravity. That's what I love about it. There's no there's no pressure, right?
I got my tank my 55 gallon drum is my you know, big tank in the back, but
So there's no pressure but
so
Man, where were we? Can you bail me out here? I had one of those corner moments where I lost my train of thought
Yeah, no, no worries. We were just commenting that you know, it's able to control all of these different devices
Okay. Yes. All right. So, all right. So one side has one extra
Thank you for bringing me back to the plugs
That's where I was so so one plug on one of the systems goes into the water that
Water and as soon as water starts flowing in there it turns on and it's just gonna keep bubbling
You know, I don't know if that's any good or not, but I just thought you know, everybody's talking about
Oxygen in your water, maybe that doesn't do anything, but maybe it does. I don't know. So I added it didn't hurt
It's not hurting anything you wouldn't certainly wouldn't have to use it wouldn't have to use anything
You wouldn't want to use you know in there and the system would still work perfectly fine, you know
So it does
Well, we talked pretty much about the water. It does have a coal fan outlet
It has a regular fan outlet so you can plug in a strip into that and if you have a bunch of you know
I wouldn't go plugging in, you know, but not a bunch of hundred watt fans because
You know, this is for the home grower and and you're are running even though I had so on my box
I have two separate outlets coming in there, right and that and I did that so that you could split up devices
So I split up the devices and I'll I could list which ones are together like my lights and my heater are together
But not my lights heater and AC unit. They're on a different line or my lights heater and dehumidifier
That's on a different line
So I did that for safety like if you're confident in in
the equipment that you have right and right now you can run your
dehumidifier and
Maybe I don't know, you know your lights and maybe one other high amperage
Device all on one line and you feel confident in that you could take
My because I have two outlets right to mail plug coming outlet and you could plug you could take the main plug
Which is a plug that looks
Like you probably can't see but it's it it lights up. So the main plug lights up yellow, you know when it's
Energized so you would plug this plug in and then you could take the second plug
and
Just plug it into the power strip and then all of your outlets would work
Everything would be controlled that you that you would want to have control on one circuit
But I I caution you, you know, I just caution you
I'm in I live in a hundred-year-old house, right?
It's dry everything in here from top to bottom is dry five any kind of a fire anywhere
I've got a very limited amount of time to get down there and fight that fire and put it out before it gets out of
Control and everybody needs to get out. All right
I got I got fire alarms in my growth space that are remote so that they go off up here, too
You know and I know that the people on the first floor are gonna hear him and I told him every air fire alarm
down there you get out I get out of the house and
so everybody knows and
But I'm not gonna do that guy. I'm not gonna get out, you know, because a lot of times
If you get down there quick enough, you can put out a fire
The person I am I got a 20-gallon fire extinguisher sitting outside my space dude, I'm
My house man, you know and and if I see that it's impossible if I see it's out of control, I'm not stupid
I mean if I see that it's there's just no way I'll get myself out of there, you know
I got an exit I get right out of the house myself, you know, but I I will I'll be down there
I'm telling you I'll be down there and
the the data is
stored on
SD you put an SD card in it and that's where the data is stored and
And
So you could take that SD card actually put it into any computer you could send it to the cloud
You can store it and keep it any any real way that you want. Okay, that's good
And we actually had a couple people in chat
You know asking I'd love to see the system or you know, what are some of the components?
what are some of the valves and
You you showed you had the touchscreen there earlier. Yeah, it wasn't not actually plugged in. No
My living room and you know, I just thought I wanted to be comfortable and
little nervous
FCPo2
There's a lot of cool people here, you know, so I don't want to
Sweat like bullets down
Like a plant in there
We're friends
It's just a casual conversation but people happen to be watching and commenting but there you know
I'm reading chat and you know, a lot of them are we it's a great community
We all have mutual friends here and a lot of them have showed up today
For support and and to ask a lot of really good questions, you know
That's that's the fun interaction that we're able to do with shows like these, you know
Sometimes we're you know, we we might be told we're brilliant. We might be inspired by something
We might be told we're a dunce. It doesn't really matter, you know, but no things are going good and
You know, I do wish that we had it set up because again, I've seen it set up
You've you've done a lot of work
And
We're gonna get what we're gonna get you back on when it's all set up at another time
So people this is like the primer. This is basically instead of reading the manual
This is the manual and then you guys will be able to see it and know how it all works
Once you look at it and one thing I didn't say that I want to say and and that's you know, I enjoyed
No, I
learned about RSO, you know, I watched the Rick Simpson video on YouTube and I
Anybody you know
You might have heard is if you never watch this video you want to get on there and watch that 40-minute video
That he does where he gets on and talks about
His cancer fight and how it was on his face and first he went through, you know
The regular way like we normally would because you know our doctors right your doctor right at most people. I'm sorry, man
It's just a person and and and if I have a leg broken or something like that
I'm gonna go to my doctor and I'm gonna get that thing reset, but if I'm gonna fight cancer, you know what?
This guy's shown away. He is shown away and maybe
It's not that every strain can help every cancer in every person because we're all different, right?
So that's why I'm thinking and I got cancer on both sides of my family, you know, so it's just serious for me
You know and my wife
Lost her mother to breast cancer 10 years ago. So 17 years ago. I'm sorry not 10 17 years ago
Right when we got married, man
She didn't tell anybody that she had and right after we got married and got back from our honeymoon
She let everybody know in the family and that's it
She didn't last very much longer after that and I wish like even at that time. I wasn't growing
I wasn't in the community like learning. I was just I was just kind of
Medicating myself to get me through life. All right, because you know, we all have our own struggles and we all have our own
ways of dealing with things and and this was my medicine man whether I want to whether you want to look at it that way
Whether you think I'm, you know, somebody's just a burnout, you know
Whatever. I like those guys on lifestyle TV. They're cannabis lifestyle TV. He's got a t-shirt that says
stoned and successful
That's how most of us are, you know, how about a job most of us pay our own way?
We're not on some sort of you know help
you know, we're able to get along for ourselves, you know, and and and and I just think that's important, you know for people
Understand that there's a lot of people in this community and we have been branded for so long
I mean, I know and I've been smoking since
You know long time, you know long time well over 45 years
So I mean I started out, you know
When you couldn't let anybody know that you were smoking and now it's tight knit of friends and everybody knows it
it's been around at least that long, you know, and
So anyway, I'm just glad to see where it's going and I got introduced to Rick Simpson
And so with my system you can grow a variety of strains and each one drinks at different rates
And they grow at different rates and I guess as long as even a strong
I guess you could still bend them down but the water would be taken care of you wouldn't have to worry about whether one plants
Drinking more than the plant next to it
Because each one of them gets their water independently of the other one
So that's what I like and I want to be able to grow and I make our so oil and I you know
Yeah, I take it
Almost daily. Yeah, almost a not quite there yet because I've been working on this project and I've let my garden go, you know
I'm like, okay
I'm gonna sacrifice not having it there for me all the time when I need it and and I can always run to the
Dispensary we've got them around here. I have to if I feel like I look I just gotta have the smoke
I'll go over there and pick up a quarter or
ounce or whatever I got to do to get me through for a little while but
Once I get I've only done that once since I started growing and I tried myself on having enough friends that I know they grow
Good weed or can it really I can trust I'm smoking this stuff. It's good when I go. Yeah. Yeah. I'm sorry
I don't trust that stuff. You know, that's why that's why I grow for myself
Why you know, you don't I know what goes in to what I'm consuming and that's that's a huge thing
And you know back to the point
Shit, I know I use cannabis for social anxiety like it
Totally helps me and it helps a lot of people in many different aspects
Yeah, everybody's body is different. But yeah, there's there's a lot of people you would never know it and it was funny
Cuz back in the old days when you were dealing at a high enough level you dealt with people with that had big money
And you'd be amazed at what industries and professions those people worked in
You would never know they would never say
But yeah, you know you also mentioned this community too and you know kind of one of my buddies here that I've met through here is
She's he's just saying, you know, I don't know personally anybody who grows
Back to our point at the very beginning the show
I don't know anybody locally that I could come and take care of my plants for the three weeks
I'm gonna have the house sitter the house sitter is like a fingers crossed man. Are they alive or the dead?
Yeah, it's it is it's it's you know, all of us meet through here, so that's cool
That we do have that community here. And and then the you know, the the make in the RSO
Ironically, I kind of chuckled here in the background right now because you're you're too busy to grow because you're working on a system
To automate a grow to just allow you to grow with less time
Irony going on here. Yeah, I'm paying my dues. I'm telling you. Well, I've been
Countless hours and yet, you know and I gotta be there and I gotta break away when I need to like
Thank goodness for my little doggie, man. I'm telling you my um, I had a real bad scare medically myself just recently, you know
And uh, so you can't be walk around through life with a blood pressure of 269 169
Yeah, so we got this little pup and what a lifesaver man every morning I don't care if it's raining or not
We're out we go for a walk. Yeah, he's here sitting in my couch
And that's the best thing I could have done for myself and I've lost weight and my blood pressure is coming down
I don't want to be on that meds. You know, that's the thing. I don't want to get on that blood pressure
I don't want to be on that meds, you know, that's the thing. I don't want to get on that
Lost weight
Blood pressures coming down. I don't want to be on the meds. You know, that's the thing
I don't want to get on that blood pressure lowering medicine
I am on some now, but I want to get off of that crap, you know, I want to eat right and get exercise
Oh, yeah, come on over here. Dixie
Dixie the the daredevil dog if you guys we do have his Instagram down in the description
We've all seen that first love or a second level balcony with a nice little gate on it
There's about this much room outside of the fence
This dog somehow is walking around that on the outside. Oh my goodness
She's fallen when we first got her, you know when we first got her
We we were invited to a party that was about 45 minutes away in the town. We went to the party
We thought we'd be all set. We put her in the bathroom, right?
Oh, I left the bathroom window open in each that's it just so she could get some air
We took everything out of there, you know, and she was like half the size
she's only weighed maybe eight pounds and we've only had her about four or five weeks and
Then I get a call from our tenant downstairs saying hey
There was a puppy barking at the back door and I let her in it could this be your puppy?
And I'm like, I told my wife I said, you know, I think we better get home
I should have asked him to text me a picture but all the way home. I'm just thinking that can't be her
How could she get out of the apartment? It's impossible
The bathroom door was closed and even if she got out of the bathroom, how could she get out of the apartment?
but she is Houdini and
Maybe she had to change her name
But so when we got home, I went to the first floor apartment door and sure enough
She's in his arms wiggling all happy to see me. Oh, oh daddy, you know, so I pick her up. I carry upstairs
I look at my wife and tell her we're gonna get to the bottom of this mystery
Bathroom door is still closed. We open up the door. We look at the window. Okay, it's open six inches, but the screen
It's not broken on the bottom. It's broken at the top of the window
So she managed to get in there and squeeze in between the screen and crawl up another two feet
So she got to the top and then it broke out and she fell 30 feet
And the only bush I did not remove from this house
With that bush down there that she leaned it on and it must have been like I went down there the next day
I was pushing on the bush all the other
Branches went horizontal like this. It didn't grow up. I don't know what kind of brush. It's always like a like a cushion
I went out there
In a you know, so she didn't weigh very much but it was black, you know
We'd only had her four weeks and thank goodness. She knew the routine
Because we always go in and out that back door
She knew enough to come around the back door because she's gonna run off into the neighborhood never would have gotten her again
You know, I mean, she's just a pop and she's a cute little pop and she is
And she's a real daredevil and she says real nice
She's not one of these biters and no little dogs tend to have a chip on the shoulder, you know, sometimes
but anyway, um
Can but she's sweet man, she's great with big dogs little dogs or people new people, you know
She's she's real sweet. She's a real sweetheart. And I'm I'm really blessed to have her in my life that she joined our family
You know, yeah, they're really good for me. No, really really good. Yeah, and animals are awesome
You know, I always say that about the dogs. They're always happy to see you. They are doesn't matter how your day went
To see yes, I get the best greetings when I get home. Oh my goodness. You wouldn't believe it
I had a tape of one time and put it up there
I get the best wiggles and nine out of ten times just got a little toy in her mouth
What a greedy man, the ears are down, you know, she's all wiggling around
Amazing
It's awesome. I think my wife
Maybe I know mine does I know my dad's I've been told before
All right, all right, all right
But yeah, so one thing I'd like you guys to know is you know, I'm I'm I
Feel like we spend our money, right
It's not cheap. This isn't a cheap system. I know it's not and I'm sure it's gonna be out of the means of a lot
and and and
That maybe might want to get one, you know
And I'm gonna see if I can do some things because I'm a veteran and uh, you know
and I'm maybe I can have some giveaways and stuff and I'd like to be able to do some stuff like that for some
People and or maybe have some sort of sliding scale. I don't know
I don't I don't know because I'm all real new, you know
And I'm gonna be in Vegas and if anybody knows of a company that's gotten into the business
Maybe in one aspect or another and they're kind of branching out with other equipment and maybe they might want to have a controller
Well, here you go come talk to me because you know, I'm open to all different ideas
I've got I'm willing, you know, I've always wanted to have my own business. All right, I've always trudged off to the mill
I'm a blue-collar guy always always have been except for 10 years that I spent at Brown University
Which I could say it was a white-collar job
But it really wasn't I was still a technician and I just took all the engineering students that were enrolled in any
Engineering discipline had to take a material science class and I ran that undergraduate class
I think most of them were sophomores in there. So if you were a brown between
1998 and
2008 you might have I might have run that class
I might have been your material science
Helper because most of the time, you know, the professors went down there
I ran the lab. Yeah, so it's just a lab
So maybe we saw each other and we didn't even know each other. Oh
That's that's hilarious
Peter who we all know and love I went to Brown
That's a small connection world, right it's alumni hour
That's pretty cool. Yeah
Looks good there. I enjoyed my time that I spent there. But like I said, I've always wanted to be a
Newer and I I did that and in 2008 I went and
for the first time seriously tried to open a small business and
It was out of the country and it was in Honduras and I had a great three-year run. I really enjoyed what we built on there
But it just didn't pan out. That's way businesses are, you know
sometimes you got to be willing to take a risk, you know, and
and
I'm willing to take that risk because I'm not work. I
Appreciate the job I have I will say that and it is it is
Challenging enough to make it interesting and the people that I work with are great and I like all that about it
But I still have to go to a job
that if I had my choice to run my own business to be able to build boxes and
Sell boxes for people in this industry
I would rather do that or if I could meet up with somebody that was affiliated in
This business that is already in you know
Like I could think of there's already manufacturers out there that got into this business doing one thing
But now they offer a tent or they have a lot and now they offer a tent
So come and talk to me if you want to offer a controller for your system and let's finish the system out
You know, and I'm I'm easygoing. I'm not I don't
Want to be rich, you know, I if I could make my I just want to pay my bills
I just want to get to retirement and know that I could pay my bills at the end of the month that I don't have
to choose between
Something that I need in my life. All right when you're really wealthy
It's easy to give up things that you don't really need in your life
But when you don't have a lot of money and you don't come from a lot of money
Then the things that you have to give up are almost necessity
You're choosing between something that you need what's more important. What do I need more importantly in my life?
And so you're willing to give up something that you really need but you can't afford it anymore
And I don't want to be in those shoes. I don't want to be like that
I've seen plenty of old people getting those kind of conditions and I don't want to be there
I want to be self-sufficient on a I got a lot of ideas on things that I want to and
Anybody, you know and it's always been a driver
Entrepreneurship to have a business. So that's where I'm at. I appreciate my job
I love I enjoy what I do
but if I could if I could work for myself if I could build a business where I could actually hire people because I'd like
To be able to do that. I'd like to be able to provide people a job, you know
If it could get to that kind of level, you know, I'd be happy. I'd be tickled
I feel like I'm contributing to other people's livelihood, you know, and um, and
Because I just feel like working gives you a sense of self-worth
And so I've never been out of a job and I've always bounced from job to job to job
And the only time I didn't have a job was when I got out of the Navy and I went to school for two years
And that was the only time I didn't have a job and that's because the Navy paid for my education
And I saved up enough money in the Navy to be able to sustain my family because I was married for four kids
So and um, and it was a technical college, but it got me this degree in instrumentation which backed up my
What I was doing in the Navy working on a radar system a track radar system
from soup to nuts from
Emptying out the seawater heat exchangers to working on complex electronic boards. So
And then you know get my instrumentation degree and then going out and working in as essentially an instrumentation technician
You know out in industry where I got introduced to PLC's and that's this system is based on that and
We had a storm blow up through here, maybe six months ago. And when the high winds come up I lose power
I'm just it's one of those deals, you know, and I'm right in the middle of flower
I got everything running down there like I should have you flower and I got power going off
Like 50 times in the span of like five minutes and at times like within 15 seconds
I'd have the my system, you know, because I'm
Systems that's right
Right, so I almost went down I almost did it
I almost went down there and just shut everything off because I thought man
I'm not gonna lose my appliances down there my AC unit or my heater or my heat humidifier or whatever
I was running my lights, you know, because I'm in power. What stuff was running?
Including my PLC, you know
That's taking all this off on off on off on and but it can handle it those things are built and it didn't lose a feet
When when when when power got stable again, it was right where it should be and that's the way this system is
Oh, and I also got red lights in there for the light. So there's also a control in there
So you guys that use the red light initiator lights, you know where they come on a certain amount of time before your regular lights
Come on, well, there's a time. There's a button in there you punch in how many minutes you want it to run?
Ahead of time and then when your lights come on that red lights gonna go off and then when you regular lights go off and
You want that red light to come back on?
Well, there's another there's another button in there and you just punch in how many minutes you want it to stay on?
So you're getting a lot of value with this thing and it's a reliable and I would caution anybody
And I'm gonna explore wireless because all my stuff's hardwired
But with hardwire, you don't have problems with hiccups like you'll get with wireless systems
I'm not just caution anybody that's a lot of people go into Wi-Fi
You anybody that's been on the shit-talking evil show at night and seen Johnny can't see go into his grow room
With his phone and then all of a sudden robotic Johnny comes out
I'm just caution you use the sensors that are going to be controlling your environment
And they're gonna be in there. Just be sure that you got it set up, right?
I mean, I want to check it out because I'd like to be able to save people wire
I I'd like to not have to make 20-foot cable wire runs, you know that comes out of the back of this box, you know
Because that's what's gonna run all these sensors. That's how it talks to each other, you know
But I just caution you be very careful on new technology because lots of stuff's not proven somebody
Speaking of speaking of you know, somebody mentioned Russian hackers earlier, too
So that that's kind of a way to avoid it
but
No
I mean that's actually is a pretty legit concern when everything's controlled
Wirelessly and you have cameras and here and this and that and everything can be tuned into another place
But hardwire does kind of take advantage of it
You know you talked about wanting to you know
Kind of move on from the daily grind and you know, hopefully this you know can be something and hey
You know any his contact information is down in the description below. So everybody please feel free to hit this man up
And ask him some questions about the the device
But you had mentioned the PLC you had mentioned a lot of your experience and some of your education there
I've seen it. Can can we actually see the the box that you were talking about?
We're not you know, everything's not set up all the bits and pieces isn't here
but this is the brain and I just kind of want to give this visual to everybody who's listening to
you know, hopefully just seeing this will demonstrate the attention to detail and the
Continued effort that you've put into this
Because this is you know, there's there's a lot of there's a lot going on in there
As I'd like to say, but this is this is basically the brain
This is the box and this is something that will exist outside of the tent. This is something that you can set up anywhere
This is where you would actually have your user interface. So your screen would be there
Okay, and I'll go ahead and I'll add it in here and I've got the other phone
laptop muted
So
Let me turn down my phone
I
Hopefully that's a little bit better
Still a little and can you turn it to the side maybe the the phone to see if it does the full length. Oh
Yeah, it's not not allowing me to
I
Played magical mic mute here. Just try to find out where the echo is. So yeah, the echo is definitely coming from the cell phone itself
These two are power switches
But I'm only gonna have one and it won't be mounted on the top. It'll be on the side
So you'll only have these five switches and they'll be spaced out a little bit
Now, all right audio is not not happening for us
No
The PLC
220 for my life
110 out
110 out
Solid state relay
Solid-state cards that run the DC outputs
So, let's see if I can talk
No talk without it echoing, okay if I muted your phone, so we're basically kind of looking
inside at all the wires
You have the 220 there which I saw people asking about you also have the 110 outlets there
I'll try unmuting your mic here again and seeing if you can get that without the echo
So
And they'll all have labels like they'll be labels up here, it's all be labeled
Um
220 for the lights
Outlet
The power supply and the other two of course
You know on this side
Here
Okay
Okay, your automation is freedom, can you hear me now I can okay perfect
Yeah, you are actually coming in awesomely crystal clear here Peter with the magic cape to save the day
Can you actually just maybe start again from the top? I'm sorry
For the audio difficulty there. But yeah, if you could just kind of start from the top again, we're hearing you perfectly right now
Okay
Okay. So like I said, I'm only gonna put one power switch not two and it's going to be mounted on the side
Because when the box comes on I want the you know
I don't want it
I just want the whole everything to be energized and these need to be long because if you ever need to get in here
I'm and I'm gonna put a little bracket on the back so that it can actually hold
Hold itself up, but you see all the cable connections here on the back on this
Front wall right here. All these connections are your inputs and outputs to your devices out in the field
your palms your sensors everything and
Anything that's DC control like you're still in my valves
your pumps
They'll love they'll all come off of these cards. They don't come from the PLC directly
So that insulates the PLC from any kind of electrical
Shorts that can happen out in the field. These cards are much easier and cheaper to replace
Than your PLC card
For your outlets I got all these solid-state relays in here
And eat they they power up your outlets and some of them are mounted on little heat sinks. Oh
Man
What happened no, don't worry we still got you you're still on the phone, okay
We just took that just took that out to get the audio. Yeah. No, we're still we're still with you on the phone
So yeah, very good continue carry on carry on
So these so these solid-state relays here for the outlets, right?
So you got a small DC voltage from your PLC which energizes solid-state relay and then it allows
the power that's coming in off of these cords right from your wall outlet to power up your outlets and
Then the PLC is telling it when to come on and when to go off, you know
So again, everything's insulated, you know, I'm trying to insulate
This is almost like a contactor in a in a motor controls
Things are labeled down here on these so that you know, what outlet what wires going in there?
you know every wire that's been that's in here has a
Has a in a Y or an O it tells you what it is, you know, so that
I'll have send you a list. There's going to be a list and it's going to tell you what those
numbers
represent like on a piece of paper or laminate or something solid that and probably even on a jump drive to
So that you have that information so that you know what that goes to what it is
In case you ever had to replace something or I I mean, I have a lot of confidence in PLC's
I know they've been around forever. They still use them and and the reason that they use them is because of their reliability and
So I've got thermal switches on the back here. You can see them right over here
So they that's where this power comes in first and it's going to go through that thermal switch
And if there's a short that's going to short right there first before it even gets to your system
That's the way it's supposed to work. And
So this 220 is for my lights on this side
So that's why I have a separate little 220 plug here and
You know all these solid-state realize this box is packed, you know, I had to do a lot it's a ton of wiring in here
but it's it's safe and
shout out to a
lot of help along the way
to
You know people that I reached out to
In the community because when I was building this thing, you know, especially initially when I was just learning how to grow
You know different things, you know, like this is a basic you guys that are a lot more advanced
You know, like you could take this system like to the next level on what it could do, you know, I know
as far as
data and
Because you know what you're doing your problem, you know what experiments I mean, I'm just you know
I'm just starting out and even though I've
Got this house in 2017 and I started growing right away
Within eight months because it it only took that long before my wife
Told me I better I got to do something. No, that was the line. So
So here I am
I've been racking my brains and I feel like it's it's a good system for an organic
Soil grower that that either grows and sip containers and and I don't even think they have to be the rectangle
Sip containers, you know
if you've got a some sort of bucket system as long as it's plastic that sensor is going to read through there and
As long as you've got some way to feed the water to put the watering
hose from the watering manifold
You know it so that that's how it fills it up and I see no reason it couldn't work for that
You know, I just happen to be using these rectangular pots, you know, and and I like them and they're and they're really good
You know
So all this stuff that's that might draw any heavy amperage for long periods of time like your lights
Your heater your AC unit and your dehumidifier are all on these vented
Aluminum
Stands so that they can take that heat. All right heat. That's the worst thing for these electronics. That's what'll cause it to fail
you know, so
I've made that I got some open holes down here
On both sides that I want to just put some screens over, you know, just to keep the bugs out
But at least allow it to air, you know, let some air flow through there, you know, like our gardens this thing is
It's only electronic garden
You know, so it needs a little air but no water
Don't spill your drink on it you're fired
That's why minor right there
Yeah, so yeah, I put a lot of work in this thing and you know
Getting it all to fit in this box. It was a pretty tight squeeze for two systems, you know
And so keep that in mind too. I know you're gonna want to compare things apples to apples oranges oranges
Oh, it's a reflection on the color. Okay. Well that I was seeing something there
but yeah, it's
You get a lot of value this the majority of the cost is gonna be right here
It's this PLC and this touch screen that you're gonna get that I showed you earlier now one thing
I want to tell you guys it let's just say you really like my system and you're going balls to the wall and you want
Two boxes. Well, you wouldn't have to buy another touch screen
all right, that's a beauty that touch screen can handle 64 of these boxes and
So, I don't know, you know that kind of goes away from where I was headed
My focus my focus is for the home the home growers and I don't know. I know myself
I'm just thinking of myself, but I'm also thinking that there could be home growers out there that you know
that maybe they do have a basement with 10 tents in it and and so and maybe they just want to be able to
Control two of them with the outlets that I have
Smartly this way, but if you were gonna go with the SIP system and you're getting 32
You know, you're gonna be able to control 32 separate SIP containers
Like I said earlier you could if those other tents weren't too far away from where your manifold was or you know
If you're doing something that big you're
You know, you're probably a pretty handy DIY guy. Anyway, you know
I
Like that
I like the size of this because one thing that I've seen from the shift
From medical to rec is that the home growers have been forgotten and we're not getting
Devices really built for us a lot of things are getting built to scale. So to see the opposite
I like that. Sorry to interrupt you, but I just wanted to interject that there because you know, that's important to me is
We really are dealing with that with that type of market in person, so I'm sorry
All right, Gary. So in the reason I cut this I cut this, you know
There is a reasons why I do things and I don't like that. I have to cut this but I'm gonna put it
There's a plastic piece that you can go in here on both sides. It kind of shields any
Sharp edges, but there won't be because I use a file on it. But anyway, just a
So that's not the bare metal there
but I did that because you know
Your switches are right here and you don't want to have to take off the cover and then handle 18 inches long cover
You know, it's just much easier to flip this thing over
If you had to get to the back row for any reason, but you know
Everything in this box. I have a lot of confidence in is as long as you didn't have some freaky, you know
Lightning bolt strike that just blew everything off
I think the things that you're gonna find that will fail mostly are gonna be your sensors out in the field
little pumps that maybe I use
Because in my system if you're using if you're gonna have a reservoir like I use a 55 gallon tank
there's gonna be a pump there and then you're gonna have a pump inside your six gallon container that pumps it up to the
Watering
Manifold, all right, so and where your pH balancing will take place in that
container, so
So there's at least two pumps there
And then you've got your pH pumps if you're gonna do pH balancing then you've got a you know up and down solution
So you got two more little pumps there and then you've got the sensors, you know
so those are the things that will fail but those are those things believe it or not are the
Things that cost the least in the system the things that cost the most are things that you're kind of looking at in this box
you know the power supplies the the later
PLC's that I've used here the
CPU new unit that I decided to go with that would match up so that I would have enough inputs and outputs to do the
Things that I need to do
And then all these separate
Solid state switches, you know or contactors, whatever you want to call them
Solid state relays, you know all that stuff just costs, you know
And and that's believe it or not the majority of the cost, you know, the the little devices like the pumps are not that bad
and
And again, you're gonna be getting a co2
flow regulator that would screw on to it to a to a
You know onto a tank and then and it'll be PID controlled
So you get that too and you'll get the actual watering tank
And and you know all the sensors that will need to go there
So the only thing I'm not I'm not gonna I won't build the I'll show you I'm gonna show you my PVC
Stand all right and the way I hook it up, but I'm not gonna send that to you
You know a 10-foot piece of PVC from Home Depot can't be that much
And you can build your own stand or maybe you've got
Stuff around your house that you would prefer to make it out of something a little more that you might feel is more sturdy
so
So that's your option
But what you will get with that watering tank the funnel it comes on its own little metal stand
So you'll have that metal stand and and you'll have all the valves and stuff, you know, everything will be all hooked up
The watering manifold will be all hooked up. So be up to you just to run the tubes
Into your tent and you just got to remember that slope, you know one inch down for any for every linear
horizontal linear foot
So in an inch if you were really good in one inch drop of water a slope
You should be able to travel four feet. So
But of course the higher you got your
Manifold the better off you'll be you know, so you get 20-foot cables
And you get all the support and this PLC is warrantied for two years
I'm not sure about some of this other stuff. I'm still gonna
decide on how I want to work some of those other things because you know, I I have
And I'm the reason I'm not gonna throw a price out there right now is
Because I bought everything retail. All right, and some of this stuff I know
if I if I you know, if the right person knew the right manufacturers who
Can get a lot of this stuff in bulk
We can probably save some money, you know
and I want to pass it on to you guys because I really want to get this in the hands of as many people that
Want it because I know how I was and and it didn't take me long
For my wife to not be happy with the current situation
So and maybe you're not in that same boat is not he was but maybe you you know
Maybe you want to go to an event. Maybe I don't know. Maybe you want to take a vacation
Maybe maybe you don't want to deal with the day in and day out
Grind of leaning over and watering or looking down that hole in a SIP container
When all you got to do is look at the control box screen for the SIP container
For the SIP container and see how many minutes it's been running since it's been dry, you know
I I'm I mean, there's so much flexibility
That that it that it allows you. So do you want to be a lazy gardener?
You could be with this system, but I wouldn't recommend it and that's not why I built it because if you're gonna go that road
What you're gonna end up doing
It's just hurting yourself because you're gonna neglect your plants and things are gonna happen and this thing isn't gonna save your neck
From that, you know, you're gonna miss bugs getting in there. You're gonna something's gonna happen, you know, so
If you're thinking that you're a new grower and you're gonna build this and this is gonna solve all your problems if you buy this
Then you're looking at it for the wrong reason, you know
This is just another tool to help you, you know, and and you can take it as far as you want
you know, there's a lot of
You're gonna be able to set up your own
Data points and what you want to monitor, you know, and it's really good. So
And and if you want to set that up separately from the things that you get emailed alert that that's really good
You know, so it does have a lot of potential
To be used in a very scientific way, I believe you know, I mean, I'm not there yet
So many minds that have been doing this a lot longer could maybe see that value in in having that kind of data
You know, I'm just not there yet, you know, and maybe I'll get there one day and maybe I'll just be content
Grown some good organic medicine that I know helps me get through day in and day out, you know
and I can function and
Be a successful stoned and successful
Right, well, you know it is a good point to a lot of people are gonna be using this for medicine
a lot of people
Well, I should just say some people with limited mobility
We want to have something like this because it would reduce the actual
labor in the garden itself
And so to to to be able to have those data points because again you're growing it as medicine
Typically you have found a strain that works for whatever particular condition you're using it for so you tend to monocrop
Having those data points time after time same strain same environment same feed again that that could become beneficial
And it just down the road, you know, it continues to pay for itself. Like I'm not
You know, I'm not here to like pitch this or like sell it or anything. I could say this to you know a
Let's just say a thousand dollar pair or pack of seeds
It's expensive
I'm usually not the person to buy it, but I absolutely see the value in it because again you use
Let's say you five of them pop and you have
Two females and you clone them you dude. You're getting your money back. It's just how long how long are you gonna do this?
Right because the longer you do it the cheaper everything becomes so that's always I always try to frame because I hate spending money
I don't have a problem buying something expensive if it's good and my criteria is like if I could get something for a dollar a day
Before it dies then it's well worth its money. No matter how much it cost a dollar a day if I get a dollar a day
out of something
Dude, cool. That's right. Yeah, this thing's gonna run. I mean just look around if you do just think about PLC's for
Just even a second, you know
Think of all the different
Industries that PLC's run and and they're reliable and that's why they use them
And so that's what you're getting with this system, you know with the PLC that they're built
Yeah, and they're reliable and they're built for industry, you know
And that's the way I look at it. You know, they're whether it's the refuse to animals
They're they're built for the animals. They're built for the animals
That's the way I look at it, you know, they're whether it's the refuse to energy plan
I worked at or out in the female refinery company out in West, Texas or you know
Or even the switching stations up here that run all the trains for the subway system, you know PLC is they do all that?
so
Yeah that and I think that you're gonna get a lot of time and a lot of
Reliable time with this with a system like mine, you know
it's gonna last you years and years and years and I
Just you know
I didn't go cheap out and I and I've been using this system as I've been growing as a grower and I've been
Fine-tuning it and I really feel it's a really good for sips and for a load cell if you want to go that route
I think it's really really
Well, I can't wait to show it to you with some plants and then you can see for yourselves and and I want to be
Once I get my basement set up I want to get back to like if you just look at my
IG you can probably much just see
follow it when I was growing when I've been working on this system and when I've finally been getting back to a little bit of
Growing because that's essentially what it is
You know
I posted a lot of pictures at the beginning of all my grows and stuff and barely no personal stuff because I was just doing
My grows and happy and but ever since getting into trying to build a system like this since I do, you know
Was forced upon me by my wife
Evil, which no, I'm only kidding
Gotta have a sense of humor. I'm sure she's listening in the other room. So I'm gonna give her something to chuckle about
Yeah, right
But it made me do it
Yeah, see but yeah, I've been when I've gone away from my grows and it's usually after I harvest and
you know, I just
Collect all my jars and I get back deep into this, you know, and it's it's hard, you know
You know when you have at nine to five, you know or eight to five or whatever it is
And and then when you get home a lot of times you just don't want to do anything, you know
so I found that I could spend a little bit of family time with my wife and son and then
You know hit the bed early, but then maybe get four or five hours of sleep and then I'm up again
But I'm up it where it's my quiet time
you know where I can work and I get a chance to enjoy some of these late-night podcasts and you know,
And and I just helps me get through
Working, you know because just total silence is just too deafening for me. I can't I can't work like that
Yeah, we're we're at that time of the year to where people are needing a lot of background because they're busy trimming
I'm sure I wish I was in one of those boats and one day
I hope to be able to put a plant outside
That would be my dream and I'm as much as I love New England and I love it
New England and I love it and I've lived up here a couple of different times in my life
Lot when I was a lot younger and then middle-aged and then now here at the end, you know
Not the ends because I'm not at the end. I got plenty of time left, but
I'm not gonna stay up here. You know the taxes and cost of living. It's just too much, you know
And and so I want to go somewhere where it's a little bit cheaper to live and you know
I've got some ideas of what I want and
That's where we're gonna go so it won't be uh, it won't be a from from New England place even though
So I give out the name
Though it's the name of the controller is gonna be called the wicked pisser
controller
That's what I'm gonna go because even though maybe people from New England will get it
I got it. Is that it's just a wicked pisser controller, man. That's all
I got the extra in there. Yeah, okay. It's a good system and
I think you would people would have many years of success
I know I can't wait to get back into the sip containers and and grow six of them plants and I've not been getting seeds
You know, I've been buying seeds and I've been saving some and I did try popping a bunch and my timing was just way off
so here recently, so I
I'm nursing a few little ones. And like I said, it's not my control tent. So I'm I'm
You know, I can't even do something, you know, it's just that the old habits, you know, well habits can be hard to die
but uh, but uh
yeah, I got a few of them that are going and I plan to add some more and when I
Come back and I show you the complete system
I plan to have hopefully ten different strains running so you could see I just like variety and you know
Nothing sticks around my house for very long. I don't
I'm a
Whether it's RSO or just my own
relaxing nature
you know, I just it just goes, you know, and
And you know, I just I use it and
And I enjoy it and it helps me I feel like be a productive
Part of society, you know, so that's right. That's what I really like you can control and give back and you know
I love the the term productive
member of society
because while this is
Productive member of society some people will think anything cannabis related is not
This system
And other systems like it do not know what it is doing as far as growing so you could grow your lettuce
You could grow your carrots. You could do you can do anything really you can do your micro greens
But we saw saw in chat Ian Ian put it up there. We're getting close to the 420 moment
So three minutes, so everybody in chat get ready to hit the 420 out here
Not to go morbid on any on this thing
But but I just want to I just want to put this out there because I want to hold my wife's feet to the fire
Uh-oh. Oh when I die
Right and at my funeral. I want it to be at 420 around 420 and I want there to be a basket
Passed around so that everybody that wants to light up a joint
I don't want it to be old tears and all that. I want it to be a happy moment, man
this this plant did a lot for me and
And I want to give it the respect even at the end and I feel like it deserves, you know
And uh, so that's the way I'm gonna go and now that it's out there, babe. You got to do it, man
That's my wishes. So you got to be able to pass that then back to you. Yeah, that's that's that's that's that's that's
That's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's
And there's plenty of guys. It'll be happy to
Put some pre-rules together so though
That is just the pun of the year right there
Kudos sir. True, wake and bake get it wake Oh
Oh, God. I love that one. That is awesome. Yeah, that's true.
Well, real quick, though, we do get a couple minutes before 420.
Everybody in chat, let us know what you're smoking on.
But automation is freedom.
I always like to ask people, you know, that come on.
Is there is there anything that I didn't ask that you wanted to talk about?
Because, you know, now is definitely the time
we've we've scratched the surface of kind of what this can do.
I think we've given like a good overview of some of the capabilities.
I know I'm eager there.
Oh, excuse me.
They'll be eager when we get this set up and we can do, you know,
another quick demo, do a demo show with everybody.
But yeah, please go ahead.
But is there anything I didn't ask that that you wanted to mention
or talk about? Not really.
Just that, you know.
The value, I guess I would want to get back to the value a little bit,
just in touch on that a little bit, like everybody places value on different things
and depending on where you live, some things may seem like they're more expensive.
Like you're like I've heard people say, oh, how could you pay $300 for an ounce?
Well, it really just depends on where you live.
You know, I mean, around here, we can be pretty expensive, you know,
and maybe if you live in places where it's a lot more rural
and cost of living is a lot less, maybe you can get that
same grade of pot for a hundred or a hundred and a half.
And that's great. You know, but
so when you so we all equate value in different ways.
And so somebody might spend a thousand dollars
on a bomb, on a beautiful piece of glass.
That's a lot of work to do.
And some of those pieces of art
are, you know, that's what somebody puts their value in and they're willing.
It's worth it to them.
OK, so I've spent way more
trying to develop this thing than I hope that I know I'm going to have to charge,
you know, without a doubt.
But it's been worth it to me because I feel like I got a system
that I can rely on.
You know, like I said, I don't have that guy I can give my keys to
and I can come back and know that I'm going to have healthy plants.
But when I go away and this system's running,
I'm going to come back.
And unless I had a massive bug infestation
that I missed because I wasn't doing my duty
before I left to make sure I had a good, clean room,
then I'm going to come back to plants happy.
They're going to be praying.
And, you know, separate from my system, you can always put a little Wi-Fi
camera in there or some sort of camera so that you could even watch your girls
if you wanted to.
But even from a distance, if you wanted to make sure
if if you knew when the watering event was going to take place, right.
So you knew that the weight's getting close to on the load cell.
It's going to kick off and kick off the watering event.
You can go to the screen and actually watch it
like you can actually watch the numbers
increase into how many ounces are being put into your watering tank.
You know, you can see that number increase.
You can't see it, you know, visually, but you can see the numbers climbing
to to to wherever it gets, you know, eight, 10, 12 ounces, 16 ounces,
whatever you want to put in there, you know.
And then you can also watch the pH balancing if you want to watch that take place.
And if you don't want to have any pH balancing, well, you don't have to.
You just push the pH balance bypass and boom, boom.
All you're going to get is water. That's it.
And if you want to add microbes or something like that
and still do the pH balancing, you just let the thing know
and it'll compensate for that, because I've noticed in my trials
and errors of playing around, adding microbes.
Then when I had recharged, my pH goes way up, you know,
and when I add in one, it goes way down. So
but it does go far from the six, seven
that my rainwater is when it gets put in there.
So, you know, and it'll balance, it'll do it.
But it's just good to know, you know, and if you and if you never test
and maybe you don't even test yourself, maybe for you,
pH balancing would be a waste of time.
And and if you felt like it was, you could call me up
and maybe save yourself some money, because
I'm not sure I would have to look at the rack layout,
but if I could do away with one of the cards,
because that's an analog input that comes in and it's not just a pH.
You're going to there's a PPM meter, too.
So you'll you'll get a chance to at least see what your PPMs are.
If you're interested in that.
There is well, that's about it for now.
There is some other things I would like to talk to you about.
But it would probably be off.
I think I know the answer anyway already.
So I don't really want to ask you here now.
But but that but you would get a pH and you would have a PPM.
So if you you know, if you're hanging around down there and
and you see the watering tanks starting to get filled up and you're thinking,
wow, I wouldn't mind adding some EM one or maybe it's time for me
to put some, you know, recharge and you want to have it go in.
I guess you could always pour it in, put a little sprinkling
into the top of the watering container.
I do have that air bubbler in there, which would mix, mix the thing,
you know, mix whatever you put in there up so that it's not sticking.
But I guess that's up to you.
And I've still got a lot to learn.
So it may be something that I would never do.
I don't know.
Maybe I would just top dress at that point in time once a week
if I wanted to add a tea, you know, just on my own,
you know, just on the top.
So, you know, it's certainly not going to hinder you
from being able to do anything that you did in the past
and hopefully just help you make things a little bit easier
so that you can spend that time.
And, you know, I want to learn more about how to identify things.
And that's and that means I can't be down there
spending as much time doing things, messing it up.
All right.
Because before I got my sip container, I was messing it up
and my watering was way too much.
And I was inhibiting the growth of those plants.
It's not as easy as people think.
Right. Exactly.
It's not it's not at all as easy as you would think.
So I'm not putting anything into the ground.
And and I saw the difference in the plants
out of those sip containers, and it just really sold me on them, you know.
And it's a good it's good battery to run off of.
At least those ones like the build those soil.
So, you know, because it's a it's a 15 gallon pot, you know,
so it's not it's not a little pot, you know.
And yeah, I'm just I'm tickled, you know, and I just can't wait.
Can't wait to get my next crop in.
You know, and this is this is all this is when I get back from Vegas.
That's going to be my push.
The big push is to finish up and get those plants already good,
you know, plant, get some new seeds going.
And and at the same time, while they're sprouting and doing that thing,
going to be finishing up what I got to do down there so that I can
show a decent space.
You know, I've got a lot of stuff and I've accumulated a lot of stuff.
And what I'm short on is storage area.
You know, I mean, when you're testing things, evaluating things,
you can't imagine how many times you order maybe the same product
or a similar product many times, you know, and yeah, in testing.
And I don't even want to throw out the number that I'm pretty sure
overpass because my wife would have my head.
Yeah. How much it actually costs.
So I was I was thinking of putting out a video recently I have over there.
I have like seven different types of little fans because, you know,
in a tent, in a smaller space, I want something quiet.
I like USB powered versus a plug.
I have got a dude. I have wasted so much money there.
That is probably the one thing that I have bought numerous times
just for various reasons.
But yeah, back back to your point.
Yeah, we saw it.
Good. And like I said, I want to I want to offer it as cheap as I can,
you know, as cheap as cheap as possible.
So and like I said, it wouldn't be fair to throw out a price now
because I really believe that some of this stuff that I know that I use
a lot of, even in just one box, could somehow be bought in bulk.
And you should be able to bring that price down.
You know, I've given up on the PLC company, you know,
because they're just too big to worry about literal waste.
So it happens.
I mean, hey, you know, big dealers don't want to sell you nickel bags.
Come on, son. Now,
but so appropriate, right?
But, you know, back back to like kind of chat.
You know, we've had a lot of good feedback.
We've had some people with ideas.
We've had some people with, you know, knowledge in different areas.
Well, one thing that I would love to see, you know, something that,
you know, we're talking about kind of like crowdsourcing parts or,
you know, when you buy in bulk, it's always cheaper.
One thing I like about this community,
and I have your Instagram up here right now on the screen.
Let's work together.
Yes. You know, let's let's give that feedback.
You know, let's let's work together
and try to just really hone it in, because there's, you know,
like you're saying, there's
there will be people that will be able to test this for you.
And it's really the amount of feedback you could get in the lead up to that
is something that can help you determine, OK, well, this person
kind of understands the goal or what we're trying to do here,
or this person's described how it would work in their environment,
but it needs just this or this or whatever it may be.
That's kind of the cool thing about coming on here together and talking is
everybody in chat.
This person is totally accessible to you.
You know, he is a person just like us.
He's not hiding behind the the platinum plated glass doors
of corporate America.
Like this is one of those people, you know, we all like to root for each other.
So that's what I'm saying.
If anybody, you know, has some some good feedback can help.
Hopefully you can even put up like polls on your Instagram
or you can direct people to some place if you have a curiosity of like,
would people really want this or need this or on a one to ten?
What's the most important for you?
That's just you know, it's that's the that's the research and development
that these corporations have hundreds of thousands of dollars to throw out at,
you know, grassroots is always the best routes.
So I'll leave it at that.
And I'm always, you know, and I'm pro this, this, this.
I'm not one of the I don't want to be Walmart, you know,
and I don't want to be Jeff Bezos.
I don't want to be the I don't want to feel like I got to knock everybody out.
You know, when those big companies came on board, there used to be
a ton of little mom and pop hardware stores everywhere and radio shacks
and stores like that where you could get stuff right around the corner.
And, you know, they're gone because of the big boxes.
Not all of them, but a lot of the shack.
Yeah. And, you know, even your little mom and pop hardware store,
you know, they're gone, you know, a lot of them.
So and you can always go in there and find any kind of plumbing
or electrical thing that you needed.
So what I'm trying to say is in this always room.
All right. I'm not here to try and
shut somebody else out of the market that's already in there.
And I would hope that their whole bearing isn't that they want to try
and shut everybody else out of the market either, because I feel like,
you know, there's room for McDonald's, Burger King, Wendy's.
We're all there. They're all making money.
They're all surviving, you know.
And and I and I.
So I feel like if I'm just offering something different,
I feel like than what is out there currently.
And there are other systems out there.
And I think there's some pretty good systems.
Some of them just monitor.
And maybe if that's all you need, that's great.
Then there are systems out there that will do that very well.
And and and there are other
systems that maybe aren't quite as
complete as mine that are a lot cheaper.
And maybe you'd rather go that route, you know, and you can't, you know.
And it's really just up to the consumer.
You know, that's the way I look at it, you know.
And people are going to establish a value.
And whether they think something's worth it or not,
you know, based on how they feel, you know, how what kind of value
does it bring to them, you know?
And so that's that's all I feel like it's a good, you know, it's a good box.
It's built real solid and it's built right here.
And there aren't any cheap parts in there made from overseas.
Although who hasn't ordered something off of Amazon?
It says made in China.
So all right.
But if I if I could get everything made right here in America,
I'm just a pro country, you know, just a very pro country.
And, you know, I'd like to see more manufacturing done here.
And I'd like to see a lot of stuff built here like it used to be.
You know, and I think it just helps people, you know,
to know that they can get it right here and you can call somebody right here.
And you're not talking to somebody ten hours difference on a phone
that maybe they don't understand your English.
And when you get the instructions are all in a language that you don't know.
But thank God I got a smartphone that has a language converter
so I could tell what wire went where.
And I use those three times to use some of these sensors, too.
You know, and when you just, you know, like I said, the PLC
and the touch screen, probably looking at thirteen hundred dollars right there
just for that stuff alone.
Just that that's retail costs.
That's what will be my cost, you know, and then and then just add in everything else.
And and then you're talking about sensors, pH sensor, PPM sensors, CO2.
Then you got your humidity and temperature, all different sensors.
And they all have different values associated to them.
So, you know, don't
I saw two systems when I got that system complete
that actually advertised that did actually advertise pH balancing as well.
And I think I could beat their price easily.
And they were only offering it for one and one one room.
I'm saying with this system, you can control two separate environments.
And even if you went there with the SIP one and you and you,
you know, went balls to the wall with the thirty two SIP containers.
Like I said, you could put those in other tents.
All you got to do is be able to pull that wire, the hose, not the wire,
because it won't be anything electric.
You'll just control those tents or rooms like you normally would.
But you won't have the watering that at least that would still be all controlled
by the controller.
You could still use the sensors and all that could still still be yours.
You know, and if you're in a basement, basements aren't that big, you know,
and if you you're an industrious guy and you know, and most of us are,
you know, I find that a lot of people that get into growing there,
you know, they don't mind getting their fingernails dirty, you know,
and don't mind turning a screw screwdriver or using a hammer.
And just just look at all the content when I watch on there.
You know, I'm I love seeing the videos like Green Goddess,
but up when she was building her bed, you know, to me was like, awesome.
I'm like, yes, and I love that.
Seeing that stuff, you know, I'm a very visual learner.
And yeah, I enjoy I enjoy that.
I really am.
And it's going to be great when we can do this live with the system.
Yes, yes, that's right.
And I just just many props, all you guys out chat and I can't see chat now.
And but I have seen a couple of names when they show the questions up,
but I don't have my glasses on and now I'm on my phone.
So I can't even see that.
Oh, sorry.
But I'm blind when it comes to small lettering
because my my computer, when we when we left my computer,
it went to sleep.
So but anyway, just a shout out to all you guys
that work so hard and I try and show my support to you guys
because I really do appreciate it.
I really do appreciate seeing your gardens because it gives me a goal.
It gives me something to look for, you know, to to try and achieve myself,
you know, because I'm not there yet.
You know, and I see all these tricone covered buds
and it's beautiful fall colors like up here, like we got in New England.
It's just starting to get around now out in the real trees, you know.
And but, you know, you can have those beautiful colors in your gardens, too.
And and, you know, and you just learn.
And and and that to me is just a huge encouragement,
even if it's a short one or two minute video.
I really enjoy listening to them.
And but shout and shout out to one guy who I stumbled across
the very first time when I started growing,
because I didn't know this community at all when I started to grow.
I I don't know how I got on here.
It was before COVID, but, you know, by a couple of years.
But it was a guy called the Grateful Grower.
And he had a coffee mug with a skull on it.
And I think with a joint coming out of it and a little bit of smoke.
And he was probably about my age.
He worked in the trades.
He lived in Washington state.
And I was listening to all of his videos.
And he grew in Coco and had, you know, a garage set up.
You know, and I just I really appreciated all the information
he was putting out, you know, but I could see him.
He was transitioning, you know, he's moving out to Colorado.
And the last video, you know, he bought his 40 acre place
where he was going to build his own little farm, you know, and be self-sufficient.
He wanted to be his own self-sufficient, have a little farm
that he could sustain his family on his own little farm.
And and I always had hoped he would come back,
you know, and show I still look, I still check out his channel,
see if anything new has popped up there.
But to date, no, it's been a few years and nothing yet.
But I hold that hope just to see how he made out,
because that's kind of where I am at, you know, this next step in my life.
I've moved around a lot.
You know, the Navy moved around the Navy every four or five years.
You know, you move to a different location around the country.
And when I was growing up, I moved around a lot.
You know, just growing up.
So I've finally been
semi stable the last 10 years here where we're at.
And but I'm looking at one more move to my home,
and that's going to be where I'm going to grow my roots.
And that'll be the end for me, you know, and somewhere.
I don't know where I'm heavily looking into the Carolinas, but, you know,
I'm taking a lot of factors into consideration.
I'm the central part of the country.
Oklahoma, Arkansas, Missouri are also potentials for me
because of what I want, because of what I want, you know, and I and
you know, I want to live on a lake.
That's what I want to live.
Yeah, and I don't care, you know, I don't want to have a lot of profit,
but I want to be on a lake and I want to be able to get in a boat.
And I'm not a fisherman, really.
I enjoy fishing, but I'm not.
That's not one of my when I would get home
when my wife and I were first married.
We lived in a little tiny place right here in Rhode Island
and Smithfield, Rhode Island on a little tiny pond that nobody ever used.
You know, just surrounded by a bunch of homes and some wooded areas and stuff,
you know, but it wasn't that big.
And I had a little flat bottom bass boat, you know, one of those flat bottom
aluminum boat and I bought a little battery and a little trolling motor.
And dude, when we get home, we go get in that little boat
every day and have a beer and have a smoke.
We go and chill out and unwind from the day, man.
I'm not man.
Just awesome.
And I love it, you know, and
so I want to have that and I don't want to have a bunch of toys
or anything like that at the lake.
I just want a pontoon boat, because that way I can pile on there.
That's the party.
Just go out for a nice little smooth ride, chilling out while we all,
you know, do our thing.
You want to partake? You can.
If you don't, no problem.
You know, just come along, enjoy the ride.
So, yeah, I'm all for whatever you want to do.
You know, just don't want to be hurting people.
That's all I can.
I keep my fingers crossed for you, man.
I keep my fingers crossed that that's going to happen.
You know, when I get there, you'll be seeing pictures, man.
Good. Well, you're obviously you're obviously a motivated guy.
You're not a person that just kind of sits around and wonder.
You put your thoughts into action and that's evidenced
with your creation, the wicked Pisa controller.
So I'm glad that you did that.
And I'm glad that we've had the chance to talk today.
And I know we're definitely going to do a follow up when we have it all set up.
But I think this was a good overview.
And again, let me I'm going to get your Instagram up here
one more time for everybody, because again, yeah, take,
you know, take advantage of some of the information out there.
And, you know, you can kind of control that as far as, you know,
putting up questions or a lot of, you know, people in chat hit this man up
with, you know, your ideas or your wishes and your dreams, because again,
it does, you know, it handles your water, it handles your environment.
And by environment, I mean, turn on, turn off different devices
to get a set parameter.
And that's really what we're all after.
So if you're interested, you know, something like that,
this this could be a good system.
And again, you know, good input always gets the beta unit.
So
good input is usually usually helpful in the end to everybody.
So, yep, we got automation.is.freedom up there.
That's your IG handle.
Is there anywhere else that people could get ahold of you?
Or is that the best spot for everybody?
That's the best spot.
I do have a YouTube channel, but I'm not on it.
I mean, I've got just a couple of videos up there, but I'm not active on there.
I just wanted to reserve the name, you know, so that when I do get to the point
and I will, because I want to be at that point where I can show my garden
and I can do a little two minute tour of my garden once a week.
I'd like to do that.
And I'd like to put it up there, you know.
And so one day, you know, I'll get there, you know.
But right now, this this box has kind of been the priority, you know.
And so I've had to kind of put my garden on the back burner because,
you know, I can't be pulled in too many ways.
You know, I I can I am very.
I just have to stay focused.
And for me, it's better if I've, you know, one thing at a time.
And so if I have to step away from my garden for a little bit, I don't mind doing that.
And although and when I get there and when I'm down to my last jar
and I've got my last bud in that jar, which I am and I and I do.
And I'm disappointed because now I'm like, you know, Reese,
if you just would have taken care of your time a little bit better,
you you could have pulled this off, you know, working and growing.
But, you know, I don't know.
I just I don't want to say I'm getting tired, but,
you know, there's changes, you know, you get there and.
You know, I'm.
Still trying to trace a chase a dream without killing myself doing it, too,
you know, and because it does take time and effort.
And so one thing at a time, I'm going to get this thing written and it's done
and it is done.
It's all written.
And now it's the time to come back and get those girls when I get back from Vegas.
And this is this is only the second event I've ever been to.
And I and I went to one, the very first one that they had in Boston
at like Canicon many years ago.
And and I saw a lot of nice products and I saw a lot of neat stuff.
But you couldn't get high there.
You know, it's like still in the baby stages of
here, you know, in Massachusetts.
So I was very disappointed.
And and I didn't go back because I really it was hard to park.
And and it just wasn't as easy to get to.
And so I'm hoping that this time being that my company, thank goodness,
because I've managed to not get find myself fired for 10 years.
I got this trip.
So they're paying for me to go out there, my 10 year trip to go out to Vegas.
And so they're paying for the airfare for me and my wife
and paying and gave me a thousand dollars of spending money.
So that has paid for my tickets to get into the venue
and give me a little extra towards my hotel.
And I did cover that myself, but that's OK.
And I'm very grateful
that I'm going to be able to go out there and and see
because I heard it's like the biggest one in the country,
the indoor, I guess, biggest indoor.
So I don't know.
It's only my second one and it's been several years,
so it'll be like brand new to me.
And Johnny can't see it.
If you can hear me, brother, I'm going to get there a day early.
I know it starts.
I think the twenty twentieth.
So we're going to arrive on the 19th.
So I'm going to hit you up on IG or get your phone number
because I want to come over and visit you
and say hello, because if I'm ever in the neighborhood,
and and we've talked in chat or and even if
even if I've never met you and you know that I'm
because eventually I'm going to get it, I'm going to get an RV from my dad.
Right. My dad is 90 years old and he is still trucking.
He almost sold this.
He's got the smallest size RV that they made.
Right. A little one.
But he says it's perfect for two people.
And it's and he says he did some research on it
because it was a no name.
And the engine and transmission is made by Mercedes.
And he says it's got a really good track record.
My dad is a very, very meticulous,
you know, like he's all like he's one of those guys measured twice, cut once.
And he always takes care of all of his stuff, anything, you know,
and he's just does everything himself is very good at
could, you know, just do anything,
build a house, rebuild a motor, rebuild a boat, whatever.
You know, electric electricity, plumbing, you name it.
He could do it all painting.
So he's enjoying his retirement and he's doing a lot of traveling now.
And he's got this RV and he almost sold that.
I called him for his birthday not too long ago in April.
And and I said, hey, I said, Dad,
do you still got that RV?
He says, you know, I almost sold it last week.
He said, I had a guy come, a young fellow come up
and he's going to pay me exactly what I wanted, had cash.
And he said, and I got to thinking I'll be stuck here in my condo
in Texas in the heat of summer.
But if I have my RV, I'll be able to go up to Colorado.
He's always up in the mountains.
I don't know where he is. He's up in the mountains somewhere.
Can I get style?
There's a whole huge community of elder people his age,
men and women, single and couples that, you know, you buy one of these
lifetime passes from the RV park, from the state parks, campgrounds.
And you pay peanuts to go there and stay and they got electric hookup.
And so anyway, so
so to make a long story short, at the end of the conversation,
when he told me he decided to keep it, the RV, I said, Dad,
I said, when you're all done with that RV, I said, I want to buy it from you.
And so he said, OK, he says, it's yours.
He says, when I'm ready to give it up, he says,
you just continue making the payments on it.
And I said, OK, no problem.
It's like forty dollars a month.
So I got to be able to afford that.
And and gas.
And I want to get around.
I want to, you know, in the Navy allowed me to see a lot of different parts
of the world that I know I never would have gotten to.
You know, Spain, France and
Israel.
Um. Diego Garcia, which is a little island
out in the Indian Ocean where we had to cross the equator,
so I'm no longer a poliwag in the Navy, I'm now a shell back
to an initiation.
And then, you know, Singapore, several other places, Panama.
Anyway, but so I got a chance to see some places that I know
I would never really visit.
And I did go to Honduras on my own, but that was my own,
you know, jumping off and trying to build a business.
And so I want to see a lot of what this country has.
This country is so beautiful.
There is so much to see here.
The state parks become like if you like the country,
like a lot of people just like being in the city and you might be a city person.
And maybe your idea of being on vacation is being able to go
a lot of different shops and stuff like that.
And that's cool, man.
You know, if you like that.
But my wife and I, we're not like that.
You know, we like to like to get out in rural areas.
And and but we'll go down to little cities like the little city
that I live in now here, Massachusetts, right on the coast.
I live in a two family.
I have essentially no yard.
So that's why I have a little dog.
But I have a dog park down around a responsible dog owner.
You know, a little plastic bag.
But it's great living down here, you know, and if you're one of those people
that love and I'm just starting to kind of take advantage of that with my dog,
just kind of walking down there and enjoying living at the waterfront
and how beautiful it is there, getting down there before the sun rises
and seeing it come up every morning.
And it's more of a sunset.
It's nice and quiet at that time.
That's when I like the city, when there's not a lot of people around,
when there's not a lot of things open, when there's just us dog walkers
and people walking by and that you can say hi to.
There'll be there'll be there'll be different strokes for different folks.
The grass is always greener on the other side.
Like, you know, I grew up city.
I lived in, you know, downtown Seattle for like, you know, my 20s
and all of that stuff when life is really great to live in a big city.
But now I live in the complete sticks.
I see a lot of people here be like, man, that would have been rad.
And I'm you know, I'm vice versa.
So, you know, grass is always greener on the other side of the yard.
But we're both in the same place.
We enjoy our nature. We enjoy our solitude.
You know, life can give us a lot of beautiful and wonderful things
that don't cost a penny.
You just got to be receptive to them.
That's right. Yes, that's that's there.
And then real quick to speak of beautiful things.
I want to say happy birthday to Brian.
He was in chat earlier.
It's his birthday.
So everybody next month, next month, make it for Brian.
Happy birthday.
This one's for you, man.
Yay. Enjoy your content too.
Yeah. And we did actually have a question in chat way earlier.
What is automation freedom smoking on real quick?
Lemon Jeffrey.
Oh, that's from my friend Indica B.
Indica B. Yeah, he lives a couple hours away
and we've managed to hook up a few times.
And this is the last of what I have from him.
So hats off to you.
And thank you very much.
I've really enjoyed the smoke.
It's aged well and it does the trick.
Yeah. Good deal. Good deal.
Yeah. And we saw, you know, again, he was on a couple of weeks ago
with Fluffykins and Caribou Heart TV.
I saw that. Yeah, it was great.
And we saw we got to see his his hoop house.
And yeah, dude, you know, if I was in an RV in his area,
I would definitely stop by and be like, what you smoking on?
So, yeah, I'm going to miss that guy.
He's going to he's he's you know, he's going to follow his dream, too.
He wants to move to Michigan.
And and I believe he's going to get there.
He's a good, hardworking guy and is overcoming a lot of obstacles.
And I just have a lot of confidence.
And, you know, seeing, you know, getting to know these guys,
getting to know different people and a little bit about them
really invigorates me and encourages me
and helps motivate me, you know.
And so that's why I love this.
I love this community, you know, and and I'm going to miss the guy.
But but I'm I'm going to come by there in Michigan and visit him one day up there.
And where are you going to be?
Rose Common or?
I don't know.
It'll be somewhere gray, something somewhere, some undisclosed location.
That's right.
Yeah, somewhere up there.
Anyway. Yeah.
And I'd I'd really thank you so much, Chad.
This has been a great opportunity or two.
So hopefully if Peter was an engineering student
and happened to be going through Brown between 1998 and 2008
and he went took that class, I don't know, maybe wrote up a good
a good review on it.
He's a man of many talents.
So that'd be interesting.
That'd be interesting.
I don't know when he was there, but yeah, I'll surely ask him after the fact.
But thank you for coming on today and then, you know, sharing a bit
about your device, sharing a bit about yourself as well.
We always enjoy that.
And yeah, you know, next time we'll get to talk a little bit more
about your gardening.
And oh, let's see.
Peter, Peter was there.
He was he was there a few years earlier.
You can never tell what that is, though.
So that's why we're not quite sure.
Ninety four to ninety eight. All right.
Let's see. I don't know what this means.
That might mean something to you.
Yeah. Yeah.
That would have been probably when it's freshman year.
Ninety four and senior year.
Ninety eight, maybe.
Yeah. Barrett Hazeltine time team.
Barrett. Oh, that name sounds familiar.
OK. Yeah.
That's Hazeltine sounds familiar.
Engineering nine.
Wow. Yeah, probably.
OK. Yeah. Yeah.
He was like, ask him if he knows Barrett Hazeltine.
I remember the name. Yeah.
I worked in that building, you know.
Like I said, I took care of the lab and,
you know, they had me doing some work with computers and stuff back then.
And so it's fun.
You know, it's a nice, nice job.
But even that job, as much as I liked it to chase my own dream,
I still went to Honduras.
So that's how much I still want to be my I still want to do build my own thing.
And I still want to be I still want to build my own.
I want to be an entrepreneur and and build a successful business.
Keep doing your thing, man.
More and more, more power to you.
And we'll see you again.
All right. See you next time. So much.
Yeah. Thank you. Thank you, Chad.
All right. Peace out, everybody.
Oh, my camera's over here.
There we go. Peace out.
