get my son? No, no, it doesn't matter. We'll do it. Yeah, you could get him. We're, we're, we got
to kill time till Dr. Mike shows up anyway. Okay, let me, um, yeah, let me just run. And maybe, uh,
City's Soul Shine Growing can weigh in on this, on this controversial topic that we'll get to in a
second. Everyone bear with us. So Dr. Mike had a, um, a Zoom meeting that kind of ended at two.
So I just told him to jump on whenever he's done. Uh, yes, kill time. We are going to kill some
time, but, uh, Matt is gonna, I think, get his son to be our, our in-house musical.
Matt? Did you find him? Yeah, he's coming. He gets the, he gets the change.
Maybe you guys, I think we need a, uh, father-son
get you bathing suit and towel. What up, Lou? And, uh, all right, so our controversial topic was,
what, what did, so we were talking Pearl Jam and Sound, you said your son's really into Soundgarden,
and then you made a statement. What was that statement? Yeah, I was just remarking,
because we're so into production now and guitar tone and sound, because my son
built with me a lot of these guitars behind me, and there's more laying about. And guitar kits
are a thing now, and guitar pedals that you make, like kit pedals, and even just the printed circuit
boards, and you just get all the pieces from independent electrical, like, distributors,
and you build yourself. So it's really like, I mean, all right, so Brian May made his guitar
with his dad, right? And so we started that, and he got really educated. And he's developed my ear,
and so I like go and listen, and it's like, I hear elements that are unique to Soundgarden's
sound and production that I'm like, holy cow, like this could come out right now.
And people would be like, oh my word, what is this? And I don't think that's the case with
Some of Ten, you know, like, like the seminal album of each, Superunknown versus Ten in my mind.
So that's just my opinion. You can disagree or agree with me.
We're talking about Superunknown versus Prodamp Ten.
Oh, well, Superunknown, of course.
Yeah. So should we jam?
Yes.
Okay, cool. All right, so I think you're, I disconnected you from the echo.
So only high tech audio here. We're picking up your audio through your phone speakers.
Yeah, and you know, the iPod's got pretty good. I mean, let's do a sound check and see if it like,
Even if it doesn't sound that good, we'll take it.
We've got an intent waiter here, so we'll get you right back.
Yeah, so I am a self-taught musician, and I then like learned in school how to speak music theory.
But then I refused to really teach my son. And then he became self-taught because I just
exposed him continuously. So I don't know, I'm not sure.
But then I refused to really teach my son. And then he became self-taught because I just
exposed him continuously. So yeah, if you want to play whatever.
Are you gonna play something that we played before?
Doesn't matter.
I think I need to make your egg.
I was in tune.
All right, here we go.
Go for it.
