Yeah, no pressure. Oh, we're live. Welcome everybody. See people filing into chat
already. Another great one. I'm gonna turn it over to the host here, DP, to do his
thing. Yeah, what's up everybody. Thanks for coming out and join us on our second
episode. We got the great Duke Diamond here today. I really wanted to bring him
on just because, you know, especially within this community, incarceration is
kind of prevalent. More so in red states, you know, than the quote-unquote legal
states, but there's still a lot of nonsense going on in these legal states
that people are getting in trouble for as well. So me personally, I've been
incarcerated. I just got done doing 46 months. I've been out for almost two
years now. You know, I was one of those guys who didn't do it but didn't want to
go to trial and face 20-something years, you know what I mean? It was a
ugly case and it's just people's words against yours, you know what I mean? So I
took a deal and did 46 months and, you know, went through a lot of stuff. But I
just wanted to give, you know, Duke a chance to kind of come out here and be
able to tell his story a little bit and then we kind of ping pong and just kind
of talk about how the justice system plays a role and kind of our everyday,
going about our day-to-day life, you know what I mean? Especially if you have been
through the system and how parole and probation and all these things are kind
of designed to kind of get you back into that revolving door. I would like to
talk about, you know, some good resources at the end or something like that to be
able to help out the community as well. But yeah, Manju, would you like to just
kind of talk about your experience?
Sure, man. Yeah, like, you know, everybody looks at like the beginning part of it
and like, yeah, that issue, you know, it sucks, you know, being
locked up and everything that comes along with it. But like you were saying,
it's the after thing, you know? It's the probation, like the, you know, set up
for the revolving door. So when I was in my re-entry class, like before I was
getting out this time, they actually had like probation come in and say, yeah, we
got like a different mission now. We're not supposed to like bust balls and like
make you, you know, part of the recidivism rate. And we're actually here to support
you, anything that you may need, information, stuff like that. And a lot of
us that had already gone through it, we were like, bullshit, dude. Like y'all are
you're literally going to try to fuck us here. And they were like, no, no, all
jokes aside, like really, we're gonna help you like, yeah, we'll see. We'll see.
So when I when I get released, right off the bat, first 72 hours, you got to
report in, give them the whiz quiz or whatever. And I got to sit down and talk
to the guy. And I don't know if I just got lucky. And I got like the coolest
dude ever. Like that is that is the case. But it like, you know, it revolves like
heavily on on us too, you know, because like, if I like, you know, if I just buck
and I'm like, all right, fuck it, I'm gonna smoke weed, I'm gonna go out and
get in bar fights and shit like that. I mean, of course, like, you know, you're
gonna violate, you're gonna go back. But, you know, basically, if you just stay
you just stay chill, you know, do your work and stay out of trouble, you know,
they'll they'll get you get you off of that. And like, I know,
yeah, so like each state's like different. So I mean, how is that for
you? Like being in this? You're not able to actively partake right now and
everything like that? Are you I mean,
so I mean, but, you know, yeah, exactly. And so it's just how do you see them
being able to correlate that into into an end time soon? Or are they gonna have
to wait? Because I see him working with other type of like federal backed
institutions as well. Like I heard the veteran programs and stuff like that are
starting to work with cannabis with veterans and stuff like that. So I didn't
know if they'd be able to bring it in or if you have heard of anything being able
to work into it?
Yeah, it could potentially it could potentially be done. But it's like
everything done through probation. It's all done through Department of Justice.
So like DOJ is like hella slow, like BOP and DOJ is like the slowest moving
thing on earth. Like they should do studies for that shit.
Yeah, it's pretty, it's pretty wild, because it doesn't take much time to get
stuff rolling when they want it to. But like, right, I want to interstate
compact. That's like a bare minimum six month process of just trying to get into
another state. You know what I mean?
Oh, yeah. They're quick to lock your ass up, get your money. But everything else is
slow, slow motion.
But so I mean, like, man, so I don't know early on I got I grew up in Georgia,
right? So marijuana was heavily, heavily illegal. You know, I mean, even I was
kicked out of college for it and everything else. And it's just that kind
of, like, I went to jail for the first time at 18. You know what I mean? And
just started getting introduced into it into the justice system at an early age.
And that kind of
carved my path in life kind of or the path I chose to take, right? I didn't have
to take that. But I mean, all the old heads would pull me aside and hey, man,
you know, you need to change your life and da da da da. But I ended up going in
there. But with your experience within the system, like the recidivism, as you
were saying, you know what I mean? Like now they're actually kind of trying. I
did hear a lot of that rhetoric as I was coming out. I haven't seen much of it
myself. I'm in a big city and stuff. So it's a little bit harder. I'm sure
resources are spread thin. But that recidivism is real big, I think. And
especially like within the mental health community and how it plays a role in
your mental health. I mean, when you see people coming back in, how is it like in
the feds? You know what I mean? Like, is there a big revolving door with that?
It's just because that was a huge issue. I mean, I saw this one kid three times
and my one bit, like he got sent back to the joint three times, you know, left and
came back, left, came back, left, came back. And it's just, it's wild.
Yeah, a lot of it is gonna depend on like your environment and like your support
system, you know, as well as like, you know, identify like your own issues, you
know, so like I know, for me, at least, I can't. Like if I were to go into like
some crowded bar with a bunch of drunk assholes, like more than likely. I'm
probably gonna end up just kicking the shit.
Well, I can hear myself talk.
Oh, there we go. There we go.
Oh,
did you? Oh, DP. Okay, so
I think, let's see. I think DP is changing his microphone settings here real
quick. Yeah, when he's on mute, we don't hear the echo. Let me unmute him and see
if we still hear the echo.
Still hear the echo. So
yeah, you got
Yep. Do you have headphones in DP? You got to Yeah, I got to use those.
Otherwise, it'll echo out on us.
There you go.
It's like I forgot to charge him. Son of a
Yeah, I got the like crazy thing is DP like all these shows that that I've been
doing previous to I had my earbuds that I got on commissary on a burner phone,
like up to this point. So like we just upgraded here. But um, but yeah, like
going back to that. It's just like identifying like your own issues and
triggers and like you got to avoid that. Like, I'm not saying like, you know,
you're not gonna like not go to jail for a bar fight anyway, but it's a whole lot
better. If you're not like, you know, on probation, because that really looks
bad. It's like, wow, you know, you just got out of the joint. And you can't even
act right, you know, so, you know, back to the back to the can with you. So, um,
the support system helps, you know, if you got, you know, friends, family, both
people that are like, good people that you're comfortable around, like, that's
who you hang out with. I've always just kind of done that anyway. But there's a
lot of guys that, um, you know, there's my one buddy can say, he, man, he's just
been in and out for like, the last 20 years. And a lot of it is just like this
last time, you know, he was in and then he came right back for probation. It's
like, What are you doing back? And he's like, man, cocaine and whores. Had a
buddy show up man when I start drinking these South Texas guy. And he's like,
yeah, man, I just couldn't, couldn't say no, you know, like, you know, and, uh,
it's like, you know, a couple beers led to some liquor, which led to some, some
cocaine, which led to some whores and a wild night, and then he got hemmed up
again. But it's like, you know, you got to make good choices, like whether
you're on probation or not, you know, but if you are, they're gonna they're gonna
slam you, you know, and you're gonna have to pull the rest of your time,
whatever you got probation, if you do anything else, they're gonna tack that
on. And, you know, just got to be on your on your best, best behavior, you know,
try not to fall into that same, same pitfall, you know.
It seems like it's one of those things, I think DP will be back here with audio,
he's just having some issues. But, you know, trouble trouble seems to find
people. And when you have, you know, trouble will find people and when when
you have, you know, a couple strikes against you, it's harder to deal with
that. So there's a lot of situations, like you're saying, you know, I know, if
I go to a bar with a bunch of drunk assholes, someone's gonna make me want to
shut their mouth. And that's just kind of unfortunate, that we have to deal with
that, or you have to deal with that as somebody who's just trying to go out and
have a good time.
Yeah, yeah. And that's the thing. It's like identifying that knowing that it's
like, well, you know, you just got to avoid that, you know. And, and like
another thing, like being on probation, it's like, even if like, I'm at a
grocery store, and some guy gets like mouthing off and aggressive, if I, if I
get into it with this guy, I'm still gonna go back, like under like normal law,
like, you know, they might say, okay, this is that whatever you're going home. On
probation, like, you don't fucked up, you're probably gonna get violated. And
you're gonna go back either way, like no matter what you do, like, you're, you're
gonna be in the wrong. So right, you just got to really, really, really mind your
P's and Q's on that shit.
Is there much oversight on kind of parole violations? Do they look into the
circumstances? Or is it just like, yeah, don't care. This happened too bad.
Little bit, a little bit of both, you know, it depends one who's looking and
then like their history and everything else too. Like, it just, you know, it
like, you know, like, when I was like, arguing my case on this last one, like,
one of the things that comes up and like, yeah, you know, we all believe in this
Constitution and this and that. But I mean, it's kind of like bullshit to a
point. They flat out say, well, we're already we're talking to a felon, you're
not, you're not believable. You know, you already got that against you. And like,
it's just like a fact of how it is, you know what I mean? It's unfortunate, but
you know, it's just, it's just reality. So yeah, it sucks, but it is.
You know, it's something that is kind of universal to a lot of life situations.
It's unfortunate, you know, a lot of people, like in the corporate world, to
the people above you making the decisions, you're just a number. And
that's, you know, there there is no human attachment to this person. You're
just looking at, you know, a set of circumstances, what the book says. And
then, you know, you make that decision accordingly. That's one thing that I
think it is, it's hard, because you deal with some people that are pretty bad. But
at the same time, everybody makes bad decisions that doesn't make them a bad
person. And to have to like temper the two and to kind of have to know the two
would be a challenge. But you can't automatically assume everybody's just a
bad person. I think that's where it may be going a bit wrong, is taking the human
factor out of it.
Yeah. And like, that's the thing too, man is like, because like some people, they
don't understand that medium of the road, right? They don't get that's like,
Oh, yeah, the prison's full of people that don't need to be there. Like, no,
there are like, legitimately, people that need to be locked up and never, never see
the light of day. You know, you got like, rapists, murdering cannibals, like that,
you know, that like, at first instance, the first chance they get, they're gonna
do it again. You know, like, I mean, they're like, real fucked up in the head.
And like, you, you know, you got that, you know, but yeah, you know, you got people
who are on drugs and everything. You know, it's a crime at the end of the day. And it
was like my first go around with growing weed. Like, I know it's against the law.
I'm doing it anyway. However, I do realize that it's a law that I'm consciously like,
I'm making the choice to break that law. And I'm going to deal with the consequences.
So like, you know, but caveat of that, the time and the time doesn't fit the crime.
You know, you got like baby rapers that are going in for like two to five years. And
you got, you know, we guys, there's some guys that you know, on the state level got
life. You know, you got cultivators getting 20 years, you know, two, three, four, you
know, like it doesn't fit the amount doesn't fit what was going on. And like, at the end
of the day, yeah, like it shouldn't be illegal. But it was. And we're consciously making that
decision. Like, yeah, I don't agree with that. Fuck you. I'm gonna do it anyway. It doesn't
make it right on their end. But you know, that that's just, that's just part of it, you
know. And when when shit goes south, and you know, you gotta you gotta deal with that,
you know. So on the weed growing case back in the day, it started as a as a conspiracy
that they're trying to put me in and federal conspiracy cases. They can they can carry a
lot of time, you know, and I had to argue and argue and argue and prove that like, I'm
not part of a conspiracy. Like, yeah, you got me growing. I am a cultivator. Yes.
However, you're not gonna put all this extra, we call it ghost. Oh, you know, it's like,
oh, well, we think, you know, you move this much weight, because this rat who was looking
at 50 years says, you know, this, that and the other. I'm like, well, of course, he says
that because you're letting him walk free for telling on everybody else. So he's gonna
tell you whatever he wants. However, I can discredit him here, here, here, here, here,
you know, the long list of shit. And then they have to say, Well, okay, well, maybe he
was lying about seeing, you know, 1000 pounds or this or that. And, you know, and it's
really hard to do. It's extremely hard to do because they want to believe the rats. And
that's kind of what they're all about is, it doesn't really matter. Like you really
have to work very hard to disprove these bastards, because if you don't, you're wrapped up in
that. I mean, you're looking at five years on up to potentially life. You know, based
on shit, they don't even catch you with like they can pin you with, you know, a bazillion
pounds that they want that they never caught you with based on testimony from two rats
that agree to the same thing. So, you know, it's a it's a real son of a bitch, you know,
having to deal with it.
It is and like you said, to you know, a lot of with drug convictions, there's mandatory
minimums. And you look at other crimes, you know, just heinous shit. There's a amendment
and MMA fighter. I followed MMA for many years, old heavyweight champion came to Alaska is
okay. So he got arrested, probably within this last month for attempted murder. And
basically a person working at a daycare where his kids and family members went, was accused
of, you know, just some horrible shit. The guy goes to jail gets bailed out and goes
back to his mom's house where the daycare is. This guy couldn't couldn't handle it and,
you know, took the law into his own hands. But kind of at the same time, everybody,
everybody kind of understands that one. But yeah, the the the the mandatory minimums is is
a fucking devil sentence for anybody convicted of cannabis and drugs in general.
You know, it's funny because like, they protect sex offenders in prison now like the
government does. Like, if you lay hands on one, five years, you're gonna catch five piece, you
know, a crime and all sorts. Yeah, yeah, they'll call it a hate crime. But if you that's
why, you know, I so I'm saying like, I said it on another show is like, if you get a take off
on them, and there's like people around you, you got to be like, Hey, you owe me motherfucking
money, piece of shit, you know what I mean? And, and make it at least sound like, yeah, it
wasn't because he was a creep. It's because he owed you money or something like that. You
know, that's your only way. Only way. I wasn't really on shit. And, you know, I kept my head
down. I knew what I wanted to do. I want to change my life. I wanted to get out. I want to
start growing cannabis. I want to get a community and start helping and shit now. So, you
know, but it's hard when you hear people almost bragging about that kind of stuff. You know, I
went from, you know, maximum security joint down to a minimum before I got out and they know
you're trying to get out. So they're gonna sit there and talk all crazy. You know what I mean?
And one of the few altercations I got in was into something like that. You know what I mean?
The protection is wild because it's like these, these drug cases and stuff like that, that these
people are getting railroaded. You know what I mean? And like you said, taking taking it into
your own hand, unfortunately, you know, taking somebody to court can be traumatic, especially if
somebody has to relive a trauma. You know what I mean? Like I was locked up and I was in there
with this really good guy. And unfortunately, his niece had gotten raped. Right. And she was like
fucking four years old. So he took it into his own hands. He didn't want to make her go through
court and everything like that, have to relive all that stuff, you know. So he wouldn't try to
take care of it. And the guy ended up living or whatever, you know, he left him for dead. He
ended up living. And so they went to court and everything. And they ended up adding on like
another 15 years for something called a vigilante clause. You take like the law into your own hands
and stuff like that. So not only did he have to do the time for that, but then they added on. You
know what I mean? When you know, there's too many times like these people walk through these, if you
have enough money, you can almost get away with anything. You know what I mean? Yeah, on a state
level for sure. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. And it's really loud on that and that stuff. And then, you
know, you got some of these prisons, like privatized prisons, right? That's just why it's
just a business. You know, they have occupancy rules.
That's the most fucked up idea I've ever heard of. So I'll just interject that like private for
profit prisons. That's fucked.
It's crazy. Yeah, if it's not 90% filled, they get fined. So they're actively trying to fill
that thing. You got people in there with fucking jaywalking convictions and shit almost, you know,
it's wild. And then they're in there with people that have to witness some of these really fucked
up things that go on in these places. You know what I mean?
Yeah. You got a BIGO, you know, that was the big one. And then CCA, which is Corrections
Corporation of America. I was in a CCA when I was in transit. And I will say this, it used to be
Oklahoma State Supermax. And then the feds bought it. And I mean, but that's the thing. It was like,
it's run like a business. So like, certain things were like, awesome about it. Quality of things.
But then like, they're looking at a business where it's like, Oh, we don't need all these guards
working. So they got one guy in this high security unit, locked behind a door scared to fucking
death. And, you know, you know, something jumps off like they're not like trained for any of that
shit. So like, you know, we had like, we're coming up on the anniversary now April 19. Oh my god,
huge, huge, huge riot. It it it fucked it. Goddamn it went off. But like these poor people like they
look like, you know, like they were definitely traumatized just from seeing all this shit, you
know, all the blood and brains and guts on the floor and people getting you know, yeah, yeah, they
were.
When you see people walking around like swords, not shame, like swords, like bone crushers, unsettling
feeling, you know what I mean? Like when you're taught these things by people and stuff like that,
and it's a whole nother world. It's a whole nother environment. And then just like, I see the same
thing like, with soldiers, man, you know what I mean? And unfortunately, within the justice system,
we have so many veterans locked up right now. Just I mean, you're throwing I see so many people that
go through the justice system and stuff like that, that have a lot of the same issues that some of
these soldiers have with PTSD and traumatic instances, because you're living in a war zone
almost a lot of the time. Some of these places.
Yeah, and you know how it is, man, like, because you've been high all the way to a low, it's like,
the respect level starts to drop the lower and lower you get. Because guys in the lower security
have an experience in the higher security and all the like the respect levels high. When shit's bad,
you you know, it gets really bad, you know, like we had, you know, some people call it a no hands
policy. It's like, if it's not worth stabbing somebody to death over, then it's not that big of
a deal. So shouldn't be any like, you know, fisticuffs shit, you know,
that's exactly it. Because you're trying to live your life. You're trying to get Yeah, you're
either doing life or you're doing a long fucking time. You know what I mean? I don't want anything
messing with that day to day comfort, because nobody wants to be fucking locked down, man. That's
just right. Right. So yeah,
exactly. Because people want to call home, you know, get that little bit of, you know, human
contact from friends, family or whatever, it sucks man stuck in the cell all the time. They don't
want to let you out. But every three days is the law, you know, to take a shower. If you get caught
up in a, in a stabbing and stuff like that in the feds, it's called the smooth program, special
management unit. So they'll send you to like, Allenwood or the ADX, and then you're like 24
locked down. I think it was 18 months, you have to be basically in the hole for 18 months. And then
you get out and you go through these classes and your management shit. Challenge program, I remember
that one, and then you work yourself down, and then they'll put you back in like a high security.
And, you know, they because people always say, Oh, what do you go do? Lock me up? You know, like,
yeah, like they will lock you up levels, it could get way worse, you know,
but I mean, you see people that break from that too, man, you know what I mean? They don't they
don't come back. And oh, yeah, probably ride the fuck out, man.
I don't even think that's allowed under the Geneva Convention. As like, you know, seriously, this is
a Yeah, this is a little crazy about it. There's there's I so when I was there, no cameras when I
first got there, by the time I left, there's 100 fucking cameras everywhere, which is good and bad,
right? Because now the officers are accountable for the longest time these guys do or the fuck
they want how they wanted and you know, I mean, but now like we're held accountable to you know,
I mean, like, so a lot of our stuff that we were able to enjoy not able to anymore. So, um, yeah,
but yeah, man, it's wild. And it's just like, you saw the spike, like I was doing some research and
shit like that. And it's just like, once this war on drugs really started kicking off in like the
60s and 70s, the amount of incarceration just fucking went through the roof. It was like, in
1973, there's like 200,000 people locked up or something. And by 2014, there's 1.5 million. You
know what I mean? Like, oh, yeah. And a lot of them are low level drug crimes and stuff like that.
And I mean, alright, so the first joint first joint went to the first dorm I was in, or was
during the first gallery I was in, I was on the overflow because they didn't have anywhere for me.
And so I was in there with, you know, 96% were in there for murder, you know what I mean? And
one of the only other guys was some guy in there for like trafficking coke and stuff like that.
You know what I mean? So it's just like, it's apples and oranges, even at that level. You know
what I mean? You're gonna mix it all up to man, big fruit salad. Yeah, yeah. And it just, I've
seen some really nasty shit. Because of that, man, you know what I mean? Like, there's some,
there's some really predatory people out there. And you almost have to be I mean, if you don't
have anybody backing you, like, you're gonna be hungry the whole entire time. If you don't have
a hustle, you're fucking starving. You know what I mean? Like, yeah, that's it, man. Like I said,
you know, the old saying, get in where you fit in, you know, you got the car, everybody's looking
out for one another. Typically, you're gonna be around like, like minded people, you know,
you got some guys like they're all about war, and fighting and extortion and shit. You got other
guys that are more laid back, and we're cool and everything. And so we're not and like, yeah,
we're gonna we're gonna stab everybody to fucking death. And, you know, that's gonna be that's gonna
be that, you know, and you got everything in between. And like I said, the hustle, you know,
whether you're, you know, smuggling shit, or you're, you know, making making cakes or pies
or something or whatever, you know, so in pockets in the sweatpants, like, everybody's huge right
there, man. I love the tailors. You got to have the tailor on your crew. Gotta have gotta have
a man. And I'll tell you what, the electronics guys, they were golden. Yeah, that's where I that's
where I was that, you know, I could make a little solder and a little solder and iron and fix up the
radios. Yeah, man. I was I was the art guy. Oh, yeah. Birthday cards. Yeah. People's cards and
I love those great. But yeah, yeah, people like that. Yeah, yeah. So again, I mean,
that definitely kept the burritos going. You know, I mean, big old logs and stuff.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. You got your burrito guys, your cooks and everything. Get your cat guy,
your art guys. It's funny, because I mean, you start you have your own community in there.
You know, I mean, like, oh, yeah, whatever that's not available to you. And that's a comfort.
You still try to get as much of it you can. I mean,
that's the thing. It's like all about trying to feel the most normal you can and not let yourself
devolve into like, pure savage shit, even though like they want that. And they're treating you like
that. You do realize like, unless you got life or something, at some point, you got to go home.
And you can't let them kill every bit of humanity that's left in you, despite how hard that can be
sometimes to hang on to. But you just gotta like, you know, stay strong, you know, up here and not
let them not let them beat you, man, or grind you down like that. It's funny, because it's like,
I was, I was kicking dope when I got locked up. So I was on methadone. And so when I went
in, you know, detox and I feel good, they put you on every single fucking medication possible,
man. You know what I mean? I was on so many different meds. I was a zombie for like a whole
year. And luckily, I had this guy come up to me. He's like, hey, man, like, you end up like that
guy in a couple years, you end up like that guy, it's your choice. You know what I mean? And at
that point, like I started, you know, I mean, exercising, started getting with the right
people. And I got off all the mental health medication, stuff like that. But I can see why
they would want to do that to people. You know what I mean? Because I literally I got up to like
195 pounds. Yeah, just a healthy weight. And you just sit there and lay in that bunk all fucking
day. And it's really sad because I sat there and watched that happen to so many people. And then
they get out and man I got out in the middle of COVID, like lockdown, you know what I mean?
It was a whole nother fucking world. And I was already in a different fucking life before I got
locked up. So when I got out, you know what I mean? All those resources weren't available. And
even when they started becoming available again, there's so many people that are trying to get them.
It's just, it's really wild. You know what I mean? It's like they're trying to relearn everything
right now. And then we're expected to relearn it as well, but still be held accountable for a bunch
of stuff. Yeah. But like, you know, like, we can always like look at the good to like what good
comes out of it. Like, like I said, dude, you got the kick dope. That's fucking awesome. That's a
great thing. You know, you're working out. I can tell like you're a hoss, man. I see.
Nah, I lost a lot of weight, but I have to get back.
Yeah, but nonetheless, so like I said, you know, you do that, you know, you start learning
like healthy habits and stuff. So it's like some good can come out of it. You know, there was,
you know, you do a lot of reading too. Dante's Inferno, like there was,
there was, yeah, it was a canto one. He was talking about, you know, the journey,
like how it would be like out of hell and like everything's horrible, but some good does come
out of it, you know? And, you know, I like the liking that being locked up, you know, you can,
you can kind of take away certain things that are good. Like I said, if you're not like a regiment
oriented person, like you will be when you get out, you learn how to do a lot of things with
very little, you know, that you'd, you'd really be amazed. So you go to like the store, you're
just almost like, oh, wow. You know what I mean? But it doesn't take too long to kind of, if you're
not careful to slip back into that, that's absolutely right. And like, I haven't smoked
again. Like it's been, I smoked my whole life. I stopped when I was in there. So it was just like,
why would I start back again? You know what I mean? It was just, that was like my biggest test
right there is like somebody offered you that cigarette when you get off the bus, you know what
I mean? And I was just like, nah, I'd rather stay. Hell yeah. And then like all the time too, like,
so I always use my time to, to write, to plan, to come up with stuff. Cause like,
it's something that's like not really afforded by, you know, most people in life. Like how many
people can say like, yeah, I can literally sit down for 12 hours at a time in a room and literally
think, you know, reflect on yourself, weaknesses, strengths, come up with business plans and all
this stuff. Like you actually have time to do that type of stuff. And like, that's pretty,
pretty cool. You know, like as far as like making use of time goes. But like, that's what I always
try to do, you know, mind, mind, body, and try not to let your soul go to shit.
Yeah. Cause when the virus hit, we were locked down 24 hours a day, not coming out of that cell.
They don't know what's going on. They don't know who's going to get it. They don't know,
right. Nobody knew anything. And especially within our system. So, you know, I think it was,
we went two weeks before they even let us like out of the cell to get a shower, right. They would,
nothing was going on. So, but once like we had the porters going out and stuff, my buddy,
me and him, he was a hippie man. You know what I mean? He's got the LSD crystal tattooed on his
foot. Just super awesome guy. Shout out John Berzy, love you brother. He just got out recently.
And man, we'd shoot kites back and forth, like coming up with new culture bar names and stuff
like that. We have business plans for t-shirts and shit. Like exactly like you said, we were
writing fucking haikus, just funny ass shit. Like we entered the poetry contest and shit like that,
just making fun of stuff. Like we just did those things to, like you said, you got to keep it
active because if you don't use it, you're going to lose it. And yeah, it's funny you said that
because you see the people who don't use those skills and put them to use. Yeah. Then they hit
the street and it's just like this big rush of like, oh fuck, what am I going to do now? Oh my
God. Oh my God. Like, I don't know what I'm going to do. It's like, bro, you just had all that time
to plan. So instead of that, like I said, you were laying it down sleeping or just running around
searching for dope or whatever, like the time was not used well. So it's like they can take time
from you, but you can kind of take it back on the same note. You are leaving with that mentality
that you leave with. Right. So like if you're not trying to better yourself before you get out,
it's going to be that much harder. So like I knew I was even with my family, you know what I mean?
I'm like, hey, you know, you don't stay up on top of me and hold me accountable and stuff like that
because I know how I was in the past. So just having that extra support definitely helps. But
you know, I met some really good cats in there, man, that I got out. They got out a little bit
before me or a little bit after me and stuff like that. You know, three of them are dead and
the rest are back. You know what I mean? And that wasn't that many people, man. One was a cop and
two were overdoses. And it's just, it's really sad, man, because you got to make that
negative into a positive that you're talking about. And it can be easy to get jaded. And I
find myself getting jaded and caught up in a lot of stuff sometimes. You know what I mean?
You know, with like the whole ACAB movement and everything, you know what I mean?
Is every single police officer a bad person? Absolutely not. You know what I mean? But if he
turns his head to his partner doing something wrong, is he accountable? Absolutely. So therefore
bad cop or whatever. But I definitely believe that these key topics got to be talked about,
but in a way that it's a positive, right? And we can't be coming at it on such a negative and
hateful platform and stuff, you know? But like nowadays, especially people like to like broad
stroke everything, you know? And it's like, I don't want to be broad stroked. Like, you know,
I'm a fucking individual with like my own thoughts and shit. Don't broad stroke me in with like,
you know, just a stereotype. Nobody likes that. And that's, you know, that's just how it is, man.
It's like a lazy ass way of thinking. And unfortunately, a lot of people,
they think like that. You know, they don't think about like, oh, yeah, a cop, you know,
pulled me over and found my weed and just was like, yeah, hide it better next time and sends
you on your way. You don't hear about that guy, you know, as much as you would like, oh, yeah,
this cop beat the dog shit out of a guy to fucking death, you know, like, yeah, you're going to hear
about him a lot more. And yeah, majority of cops, yeah, they are cocksuckers, you know what I mean?
But there are some out there that there aren't, you know? And it's just that the stigma within
their force, though, that also needs to be changed, like that whistle blowing. Like, if you see that,
if you see him doing something like, yeah, you can't you can't you can't let him just
choke somebody right like that. Right. Exactly. Like, you know, like they're they're just as,
you know, they're complete, complicit with it. Like they're just like we have a code of silence,
you know what I mean? America, you know, like. They they do their same shit and like I get that,
but like if somebody amongst my people are are going to be like fucking up in my crew,
I'm going to hold them accountable for that shit, you know what I mean? Now, me personally,
I don't I don't call cops. I don't. Hopefully I'll never need to. I could I can handle everything I
need to on my damn, you know, my own. But, you know, I'm going to hold them accountable for,
you know, what they're what they're doing. What them know, like they don't they don't do that,
whether it's like like you said, like a whistleblower and putting it all out there
or fuck man, like, you know, one of their dudes is talking up,
kick the shit out of him, you know what I mean? Like get him to tighten the fuck up.
But I think like with them, unfortunately, is since the majority are real assholes,
they're in such minority, you know, but you know, it's their job and then they can't feed their
family and everything. Exactly. And like that's what always that's what always here. Right. And
I hear it with cops. I hear like people that are in like, you know, fucked up industries. Well,
I can't do this motherfucker. There's so many goddamn jobs out here. Like,
go fucking do something else. Like if that shoe ain't fitting, go fucking get another job.
Like go work in private security. You'll probably make more money anyway. Like don't be, you know,
just sit there and let that happen. You know. So, you know, like I kind of understand where it
comes from. But on the same note, like, you know, it's no excuse either, you know, like.
But, you know, like I said, somewhere out there, there's, you know, maybe some little old grandma
that's getting ready to get killed, calls 9-1-1 and they, you know, every now and again,
maybe they come and save the day or whatever. Like that's a good thing. But, you know,
more oftentimes than not, that's not what's going down. It's some kid smoking a joint somewhere and
they're kicking the shit out of him and taking him to jail. And he's going to get hit with
mandatory minimums. And, you know, the system definitely needs to be revamped, you know.
And so, yeah, that's exactly it, because it's designed to be how you were saying,
right? Like that's the way it was originally set up. But throughout the course of time,
it's manipulated into a business now. And the biggest business was prohibition almost,
you know, you know what I mean? And all this, the war on drugs and it's just sickening, you know,
it's just so many people are coming out with like, they call it post incarceration syndrome,
you know what I mean? There's a lot more people coming out with these, you know, mental aptitudes
that are making it difficult to go on, you know what I mean? Suicide's going up way, way, way up,
you know what I mean? And then especially like in the joint, man, I hated hearing about the
swing of feet, you know what I mean? Like it's just, it just makes reality hit, man, you know
what I mean? You just talking to that guy, you know, and the thing is running down the hall.
Yeah, that's it. And like the bad thing is like, you know, they always talk about like,
oh yeah, rehabilitated, you know, like, that's such a load of shit. They like, oh, yeah,
they got all these programs and this and that, like, no, no, they don't. And even the little
few that they did have COVID happens, nobody's doing that. So you get all these guys, they're
coming out, they got no job skills, you know, how am I going to tell a guy that used to make,
you know, $10,000 a week, slinging coke? How am I going to tell him? Oh, yeah, you know,
you're gonna go work a minimum wage job, not even make it by I'm not even gonna say barely make it
by you're probably not going to make it by you're gonna end up in debt. And yeah, whatever you do,
don't do any side hustles. No, like, it's not. It's just not realistic that that's just not
going to happen. So, you know, what what would happen with us a lot is like, yeah, well, they
might not be teaching job skills like, you know, hey, maybe I can, if I work in electrical and
maintenance and shit, with some guys that don't know dick about it, I can teach them. And also,
like, you know, guys that are really business savvy, it's like, okay, well, a lot of the same
attributes that were needed in your previous sales job, you can apply that to a totally different
hustle, and look at something like you're more passionate about, right, and start planning out
your business plans. And, you know, if they were set people more up for success, instead of just
setting them up for more failure. But like I said, that's how it seems. It's like they want you to go
out, they want you to fail and come on back. And they also, oh, we don't want to see you back. Like,
I don't know. Like, it doesn't seem that way.
They just call it job security. You know what I mean?
Yeah.
That's what the officers referred to us as.
It's just, I can definitely get that. I took electrical class in there, and I really enjoyed it.
You know what I mean? And they had a great program where like, the people weren't officers that were
running it. So they cared about you, and they cared about wanting you to do good. And they had
somebody there to, whatever you wanted to do when you come out, they have a bunch of job listings and
all that stuff. You know, all that stuff was set up, and then COVID. You know what I mean? So it's
just, and nobody, and it's still like, I still talk to a couple guys that are locked up, and it's
still not even back up and running and everything. You know what I mean? So that's definitely thrown
some branches in there. That's for sure.
Yeah. Yeah. And like I said, dude, hits the street and freaking out, you know? And what is he going to
do? What do you think he's going to do? Go hit up every, you know, fast food joint in town? Or do
you think he's going to call his boy and be like, hey, what's up? You got some work?
You already know they're pulling up. Yeah.
Oh yeah. It's going to happen, you know? Yeah. And then it gets hemmed up again for the same shit.
They hit him with career criminal and boom. I think they call it prior and persistent in the
state, but career criminal and shit, you know, and it's like 15 years mandatory minimum plus
whatever they want to add on to it. So it's sad, man.
Yeah. It definitely is. It's not designed to make you, you know, and then what's crazy,
it's like here in Chicago, they shut down a lot of the mental health funding, a lot of the
mental health institutions and stuff like that around here. And next thing you know,
man, everybody's locked up. So now like the prisons, they don't know how to deal with the
people with like, you know, having problems. And it's just, I don't know if you ever had to go
down the crazy wing or anything like that while you're there, but it's, man, you know what I mean?
It's really messed up what they do to people, you know, like, oh yeah, man. Yeah. It's
I was seeing motherfuckers eat their own shit, you know, making like little dolls and shit and
playing with turd figurines and hanging walls. Oh yeah, man. Yeah. You see all types of shit.
I seen a guy flipping out, you know, fighting with imaginary shit and you know, he fucked around and
while he was swinging, he hit the wrong guy and he got stabbed to death, you know. But the guy was,
you know, he's crazy as shit, you know, but they're not treating that. And then they're
mixing crazy wing people in because it's so overcrowded. The crazy wing is already full.
So you're going to another unit with guys that are like crazy, but not like,
you know, delusional, schizophrenic, seeing imaginary shit and eating poop. Like,
you know. Yeah. And it's not a good mix, you know. Unfortunately, man, you know,
the system's filled with a lot of people with substance abuse, you know, and that falls hand
in hand with mental illness and stuff. I know it does for me. You know, I struggled with opiate
addiction my whole life and that was because I was so overstimulated, you know what I mean?
I'm treated ADHD, bipolar, all this shit. I've been diagnosed with everything, right? But like,
I knew cannabis helped me and I know it can be managed with a lot of other things besides
medication, you know what I mean? Sometimes you get in a fucking state where you might need
something, right? To get out of that fucking funk. But you don't need to go to jail for it.
You don't need to go and resort to all these sketchy ass practices or go to all these sketchy
ass people to try to fucking be able to get to work or something, right? So it's just like,
a lot of the way that things are designed are designed for failure. And that's where
that planning and everything, as you said, like when you're in there to make it out better, man.
So like, what are some of your daily practices that you're still doing today that help you
like kind of get through a day if you're having like a rough day? Because it's like, I know you're
probably wanting to fucking get out. You're free now, right? And so like, it's weird to be free
but still be locked up, you know? Like, thank God I'm in a legal state and I'm able to consume my
medicine. But I had to get a lawyer through normal and fight for it because they tried violating me
for it. And I was just like, lock me back up then because I'm not, this is dumb. Let's go. Like,
here's my lawyer's number. I don't want to talk to anybody until I talk to him.
And you know, luckily I was able to get to where I'm at. But it's still, you know, it's up to them
because the papers you sign are from 1942, right? Like nothing's been revised. It's all archaic
stuff. So you're held to these standards that don't even make sense, you know? And it's just,
that can be discouraging, man. So what do you do? What are you doing to like?
So like with me, because I guess it was my second go around, unfortunately. So my thing is
appreciate all the very, very small things. And to look forward to maybe one of these small things,
something as simple as like, I'm going to take a shower with hot water, you know? And really,
really enjoy that. Be really grateful for that hot water. I fill my time with lots of hobbies
or business stuff. So it's productive. You know, you get that good dopamine release from like,
accomplishing a goal and all that shit. I still do the all wake up early and make the bed deal,
you know, the first victory of the day. Make coffee that's not fucking keefy, you know?
Super appreciative of that. Drink out of a normal cup that I can't see through.
Little things like that. And like I said, lots of hobbies when I'm not working on, you know,
anything business related. So like hobbies and business with me, they almost go hand in hand.
So like, I'm going to try to do this, make a cool little show or whatever as well. So learning like
about this task and mix cast, you know, and how to operate it and setting up this little
jack leg studio and learning video editing and shit. That's going to be cool, you know?
And then like, you know, just getting out fresh air, sunshine. Those are good things as well. So
whatever I can do to like maintain that positive mental attitude and not let myself get, you know,
drugged down because like, it's hella easy to do. Like you can scroll through Instagram or just
look on the internet or watch the news or something and like, you know, shit's going to
start bumming you out. So I try to avoid anything, you know, negative like that. So when it comes to
Instagram, you know, I do what I need to do, answer messages. And then like, you know, I got
a little list of people, you know, I'll go through, make sure they're doing all right. Other than that,
man, I'm not going to sit there and scroll through it and look at all the dumb shit.
Because I already know what's going to happen when we get pissed off. But watching news,
you know, I already know what's going to happen. So I just kind of stay in my lane and my own little
world. And if anything outside of it's that big a deal, I'm probably going to hear about it. So
I don't need to, you know, hear from the idiot box and yeah, just stay focused on moving forward
and not looking back too much. But at the same time, not forgetting, you know, history in general
or, you know, hang ups and stuff, but but not dwell on it. You know, it's okay. You know,
learning lessons and all that. But looking more ahead, short term goals for the day,
to weeks, to months, to years, you know, and just trying to trying to hammer those out. So like,
up here, like I'm, I'm too busy up there with what I'm trying to do to really be
much focused on anything negative. Everybody's gonna have those hard days.
You know, you just got to figure out what works for you. That helps you decompress might be playing
with a guitar, fishing. Like I like woodworking, I like, you know, playing with electronics and
shit like that. Or even just the simplest thing, you're having a hard day. You got some friends
that, you know, they're of a similar mindset or whatever, just, you know, call a friend.
Don't let yourself continue to get drugged down into that shithole, you know, because if it goes
unchecked for too long, man, you might find yourself like really depressed, you know, maybe
suicidal and stuff. You can't let it get that far. You got to ID that feeling and and take care of it
right away, you know, and it might just be talking to a friend or whoever, you know, you got. And if
you don't have any friends or family, I mean, you know, there's people out there, you know, you could
talk to, but, you know, just be able to make sure you don't fall into that pit, man, because it's a
motherfucker digging back out, you know? No, it definitely is. And like, you know, it's funny
because that's what's great about this community. You know what I mean? You don't even have to have
people like physically near you, you know what I mean? Like I'm in a big-ass city, but I'm not by
anybody, right? Like because nobody's really about what I'm about, really, you know, I'm into hippie
shit and whatever, right? So like, yeah, everybody's more concerned about fucking going to cookies or
this or that and whatever, you know? So it's just, but I can find somewhere at any time and connect
with the community, you know? But like you said, you can use it for the wrong too. Like the
Instagram, you get so caught up in all this shit, right? And then your self-esteem's all fucked up and that's
what's crazy because like that shit's supposed to come from yourself. And I heard this the other day
and it blew my fucking mind, right? Because like I felt, I got real depressed and stuff like that because
I was using all these resources for the wrong, right? I'm trying to do this, I'm trying to do that
instead of just doing what I needed to do to get through my day, right? So therefore you fall out,
like you said, you fall down into that pit and getting back out of it and stuff like that
isn't fun, you know what I mean? So that's why like I wanted to kind of bring this stuff to
attention to people so you don't have to do that or if you see somebody kind of struggling, you
know what I mean? It's okay to be like, hey, what's up? You all right? Like getting involved isn't
that bad, you know what I mean? Obviously be respectful and stuff like that, but you know,
this is a great community and there's a lot of stigmas where people don't want to talk about
things, you know what I mean? And I really want people to start getting over those because it's
not bad. You're not weak, right? For being depressed. You're not weak for being lonely,
right? It's not wrong to have feelings like you don't have to be dead inside, you know, rock,
you know? It's okay. It's okay to have feelings toward things, you know? And you know, the more
like people can say that, the more you can help yourself or help others because it's natural. It's
natural to be, you know, down or way up or whatever, you know, everything goes up, down, you
know? It exists, you know? You have to know how to deal with that. And then like you said, but like,
you know, trying to find stuff within your own interest. Like I see a lot of people getting
upset and stuff because they might not achieve what they thought they wanted to achieve.
But their heart might not have been into it, but they might like the person that was doing it or
something, right? So it's just like kind of stay in your own lane sometimes, you know?
Getting where you fit in and just be genuine is the biggest thing because I haven't seen anybody
come to the community genuine and have a bad experience, you know? This is the most
open-armed community I've seen. And the amount of people that reached out and supported this
show have been outstanding, you know what I mean? It really, really has. So
really appreciate you coming out, talking about it.
Thank you, Tom.
Yeah. Well, I mean, I got to give, you know, hats off to you both, but you know, DP for doing this
show, having this as one of your visions, as one of the things that's going to keep you occupied,
as one of those things that's going to give you positive reinforcement, something that is
bringing up the conversation. Because again, all of us have, you know, emotions and shit, but
nobody really talks about them. And I don't think in that environment is the best or the most
conducive environment to those kinds of conversations. And that was one thing that I was
kind of curious about too, is, you know, you always hear about resources, you know, these types of
things that may be inside for people, but we also find out too, a lot of times stuff is just lip
service because it sounds like, you know, both of you found like-minded individuals in there who,
you know, okay, man, I need that little lift today. Tell me a fucking joke, something like that to,
to just, okay, reset your day. So are the resources worthy in there, or do you really have to take it
upon yourself to kind of try to get that support? You know, it's a weird thing, man, because
like, if you're coming into there, right, and you're in this just wild, wide open, just
chaos, right? And you look at me, you know, you might not see it, but like, you might be like,
well, I don't think I should talk to this guy or whatever. But, you know, normally I'm going to
take it upon myself. I see like, you're real down, you're laying in your bunk a lot, and I'm going to
come approach you and be like, hey, what's going on? My name, you know, I'm Tommy. You know, anything
you need, like, you know, if you just want to go walk to, walk the track, man, just, just talk, you
know? So a lot of that, like, it does happen, but it happens in private. And, you know, it's,
it's a lot of it's on the person, because, you know, nobody really wants to like, put themselves
out there like that, and nobody's going to want to seek that out. So it's on us to, to observe
what's going on around us and be like, man, God, you know, he seems pretty down. He's, you know,
he's having a hard time. So, you know, you might not think it, but a lot of
in prison, it's, it's a lot of looking out for guys, you know, because like, you have a new guy
come in and you'll see everybody rushing out. Hey man, here's a pair of sweatpants. Hey, here's a
cup. Here's some ramen noodles, man. You need anything, come holler. And as you know, that,
that relationship goes on and on. Like I said, I know like when you're chipper and happy or whatever,
but I might see you one day and be like, Hey man, you know, it might not, you know, it's none of my
business. Right. But if you do want to talk about something, you know, you can let me know like,
and by that point you should know me well enough. It's like, I'm not going to go around,
you know, like people on the internet. Oh yeah. So, so, so this and make fun of you, you know,
it's not like that, you know, you can talk in confidence and like people aren't going to repeat
shit. And, you know, so maybe you had a bad phone call, you know, maybe the old lady left you,
maybe the parents died on you. Or who knows what man, but you know, and I might not be able to
relate, but at least I can be in here. And if I can, maybe, you know, I could share my own and,
you know, help you feel better. And like I said, give you something to do, keep you motivated,
make sure that like, you're not just laying in your bunk and be like, come on, Chad, get the
fuck up, dude. We're going and walking, dude. We're getting some sunshine. And once, you know,
you start taking that first step, you know, maybe I could turn into a racquetball game later,
you know, or handball game, you know, or who knows what, you know, and try to turn your day around,
you know, it's contagious. That, that is, and that's fricking like, that's beautiful advice
right there. I mean, I met some of my best friends, one of my best friends in high school,
that way he had just moved. He was sitting in the back of the class. He was totally quiet. He had no
friends. He looked kind of punk rock. I'm like, okay, I'm just going to talk to this dude.
Guy had a lot going on. And he was a really fucking awesome guy, you know, friend for life.
But then there's other times like, it's kind of to your point, it's like, you don't have to like
broadcast it or make it public that you're going out or reaching to these people. You know, I've
had times where someone has, you know, maybe because I've been in a lot of nightclubs,
DJs, you know, whatever. Someone may be kind of being like an asshole and people are, you know,
not really having it. And he's over there in the corner. And I'll just tell these people like,
look, guys, I got this, don't worry. You know, I don't walk over there. And nobody knows what the
conversation is. They just see us talking. I actually be like, Hey, man, what's what's really
going on here? You know, and that is something that people can do in complete confidence.
You know, for people who don't want to appear soft or whatever.
Right. You can Yeah, you could do that in confidence and that kind of trust when you
don't repeat that shit, man, that builds relationships that builds the trust and
that builds the person who has your back in life. You know, when you're down, that person might come
up to you and you know, say that. So that's great advice there, man. I'm glad you put that out there.
And I used to do that like every year because I know like holiday season is always like really
rough. So like I used to put on my G like, hey, you know, you got enjoy your time with your friends
and family. You know, happy holidays, all that. But look, if you don't have that, or you're just
having a bad time, you know, just hit me with the DM like I'll answer. I'll talk to you like I don't
care. And you know, I actually would get people hit me up some people just to say, Oh, yeah, well,
yeah, Merry Christmas. You know, that's cool. And then others be like, Yeah, all my family's
dead. I just sit here alone, you know, and I got nothing and I don't know what to do. And like,
you know, and just, you know, like I said, you don't have to have all the fucking answers.
Just listening, you know, just fucking listen, and just talk to somebody, you know, and if you
do have something productive to add to it, hey, great, you know, you might really help some people
out. And, you know, just, I guess it just all sums up just be a good fucking human being.
Follow the golden rule. And it's a simple program, man, just be a good person. You know,
look out for other people do on others as you'd have done unto you and, you know, just just be a
good human being and world be a lot better place. You know, that's the truth. Absolutely. Amen.
Oh, man, well, what's good? I apologize about technical difficulties ahead, y'all. But I
appreciate coming out here and talking about it. It definitely helped remind me of a lot of things
that I needed to hear, you know what I mean? About, you know, just little, little routines.
And that was one of the reasons I wanted to kind of start this channel was to
normalize talking about it, normalize, you know, everybody's gonna have their difficulties,
their difficulties in life. We're all going to go through our own things and just normalize
getting on with life. No matter what we go through, it's not worth not going through it
because it's just going to get you'll end up in the bunk all day, right? Or worse. You know what
I mean? So I really appreciate you taking the time out. I know I know you're busy. You know
what I mean? Like, I know how it is getting out and stuff. So how long has it been now? It's been
I've been out December 2nd from the ping and then like it was like right after New Year's
from the halfway house. So yeah, getting back into the flow of things and just remember this buddy.
Let's see here. Well, where you're at, you know, your past count time, but where I'm at,
I know I got about an hour and 50 minutes till four o'clock count and I don't have to stand up.
I don't have to be accounted for and I'm going to use that time doing something else instead of
where I do the turnkeys. Yeah, you don't got to do burpees in the cell anymore. Yeah, man,
go outside, you know, do all that and you know, good things to be appreciative over, you know,
and we got all day and all night. You know, that's the one thing that we all got. We got time. We
just got to figure out what we're going to do with it. And, you know, like I said, we get one
shot at every day, you know, that's it. Can't go back. Just one shot. So make the best of each one,
you know. And for a lot of people that haven't, you know, been through the, you know, been to
jail or anything like that or have grown up in states where you're able to, you know,
consume your medicine without being prosecuted and stuff like that. Because I mean, it's a lot
of these officers use some pretty terroristic tactics that can be pretty messed up for
families, you know. So it's like I just wanted to bring some awareness to some people that maybe
have not gone through some things. So they can maybe have a little bit of empathy for somebody
that had. So they, you know, until I was a completely different person before I got locked
up. I really was. And I've been to jail 100 million times. I grew up in county, you know,
but that's completely different. It's just completely different from what the real world
is, you know what I mean? And it opened my eyes to what it is and what it can be.
And it definitely changed me, man. It definitely changed me for the better, though, you know. So
I believe, you know, that corny I say, you know, yeah, prison saved my life. It definitely did,
man. You know, it turned my life around 100%. So.
That's good, man. That's good. And that's the thing. You just gotta keep riding the wave,
man, you know, and just make sure you're heading the right direction is all. And just like I said,
this is a little daily mind head checks, you know, make sure you're in the right spot, you know, to
do what you need to do. Focus on those goals. But, you know, don't forget, you gotta give yourself
some rec time, dude. You gotta have your rec, bro. So, you know, I was watching a movie, fishing,
whatever you gotta do. You gotta take that me time and, you know, and same goes to you, man.
You ever, you know, just want to shoot the shit or whatever, you know, hit me up any time, man,
you know, I know how it is. Oh, yeah, sure. I'll definitely take you up on that sometime.
I'm pretty sure you got a couple of your fans listening or watching since my computer's not
working. I'm on my phone, so I don't have chat up. But you got anything in the works you want to
tell some people about? Maybe give somebody a teaser about something you're tinkering with?
Well, I'll tell you what, you're a good partner, man. A lot of the Dominion people, man, a lot of
them are all jailbirds too. So, they're definitely, you know, watching your show and everything.
Yeah, like, you know, like I said, I'm working on getting all this together so I can start
putting those podcasts together and everything. Do something a little different. And yeah,
just doing my other thing, you know. When can we expect the merch run?
Merch run, more shirts and hats and beanies. Yeah, so like I got it all designed and made.
I just got to make the website go live, which reminds me I got my web guy. I need to hit him
up. Like, we're like right there, man. Like, it's just right there. It's like maybe an hour worth of
work and then we'll be good to go. I'd like to make some like limited edition type shit for like
shows or small releases. But, you know, like the old school one and, you know,
get them up there as well. And to build this little thing, you know, that's going good.
Making some batches of that and we'll put it through the ringer, record, you know,
all the stuff with that. So, that's going to be cool. That's what I got this little gimbal thing
for. Yeah, it's just makes life much better. I'll be excited. I'll be looking for that.
Well, you know, all those other shows I was doing for like an hour, two hours, three hours,
man, I'm literally holding the phone like this the whole time. Like, man, the arm was...
I got mine propped up right now. Hell yeah, dude. Hell yeah.
But, hell yeah. There's something else right after my time I completely forgot, but...
We're going to give out some resources.
Okay. Pantene.
If you know somebody locked up, hit their books, show some love.
Writing my letter or something.
Yeah. If people are struggling, you can hit up NAMI.org. That's the National Alliance for Mental...
Yeah, I want to say illness, but I wasn't going to say it just because I did kind of...
Yeah, I didn't want to butcher it, but... Also, you can hit up on Instagram,
Psychedelic Sisterhood. She's a super dope person. She was on my friend's podcast before.
She deals with a lot of people with trauma and stuff like that. So, if you're dealing with any
type of trauma that you might want to maybe explore some psychedelic use, hit her up for
some good information. Suicide prevention number is 1-800-273-8255. You can always hit me up at
any time on Instagram or whatever. Yeah, you can find me at 71DP0. Where can they find you at, Duke?
The real Duke Diamond on Instagram. Don't get fooled by the scammer pages.
They're always... They'll slip an extra R in there. Yeah. Yeah. Just make sure it's spelled
like that. Don't get confused. We got a Discord, Dominion Seed Company. That's our Discord. On the
Instagram in the header, there's a little link. You can just click that as long as you download
the app. It's like a chat room thing. A bunch of like-minded people. It's pretty cool. Website,
that'll be coming up soon, but I'll put that on the Instagram. And I'm going to be doing a
book haul. And for all... If you got any people that are locked away, ordering books, that's a
great one. Thriftbooks.com. You can get like secondhand books really cheap. Get them sent in.
Most prisons, they're good with that place. Cormac McCarthy. That was my jam. He had The Road,
No Country for Old Men, Blood Meridian, All the Pretty Horses. Great, great writer.
Really liked his shit quite a bit. So yeah, the old book club. Yeah, books are invaluable.
I think you guys just got about four or five boxes of books sent to my local prison because I'm
looking to donate them and I have them. And what a better place. They won't take a lot of the
hardcovers. See if they'll take the hardcover books. Some prisons won't take those. Okay.
Or they'll take the hardcovers. There are a lot of hardcovers too, damn it. I'll try. Either way,
I'll try. Federal prisons, they'll take those hardcovers because they're going to run them
through a scanner, test them for drugs and all that shit anyway. So yeah. What state are you in,
Chad? You're in Washington, right? I'm in Washington. Yep. And there's a,
it's, I don't know, like a county jail, I guess it would be not too far from here. So
drop that off. Yeah. I just kind of laughed there because I'm like, well, it has been in my house
and I'm pretty sure everything has a layer of THC over it by now, but we'll send them in anyways.
I swear every time I go down and do my laundry in the apartment complex,
it's just like, huh, is that something in there again? Mm-hmm. You go in the dryer.
Yeah. So how long of a parole you got though before you're done? Well, it's just probation.
The dude, he was like, you know, as long as you're good and everything, he's going to get me off
early. December probably be it. And he was going to fill out the forms and whatnot to
get my rights reinstated too, which I was like, Ooh, that's super cool, man. That's super cool.
So like I said, either I got lucky or they really changed how they do things again.
So yeah. So yeah, not too much longer. That's good. Yeah. We'll keep the fingers crossed at it.
The program stay that way. Yeah. Yeah. I really hope so, man. I really hope so.
Um, it might be a Colorado thing. It might just be home. I don't know, but I hope it's,
hope it's getting better. Yep. And, and everybody too, if you're watching, um,
do you think I've got the Instagram as well as your discord in the show notes and then for DP
as well, you're in the show notes, your Instagram is down there too. So, uh, future episodes,
we'll start getting some of these resources put into there. Uh, I can always go back and do it
with this one though. So, right. I'm getting some more gathered up as well. And, uh, I believe,
um, uh, jinx proof is getting back with me to see if he's going to be able to get out for,
um, the next episode it is, uh, autism awareness month. So that'd be great.
Have him come on and chat about that. So that'd be super awesome. Um, if not,
we'll get them on another time. So, yeah. Yeah. Drinks to the man. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of these
people in the community are great, you know, shout out the Eagle. He's always doing real good stuff.
You Chad and Peter on this network, Caribou, you know, Astro Charlie, he's a great guy, man. He's
been a really great artist. Uh, didn't help me out with, with, with my art game and get me into
the community with that and, and just keeping that stuff progressing. And that's what this
is all about. So shout out to everybody out there doing their thing. Well, you know, like you said,
we, we gravitate towards people who want to lift each other up, uh, plenty of other people we could
be around, but we choose to be around the people we do. So that's a, that's a conscious decision on
our part and you know, that'll lead to better things. So I appreciate both of your times today.
Um, any, any last thoughts before we head out? Growers love overgrow. Yeah, man.
Cool. All right. Thanks everybody in chat. We'll catch you.
