Hello everybody, how are you doing today? It is another exciting Sunday here in Canada,
and all over the place we have another heady day with the Fire Is Fire crew coming right
up. It's actually a special birthday, so we will have a lot of fun with them. But I'll
do a little bit of housekeeping before we get started. Emerald Cup will be live at Emerald
Cup later on today, as well as we have Fire Is Fire will be happening next week I believe,
we'll get in it with the guys. We have the Dank Hour happening on Tuesday, Breeder Roundtable
on Monday, the whole lineup of usual shin biggery going on as well. Appreciate each
and every one of you, we'll get the show rolling.
What's up everybody, we are back. How's it going everyone? I'm going to start off the
show with a dab while RJ says hi. Yeah, so back for this week was super sick last week,
couldn't make the show. So thanks to Brian and Jameson for carrying it last week and
thanks for Sherogham for coming on, that was a great show. So yeah, my birthday today,
just wanted to have a bunch of homies on and kick a big sash and talk, hash, glass, and
then kind of how we're all connected. Because it's kind of a great group of people here,
and some of which I've known for a long time, some of which I've known for a relatively
short amount of time, but everyone's pretty dope and very thankful that we're all coming
together for this. So just really quick, wanted to touch on a few things, wanted to touch on the
Green Tech air purifier that we were talking about briefly before. So these units are awesome.
Again, they work on some proprietary technology where they have this UV light that shines on a
proprietary set of alloys. So when that happens, that reaction causes hydrogen peroxide to be
released into the air, as well as like a dual ionization that helps kind of the heavier
volatile organic compounds and any kind of virus in the air to drop out. There's a bunch of
data to support that as well, so we'll throw that up I guess on maybe the Instagram in the next week
or so. They just released a new unit with ozone, the capacity to ozone as well, so we'll have a
little bit more on those units. I'm planning to meet up with Kevin, who's our plug for the
units this week, so I'll be testing those out and we'll have that available for next week's show, as
well as kind of give you more of a rundown as to what's going on. And then when Jameson's back,
he's in Emerald Cup right now, and when he's back in Canada, we'll get him to help us kind of outline
a little bit more about the unit and explain how it impacts us. And then the other thing we wanted
to talk on today... Hold on RJ, before we get to that, I was just gonna say the ozone unit, the new one, that's more set up for a grow-up, right? Rather than a home unit. I think it does both. Okay. Because I believe it is that Pure Air 3000, which is that boxed one that Jameson has. So it's just a new release of that.
So we'll talk about the two different kind of base models and get into that a bit more. But yeah, I want to get into the maple quartz. Some great new designs that we've been testing out. That's the CN Slurper. That one's pretty dope. It doesn't allow any resin to get up into the neck at all. And then you got the Melt Cone, just kind of a different take on a blender.
Yeah, these things are dope. So we will be raging these a bunch in the upcoming weeks, giving you guys full reviews, and then probably some links to products as well. So can we get Ben? Where's Ben at?
So yeah, happy birthday to RJ. This is one of the, I was just saying beforehand, one of the first months of December that him and I aren't chilling in person. I mean, last year as well, because of stupid COVID, but whatever. But yeah, Ben.
What's up guys? Happy birthday RJ.
You know what's going on? You're in Toronto. You're not too far from me. We're a short plane ride away from RJ.
Yeah, man, just kicking it. Got my dog here, smoking a little melt today, smoking some rosin. Having a good time. We got to, on the maple quartz stuff, we got it all kind of landed in the last couple of weeks, the most recent versions of it. So glad to see you got yours, Brian. And yeah, we've just been kind of getting it out to friends over the last few days. It's been pretty exciting.
I don't know about you guys, but I kind of hate when people like tease stuff on social and then it's like four or five months later that it's coming. So it's just a homie and I that kind of threw this together and we've been working on it for a little while, but didn't really want to speak on it until it was ready to go and pushed it live this week and had a lot of people reach out, a lot of interest. So yeah, it's been a lot of fun.
I was, I gotta say, I was a little skeptical on the CN slurper. You know, we're naming it, or I guess these guys are naming it after the CN Tower sort of thing. And, you know, I've hit some pretty fat dabs through this already. We're coming up to half grams and stuff and I've yet to get anything past here. I've yet to get anything past here. So I'm gonna, well, you guys, I'm gonna load up a big fat dab and heat it up and demo how it works.
I'm excited to hear that. That's, that's really what we designed it for.
Is anyone having Brian come through like chipmunky or is it just me?
All good for me.
Okay. Maybe it's just my audio.
Maybe it's just me being a chipmunk bro. I don't know. I'm talking too fast.
I'm stoked for these new bangers.
Yeah, I think you'll like them. I mean, it's, it's kind of, you know, I'm not a glassblower. It's not something that I'm like, we really came by this from a consumer's perspective. And my, you know, my partner and I are both obviously very into dabbing and very into the hash world. And first of all, at the price point, they're just obviously, you know, isn't a lot of great quality stuff under 100 bucks, around 100 bucks. So we wanted to bring that into Canada.
But with the two designs that you showed the, the Mel cone and the CN slipper, like, it's a crowded market, right? Like you got a D nail Toro and like, that stuff's super fire. I'm not gonna make a better slipper than those guys by any means.
But I think where we wanted to come in is just with some like very niche stuff for people that are really, really, really heads and like really into their dabbing, right? Like, this is not the first nail you buy. This is not the fourth nail you buy. Probably it's not a practical way to consume cannabis, but we don't consume cannabis practically. We love it. So I think that's kind of what it comes down to, right?
So, you know, this one, like this, the CN slurper, we wanted a big slurper with crazy functions that retain heat. But then the number one thing that's like, there's obviously some crazy shit out there. We just want something that like you cannot pull oil down the neck, you know, so that shape in combination with the size, like I've yet to be able to do it. It's a bit of a fun challenge.
And yeah, man, the melt cones a lot of fun too. It's we designed it with that thick bottom so it really just keeps heat nicely. I'm a big fan of smoking water hash. And I love the function of smoking water hash through a slurper. But cleaning a slurper with like it with the heads inside even with great mouth is just like it sometimes you can't really get it back to the same. So the design with this guy, a melt cone, we wanted to keep obviously good heat retention.
Have that slurper function, but have it also be something you could clean relatively easily and use with melt because there's just not a lot of nails out there that seem to work really well with melt. If they do, there's the fucking pain in the ass to clean.
I appreciate them on a surface area that's exposed on that one too.
Cheers, boys. I made it bigger.
Amazing. Let's see it. Cheers.
I love how that long neck looks on those nice tall pieces too.
That thing just eats stabs. Look at that.
Yeah, like proofs in the pudding on that.
No matter how hard he rips that, it's not going to get even if you can get up a little bit higher there, it's not making it past the observation deck.
The observation deck. I like that.
That's what it's called.
I like that.
Yeah.
Yeah, great designs. I'm super excited. I hope mine get here in the mail a little bit sooner than later. At least before Christmas would be great.
I hope so. I know packages have been slow with all the fires and floods and everything on the West Coast.
Yeah, the highway is getting wiped out back west out here. Hopefully I can get them. Otherwise, I just got to live vicariously through you guys for the next little bit.
Every time I do that, I die. It's just like a challenge. I got to hit it hard. I got to hit it big. I got to try and get it past where it expands.
And like I'm hitting it as hard as I can. And it just gets to that like expansion of the ring and gets stuck, which is awesome. And yeah, I didn't get like, just letting it cool down. I hit it a little hard.
I also like it. I mean, I don't know if you guys ever like give dabs to people that don't really dab a lot.
And they just like pull too hard or like they don't, they just fuck it up. I like that. Like you can't really fuck that up. You know, you can pull if you don't pull hard enough, you're still, you know, that your function might not be, you know, might not be getting crazy, crazy function, but you're still, you know, ton of surface area, great vaporization.
And you can't pull too hard. Or at least we've yet to see it. Although maybe Jameson can, if anyone can, we'll see.
That's the big thing.
If anyone, it's going to be Jameson for sure.
That's the big thing that like Jameson and I always talk about. I'm always like breath control, breath control, you know, slow and steady. And he's like, yo, I'm a fucking monster. I'm going to eat this thing up. Like, and he does, he hits massive dabs, he hits them hard and fast. And I think that's exactly the type of design that this is for.
I've got some ideas for like a new version for like angles and stuff. And I'm excited to, yeah, to get to try out these kinds of designs because I don't really have six, seven, $800 to be spending every few months on a new design. I know some people do. I'm also not the type of person that typically flips courts. It's like, if I'm going to buy a nail, I'm going to like it enough that I want to use it.
I don't really see it as like glass the same way. Like, I guess, other functional glasses, you know?
Yeah, but like also like we don't take that kind of same stance to flipping glass the way that others do. You know what I mean? Like we don't buy glass and like, yo, I just, I just found my, my grail piece. I just found like one of my favorite pieces that I want in my vault, you know, or my collection, a corner store or cornerstone of my collection piece. Right. And then it's like two weeks later, it's up for sale. Well, I got my eye on something else. Like, no, bro. Like, no, no, we hold.
Yeah, I hold, you know, I obviously love courts, but one of my homies puts it really well. You guys know, Hashim with passion. He's it's it's a tool, right? Whereas like, glasses art. There's, you know, I, I've broken a $500 nail before and it's a really shitty feeling but it doesn't compare.
Oh, shout out to Paco was here.
Oh, man.
Chris Carlson collab.
How old is that? OJ? 2011?
Somewhere around there. So Chris Carlson did that back. He did. He took the picture on the back. And then Paco blasted out onto the pane of glass, and then Paco blasted the rest of this thing too.
You ever still use that bro?
To me, I'm going to bust it out. Bust it out right now for this, this birthday sesh bro. So.
I've never even seen that. I've never seen that in person, bro. And like, I've known you through like all this glass thing. I remember back in the day when you used to live in Waterloo, and I go to your place and we were whatever making, making VHO or just chilling. And like, you had just like stacks of glass and like shelves of it and it was just like, that's like I didn't even look at it because it was just, there's just so much.
That's crazy.
OG Paco, Chris Carlson. Yeah, this thing is super, super sick. Super blessed to have, you know, some of this old school art.
Pretty legit. It's got a little inline, so it's a little chuggy.
It's definitely more like the art style than the super functional beast, but like this thing rages and I'll slap some dabs through it this, this morning, afternoon.
That's like, otherwise, that's again, that's again one of those pieces.
The raw biglin.
See that I look as the biglin is like an everyday use. And that other one is like, I mean, yeah, it's a shelf piece, right? Like, pull it out for your birthday.
Exactly. Exactly.
That's the difference. I think that's the difference between I think a lot of glass collectors and a lot of people in glass and yourself, you know, true glass collector.
Yeah, definitely. Yeah, I don't like to sell much. I like to just collect and then the pieces that I buy are typically for a reason.
Especially like, you know, the raw biglin like he's a he's a friend of mine. So like I like collecting his art, you know, a bunch of other dudes like I just, you know, they're friends. Love to support friends.
Thanks, everyone.
I think anytime you have a friend, I was gonna say anytime you've got a friend that's like doing something like that, whether it's art, whether it's making, you know, growing flour or making resin or rosin, and you have the opportunity to buy it.
That's a that's where you're a real one. You know, where you you support them wherever you can. And that's where the real love is right like and you feel it in the room bro feel it in the room get all gushy.
So what's up? What's up, Damon? What's up, Paul?
How's it going, guys? Happy birthday, RJ.
Thanks. Happy birthday, brother.
Introduce yourself a little bit. Give a little mini bio.
Yeah. So like, I'll just quickly introduce some people to you. So Damon and I connected on Clubhouse. And we've been doing the show the Dank Hour with London for, I guess, a few months now.
Super knowledgeable grower out of Saskatchewan, compliance inspector for some First Nations cannabis companies out there. So he's doing dope things. And then Paul was the guy that actually taught me how to make BHO like, like almost 20 years ago.
Coming up on that pretty soon.
Yeah, so I've known Paul a long time. And we just recently reconnected because Madam Cannoli for her hash porn five competition, reposted some hash or some raws in that Paul made.
And then it just, I haven't talked to Paul or connected with him on social media in a long time. Like, I think, you know, 15 years, maybe is the last time we spoke and randomly seeing his picture on Frenchie's Instagram.
I was like, man, there's no way this is the same guy. And then we just, we happened to reconnect this past week. So wanted to bring Paul on too and just get into how things have evolved. So thanks for coming on, everyone.
I really appreciate you guys.
I appreciate the reach out.
Yeah, that, that picture from the hash porn that actually got posted. There's the now cured Bramble Berry that was up. She's now sitting nice and flat. So give her a stir and see how she tastes.
Say happy birthday.
Happy birthday.
So I'm super pumped. One of our mutual friends that throws all this fire stuff. I've been saving this for today. Someone said, let's see some hash. So I've got this fruit joy cut. Well, there's a fruit joy phenol hunt that was done by our friend, single source living soil.
So this is like the cured out a little bit oxidized.
Just beautiful floral. And then there, I believe there was three or four phenos. So then this is the fruit joy one.
Oh, wow.
And so much more, almost like a mix of barb with like, literally a fruit bowl. And then here's fruit joy number two, which so there's only two now phenos remaining.
And this one is almost like a little bit dank fruit with a, with almost a gas undertone.
So we got those going here. And then I also have some funky charms.
Which is pretty funky. I gotta say it's the first time I've had it.
What are you guys smoking on? Well, we saw we saw Paul has looks gorgeous.
I've also got a little bit of the yeah, that's all dried in the freezer.
And then we got to talk about that after we finish the go around and say happy birthday because I just found this out about 10 minutes ago before we came on the show.
Yeah, you just blew me away my head a little bit but go on.
I've got a little bit of this as well. The that's Mandarin cookies from ethos.
Yeah, I think it's their v1 I want to stay. But that one's super, super terp.
Lots of pockets of oil on there. But there's some proper you can just see the shine on the top. She's really starting to glean.
It looks like organic peanut butter.
Yeah, it's got like this really funky rose hue to it. The was really neat. The wash didn't have any of the anthocyanins in it but the the leaf did for sure like the fan leaf and that but it didn't play through into the blood structure.
So that bramble berry we kind of got into a little bit of a yesterday that has a great story behind it. Super, super random. But also the tech that Paul's running on it is a little bit different than anything else that we've talked about and anything else that kind of most people on Instagram or any of the forums are talking about.
So we can definitely unpack that a bit more as the show goes on because he doesn't air dry specifically and he doesn't have a freeze dryer, but he's still able to produce an absolute fire shelf stable hash and and Rosen.
So I think we definitely need to get into that a bit more after a few dabs.
I've never seen color and consistency like that of anybody that's done it with without a freeze dryer. I mean, the only person I've seen that's come close would be like Van Gyptian up here in Canada.
Yeah, he makes some absolute fire. There's a there's a scoop of the bramble berry.
Oh my God, who do I go to first? Ben, you're up first. You're going first. Come back to you, Herb.
I'll try. I heard Van Gyptian that we were talking about.
Was that Ben? Yeah, I heard Van Gyptian. I had to had to pull out a little bit of the Van Gyptian fire. It's it is stuff's crazy. I truly only smoke it on Sundays. It's honestly, I like to just flag it out.
Solventless Sundays.
But literally, like that was the he's and I mean, no, no disrespect to anyone else. I just I haven't had the opportunity to try melt in Canada. That's been above the level of Van Gyptian and like that inspired this the melt cone.
He's he's a next level producer, man. It's insane. It's infamous stuff.
All right, you're up next, Herb. Let's see what you got.
I got her. She's only still partially stirred, but there's a nice big glob of that.
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
She's got a real nice color to it.
That is absolutely gorgeous.
That's organic sun grown too. On top of being air dried in the freezer.
Wow. So what by air dried in the freezer? It's not just frozen in the freezer then?
No, so I'm not one for the patty tech. I don't like.
Sorry, I've never been a fan of the micro planning and like the potential for shredding heads. And, you know, I just find that a little bit too destructive in the overall process.
So what I do is while I'm washing, I'll, you know, collect my patties and separate on the 15 micron screen and then keep that in a nice like really, really low.
I have a wine fridge set to about 38 39 and I'll try and keep that like just, you know, real quick open, shut the door.
I'll throw some ice packs in there to keep it extra chilly while I'm doing the wash.
So the temperatures don't kind of fluctuate too much.
And then pretty much depending on how I'm washing and I do all my stuff outdoors in the winter.
Like I wait for those prime temperatures to drop and get that like I don't have a, you know, quite the fancy cold room.
So I just do it on the balcony kind of thing with the door wide open and have my little pump sprayer there to rinse out.
You know, do the old school wash and then run it to the fridge, tap it out onto the tray, go for the next bag and repeat pretty much in between the washing.
I'll almost have to try and get it through the sieve depending on the head consistency.
If the bramble berry is really nice to work with, but that Mandarin cookies, it was just so greasy.
I almost had to.
Yeah, it's like you get the different, you know, like gland properties where it almost feels like some of them, like the terpenes are on the outside making the gland really sticky and greasy.
And you have to keep it at that like minus 10 or if it's not in that range, it just it sticks up and you try and sieve it just comes out in a big clump and you can't get them out of the little clumpy balls that form up before you can get them through a sieve.
And I find if you push that too much, like it's all about that care and procedure, right?
Like being real gentle, getting it through the sieve.
I try to bounce everything through.
I don't use the spoon and force it.
You know, I don't do any of that grating back and forth on the sieve to force any friction or break any heads.
It's just sheer bounce factor.
And then whatever it doesn't bounce through, I'll toss off to the side and that actually goes into topicals.
So I have some pretty decent topicals and edibles on the side, but I just try to isolate the A grade.
That's a pretty high end quality control.
Well, that's the blessing of being single source for just yourself and producing and being able to give to friends.
It's not like I'm not running the commercial numbers or having to make those percentages count.
You know, for me, it doesn't matter if I get a couple of percents on the actual A grade.
It doesn't matter to me if they're really low.
You know, if I wash 14 grams of hash in the long run or, you know, 14 to 20, and then I end up with, you know, 5 to 10 of fire rosin, I'm happy with that.
If the rest goes into some high grade edibles and topical.
It's pretty nice clean.
That is pretty good, by the way.
Absolute beautiful glass, by the way.
Loving the look on those slurpers.
But yeah, I just find like with the overall process, it's just about the care and attention to detail, making sure that your temps are right, being super gentle with your material and then just getting it into the freezer as quick as I can.
Separating it out on parchment paper and I'll just do, you know, a basic baking sheet with I use that like, you know, higher grade shop towel that has less fibers to dissipate or chance of them.
And I'll put a couple of those on the bottom stack a few layers of parchment paper and then put the layer that I'm actually putting the hash on and then kind of separate that way.
So it's just, you know, multiple layers of the hash per tray and I'll try and separate things out and sieve them around multiple times throughout the drying process.
But it's usually over 48 hour period.
I'll get them through the sieve each layer about three to four times to really break it up, make it nice and sandy and keep the drying process going smoothly.
So nothing clumps and gathers any moisture and then I find it dries within 48 hours 72 to 72 hours maximum after the wash and I can press it.
Yeah, well the old, the old ideal, you know, 10 days is just it's so long and time is terps, right?
Yeah, well, and I was just thinking if you can, if you compare that to even a freeze dryer, what's it going to take you 18 to 24 hours?
Exactly.
And so you're only doubling it?
Yep.
That's incredible.
Yeah, well.
I gotta say this is like this blows my mind because it's like everybody thinks you need expensive equipment to make fire.
So what I was going to ask before I go into that a little bit more is your starting material.
How are you trimming it?
Are you bucking it off or are you carefully cutting it and then are you only doing like a single layer of flowers in a bag, making sure it's not back sealed but airs out of it?
Because like the way that you're taking the care for these heads, it almost seems like you need to take that care from the start.
Oh yeah, yeah, it definitely starts right at the harvest process and the drying and the curing.
Like I use cured product as well.
Like I don't do the fresh frozen.
I just find that like I've been making hash since, oh geez, probably about 2000.
I want to say 2005, 2006, somewhere in there I started making bubble hash.
And we were playing around like at that time, you know, we didn't even think of freezing the material because the tech was so new.
So we were taking fresh from the field basically and throwing it right into the buckets with ice and trying to, yeah, trying to wash it that way and just getting the most greasy, like sticky heads and you'd have next to no yield.
So we kind of avoided doing that.
And then when the true fresh frozen tech kind of came around, the idea that started up, played with it a bit more.
And I just find it's just such a pain in the pain to handle while you're washing.
It takes a lot more extra care and I can get pretty decent results by using the dry cured material.
Plus that way, then I have extra flower to gift to friends or I still enjoy flower at the odd time.
And I have lots of friends and family that enjoy flower gifts and aren't really into the concentrate.
So it's nice that way.
But yeah, I do.
I do basically an initial like I care for it like you would if you were going to take it right through and cure it up for the jar and smoke it as a finished flower product.
So I'll do that initial trim, get the fan leaves and all the sugar leaf off and then jar it up.
And while it's curing in that, I'll keep it in the fridge and controlled and burp it for a couple of weeks.
And then once it's ready, I'll take that and I put it into just like the vacuum sealed Tupperware with a little pump on the top.
So as I'm just, you know, going through the bigger bugs and bucking them down to the smaller stuff, I'll trim off real delicately the extra, you know, little gnarly leaf matter that you don't want in there.
Take it to that like nice porn star flower in a jar kind of look.
And then I'll trim off the little buds about, you know, a nice small strawberry size.
Buck those off the stem into the Tupperware jar and seal them up in a couple ounces to a Tupperware.
Try to avoid the plastic.
None of that's live.
None of that's live.
All of that is cured.
It's all cured material.
Yeah, that is awesome.
That's awesome.
All of this stuff today is all actually outdoor sun grown.
It's nothing.
The thing was done indoors on this run.
So it's got that.
I've never seen cured, cured that outdoor that bright.
That's insane.
That looks, I would have thought that's like indoor fucking cold early live.
That's nuts, bro.
Oh, she's actually the funny thing too.
Passion goes a long way.
Passion goes a long way.
This is the Bramble Berry right here.
She's just coming down today.
This is her last day seeing any light.
She's still in the pot live.
But this is one of the indoor moms just in a small little, little deal.
But you can see, I'm not sure if you can see the trichomes on her.
She's just got that like big sandy, like you can almost see.
She keeps just bright white, creamy trichomes even up to.
This is day 82.
I took her to day 82.
Yeah, just to run it.
Like I wanted to see how long it could go with the stress and all that.
So a lot of little sugar dips.
Is that like a pure sativa?
No, this one's got like Arday mentioned, she's got kind of a real funny history.
So I kind of happened upon a very large jar of potential fire seeds.
And, you know, the person was just throwing seeds from all sorts of varieties into a jar for quite a while.
And they're running through quite a bit of herb from the looks of it.
So I just had a big mason jar.
It was literally like, I'm going to say it was one of the 500 milliliter, like the big, big fat boy, but not quite the full tall leader.
And I went Johnny Appleseed with that for a good while.
And then as soon as we went, like that happened right around the time that it went legal wreck.
So I was just giving everybody their beans to pop.
Anybody who wanted to grow four in their backyard.
Here's a handful, pop them.
Here's a handful and just getting the seeds out there and, you know, seeing what was coming up.
And eventually this really beautiful, just bright purple phenol came through.
She had dark green leaves and just turned all purple through the bracts and had that, you know, just very bulbous, sandy, gritty trichome look.
And I ended up washing it.
And while I was bucking that one, I found probably about a couple dozen, maybe 30 seed tops.
So that one got pollinated by some random in the area because I was making sure that there was no males around any of those.
It was all females in all of the gardens, teaching all my friends, showing them what the males were looking like, getting them out real early.
So there was zero potential for any of the males that, you know, showed up in some of the people's gardens to have pollinated this thing.
And it must have just been a random happenstance.
So I just kind of took it at that and phenol hunted the 30 seeds.
And that's where this girl came from.
And she was eventually kept.
That's one off of the original mom from that first batch of 30 that I was hunting out.
And I found two really nice phenos and then eventually found a really nice male.
Had that make a little pollen and then just been going from there, trying to back those three into each other each time and kind of spin it around.
So I got a nice, like, two phenol representation in the mix.
But it's about three years in since the, I guess, the F1s were kind of produced now.
And it's finally into the F2 in my what I would consider the actual F2.
So we'll start plopping those and we'll see.
We'll see what we get. But she's just a great hash maker.
I just kind of really ideal.
Like, I've got many respects for Harry Palms and Bloom Seed Co.
Rocky Mountain.
He's amazing hash producers on the breeding side.
And I've just kind of always loved that ideology of breeding for the hash over breeding for the bag.
Yeah, dude, you're next level on this stuff.
Like, you know, we talk about finding strains and, you know, you know, getting them washed and processing and smoking them and then the temperature out of them.
Talk about like hunting random bag seeds and then fucking cross pollinating to get a stable F1 that you like to then fucking hunting that and getting an F2.
Bro, you're amazing.
And then the way that you're appreciated and then your tech of like old school, basically do it the absolute best that you can.
If you do it as fire, it does the best.
Like, it's just that's just unreal, bro.
I got to say, I am like absolutely blown away wrapping my head around all of this because it's like if you did one of these things, it would be impressive.
You know, like, oh, thanks, man.
RJ told me some stories, but not like this.
Yeah, well, RJ and I come from the time of, you know, when fire was hunted, it was done out of bag seed.
Like people weren't really trading genetics back in the early 2000s, you know, like when I first.
I feel you, I did the same thing, but like I never thought about finding and cross pollinating.
I was always like, kill those motherfucking males, get all this shit out of here.
Whatever I find in the bag, eventually I'll find something good in the bag.
And that's what I did when I was growing.
I found something that's kind of purpley, that was kind of, you know, frosty.
And I was like, great, you know, I'll clone that, keep that around for a while.
But I had never the idea of actually breeding and then hunting my own breed, you know, is just.
I guess I never thought of myself as a breeder.
I was always trying just to like find the fire.
Yeah.
But like all the strands, like all the chems and stuff like that, they all have a story like this too, right?
Yeah.
Like it was, came from like a bag seed and then all of a sudden it turned into this, like these incredible varietals that are like the pillars of our community.
Right. And it's like, it all comes from stories like this.
And it's just that, I think that's why it's extra, extra cool.
You know what I mean?
Well, and then, yeah, I was going to say just that you've inspired me to, I thought I'm not going to bother washing at home anymore because I don't have the money for a freeze dryer.
And that was like the big thing.
I have three freezers.
I have an empty freezer.
It's a brand new freezer.
Right?
That's even better.
And it's in my garage.
I have two freezers in the garage and then one indoor, right?
Because I've been having fresh frozen.
So I'm like, fuck, maybe I should then, I should just be experimenting.
I should not be saving all my material up and then, you know, waiting so that I have a friend or someone that, you know, can properly wash it, wash it for me.
Well, that's actually one of the keys too, is you don't want the material to be sitting around too long because the longer it sits, like it's okay if you get it in a freezer for a couple months.
But I find if it comes out of the garden in, you know, September, October, I want it washed by about January or so, or it's if it sits too long, like by March, it's starting to get a little funky, you know, six months in after storage.
It's those heads are starting to rupture, do funny things, even in the freezer.
London is just showing off the fire.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Someone's commenting about my freezers.
Yeah, I went heavy into freezers this year because it's like, you know, you don't want to be stuck with that because I did all fresh, I do all fresh frozen.
Yeah.
Well, that was exactly my big problem, right?
Like, you know, I am, I'm only in a small apartment.
I, you know, fill up my space as is.
I just don't have the room or I don't even think my circuitry could run a freeze dryer at my place right now, you know, I'd probably be popping fuses.
So it was due to my limitations and that I just, I've always tried to work around that.
And I've never really, you know, had a lot of money to invest into, into the high tech fun gadgets.
So I've always been kind of that old school poor man's tech along the way, like, you know, learning as you go and trying to make do with what you got.
And I just found, you know, a little intelligence.
Yeah.
A little attention to detail and you can, you can pull off some amazing stuff, but it's all about the plant.
I find like, you know, the cultivars really, really matter because I've even had, like you guys were saying, you know, that like early pole, like a friend of mine was doing some stuff indoors.
I think it was a blackberry kush crossed with a wedding cake or something.
And it just had some of the darkest, darkest rosin I've ever seen coming out of the hash.
But the glands and everything looked nice and white and light.
He harvested it probably a little early in my opinion, because he was dealing with some other issues and had to get the garden down.
And that one just washed absolutely horrible.
The return on it was low and the color on it was just absolutely just disgusting.
Not, not something that the headies would, would enjoy.
And even the taste on it wasn't that good.
The turf profile was pretty lame.
I find if, if you cut it early, you get, you just get a very lame profile on the turps.
The cat, the cannabinoids aren't finished.
No, you're almost smoking precursor at that point.
Oh, I find, I find so much like the turps change in the last like two, three weeks when you're taking a full term.
It's like, you think it's one thing and literally a couple of weeks later, it's, it's something completely different.
I forgot what I was going to say after that.
I'm starting to get too high and I'm just about to start taking another fat dab.
Shout out to Vin Gyptian.
That stuff is absolutely beautiful.
That stuff's gorgeous. Absolutely gorgeous.
Oh, I remembered what I was going to ask.
So the way that you're washing stuff or just in general, your mentality, will you take material that you're not sure will turn out and wash it?
Or will you just say, look at it and say, fuck it?
No, this one actually right here, I was not a fan of the plant growing very much at all.
Like in the end, the turp profile, it was just kind of weird and had like a minty toothpaste, that Mandarin cookies one.
It's like, but now it's almost like just sweet, candy, tangerine, orange.
But when it came off of the, off the cure and was going into the wash, it had this like minty toothpaste smell.
And like, I tried some of the flower and it was just horrid.
It almost had that, like, in my mind, it gave me that like back of the throat, like RJ will probably remember it when, was it the M39s from like the early 2000s?
Like that horrible, almost basement, wet basement turp, you know, it was just like disgusting when you were smelling it.
I was like, not even, hey, it was just nasty and it was fully cured and I couldn't put my finger on it.
Just had this weird funk, like almost a poopy in there.
That as well, but it would be under the name Beasters.
You guys would see the Beasters and it's like that kind of shit.
Just like super tight, like orange nugged, but like there was too much of that going around when we were coming up.
Too much of that.
Yeah.
Well, that one was outdoor sun grown and I had to, you know, pull her down with the impending weather coming in near the middle of October there.
But I just was not a fan of that turp profile until she like finished up and actually had the full cure in the jar.
This one I pressed November 16th.
So it's been just about a month sitting in the jar before getting cracked just now.
It's just got amazing turps on it.
The separation, it was extremely difficult to work with.
Like it was one that I didn't really have high hopes.
I thought it would wash pretty decently, but it didn't end up returning very well.
Like it looked like it would wash amazingly and it probably came in super low.
But what it did produce was, you know, 100% six star melt on the hash.
And then the actual rosin is just extremely fire.
It looks so good.
See, like people, and you touched on it earlier, Paul, about growing gland heads, growing resin instead of growing cannabis.
Yeah.
Right. And then it speaks in the hash.
Specifically the melt.
You know what I mean?
If you can achieve a melt that is like Ben's been showing us the light right now with the Van Gyptian.
That stuff just looks absolutely incredible.
Oh my lord.
Just next level.
Right.
And just to touch on, in Canada, we've never really had a true kind of source of six star melt or quality melt.
It's all super small dudes that are doing it for themselves and the little bits that get out here and there.
California, Washington, like a bit more blessed with guys, you know, kind of the pre-rosin, everyone was growing for melt and everyone was trying to execute super high end things.
Like Nikiti.
Like shout out to Nik.
Like that guy kind of, you know, helped show us the light.
You know what I mean?
Back then and inspired, you know, a lot of people to push just for melt.
You know what I mean?
And, you know, more polarizing figures like Matt Rise.
Like the guy just makes really, really nice resin.
And these guys are like melt guys.
Right.
And it's a lot of people now grow for hash to press into rosin and rosin is great.
I fucking love rosin.
Like, you know, it's just and I don't grow.
I'm an extractor.
So like my thing is it's tough to to lock in that material for that true six star unless you are executing it yourself.
Like you, Paul.
You know what I mean?
Like that's it's the focus on growing resin and not a plant.
It's focused on growing the individual heads and making sure that each individual tribe to come is what you need it to be because all trikes matter.
Right.
But, yeah, I just it's crazy how the shift in perception, you know, now that rosin can kind of cover up certain mistakes, we'll say.
And not to take it away from it.
Again, I fucking love it.
But like, no, no, you're absolutely right.
It's not it's not melt.
Yeah.
It's a it's a cheater's way to achieve melt, you know, if if that's what you're going for, just for the basic pressing.
But it is a nice, nice way to refine certain material and, you know, just clean it up that little bit extra for the for the banger.
It's there's something about it with the turf profile and the consistencies.
It's like all about that consistency that you're chasing.
It's fine with like six star, like you're saying, it's like that special treat.
And it's got that like with everything in there, too, because you still have the waxy cuticle and all those, you know, components within the full intact membrane of the of the tricone.
So the high I find is just it's slightly different than if you press that same hash into rosin and then smoke that after, you know, any amount of time that you let it sit in a jar.
It's like six star just gives you a completely different profile of high.
It's something like warming, you know, it's like that full warming hug.
Yeah, that's true.
That's a true expression of the plant.
It's the truth like six star like that level of melt is the truth.
You know what I mean?
That is like the most pure taste and and and like physical, like high expression of the plant.
Period.
Like, you know, like I listen to 100 percent.
I'll pull the solvent less horn all day or the solvent horn all day.
Like butane propane.
Like, you know, I'm about that shit.
But that level of of of essence achieved by six star melt is unbuckled matched period.
Period.
It's like they all have their place in, you know, the concentrate realm.
And it's like I find you almost can't compare each one to each other.
Right. Like like you're saying, like solvent solvent made concentrates have their place and they have their specific highs and profiles.
And you can get very specific consistencies with those things.
Shelf stability like you're talking about.
And they're also amazing products, you know, especially with the technology where we advance to, you know, from where we came from back in the day.
And that was also my push to go the route that I went.
You know, it's just with the knowledge that we have nowadays, blasting and that kind of stuff is just it's not safe to do.
It's, you know, being done much better by people like yourself in a lab now and, you know, give it give it to the real professionals to take care of that side of it.
And, you know, stick with the water pressure and a little bit of heat on the plate and take that to the home.
You know, something that I can actually do safely and with consistency on my own.
That's why I went that route with the with the Roslyn and kind of trying to learn that.
And also, you know, we've come so far in the Roslyn game since the hair straightener like, you know, shout out to the OGs who were stomping on hair straighteners for so many years and destroying those on their wives and girlfriends or buying them from the stores to destroy themselves within an hour or two.
You know, like it took many years to get to where we came or where we are now.
And it's like standing on the shoulders of giants.
I definitely have to shout out, you know, Jen Doe 420.
She is an amazing hash producer, somebody that I followed for quite a while on the social media and, you know, have watched her tech.
Same with Frenchie Cannoli, the OG like air dryer.
And, you know, a lot of those guys and, you know, Marcus Richardson, the bubble man talking about growing for the tricone like that whole idea kind of comes from his side of the hash church and that, you know, watching that and doing doing the bubble bubble bag route for so many years.
It's like and it also happened to like just by chance I happened to score some really nice herb and 12 seeds came from it popped all those way back.
And I got a very distinct expression in the phenotypes like I could see the hash cultivar within that it was all leaf and just beautiful bulb tricones.
And it just kind of struck me back in my early days of growing, you know, back on the legacy days.
And that really shone through of what you could do for the tricone growth.
And that's what kind of inspired me all these years later to hunt out the bramble berry.
When I saw that same similarity and those big bulbous glands, I was just something hit me deep down that she was a special lady to keep around and, you know, try and do something with, try and keep her alive.
And I tried to revenge it and that didn't work out.
So when I found the seeds, I was pretty happy to have those and hunt through them.
You got that nose. You've always had a really good nose.
Paul was also a chef for a number of years.
Cooking definitely helped with that.
That approach of understanding things through the kitchen and having the nose transferred into cannabis kind of brings a definitely unique perspective and appreciation and approach.
So definitely one thing I wanted to ask too is have you ever kind of combined the old back chamber tech with the freezer tech?
I would love to. Since moving on from the kitchens, I haven't worked them for the last six, seven years now.
So don't quite have the availability to play with the big vacuum chambers like we used to way back in the day.
So I haven't really tried any of that, but I've kind of, you know, from my remembering of using them a lot in the kitchen is we would definitely want more oil in the marinades versus water because the water under the vacuum just would almost boil.
So I find like if you're trying to dry your hash under that chamber, it might rupture heads or do some really funny stuff.
So I don't even think I would want to try that.
Might be fun to run as an experiment, right?
I was going to say, I thought that was the purpose. I thought that's what you wanted to do.
That's the principle of freeze drying though, right?
Is like having it that cold and keeping it so that, you know, the gland heads stay intact while you boil that water off.
Yeah.
So just, I don't know, just a thought.
Well, they do have like the vac chambers have that specialty of having that sublimation through heating the rails, which heats the trays.
And then it kind of like, you know, it gets the evaporation that way.
And even they have issues where if they don't run the proper cycle, like I've heard of hash makers cooking whole trays and destroying an entire vac chamber full of hash, you know, and it's, that's all part of the game.
You gotta, you gotta take lots of L's to get to a, to a certain point.
You know, it's like that, that jar that I'm showing off, you know, there's definitely some that, that went in the, into the topicals and edibles pile that, you know, if, if you had a perfect run, it would, you know, end up in the jar.
So it's all about the return in the long run.
If you, if you really want it.
Damon, I can see your face just like, holy fuck.
Well, yeah, like.
Well, you're a, you're an old school hash maker.
Yeah.
Bubble.
Right.
And that's where it ended.
Okay.
So.
I've only been pressing rosin for just over a year.
On actual plates.
I did, I did play around with the hair straightener and I ruined way too much material that I didn't bother.
We did it once over the last like 10 years while we've been in this house.
And we just, it was like, it wasn't worth it.
Right.
I was cool with just making my bubble in that.
And then I met Jameson and Brian and RJ and yeah, they converted me.
Right.
Cause like it started with hearing the stories about the glass.
Right.
And then I was like the first dab I did, you know, four weeks ago.
Right.
I was like, oh my God, this is where the stove went.
This is where the hot knives went.
Right.
So it, no, I've only, I've only done it once.
I maybe used a dozen 90 micron bags and I wasted a whole bunch of bubble, about 14 grams of bubble.
Cause I don't know what the fuck I'm doing, but I got good friends.
Right.
So they're telling me how I'm fucking up, but it's.
I definitely wasted a lot of material last winter playing with it and trying around and trying to get my tech right.
And press basically half my outdoor grow and flower before realizing that bubble hatch was the way to go with the plates, you know, flower was and wasn't.
Guys, my last two years, my last two years harvest from outdoor were ruined as well.
So don't worry.
I'm right there with you.
It's all a learning process.
I think London and I were talking about that a while ago about how it's like.
You can't cheat the work.
Yeah.
You're right.
Cause over like, you know, the last 15 years of growing weed, I've had to throw away, you know, generally it's when I listen to somebody else about their methods on curing and then, you know, that jar has got to go in the garbage because no, you can't do that.
Right.
Hey, Hey guys, just a second.
Jameson, if you can, if you're ready to go, give me a thumbs up on the camera and I'll bring you on.
I don't want to pull you on.
Oh, you're ready.
Okay, cool.
Let's go.
Legendary.
Nice to meet you, Jameson.
Hey, how's it going everyone?
Am I live?
Am I on the show?
Yeah.
Yeah, buddy.
Yo, happy birthday, RJ.
Thanks brother.
This guy at Emerald Cup.
Loving life.
Just grabbing the index.
Oh man, I'm so excited to bring that thing home.
I just can't wait to come home.
I don't know if you guys out there follow Jameson on Instagram, but if you don't, you have been missing out on some greatness this week.
I feel like if you could scrape out your lungs, you could probably sell that for a hundred grand.
Just the amount of incredible flower and incredible hash and rosin.
Unbelievable.
And thank you everyone for the birthday too.
The highlight of the day was getting out with Daniel at Green Source Guidance.
I think we're going to start seeing a lot more of his genetics on the market soon.
Which is very cool because he is not only a biodynamic farmer, but he's a hash smoker, which was really cool to find out.
So I was able to really vibe down with him.
This is his coffee F7, or Kaia's coffee F7 by his Pinkleberry.
I don't know if the camera's picking it up, but I mean, blows the doors off any indoor.
I'm zooming into you, show me one more time, brother.
It's a beautiful one.
I don't know if it's on camera. It's unbelievable.
And it's got these beautiful, I don't know if I'm doing it right.
I can see the structure in that one.
You're pretty good.
She's a nice chonky girl.
Oh, it's just so nice and refreshing.
The high grips you and gets you more high than any of these indoor flowers that I'm seeing.
So I mean, it's truly incredible.
It was so cool to vibe out with that guy.
I've got his whole chat on recorded, so I'm definitely going to get it out to the community.
Because I thought that was very cool.
He started talking about comfrey and he ended with relating comfrey to life.
And I thought that was really, really cool.
So I have like 90% of it recorded.
I'm definitely going to figure out how to share it with everyone.
Awesome.
But yeah, super stoked that I can be a part of this birthday sesh.
I'm so excited.
I met the shout out to Julian and Sam from Dab Logic.
Some of the most realist dudes saw me with a peek, came up, smoked me out on some of the best hash.
The hazelnut cream, the G-Mob, incredible.
And then got to chill with them and see them at all hours.
And then up here, they not only sponsored the whole regenerative section of Emerald.
But they're there with me, sitting beside us, listening to Daniel talk about comfrey.
They're about it from the regenerative farming of cannabis all the way to the extraction of the resin head.
So I just have nothing but phenomenal things to say about those guys.
And I'm so excited to have them on our show in February.
I also just confirmed Ross Paul, or Kaya, from Pacific Northwest Roots.
And I'm super, super excited to have him on.
We tried to cross paths but weren't able to connect.
But texted each other and sort of acknowledged that we missed each other.
And he's back home in Seattle now.
But yeah, no, it's such an awesome community.
And I'm so fucking stoked to be a part of it.
And yeah, we've got a ton of new guests coming on.
And I'm really excited about it.
Okay, so best flower so far of the trip.
Top, like, I know you've had so much.
Top five?
Is that even doable?
Yeah, I'm ready for this.
I'm ready for this.
Okay, so hash first.
Oh, hash first?
Oh, you got it all?
Let me hash first.
It's all in my head.
I was going to say hash or melt first.
Yeah, for sure, bro.
Okay, melt was the blueberry haze from 710 Labs.
That was another fucking level.
That is future shit.
And I was all about that.
Could have, like, had just one of those jars you, like, literally have to hold yourself back.
And you kind of want to golem that shit and just sit in the corner and smoke it all just right away.
And then the garlic cookies, for me, is the best garlic at Rosentech.
The garlic juice seven is much more GMO, nosy, acrid forward.
And the garlic juice three is, like, more papaya forward.
So it's kind of like pick your destiny.
But, like, when I really go through them, I definitely just go back to the garlic cookie.
Other standouts were the hazelnut cream from Dablogic, the Gmob from Dablogic.
And that was, like, the Gmob was, like, the best.
Some of the best unique GMO that I've had.
It's, like, a more pronounced GMO.
I'm trying to think in, like, what way it leans.
But it's just, like, as a guy who smoked a lot of GMO, that stood out for me.
And then the Rosentech, the Dablogic, Havhash, Havhash, the Sticky Papaya was really, really nice.
And I think I'm forgetting somebody.
Oh, and there was a dope guy, Elliot Family Farms, Dr. Green, George Green Thumb.
He had some really, like, a GG4 cross that I've got, right?
Here.
This is the hazelnut cream from Dablogic.
I don't have a light, so I'm not doing it justice.
But it's, like, it's so beautiful.
It's well-named.
It was a 200-seed phenol hunt.
This is Exotic Mikes.
And then this is Dr.  or not Dr.  George Green Thumb from L.A. Family Farms, GG4 cross.
And it's really nice.
Like, I really enjoy it.
But yeah, those were 
I just remember, like, your reaction, like, when the guys from Dablogic handed you that hazelnut cream jar in your story on Instagram.
I remember your reaction.
You were like, what?
It's so much fun to watch your stories, because your reaction to, like, some of these, you're like, I love you, I love you.
And then it's like, to, like, people, right?
Like, show and love, because everybody's showing it back.
And then, like, yo, you explode when you see some of these jars.
And it's like, oh, bro, I can  I wish I could  I could, like, taste the turps through your description.
Yeah, I mean, people see the reaction.
Like, some people, like, you know, like, hand  you hand them a jar and you're like, look at this.
And they actually just, like, look at it.
They don't even smell it.
And then they hand it back to you.
And you're like, oh, OK.
And then, you know, seeing people who are really about it, like, I go nuts for this stuff.
So, Roz and  like, Roz and Tech, for me, was, like, the best consistent go-back to.
Papa Select did a lot of, like, fresh-press stuff.
And I thought that was neat.
But, like, as a heavy smoker, like, fresh-press does not  I can smoke a gram of fresh-press.
Like, it's, like, nothing compared to something that's cured out.
This is the Fat Yaya from Papa Select.
And that was cultivated by Emerald Queen Farms.
And, like, this stuff's phenomenal.
But, like, I want to sit it at home.
Like, you can see it's kind of just starting to cake out or batter up.
Like, it's just starting to cure.
But, like, when you get the stuff, it's fresh-press.
It's very hard to deal with.
Like, yeah, I just  I thought it was super interesting that they were selling more offerings of fresh-press than they were cured stuff.
And I don't know if that was an inventory thing or a conscious choice for the market.
But, yeah, I found that super interesting.
But, like, Papa Select, like, I just  I was listening to their Hashishin getting ready for interviewing Shiragam.
Shout-out Shiragam, who was up here for Eagle Clash.
And it was just so cool to, like, listen to that three-hour podcast about that.
Like, it's an all-girl team making some of the finest hash.
And, like, I got to meet those girls, and they were awesome.
And, like, we'd love to have them.
And, like, I talked to them about the show as well.
They'd love to come on.
Like, I just  the energy was there.
Love to have some female growers and extractors for sure.
Yeah, no, these girls were so cool.
I wish I remembered their names right now.
But, yeah, no, such cool  just cool energy.
I didn't get to check out any Nasha extracts.
The booth was just mobbed every time.
But I'd really like to, you know, cross paths with that one day.
I'm really, like  I just can't wait to get home and play with my Indux.
That's what I'm really, like, you know, excited for.
It's going to be a good Christmas.
That's, I think, one of the biggest legendary things.
We've got so much to talk about that.
So funny.
So funny story.
So, Funneh, would you try any, Kalia?
You try any, Kalia?
No, I'm still looking.
I'm going back to the show, like, after I jump off this.
And, you know, it's open until then.
So I'll be able to kick it for a while and see.
But, like, I got to  I have so much  I mean, I have so many turps.
And I leave tomorrow.
So somebody's going to get a good care package.
But, yeah, it's been a very cool show.
That's dope.
I had something to say.
It's looked incredible from the Hall of Flowers to the Emerald Cup.
It's looked like an incredible, incredible time.
The energy is a lot better at Emerald Cup.
I was going to say, expectations met or exceeded?
Okay.
Expectations exceeded just from meeting Daniel from Green Source Gardens.
Whole trip's worth it.
And I met so many other great people.
Dav, Rajak, Sam and Julian, all those guys.
Funny story about buying my index from Kylie.
So I was  somebody came up and was also grabbing one.
And he's like, I have to call Marcus to ask him what color he wants.
And I'm like, you know, tell Marcus I say what's up.
And I said, tell Marcus Jameson says what's up.
And the guy looks at me and he doesn't know me from Joe.
And, like, I know that this guy's calling Marcus Richardson.
And so he was talking to Marcus on the phone.
And then he looks over at me, like, all, like, suspiciously.
Just, like, trying to call me on my shit.
And he's like, yeah, there's some guy here that says he knows you.
His name's Jameson.
And the look on that guy's face was so funny because Marcus, of course,
cracked up on the other side of the phone.
So Marcus and I have number three and number four indexes in Canada.
So it's very cool to be among bubble men as, you know,
top of my index at the same time he is.
Who has the first tier?
RJ wanted to be the first.
I'm trying to remember who it is in Canada, but I actually don't know.
I'm not there. I'm not there yet.
It's an investment I am looking to make.
It's an investment I'm looking to make.
I'm just not quite there yet.
I have one more thing I got to work on.
You just have to session.
And then you'll be like, oh, okay, I'll make this work.
It was so funny when Kylie sent me out.
Oh, yeah, you'll just make it work.
But, yeah, the whole show has been really cool.
All the flowers layout in Palm Springs was a little odd.
And so that energy at that show was a little different.
But Emerald Cup is definitely a vibe.
And it was like, we got a slow start yesterday morning,
but then it was fully going.
And, you know, everybody's out and celebrating.
So it's really cool to see.
That's awesome.
Are you taking a dab in there or no?
Oh, yeah, I'm taking a dab.
I'm getting a smoky fine.
So it's kind of like foregone conclusion.
Did you get a rig?
I set off the smoke alarm within like seven minutes of being in here.
Like we got this little piece of China that I carried with me the whole trip.
And it does me great, but it's getting me in trouble, that's for sure.
And then this, this octane, I'm bringing this home.
This is incredible.
Yo, those are good.
They're great.
I'm sleeping on these things.
These things are great.
There's nothing wrong with them.
I'm very impressed with it.
I haven't touched it the whole trip.
You know, I've been puffing tough.
And it's worked.
You do puff tough.
And you puff extra tough this trip.
Yeah.
You know, you got to wake up early to smoke hash all day.
You can't be sleeping in.
Yeah, but it doesn't mean you have to smoke two and three grams in a session.
Wine from all years means you don't need to do a lot of wine.
The same way that I need to go through a lot of wine.
I'm just joking, bro.
I'm happy that you're doing it.
And I just wish I could be there.
I know.
I know.
You will be next year.
And yeah, and this solventless plant from Depage.
This is the papaya.
And this is actually something that I would, if available in Canada,
something that I would smoke.
I really enjoyed this.
What would be the point?
I'm not the guy to ask.
They advertise the wholesale numbers and stuff at the show.
I don't know.
Yeah, yeah.
That's what I mean.
What would you think the price would be?
Would it be like a hundred dollar pen?
Yeah, I mean, it's all solventless.
So it's not 40.
Gram or half gram?
That to me looks like a half gram.
I'm not a pen guy, but that looks like a half gram.
It looks like a half gram.
I could be wrong.
Yeah.
But yeah, something I enjoyed.
It was very cool.
Very cool to be down here with some other Canadians and some different
perspectives.
But yeah, for me, it's like Hall of Flowers is definitely.
Yeah, it was two different shows.
One's a celebration, one's a business show.
And I definitely had great cake with it from both.
But very excited to get back to Canada and start playing with my machine.
That's really.
I'm like, okay, I'm good.
I need to go, you know, take all my turps through this thing and see what
they look like.
I just hit Fruit Joy one and two.
How does Fruit Joy one and two compare to some of the dabs you've had from
down there?
He's an artist, man.
Like, it's up there.
Like if it was all on the table.
Is it on the same level?
Oh, yeah.
If it's all on the table, it's 100% on the same level.
And I'm reaching for it like the same way as often as I'm reaching for
Rosin Teck or Papa and Barkley.
I'm jealous of the garlic cookies though, bro.
Yeah, me too.
The garlic cookies is like the best rendition of GMO that I've ever had.
And like it's one of those where I have to do my best to not like smoke it.
I could smoke it in a sitting, no problem.
It's just so good.
And it makes me feel so good.
That's what's special about it.
It keeps getting you higher, but you don't get too high.
And you just feel more and more kind of comfortably wrapped up in what is
garlic cookies.
Like it's just so amazing.
Love it.
Yeah.
I'm going to take a hit at GMO.
It's been really nice to live vicariously through you this week.
So thank you for going so fucking hard.
Yeah, so many people reached out and been like, yo, thank you for sharing this.
So I'm like, fuck, I'll share more.
I love this stuff.
So I'm happy to share.
No, like it's been so dope.
It's been so dope.
And just like, you know, as a homie, like I just love seeing you like out there
like this, especially as like Emerald Mountain Legacy's new number one.
Yo, if you see Jamison out today, show him all the fucking love.
Give this guy a big fucking hug.
Have a dab with him.
You know?
I will have a dab with you.
I appreciate you guys.
I want you guys all here.
You know what I mean?
Like we need a bigger Canadian representative, like Canadian contingent here.
You know what I mean?
Like I'm one of the few Canadians that kind of comes down often.
And I think that there needs to be more of a presence here because, you know,
guys are asking me like, what's it like up there?
It's like, yo, we have a strong legacy.
We have a strong sort of backbone net.
And I think, you know, next few years we're going to be able to get the whole
crew out there and really represent.
So I'm super stoked about that.
And I'll be there to make all the intros and connect all the dots.
So, you know, don't worry about that.
I'm excited for that.
Yeah, I'm going on into or I'm going in on some slap and tickle,
some GMO grape pie because of all this GMO talk.
Need some GMO tickling the lungs.
But if everyone else is going in on a dab, I might just hold off so I can talk.
I'm hitting straight GMO.
I see Josh in the audience, like down there, like chatting in the thing.
I've been trying to pursue him.
Josh, what's up?
Come on, Josh.
Come in.
Say hello.
Did you guys already send him a link?
Should I send him a link?
Yeah, send him a link.
Okay.
I'll send him a link.
I'm stoked that we got the good crew.
This is the world's worst torch that makes it work.
What is that?
I've got the world's worst torch.
It's like a common torch.
That looks like it came stocked with your hotel room.
That hurts.
Did that come brand new?
No, I got a good one.
I got a good one.
Just go to Home Depot and grab a $100 heat gun, yo.
Heat gun.
I've got one.
There's just no place to put it down.
Yo, just build a little jig.
You're all good.
I'm not the artist in my family, RJ.
Nor am I.
Not in that sense.
If you need graffiti on a car, I know who you can talk to.
Yeah, I saw that.
Josh, there is a link incoming in your message box on Instagram.
If you want to come up and join us for a dab.
Or throw us some of that beautiful hash that you have that got featured on Canoli's page.
I would fucking love for you to stop by and say hello.
Yeah, Paul, congratulations to you too, man, about the Frenchie stuff.
Appreciate that, man.
That's awesome.
I got that bramble all stirred up now too.
So yeah, Jameson, this guy, Paul.
That's the stuff that was on the, that made it, the pick that they used for Frenchies.
So that was fresh off the plates.
And this is after a little cure and stir.
That's all air dried material, Jameson.
Air dried.
Sun grown, air dried.
Wow.
Like freezer, freezer dried.
Not even straight air.
Freezer.
No, no, no freeze dryer.
Fucking crushed it.
Well, I like to keep her nice and cold in the freezer.
I tried the, you know, 40 degrees or so.
38 to 42.
But I found with something like that, that Mandarin Cookies, the 73 to 119 was just crashing out.
And those temperatures were becoming liquefied, actually.
So I had to reduce the temps even further.
Killing it, man.
That's so dope.
Truly, like, Simply Adam is the only other guy that I've seen, like, actively throwing it out there.
I mean, Van Gyptian with that hash is looking super fire.
Shout out to him.
Simply Adam, like, just, I love his.
I would love to have Van Gyptian on the show.
I mean, let's hit him up.
So I do have a question from Andre.
He's asked this a couple times.
I'm wondering if we can answer this.
How do you manage humidity in the freezer?
Just, like, I keep a nice little, you know, meter in there.
And I just keep an eye on it.
You know, if I need to open the door and blast it with a little fan.
But nowadays they make these little, like, USB plug-in humidifiers that you can buy, right?
So if your humidity is too low, you can go and buy one of those from the hardware store and just stick it in your standalone.
And that will give you a higher humidity on the inside.
Because typically the freezer might be too low.
But as long as you don't open it up and if you keep one of those running on low to monitor your humidity levels, it's no problem.
You know, it's like one of those old school tech.
Just pop the freezer and give the little shake to draw out some of the humidity if you need.
Or I have, like, a little plug-in fan, like a little $15 one.
I'll just open up the freezer, point the fan inside, blow the air out, get some fresh air in there.
Shut it, check the humidity in, you know, an hour or two.
Make sure that it's going where I want it to.
And then just keep it locked up.
But the packs of desiccant or bags of, you know, plain rice in the bottom, depending, really help to keep the humidity low.
Help you balance things out.
It's like you got to do both.
You got to balance and introduce humidity to or take it out and put it in.
Kind of fluctuate both sides.
You guys are talking about rotating it?
Rotating, like, the air, basically?
And what's the ideal humidity?
Try and keep it at 40 and 40 or, like, you know, below.
Like, try and keep your freezer temps and then about 40, 40% humidity or just lower than that.
Not too low so that it goes too dry.
And then try and keep it below 50 at the absolute maximum when it first goes in.
And then over the first day, try and drop that to 40 and then maintain 40 or lower.
And then by the time it's dried, I want to say it's, like, usually sitting around 30, 32 in the freezer.
It's about 30% relative humidity by the time it's pulled out and done.
I like that, like, slow drop so that you're not trying to, you know, shrink the heads too fast
or do anything kind of funky by drawing out too much humidity too quick.
It's like that fun little balance.
But, again, each cultivar really plays into it.
You can have quite a swing depending on what the plants give you.
That's why I've been a big fan of that Bramble Berry.
She's just super consistent in the wash, very easy to handle.
Nice sandy, gritty heads that are nice and large so they actually contain a lot of the oil on the inside of the gland.
And the terpenes are within that breath or within the gland as well.
They're not, like, they didn't form kind of on the outside.
Make that sticky kind of oily gland that you get in some cultivars that are a real pain in the butt to dry.
Those ones can take a little bit longer, sometimes up to 72 hours if it's really oily.
Like that Mandarin Cookie, she took a little bit longer.
But not impossible.
Oh, no. It's just like, you know, what are you prepared to deal with kind of thing.
Like, do you want the easiest experience to just cruise right through?
But that's kind of the fun of being the artisan hash maker, right?
Like, you get to play around and see so many different variations and consistencies.
And that's the beauty of it.
Like, the same plant grown by two different people will wash completely different and give you very different results in the end.
That is absolutely beautiful looking.
What is the mix of iced oat or the turf profile?
On the Bramble or?
Or did you do the blending?
Like with the finished products?
Yeah.
Yeah, so actually, this one here was my I had a Delotto S1 from in-house that was gifted to me by a good buddy.
And mix that with my Bramble Berry.
So that's the second press of the Bramble Berry Nug Run mixed with the Delotto Trim Run.
So that thing is just and that's been sitting on the on my like table here for the majority of the week.
It's just super greasy.
It's got a really, really nice nose to it.
But I'm a big fan of mixing up the varieties.
You know, the future.
Yeah.
Well, some of our you know, back in the day, we do that with the flour.
You toss a salad or something, right?
Like, I've got this flour.
You got that variety.
Let's toss them together.
Roll this like nice little salad joint, right?
You get that beautiful like endocannabinoid mixture of profiles.
It just hits you so differently.
It's awesome.
I find like some of the American producers are doing that, aren't they?
I think like 7-10 and them are mixing some good stuff up.
Big time.
Big time.
Big fan of Roz and Ryan, you know.
Put that hat on.
Happy birthday, brother.
I think everybody needs to have like a we're at an hour and 23 minutes.
And we missed the hour mark because we usually have like a moment where everybody takes a massive dab.
But since we have this full stage, let's like all do one together for our day.
We've been putting up clouds pretty steadily.
Nice to meet you, man.
Nice to meet you, too.
I finally got my hands on the gas pack.
Nice.
Josh, I'm looking for Madame Cannoli today.
Nice, right on.
I did not see her yesterday.
I mean, I saw her on stage, but I didn't see anyone else.
Yeah.
Well, Hashborn, five questions in conclusion later today, don't you?
Or is it tomorrow or the voting?
Today's planning for voting and tomorrow's when they announce?
Yeah, I believe so.
Yeah.
I think most of the winners are starting to become pretty clear, but it's pretty exciting either way.
It's fun having stuff up there.
Yeah, no, I agree, man.
It's just amazing to be part of the community, you know, and have a legend such as yourself and, you know, rest in peace, Frenchie.
But earlier this year, I was actually blessed to get picked earlier in the April competition as well.
So I've had two pictures in Hashborn, four and five.
That's awesome.
Congratulations.
Many, many blessings to the Hash community.
It's, you know, definitely standing on the shoulders of many legends to be at this point.
Do you get to call yourself a repeated hash pornographer now?
I'm not against the title, you know, I'm a big fan of Botanichemist's work.
He seems to always pull in the culture category.
He's definitely throwing it out this year with the cinnamon buns and the clutch of them.
That was some beautiful work by a lot of amazing producers all around, you know.
Absolutely.
Speaking of amazing producers, make sure you guys go follow Jesse at BioVortex.
He does a lot for the regenerative community and he's a super cool dude.
His name is at BioVortex and he does some really cool stuff.
He was hosting a lot of panels yesterday.
Yeah, BioVortex and Hashmakers.
Take note, I dropped a little gold nugget there, so take it what you will.
And then also Bryce Land Forest Farms is another great one and Green Source Gardens.
Make sure you're following those guys.
Those are all, you know, farms that are actually out there walking their talk.
So it's very cool to be a part of that panel.
That's awesome.
Organics are the way of the future, man.
The regenerative growing.
The soil is our future, right?
Without it, we're just going to pollute the earth.
It's how it was before we industrialized farming.
Going back to the way we should have always done things.
Well, it's just nowadays we're finally learning that peat and, you know, cocoa just aren't as replenishable as we once thought they were.
So we got to do a little better.
And the amount of heavy metals in commercial farming is finally coming to light, right?
So the way of organics and getting away from the bottle-fed newts.
Like, as you know, I don't want to name drop in case he doesn't want to, you know, be called out for it.
But I've always heard a friend of mine say that, you know, bottle feeding your plants is exactly that.
Like you're feeding babies, you know.
Grow them to be strong. Let them take what they want from the soil.
Get away from the bottle feeding.
But there's a place for everything, you know.
Some people do really well with the salts and that.
But I've just always been a big fan of the organics and regenerative practices.
Oh my god, that gas pack grabs you right in the chest, eh?
So what's the terp on that gas pack?
It's literally like sweet gas.
Yeah, but there's a cake in there.
You know there's a cake behind that gas.
I was going to say that's why it's sweet.
You can feel it on your tongue, the cake.
Yeah.
It's a mix. It's a mix.
It's not a post-press mix. It's a pre-press mix.
Banana cake.
I'm going to mess this up, so I'm not going to do it. Just hold on.
Strawberry diesel cookies.
And one other that I can't remember.
But the strawberry diesel.
The strawberry doesn't come out in the diesel, but the cake comes out of the banana cake for sure.
Big fan of those banana terps.
Me too.
The banana in here just comes through sweet, though. Like sweet banana.
We've got a buddy out there in the banana world.
Is that on that funky banana where it almost leans on that rotten baby powder kind of lean?
No, not at all.
Not at all. It's like artificial candy banana.
Yeah, the fake popsicle almost.
The old school banana popsicle smell.
Yeah, more like a banana runt than a banana popsicle.
But like, yeah, artificial banana.
Nice.
Those boys do nice work.
Such a funky terp profile to come across too.
It's really nice when it's backed with that gas, though.
I find the banana goes just amazingly with the gas terps.
A lot of hashmakers are going to try and set themselves apart by working with guys like Todd McCormick and stuff
to pull these unique haze varietals in on a medium to long flowering terp that will just deliver such a unique experience.
Because us hashmakers are kind of like, unless you're in that GMO camp, which I very much am and will be happy with GMO for the rest of my life,
the cakes and desserts get played out.
They get run so far into a corner that it's like you need something different.
And if you go like, well, just wait, I've got this biscotti type thing.
It's like the cake smoker's like, no, no, no, I need something different.
And that's where that equatorial influence really, I think, is going to become prevalent.
And you see industry leaders like Purple City Genetics and guys that I look up to starting to work with the Cuban Black and the Piff.
Who knows if it's all the same or not, but getting those longer flowering older varietals.
I mean, popularity in cannabis cultivars is similar to popularity in fashion and music.
It changes and it's always a little bit different, but it's cyclical.
OG Kush is going to come back. Blue Dream is going to be a big thing again. It will be.
It's just a matter of years. And maybe it's a rename game, but there's nothing wrong with that plant.
It's not for me, but there's nothing wrong with that plant.
So, yeah, I just think like we need to understand that we're in this big cyclical thing the same way.
Like we're probably going to see bell bottoms become popular again.
You know what I mean? Like it's just like, you know, I'm sure that I'm going to meet a kid or over here, a kid being like, no, this sour is like the new new.
You know what I mean? Like it's like, you know, it's all just cyclical.
You just got to get you just got to know where the curve is, where you're at and where you're going.
Well, it seems like the OGs are already making that big comeback, right?
Like like you're saying for so long, we've been on the cakes and the desserts, the cookies and everything.
And now it's just been a little bit overplayed. Same with the fruits and that, you know, like lots of fruity flavors, strawberry.
The you know, the Loa, the legends or orange apricot has just been huge.
So I just really see the gassy, skunky, chemi, haze kind of making a big comeback.
I think Capulator's got like a Nigerian haze that's been making some rounds, too.
That's been used and used to breed by a couple of decent Ontario guys.
Coalition Seed Co is doing some work with that right now.
And they've got some just absolute fire coming down the line.
I know I have caps at the show.
He's keeping his lines big and doing his thing.
And he does like he's, you know, caps, caps, caps, caps.
So, yeah, no, he's the legend, man.
Yeah. Nothing but respect for that guy for sure.
He does a lot. His online forums are super helpful.
Oh, definitely. I'm excited to see some of the old paces come through.
I remember that even before, you know, like meeting up with you, RJ, like that was those were the strains of, you know, like the 80s and 90s and that, you know, like the original Northern Lights number five, the original Neville Hayes and stuff.
They just had those those turf profiles that you don't see nowadays.
You barely ever come across them.
You know, very few clutches of people hang on to them.
We are blessed with quality and variety that are very much long gone.
Like, you know, Paul, Paul and I met, I think, around 2005, 2006.
Somewhere in there.
The amount and the quality of cannabis that we were seeing back then was still like I struggle to see certain things of that quality and then certain things have like far surpassed.
But in general, just the amount of varieties that were new and then you could do some research into and then find out a lot more of was a lot more prevalent, you know, and it was less hype growing.
People grew, you know, more for what they wanted to grow and and things have just changed a lot.
Yeah.
I'm sorry, RJ.
I'm going to jump in really quick because I'm going to jump off soon.
But if anybody in the chat is in the Santa Rosa area and they're watching the show and they want to message in and come claim six grams of hash rosen at the Courtyard Marriott in Santa Rosa, you can message on the chat.
These guys will message me and I will leave this for you at the front desk of the Courtyard Marriott Santa Rosa with your name on it.
So it pays to watch fires fire.
I love you all.
I'll hear from you.
Have a fucking awesome day.
Cheers, bud.
That is absolutely hype.
So, yo, if you're in the Santa Rosa area, let us know.
You want six grams of hash?
Let's go.
What if you're hurting for cash and you're in SF?
That's not even too far to drive.
Hop in the car and start driving.
That's so hype.
Jameson's the man.
There you go.
That's what always happens.
Like when you're on a trip and you have access to Terps, you never want to be like without Terps on the trip and you know you're going to smoke a lot.
So, yeah.
Or if you follow Jameson on Instagram, hit him up.
Yeah, that's so dope.
Someone's getting blessed.
Somebody's lucky day for sure, eh?
Yeah, that's huge.
That's huge.
It's amazing to be able to have that.
Like I would just go down to have the access to have Melt like available at different strains and like, yeah.
But I hear him on the Fresh Press.
The Fresh Press thing, you know, I've had it a few times and I feel like it was kind of like hyped up.
But if you have the same material, Fresh Press or Cured Out, however you want to cure it, whatever the tech that you want to do, I feel like it's a better profile.
You need to cure things out.
You know what I mean?
I had this conversation with you guys about some stuff that I've been working on.
And like no one really talks about curing live resin or curing like you cure cured resin further, Paul.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
And it's like it's achieving these subtle nuances and trying to find the best and the best extraction method for the cultivar because certain things like are best expressed solventless.
Yeah.
Without a doubt.
Certain things you have a really hard time extracting solventless.
So solvents are a better way to express those profiles.
100%.
Because it comes into the profile of the plant too, right?
Like what you're talking about is with the solventless, you can only isolate mechanically certain trichome profiles, right?
What you're able to achieve is like, in my opinion, almost a true full spec representation of that cultivar because you're able to capture the whole cannabinoid profile and get everything off of there.
Exactly.
So it just, you know, either way, it takes, you know, someone who understands how to bring the subtle nuances out of the resin to use any extraction, any extraction method to actually, you know, bring out the way the plant should be expressed.
Maybe you think of it like a chef, you know, the way that that chef wants to express those ingredients, you know, express those profiles.
Because, you know, like I was getting into earlier, curing these resins out, you know, we're, who's to say it's done, number one.
But number two, it does take time to spend time, you have to spend the time curing out all these flavors to understand the nuances that you need to bring forth.
And then kind of when things turn sour, when things, you know, you have to push it to understand the cultivars you're working with and the resin you're working with.
Yeah.
And that's why if you're going to put product on the market, you have to, you have to R&D shit.
And if you're not, you know, let's go.
Well, you were talking about it too earlier, like the homogenization of the product, right? And having that stability in the shelf over the longevity of a product, right?
So it's like, like, especially once you're curing things out, settle up in the jar, you achieve different consistencies.
In the long run, you know, if it's a more terpier cultivar, you can end up with like extreme sways in your, your consistencies, everything from what you see in a solvent based extraction with your like jam sauces and diamonds, you know, like,
and you can even take resin, hash resin and further mechanically separate into the THCA diamonds and the terp sauce, right? Like raccoons, he does that all the time online.
Raccoons, shout out raccoons.
Yeah, one of his specialties, you know, amazing hash producer.
So this is THCA mechanically separated, mixed into CBD jam.
The CBD just doesn't like the nucleated at all.
It works out nicely.
No, that's exactly it. Like there's such a sway in the consistencies that you can achieve through, you know, like you're saying, like the certain cannabinoid profiles that nucleate, that crystallize, that just terp out, you have that like amazing separation of the THCA and the terpene profile where they come up to the top, you get that nice layer over everything.
And, you know, you stir that all together and you just get this huge sway in different consistencies.
And it's so amazing what the plant can express.
And it's like without, you know, the furthering of our craft and now with the science and everything finally catching up and labs being able to test what we're actually producing and putting out there, you know, and like all these hash makers, we like basically don't really know the science behind it.
Loose, you know, loose idea of it in actuality.
But, you know, as the science catches up, it gives us a true idea of what's really happening in there.
Like RJ is saying, you know, the future is just so vast with the curing times, leaving something sit for like a year, two years.
Like I know some people are cracking jars that have sat for half a year or longer, and it's just amazing when it's getting opened, you know, and completely different.
That's a one year. That's like a year.
Yeah.
That's what I've done.
As long as you hit on a really important point.
Right. Like you can probably keep it for a good while.
And I feel like it's like a wine, you know, you're only going to get better problems with time aging.
That's exactly what I said.
Like I've had a really important point too.
I think you hit on an important point around reintroducing the terpenes.
Like I was just down in L.A. for a little bit and it was cool to try some different terps and like to get them fresh pressed.
But everything comes in a gram.
Right. So like you get it fresh pressed and there's just not like it oxidizes so fast when it's in such a small amount of rosin that you don't really get to properly experience it as a batter.
Like I think it's I hear a lot that like people say, you know, make it fresh pressed so the consumer can get every step of that process and they can have the choice.
But I think unless you're able to sell it in like a proper sized jar or at least, you know, seven grams, 10 grams where you can really get a proper terpene separation, properly, properly whip it, reintroduce it.
You're not getting the same batter consistency.
You're not actually getting to your point, the terpene representation.
Like you're just those terps are oxidizing. Right. So, I mean, I appreciate like the notion of bringing people fresh press and 100 percent.
It's like it's different terpenes. It cures it once it cures. It's fun.
But I think to do it in a one gram format is it's just a waste of everybody's time.
You need the cold chain storage, which California does have and like big ups to 710 and Kalia and Papa's like they develop that shit and it's impressive.
But also it helps the full melt.
100 percent. And for the full melt, it makes sense. But to do the full cold chain storage for a gram of fresh press, if you don't smoke it all as fresh press, it's not like you don't get it as batter.
You don't get it as cold cure, like whatever you want to call it. You're just getting it as fresh press.
So, you know, and then they don't put it out as something else. Right.
So that's where I have a bit of an issue is, you know, I don't want to have like if I'm purchasing something, I'd rather have the option.
Yeah, you're exactly right. Like, in essence, you know, from being a like squishing on the press and seeing what happens within 24 hours or some cultivars even like six to 10 hours.
Right. Like, unless you're there at the plates and they're like squishing you the hash and handing you the jar, it's never going to be, quote unquote, fresh pressed. Right.
It's just like, in my opinion, almost like an un-homogenized, non-nucleated rosin that they're trying to sell out quick. Right.
Like, like Jameson mentioned, he didn't know if it was a production error or like, you know, just they didn't have enough gear on hand.
So that's what they brought. And they just like, you know, squish a quick batch of hash, throw it in some jars and throw it out there.
And maybe they're just being nice and honest and not trying to, you know, dupe anybody by saying this had a cure or any time in the fridge.
They're like, you know, get it out there and get it to the people. But I find like even if it sits for 24 hours, there's no way it's it should be considered a fresh press after that point.
I know what you mean.
Just from what I've seen happen. Right. Like it happens so quick. It's like under, especially if you're shipping it, like you were saying, keeping that cold chain.
If you ship it at room temp to a to the store and it sits on the shelf or, you know, in the box for 24 hours at room temp, it's definitely going to be changed consistency from where when it left a lot.
Yeah. Like at what point is it no longer, you know, a fresh press?
Yeah. Or is it just like package packaged packaged packaged as fresh press?
Well, the way the way 710 does it, it looks like shatter almost like it actually melts in their product.
So, yeah. So, I mean, that's I think if and that's the fresh press, like even even at that standard with one gram, as soon as it starts to cure up, you're losing the turps.
You're not there's no puddle, like even the really, really good quality 710 level stuff like it. You don't actually get a turpene separation with one gram. It just doesn't happen. No, no.
You need a larger representation for sure.
Well, it all comes down to container storage to like I find if I put them in, like, I try to avoid these, you know, old school little like grammars that everybody used to use back in the day like those ones I just find are are kind of trash and even the ones with the plastic lids versus the metal lids on the larger, you know, format, the metal lids are actually airtight and can hold a better temperature retention over time.
So, it's like it all comes down to your seal and like you mentioned in one of your stories earlier, you know, do you have parchment there it is. Yeah, like the silicone based paper or whatnot. Like, it's all about what's yeah it's all about what's retaining your, your turps in there and it looks like you got the metal lid too.
So, that right there is, you know, how everything should be shipped and sold on the on the market. And if it's not, you're losing turps like, like Ben was saying you're losing turps immediately. Like the second it starts to oxidize and change and nucleate. If you don't have that proper storage because I can't remember who was talking about it recently. I think I was listening to it on one of the Hashishin interviews recently.
And he was saying like the turps and the way that they get trapped in a proper jar like you have there RJ, they, they got nowhere to go. So, they might aspirate into the air, but the second you like crack that they're just like back into liquid form on the surface, stir them back in there in the jar, right? You know, with these plastic lids, it's just going straight out into the air, it's evaporating.
You know, you can try and put on a better seal and close it up or keep it in the fridge under a cold chain to like try and preserve the longevity, but in actuality, it's gonna go stale eventually, right? You're gonna lose turps within like a month or two. If you don't have that proper, that proper seal on it.
Like we learned way back, you know, in the shatter days, essentially that putting parchment as a liner, parchment leaks turps. Just like plain and simple. You know what I mean? It's not a good barrier for containment. So, PTFE, look into PTFE and look into like, I got this stuff. It's like lab grade PTFE. It's a little bit nicer. There's a few.
It's a little bit more expensive than just the normal food grade stuff. But you know, this is the stuff that's going into my lungs and it's easy to clean. I can reuse it.
Oh, that's even a bonus. Yeah, I didn't realize that stuff was reusable.
It's clean. You can clean it. It's a thick plastic. You know, it handles solvent. It's made for solvents, right? So like you can attack it with like ethanol, IPA, turps. You know what I mean? Like it will repel these things. It's made chemically to repel these things. So that's why like I have my jars. Like that's how I take care of my stuff. You know what I mean?
Properly sealed. Well, that's what a lot of people don't realize is like terpenes are like, you know, that orange, that Gugon and stuff. It's made with orange terpenes. Yeah. D-limonene is a degreaser, right? And that's a heavy terpene and a lot of profiles of cannabis. And you have that degreaser effect in the terpene, which will, you know, like you're saying, eat through the parchment.
Like terps will do some pretty gnarly stuff, especially if you look at the science behind it. Like we're only just now learning, you know, as we can catch up with the testing and the further science, which is awesome.
Yep.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think a lot of them are only 12 or something, aren't they?
This is what I'm saying. So like, it's, it's, it's like, it's, we don't know.
Yeah.
Harvey 420.
Oh, yeah.
Sorry to interrupt you, RJ.
Yeah. Get into it. But like, it's like, it's like, what are we testing for? Do we know?
Yeah.
Well, that's what I was getting at, right? Like now the science is catching up where we can observe those chemical reactions that you're getting at, right? Like, what are these chemicals doing to each other? And then what is changing over time? New things happening? Like, you know, especially when you're talking about the gland head, where it's like those cells are introducing the precursors.
And then over time and through maturity, it shifts and changes into the cannabinoid profile we enjoy in the final product. Right? It's so awesome.
Yeah.
Such a, such a beautiful substance. There's just so much to learn and find out. You know, the future is very bright for cannabis and solvent extraction and solventless.
With more money coming into it. So like, here's, you know, the good thing about more money coming into the space is now there's going to be a lot more testing.
Yeah.
And we're going to be having more exposure to testing procedures that we wouldn't otherwise have. So when we have all these terpenes, you know, that we've now developed, you know, an understanding of if we can have testing standards developed for them.
And then, you know, better standards packages rolled out. I think, you know, more labs will have more to offer in terms of what it's actually in the plant.
RJ, have you ever experimented with LHO, Limonene Hash Oil?
I have not personally.
I was going to mention that.
Are you familiar with that?
Yeah.
Horatio.
RIP Horatio.
Yeah. Rest in peace. Amazing Hashmaker.
I've used a lot of his products. I used to get a bunch of his products. Because when I made it out west, I'm from the East Coast. But when I came out west, it was within like a couple months of him really starting to pop.
And his first round of LHO hit. And it was super interesting because it was like, I don't think it was like fully refined limonene. And it was like super heavy on like the lemony pine saw turps.
And then like all the any turp from the cannabis was basically lost behind it. And it was like strong and like crazy, super novel. You know what I mean? It was interesting.
And then he figured out how to refine that limonene.
So he has an episode with Marcus Richardson, Bubble Man on Bubble Man's World about it, where he has this clear container of or clear whatever vessel of limonene.
And then he has two fractions in the middle of like, I think, an orange and a red. And then it's clear liquid again. He's like, you know, like, this is what I pulled out of a clear liquid. And it's like, you know, like, it's crazy.
And then his extracts were cleaner, stronger. And he did a topical that was like, next level on all accounts. And that product is still unmatched by anyone else. I've never seen. Not that I've tried everyone.
Did he ever share the tech?
I don't know. I don't know. But it was a transdermal.
I don't know about the topical cream, but I know his limonene tech, I don't think passed on.
Yeah, I think it went with them. But the transdermal, because that's the difference. It wasn't a topical. It was a transdermal. Like it was made to penetrate the skin.
So when you used it in certain areas, like it had like, fast penetration worked incredibly well. And then I remember just using it a couple of times to get fucking high. And I put it behind my ears.
And took a couple of dabs. And like, I woke up like three, four hours later, like I'd been hit by a fucking truck. Like, no understanding of what happened. Like, no, no concept of like, what the fuck just happened. Like, reeling, like reeling for like minutes, like just like, I can't.
And then my girlfriend at the time was just like, what's wrong with you? Like, are you drunk? And I'm like, I feel wasted. Like, I feel absolutely wasted. And it's just like this transdermal in like a pea sized amount behind my ears, and like two or three dabs. And it just, the whole thing together just like flattened me.
And I'm like, at that point, like a gram and a half a day dabber. And that transdermal was so effective. I just I, you know, and listen, and I'm not going to condone anyone slap some transdermal behind their ears to get fucked up. But that was me at a younger point in time.
That does work for migraines.
I don't condone that shit. Because I was fucked up. But that transdermal was great. And again, I haven't found another product like it.
Yeah.
I guess it would be the 149 or sorry, the 164 to 190. And then I throw in the 25 to 45 in there, the bottom food grades. And then whatever doesn't make it off the press.
I'll take the bags in the end and do like coconut oil, decarb on them. And then, you know, filter that out, make that into the top goals as well. The high grade hash, I find they hit pretty good. They work a lot better than anything. Anything on the market, I find like, you know, the limitations, I don't know why you would put limitations on top goals, right?
You need a feel like you need a lot more in a top goal than you would ever want to eat in an edible.
It's the packaging regulations, all that shit needs to change. It's absolutely insane. That's number one. A lot of other things need to change as well to follow that up.
No, the high grade top goals are hard to come by. There's high hopes for the Canadian market, especially with amazing producers, you know, with good people on the inside.
Things are slowly changing. It takes time, right? People have to see the value in the change. And, you know, it's being like a heavy cannabis user and someone that ends up, you know, writing procedure and policy for companies.
It's a struggle sometimes for them to see the vision that someone like myself would have or any of us would have, you know, trying to pitch things. It's tough for them to not think we're absolutely fucking crazy.
The education curve is very steep.
I was going to say, weren't you guys talking about that last night with the pre-rolls, the premium pre-rolls with the concentrates added, right? You're seeing all this amazing stuff on the American market. We don't even touch it on the Canadian side.
We're stirring them.
Yeah, we're finally seeing it, you know, but if it wasn't for great people like Ben and RJ on the inside, you know, these companies and same with Damon, you know, helping people see the light of this like heady products. It's like, you know, eventually Canada will get there. We can only hope, you know, like, I guess you can talk more on the premium pre-rolls that you're helping with.
We're in the corner, you know what I mean? And yeah, shout out to Ben. Ben just helped get a couple great products to market. One of which is a Hashrozen Pax Pog.
And definitely shout out to him and his team for that because this is a great product. It's tough to get this to market in Canada with kind of the current state of things. We don't have quite the conversion that we need from the legacy.
And we're trying to offer products that, you know, they would want. And that is one of them. So, shout out to Ben and his team for stuff like that. Because listen, like, if you actually looked at the numbers, like, it's hard to produce, you know, something like that and go through it.
And it's like, it's really a labor of love trying to get like a top shelf premium product to the market to the people who maybe don't understand what it is at first. But when they try other things alongside of it, products like this shine.
I think the biggest challenge in my mind is just like, is the education around the actual consumption of it, right? So, like, we launched a live Rosin, one of the first, not the first, but one of the first in the legal market early 2021.
And we saw a lot of pickup on the live once we launched the half gram packs pod with the same format, because people started to try it and then slowly kind of made their way up the curve or hopefully.
But it's just like, I don't know about any of you guys, but I didn't buy a torch the first time I dabbed the first 10 times I dabbed, you know, I had people that introduced it to me. I was fortunate to have people take me through that experience and destigmatize demystify it.
But if you don't have, if you have to go through the channels that we've all been through, let's be honest with it, you know, it's just a bunch of white dudes on the screen. No women, no, you know, not to say that I love all you guys, but you know, it's not accessible to everyone. Not everyone feels safe.
You know, I would love to one day be able to introduce someone to a dab of live, live Rosin or of melt, whatever the case may be at a safe temperature off of really good quality courts through nice glass.
But like, let's be honest, that's only the top, top, top percentage of people are getting to have that experience. And it's only through like person to person knowledge transfer. So until you can do that in the legal market, you know, it's we fight the battle. I know RJ fights it too. But at the end of the day, yeah, yeah.
We do a fraction of live Rosin and even the live Rosin vape is a fraction of what we do and just prerolls, right? So people at the end of the day, the market's really, really unsophisticated.
Get some donuts in those.
Oh, yeah. It's still working on it. We got some, we got some of the other girls coming next year. Yeah, that'll be a lot of fun.
We're you're neglecting to highlight that 99% of our vape pen and cartridge market in Canada is distillate with botanical turps.
Oh, my God.
It's not even the majority.
And that's what I mean. It's so sad. And like, you know, the consumer is tricked with the wording and put like, live resin or fizz in this and like, it's got all these fancy words that the educated person has no idea what they're looking at. Right?
It's got to be a regular, it's got to be a regulation thing. Because people are like, we were talking about this all yesterday. And then afterwards, we hopped off and I went to like a dinner with some friends. And I was like, really stoked to see some old high school friends like bought vape pens. And so last time I saw them, great.
You guys are smoking. And it's just everyone's distillate botanicals. And I brought a bunch of the live resin packs pause to share and people are like, yeah, it tastes better. It's great. And, you know, but at the end of the day, it's double the price of a distillate patent. And I'm like, you don't understand what you're putting into your body. Data, the data over time is not going to be kind to vaporizing botanical distillates at high temperatures.
I certainly wouldn't do that with my anyways. But people, I don't know, I think the market at the end of the day, it's like, well, if it's double the price, and it tastes pretty much the same to me, I'm not into that fancy stuff. It's really tough to bridge that gap from like, it being considered like fancy premium stuff to actually understanding like, the whole plant benefit, how it's safer, how the high is more nuanced, how you can get, you know, all the things that you're going to get from a high quality product.
And I think that's one of the things that we all experience. It's just without actually like, forcing it into someone's face and having them like have that experience dialed in. And even when you do, it's like just appreciating that difference in price. It's a long way to go for sure.
It's also the point to the customer, right? We don't have the connection point to the customer in the same way that like, you know, a lot of our American friends can access the customer more directly, right? We are once further removed, and we can't market in any way. You know what I mean? Like, the branding is, is super tough as well. There's so many strict regulations with how things are needed to be approached.
It ties our hands, right? So being able to convey why your product is better, and the subtle nuances is tough. And then being able to get your product, again, like cold chain has been brought up several times. I brought it up in previous episodes, like cold chain is massive, and we just don't have it in Canada.
So to provide, you know, a premium, like six star melt, like we were talking about earlier, impossible right now in Canada. Cannot be done. Because we don't have the cold chain. We just can't. And you know, like, versus like producers being able to just roll to the store and doing a drop in a store from their fridge to their cooler or their freezer.
That they bring with them to the store into another fridge, boom, boom, cold chain. Perfect. The whole way. Versus we, you know, we can pull out our fridge onto a freezer truck, get it to, you know, OCS as an example, where, who knows? And then dot, dot, dot, dot, dot.
I can tell you, it's right. They don't have refrigerated storage. It's coming. They don't have it. But you can't, there's no, you can't do fresh press. You can't do like melt. You can't. It's, I think a lot of consumers are very critical of the producers and of the quality of the resin. And don't get me wrong, like I'm not vouching for most of these people.
But even if you did have that quality, the market doesn't allow for it to actually make its way to the end consumer. It's just, it would be a puddle by the time, you know, it's just doesn't happen.
Yeah.
Give it, give it the true six star scale grade and tell him he's only smoking four.
Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah. We'll see how it is. I mean, kudos for them trying, but I just say, yeah. That's a cold chain. It's really,
I respect them trying. I just don't, I think it's, it's to call it. That is what can piss consumers off. Right. People just don't like to be deceived. You know, I don't buy something that says six star, like
if that's going to be the transition product, if that's like, you know, that's the legacy user that's like, oh, there's finally a six star product on the market. I guess I'll give it a try.
No, it's like, it's not six star.
Why would I ever come back?
That's just the name. That's just the name.
No, no, no.
The stream is called six star.
Yeah. Creative marketing here. Right.
Yeah.
That's exactly what I wanted to do.
Shout out to big though. And like to some of the concentrate, like there are some concentrates producers who like the numbers behind this are not friendly. Right. Like, I think we all know this, but I don't know if consumers fully understand what goes into, into the product.
And what goes into just the amount of biomass that you need for some of these quality extracts. But to put out as a live rosin gram at less than 70 bucks, let alone less than 60 bucks.
Like, I'm now seeing $50 live rosin grams on the legal market. Just like, hope people understand that there's no money being made on that. There's not like that's a loss leader for people just to get the name out there.
And so that people are starting to learn about this type of product. But it's, you know, we're along with, I think, you know, there are a couple products out there trying to push on price point without the cold chain.
I think we can debate whether that's really appropriate or not. But for the most part, if you want to play in the legal market, you've got to cater to like a very, very low price point. Because that's, that's where people are at. And it's, you know, we're trying to fill out that market because we hope it develops over time and to lay out the framework now is hopefully valuable.
But anyone that says they're making money on on solving, listen, the legal market in Canada is lying to you. I can promise you that.
No, absolutely not easy.
Tough enough. But yeah, like exactly like you're saying, Ben, like the price points that we're starting to see is like, exactly. It's becoming just a loss leader. And it's, it's crazy.
But it's like, that's what it's gonna take kind of to get some of that conversion. Because, you know, like, I'm, you know, I am firmly entrenched in the legal market for three years. And like I was holding up earlier, I'm not buying my personal head start from the legal market because I fucking can't.
I can't go get my half ounce of resin that I want from my homie that makes fire hash and rosin.
Right, like, that's what I want to buy. Because that's what it makes sense for me.
And I go, so like, I can't go to the store, when my body like 14 containers, exactly like this doesn't make sense. Like if I'm gonna have it be my, my ball of smoke, you know what I mean? I want to cure it out as a larger mass.
I want to I want to provide it to me as a larger mass.
Not to mention just the plastic waste on 14 individual containers.
Without even getting into like the insanity of the packaging, which is like a whole, just doing a whole nother episode on us bitching about packaging.
But also do a whole other episode on how much the retail gets fucked on this. But I think a lot of people forget. Yeah.
You know, big retails one thing, but for the mom and pop retailers, the price that you're paying, they're having to put up a pretty significant percentage of that to get the product into the store.
And master case size is rarely under 12. So it's not like they can bring in one or two jars and see how it does, right? They've got to make a serious investment.
Some of these people are not coming at this with deep pockets or a lot of cash flow.
So it's to make a bet on concentrates like that can be that can eat up your source, your assortment real fast if you're a small retailer.
Like a lot of the markets just come in and asking for pre-rolls. So the retail like also shout out to the retailers that are placing bets on this like Encelada in Toronto, high variety THC out in BC, uptown urban Waterloo.
Shout out.
Yeah.
Shout out Tom.
Shout out Hasho.
Amazing store. Amazing.
Shout out all these guys.
Great wallet.
That's right. I was a couple of weeks ago getting the Toros.
100% like straight up for them to introduce some of these products for the market.
These guys are personally putting out thousands of dollars of their own money and hopefully some consumers come and buy the product.
But they don't know that market like it's not there. But guys like Hasho, guys like Tom, they are putting out their personal money to introduce these types of products to consumers.
So I just I commend those guys. It's not an easy hustle.
Yeah. Shout out to them too.
The guys at Sunrise in Vancouver. They're awesome. I visited their store like way back and they're like some of the dopest, most knowledgeable people that we have out here.
These guys are the truth. You know what I mean? And we're blessed. Same with Hasho. The fact that you can now go to his store and talk to him.
People. That's legendary shit. Go talk to the man.
He's available too. He is there.
He is at the store.
Go talk Hash with the fucking man. You know what I mean?
I can tell you.
Hopefully we'll have him on the show one day.
There are guys half of his stature in the California market with 10 times the ego that you could walk up to in a dispensary.
And they're like, no time of day for you. And this dude owns the fucking store and will humble his top it up all day. He's a great dude.
He is honestly one of the best. Yeah. One of the best people that I know in this industry.
Mad love to him always. Definitely. If you're ever in Toronto or if you live in Toronto or the surrounding area, go to High Variety. Ask for Mike El Hacho. He's the fucking man.
And then if you're close, for the rest of the city, go see Tom at Uptown Turk.
I was going to say
If you're in Vancouver, go see the boys at Sunrise.
Tom deserves an extra special little shout out and pat on the back from the Hashmakers.
You walk into his shop and he's got the low temps 20 ton right there as you walk in the door. It's sitting in the doorway.
So you see that thing and if nobody knows what it is, the first question is like, what the heck is that, man?
And then he comes out with all the fire knowledge and help them educate them.
Buy some flour, squish it in the shop, see what flour rosin looks like right in front of your eyes for the first time.
That's an amazing introduction to get people hooked from just being the average consumer to being like, wait, I can grow that and do it myself at home.
Opening up so many doors to people and it's just an amazing technology to showcase to the average consumer.
Really, really, really big kudos to that.
And just in general, going full circle to what we were talking about earlier with the industry and the chance that people take on things.
My biggest issue with the legal market going around from shop to shop through this whole event is just nobody
The bud tenders have zero education, zero knowledge.
There's nothing linear from shop to shop when you go and talk to the bud tenders.
You ask them a simple question and they look at you with glazed eyes like they have no idea what you're even mentioning.
And it could be something as simple as what's a hybrid indica or sativa or you could be asking advanced questions and they're just as glazed over.
Where you luck out, you walk into like El Hacho shop or Palm shop and you ask the simplest question.
All of a sudden you just get this encyclopedia and decades worth of knowledge dropped on your lap.
And it's just like miles of difference between the education of the shop owners and the staff between every single outlet.
And it's like finding those gems that really help shine and bring that light to the industry and the education to the basic consumer.
It's like beer.
When we were growing up in 19, you go for the Budweiser and the cheap stuff on the shelf.
And nowadays you want the craft brews and your palates a little more refined.
Without those producers and people taking the chances on making small batches, the education is coming and hopefully the market shift will happen over time.
It's only something that we can, with great folks like yourself working on the inside and providing amazing products for the general consumer to have their eyes open and these amazing experiences.
The first time you smoke a concentrate infused pre-roll versus a basic pre-roll.
That could be the shift into them getting a dab rig and going the full circle.
Big shout out to Ben and companies like that taking those chances.
Yeah, we'll see what happens.
I think it's going to be a great new space and there's going to be a lot of great new products now that we can infuse some of these pre-rolls.
Get some proper expressions of extracts out there as well.
I think it's going to be great and I'm super excited to see what happens.
I was going to say I still think the grease should go on the outside.
Not in the jug. Wrap the outside.
Why not both?
Why not both?
Hey, Ben, you got it.
Sign me up for a dozen.
The Health Canada rule.
Infused pre-rolls are just a concentrate now.
They're not a pre-roll.
A thousand milligram limit and that's the only limit to what you can do.
There's going to be some really fun, cool stuff.
As long as they do it right.
Yeah, and not use biomass.
I hope and I think there's going to be a whole market.
There's going to be some biomass covered in distillate that's really cost effective and that's going to outsell the real good products by 90%.
But there will be some good products out there that take actual quality extracts and infuse it into quality flour and give you a really fantastic product.
Shout out to Fidel's in California.
They got a product called the Hash Hole.
There's 710.
They do donuts down there.
It's out there.
It's a premium.
They want it and that stuff's hard to roll.
It's not easy to get access to all that product.
I think the whole category exists.
Just people have to make their way up.
Agreed.
Well, there's even levels to basic pre-rolls.
Now that you guys can introduce that aspect to the whole game, it's just going to be a game changer the next couple of years.
It'll be awesome to see.
We're starting to see the shift.
We're in certain sectors more than others right now.
It takes time for the whole thing.
The most advanced people, again, are not currently entering the legal market other than the few that see the value.
Like Ben was saying, Al Hasho provides a great product with his company, Big, and it's grams at $70.
For live rolls and material at that price point, that's a very thin margin.
That's for the people.
You're barely able to pay your staff for that price.
I can tell you for a fact, executives are doing the labor.
That goes for us.
That goes for Big.
These are companies with owner-operators.
There are lots of suits in the industry, but that's not where live rolling is at right now.
Yeah. Let's get more of that product on the shelf.
That's why they get the sell-through that they do as well, because they get the conversion.
People in the legacy market look at that and they're like, oh, that's a reasonable product for that money.
That's something that I can get in the legal store.
That's all it takes is people starting to buy in slowly and surely.
Then we start growing the market.
That's what it takes in Canada.
We lack so many things that our American friends are just being parent.
In California, a lot of these dispensaries had dab bars attached to them.
You're introducing people to it on site.
I will buy more of that product.
I want to experience that again.
We're so far from that right now.
No one's doing a dab on their own for the first time, unfortunately.
I stand by that.
That level of connection and guidance definitely isn't there.
Things need to change in Canada so that we can provide that grassroots understanding of what is actually going on.
Like Damon was saying earlier, when he started understanding what we were doing,
after meeting us earlier on this year, he realized that this is hot knifing 2.0, 3.0, 5.0, whatever.
This is where the evolution has taken us.
Now we're at the culmination of all these years of vaporizing concentrates off of surfaces.
Now it's just quartz.
Right? Hopefully.
Please?
Ceramic.
Ceramic.
We can stand by for more.
I'm not trying to be a dick.
Maybe a little bit, but not really.
It's just quartz.
And just keep it clean.
Come a long way from a couple of butter knives or a titanium swing arm.
A little bit.
We just had a slight evolution from that.
I love it.
We should probably wrap up because Emerald Cup is live.
Let's wrap her up.
Thanks everyone for coming.
Happy birthday, RJ.
Happy birthday, RJ.
Happy birthday, RJ.
Thanks everyone out there for coming and hanging out too.
I had a good time.
Hopefully you enjoyed the conversation.
I sure did.
And then thanks everyone again.
Thank you, London, for bearing with us and getting us through.
And...
And Jameson for popping on for a few minutes.
Yeah, thank Jameson for popping in.
That man took...
I know he's a busy dude out there.
Has anyone claimed that prize pack yet?
Yeah, we should figure that one out.
We got our instant wine vandals there so someone can message.
And Jameson too.
Okay.
Awesome.
Well guys, that was fucking awesome.
Make sure anybody that's here, don't go anywhere.
Well, go somewhere, but go to the other show.
The other show that's happening right now.
Go to that show right now.
Live at Emerald Cup.
Go there, right?
Live at Emerald Cup.
Happy birthday, RJ.
Put your hat back on before you go.
Where's your hat?
Oh shit, I lost your hat.
Just a second.
Yeah, I got it.
Thanks everyone for showing up.
There you go.
Fucking happy birthday, RJ.
I just met Ben and Paul.
So that's the first time.
But Josh and...
So I don't have a present coming from you guys.
But I was drinking a soda this entire time.
So I have the infused syrup for that coming to you guys.
For Christmas to try out.
Thank you, London.
Do we have a show coming next week?
Yes, we're going to have a show coming next week.
We'll figure it out.
I forgot who the fuck it is.
We'll be announcing that on our Instagram.
We're just trying to get that rolling too.
So come follow us on Instagram.
The.fire.isfire...
Whatever.
We have the links in our fucking Instagram.
So come follow us and then get the show links.
And then follow that and we'll post more shit.
And then that's the way to keep in touch with us.
So anyways, love you guys.
Love everyone.
Thanks for coming.
Happy Sunday.
Take all the dabs.
Get super fucking lit.
And then go watch this Emerald Cup show.
That's going to be dope too.
Bye.
