and we are live now.
Hello everybody, how are you doing today?
I guess it's fine, we're good.
All right, hello everybody, how are you doing today?
There was a little bit of a pop up there for Facebook
because it's being a little bit funky,
but I hope everyone is well in Future Cannabis Project
and out in the world out there.
Everybody's loading in the room.
I already see some awesome response.
Dave S. Kylie rhymes with Smiley.
I love my blueberry crush.
Auto Seed from Parkland.
So clearly we have a little bit of people excited
to come into today's show.
And I'm excited because this is an area
that we don't explore very often as cannabis seeds
in Canada is kind of on the LP legal side
is not happening or as frequent.
There just isn't enough market awareness.
So I'm really excited to kind of show
what's going on here in Canada.
And I'm also joined with fantastic Anita.
So hello everybody, how are you doing today?
So great.
So thank you so much for having us.
I am super excited.
And you can see the usual stock outfit
for your Canadian supply store looking glamorous as always.
Great thing about this is no makeup necessary, right?
Right.
Anita, how are you doing today?
It's great to see you as well.
I am great.
The sun is out, it's cold,
but I'm really excited to get a look to see Parkland Flower.
What's going on there?
So I'm excited to be on this tour.
Very excited.
And I'm pretty excited.
You have a beautiful page.
I put all the information in the description as well,
both your website and how to link up
and check out your Instagram and all your socials here.
So we do have a little bit of this going on,
but you were doing something that I absolutely love.
And in Canada, it's just not happening enough.
Like you can't go to a dispensary right now
in Canada and regularly purchase seeds.
This is not something that's available.
So with the breeders and everybody that we have on the show,
I was super excited when Anita told me about you, Kelsey,
and what exactly you're doing there.
So if you don't mind getting rolling
and introducing yourself and kind of Parkland
and that whole thing and yeah, appreciate it.
Absolutely.
Well, my name is Kylie Beaudry
and I'm the CEO and co-founder of Parkland Flower,
which is where I am right now.
I'm actually in our processing room
and thank you so much for the shout out
about our Instagram page.
You know, we can't take all the credit
for all those beautiful photos
because the fun and amazing thing
about being a genetics provider
to cannabis growers in Canada
is that we get to share their gardens.
So a lot of the photos that you see in there,
there'll be photos of us growing,
we always share our home growers.
When they tag us and they show us the genetics
that we've grown out,
it's just so amazing to see folks literally coast to coast
growing out our plants.
So myself and my master grower, Dustin McLean,
he's my co-founder and yeah,
we got together back in 2017
and we incorporated Parkland Flower in 2018
and we finally got licensed over a year later
in August of 2020.
So it's been quite a journey.
It's been, there's lots of blood, sweat and tears
in this place, a lot more tears.
It's been something else,
especially getting licensed through COVID.
It was super challenging,
but you know what's interesting
is that when folks are in a pandemic
and they're sitting at home,
they're like, what do I do?
It's like, grow some weed.
So it's been awesome.
Like we've had hydro stores that like right at the start,
like we're selling out of grow equipment
because people were like,
well, some people wanna make sour bread,
some people wanna grow some weed.
And I think that's a beautiful thing.
I do both.
I was just gonna say, I'm like, I do both.
And then you make a little bit of the weed butter,
put it on the nice sourdough.
I'm like, yeah, grow some vegetables there.
Amazing.
But definitely probably a huge challenge over the COVID
to really get the word out there too.
So like maybe we can go over that as well a little bit
because I'd like to hear more about that as well.
Sorry, I've just got my team coming in here right now.
Where I'm in my processing,
in our processing room right now.
And I'll just kind of show you, these are my team.
We're actually, they're saying hi.
They can't hear you because I got the earbuds on.
But right now today we are actually packaging hash,
bubble hash actually.
So this is kind of our setup.
This is where we put our ice tank
and it is in our washing machines.
So these guys are packaging everything up right now.
And I'm sorry-
So you do that all in-house then?
We do all of our hash extraction in-house.
Very cool.
We'll have to, we have a huge following
and love of hash producing.
So maybe next time you're doing a run of hash,
we would love to cough in and share what's going on.
100%.
And it's available in Alberta only right now
or is that gonna be across?
We're still working on our sales amendment.
So right now we are just, we are literally,
we just got packaged our lot that we're submitting
for our sales amendment.
So we'll be submitting that to Health Canada
on February 15th, that's our, or 16th,
that's our hard and fast date.
So it's probably gonna be a couple of months after that.
So we'll be hanging onto it for right now
and then basically cold curing it for a little bit longer
and getting it out to the market hopefully by the summer.
It's the tough dealing with the bureaucracy here in Canada
when it comes to putting stuff out.
Now I'm actually-
It is.
I do another podcast with an Italian bureaucracy
and I think they put it really well
when it comes to Italian bureaucracy
because it compares very well in Canada as well
is the expectation first and foremost should be
if you're gonna be in the cannabis space in Canada
to expect things to make sense is not the right choice.
For there to be any rhyme or reason to things,
just follow the rules, figure them out
and try and navigate them as best you can.
But if you're expecting these rules to make sense
in some complete form, you're not in the right space.
That is for sure.
So yeah, all the power to you
for pushing out and doing that.
Now when it comes to seeds, that's kind of the big area.
Now we'll definitely have to talk in the hatch
but what are you guys coming up with
this year into this season?
Oh, well, I can actually, I can take you to,
I'll take you to our mother room as well as our bedroom.
So this will be fun.
Let's go see some ladies.
Ooh, plant ladies.
My favorite room.
Are we in the flower right now anywhere
or are we mostly sitting in a vegetative right now?
We'll be able to get to see a mother room.
No, a flowering room today.
Sorry, my words are-
I'll be able to take you to a flowering room.
Yes, sorry.
It's really loud in here.
We have a lot of HVAC going
because we are a fully indoor facility.
So what do you keep your mothers in?
Are they like a Cocoa Core?
We're living soil.
Living soil?
We are living soil all the way.
We did the flip this summer.
We started out in Cocoa
and then we moved to flood and drain tables
which I can show you upstairs.
But it's just to help reduce costs, labor costs.
Like we were throwing out so much Cocoa,
it was really hard to reuse it.
And so we brought in,
well our breeder is very familiar
with growing commercially in living soil.
And then also one of our new partners that came on board
is also very familiar with growing in living soil.
So we made the switch to help us with watering.
Yeah, living soil, woo.
So it's a totally different animal.
I have to say commercial wise,
we had to add a lot more equipment
because you just had a lot more water.
The soil tends to hold the water, which is great
because you don't have to water as much.
So that reduces our labor and the watering schedules.
We can actually kind of leave it over a weekend
and give everybody a break, which is amazing.
But it definitely, we had to change a lot of things,
new fans, more HVAC and things like that
to account for all the extra water.
But here's our moms.
There we go.
So we have a lot going on right now.
We're just keeping most of our moms going.
We've been re-vegging and pheno hunting our seed runs.
So one that we've put out this year is Violator Kush.
So that is available in Ontario and in Alberta.
And this Violator Kush is actually a one-to-one.
It's like about a 12 to 14% CBD
and a eight to 10% THC, which is really great.
It's surprisingly hard hitting and we just really love it.
So we sell that one, we crossed it back on itself.
And so that one's already out in the market.
We've also, this year we've got a few regulars out.
We've got a Green Chai, which is,
we've got basically a Green Chai cross with a Green Crack.
And that one came up from Callie.
It's one that Ron has been working on
for quite a few years, really great indoor or outdoor.
It is a photo period.
And then another cross that we have is an Electric Lemonade.
And that one is a cross of Green Crack and Lemon OG.
And that one, we are revegging now to self
in a couple of months because that one is a six week flower.
We had a few phenos of a six week flower on that one.
So we made sure we reveged those plants
and we're super excited to really get something
that people can run quick,
reduce their energy costs, reduce the time.
They could probably get two runs out in the summer
if they do light deprivation.
The auto flowers that we have on the market right now
are Northern Lights.
And the newest ones that we're coming out with this year
are a couple of crosses of, we have Blue Cherry Pie,
which is a cross of Blue Gelato 41 and Sherry Pie.
So we really went out there with the naming,
but we wanted to make sure we stayed true to the genetics.
Great plant structure.
And then we have a Blue Mac,
which is a Blue Gelato crossed with a Mac One.
And then we have a Mendo Blue Dream,
like just a straight, it's a Mendo Breath
is a cross with a Blue Dream is where that one came from.
So again, another genetic that was brought up by Ron
and all of those are feminized.
Those three that I just listed out.
Hopefully we will get some of those into Ontario.
I submitted them for this summer.
So you might get them.
I'm super hoping so.
And another thing that I did submit was a multi-pack
to OCS, which is four cultivars, five seeds each.
So I submitted it.
So we will see, fingers crossed, super great price.
So we did them for the feminized pack, 129.99.
So for 20 seeds, that's I think a great deal.
For 20 seeds, that's an excellent deal.
Yeah, so we really wanna make things accessible for people.
And the thing is, it's really hard to make things accessible
when we're taxed so much.
So on that 20 pack of seeds,
we're gonna pay $20 in excise duty.
It's $1 per seed, which that's what makes it tough for us
to, you know, there's a lot of micros shutting their doors
that just can't make it through.
So we're hoping we'll see some changes
in the next few years to that.
There's our mamas.
Now you mentioned six week auto,
you mentioned six weeks of flower.
Now that's a photo period plant?
That's a photo period.
Very, very interesting.
Does it have as much power and oomph
as your other genetics have?
Oh yeah, it's-
Do you find those six weeks cut down some of that?
Sometimes cut down on the THC.
We're still waiting on results.
We did flower all those out.
I can show you the flower when we go upstairs.
We're just waiting on a few test results
on those cultivars.
They'll actually come in probably the end of this week.
Because what we do is we start a lot of our runs
right from seeds.
And that way we can test the feminization on them
and we can test, you know,
we can get, we can test, do a full pheno hunt.
We can test, you know, how they grow,
how they do commercially.
Then we pick out our strongest.
We make those our moms.
And yeah, like this is our first full year in rotation
and being able to make sure that we ensure
that everything is what it says on the package
when we put it out.
So these mother rooms with this much variety
and so much going on can often be a huge challenge.
Is there a moment in time that you'd be willing to share
that was like, oh my God, you walked in
and like, this is fucked up.
This is gonna be tough to deal with.
Was there ever that point in time
or is the bureaucracy reign supreme?
Well, I mean, we definitely had challenges.
We've had spider mite outbreaks.
You know, we've had trips.
We've had it all.
And you deal with it as it comes
and you figure out what you're gonna do
and you move forward.
We've had to take down an entire mother room
and repopulate it because of spider mites.
And we've got more employees now, right?
So, you know, when we first started this,
there were three of us running this whole place.
And so that actually really reduces your risk
because you've only got the three same people
in here all the time.
So when we started bringing on more employees,
we definitely saw a little bit of a bump in, you know,
some, you know, a lot of our employees
have their own home grows and things like that.
So we've identified our issue.
We've dealt with it as best we can
and then change up features to ensure
that it doesn't happen again.
Because as much as that bureaucracy, you know,
we can't just like, you know,
wear ball caps in the grow and all that kind of stuff.
But you gotta have a clean room
and you gotta have a clean facility to have clean plants
and to make sure that they thrive.
And so for as much as all of this,
all of this, all of this, it's a pain in the butt,
it really does make a difference,
especially at scale, right?
Like you get one little problem
and it's like wildfire.
It goes through your entire facility or an entire room.
And that's huge.
You can come on in.
This is Cynthia.
She takes care of all of our mummies.
Cynthia takes care of all of our mummies and our ladies.
She does all of our cloning.
And you guys are quite, you're not a big, a huge facility.
I think people see these ranges
and think you're like this massive area.
You're a small business when it comes down to it,
providing-
We're a 4,000, I'm getting her to do up my,
this is all coming off.
We're a 4,000 square foot facility
with eight 320 square foot grow rooms.
Plus you'll see, we have tents, we have our dry room.
We have jam packed a whole lot into a very small space.
So I will-
You can't.
Exactly.
So I'm just gonna show you, this is our vegging room.
So this is all our babies and you're gonna meet Ron.
Here's Ron.
Ron's our-
Hi Ron.
Our breeder.
They're saying hi.
I got your phones on.
So you probably won't hear them.
Yeah, so Ron's our breeder.
Came up here to snowy Alberta from California.
Why?
Why?
We're not asking why.
We're not asking why.
Love.
He moved here for love.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So this is a vegetative room, correct?
And he's-
This is our bedroom.
So you see here, we grow in fabric pots, living soil.
These are all getting ready.
Ron's actually just trimming them up.
So you can see, we're getting ready.
Getting them all pruned up, ready to go, to go into flower.
And this is blue cherry pie.
So this will be a full run of flower with this one.
We've really found a winner with this.
So we're excited to run it again.
Very cool.
Thanks Ron.
Bye.
See you Ron.
Ron's an interesting character
and we'll have to get him on-
Absolutely.
One of our breeder round tables as well.
We have on a Monday as maybe a guest
or he can come on to one of our breeders.
We'll have him on as one of the breeder features
we mentioned before.
Cause we do have a series that we're doing
where we're just talking about breeders.
Where we're going through an entire breeding project
start to finish.
And we're starting our first episode
is on the 8th, I believe.
Awesome.
February.
We'd love that.
And it's actually step-by-step.
So we'd love to have him on as a guest
during one of those shows and stuff.
Cause our first episode is going to be like,
what, how do you set your goals for breeding?
And where do you go to find these genetics?
And as someone that was born and bred down in Cali
and came all the way up here,
I'm sure he's got a lot of point of references
cause we do have a great-
Oh, Bronson Gorilla Growing since the 70s
in Northern Cali and Oregon.
And he's worked with a lot of really amazing breeders
and it's totally his passion.
Like he's totally semi-retired.
I met our grower, Dustin, and he was like,
I mean, he's like, I'm going to bring you all my genetics.
We got them all in on our declaration.
Like it was just like the universe.
That's not easy to navigate either.
No.
That's so amazing.
Sometimes like it just,
when things just kind of fall into place and,
oh my God, that's gorgeous.
I just want to like-
No, I'm not here to interrupt.
Dive into that.
It's just, wow.
What is that?
This is a blue gelato.
So this is a straight blue gelato.
So this is one of the building blocks
of that blue cherry pie.
So as you can see here,
we've got our flood and drain tables.
Beautiful.
And they move over just a little bit
so that our employees can get in and work.
Yeah.
Are they on like rollers?
They're on rollers, yeah.
And what date, sorry, I don't know.
Maybe I missed it there.
So we are going to be harvesting-
What day of the year are they at?
These are at about eight weeks, I want to say.
So, or no, seven, probably six and a half, seven weeks.
Cause we're harvesting next week.
Interesting.
Interesting.
Oh, cool.
They're really nice.
They're starting to really get that fade coming through.
Yeah.
Look at that.
Beautiful work.
Now you do hash.
And I mean, we're seeing some flowers here.
We're seeing some flowers here
and you're also producing seeds.
Now that's where it gets a little bit funky.
Is we've, there's a lot of people that talk
about using the flour leftover to produce hash.
Is that something that you're using?
That was our very first runs that we did.
And it was a great way to test our, you know,
basically to learn how to make it at scale here,
run through all of your flowering material.
There's not, there's nothing wrong with that.
I mean, it's dry.
That's the only thing.
Cause when you produce seeds, it is very,
you dry them right out.
However, there's still quite a bit of cannabinoid content
in your seeded material.
And hash is a great way to extract that.
The other thing is, is that when the mamas
are protecting their babies
and they're driving all of those carbohydrates
to their seeds, they're producing terpenes
and cannabinoids to protect their babies.
So you're still gonna get, it would be a terrible waste
for us to just destroy all that material.
So it was a great way for us to do a test run
of all of our equipment, all of our processes.
And run it through.
And we had some beautiful hash come out of,
come out of our seeded material.
Wow. So Anthro is asking,
do you run much more than eight weeks on your flower time?
I know like as a Canadian,
with the restrictions that we have
and kind of the volume that you need to do
to even be able to keep up with costs,
that kind of the eight week rule is something
that is fizzing around now.
As a living, now a living soil grower,
these flowering times typically take longer
than eight weeks for them to get their potential out of them.
Now you mentioned you've been breeding
for that short flowering time,
but what's your average flowering time look like?
Do you have ones that run longer?
Anyway, it really depends on the genetic.
We've run quite a few different things.
Like, so, you know, some of these ones
that Ron has grown out and bred and brought up here
are always in that eight to nine week.
There's quite a bit of a sativa genetic
in some of his cultivars.
So like our green, anything crossed with the green crack
goes a little bit longer.
Are we hitting like 10 weeks on some of those almost?
No, we haven't hit 10 weeks.
Only when we're, now when we're seeding sometimes,
we let them go way over.
Like, so when you're seeding out plants,
you're seeding them well,
like you're growing them well past their,
you know, what you would say is a typical flowering time.
Then we actually just completely stop watering that room
and we let them die naturally on their plant,
in their pots.
It's really sad, actually.
It looks awful.
I was gonna say, do you like ever wanna go in
and rescue a few of them?
Yeah, you do, you do.
But they're so full of seeds.
And what that does is that tells the plant that it's fall.
It's fall.
I need to get all those carbohydrates.
I need to get all that energy into those seeds.
It matures the seed better.
It also makes for more viable seeds.
Like, so, you know, you put a lot,
we put a lot of money, a lot of effort,
and a lot of energy into a room.
And we wanna ensure that we get the most seeds,
the most viable seeds out of that room.
And if it takes two extra weeks to do that,
that's what we're gonna do.
Because you're better off harvesting later
and ensuring you have a great product
and the most product,
because there's nothing worse than harvesting early.
And you start shucking those seeds
and you've got 50% white, non-viable seeds, right?
And lots of times they will, they'll still germinate.
They'll still pop, but we will not put anything like that
into a seed vial and into the Canadian market.
We hand pick, we hand shuck.
We literally put 10 seeds, hand at a time in each vial.
And so they don't never go through a machine.
We make sure that when we put our seeds out to market,
that you're gonna have the best experience possible
with germination.
And if you don't, we have our contact information
is on all of our seeds packages.
Email us, send us pictures.
We do always need proof of purchase,
but we do replace seeds.
You know, you'll get a dud,
but if you're paying 50 bucks for five seeds
or 130 bucks for 20 seeds,
you wanna make sure you get as many plants out of that
as you were expecting.
And so we definitely stand by our genetics
and we always make sure that everybody
has a good experience with our product.
That's on the low end too.
I mean, if you look at some of the producers
that we will not name as we do not wanna cause more challenge.
God, the bots today,
eight or nine Russian bots have popped in the chat today.
I keep eating them.
But anyway, it is, oh crap, now I've just missed it.
But I wanted to step back a second
about the production method of your seeds,
because I think that's just the effing coolest thing ever.
And the care that you put into that,
the allowing the plant to die as it would naturally
is something that is often overlooked.
I mean, for me, it's like,
if I'm not seeding a whole plant,
it's often I'm seeding a branch or two branches, right?
So it can become, you harvest when the plant's ready to go
and you do get a lot more of these plant colored seeds.
So I'm thinking maybe next time I'll do the lowers,
cut it and let it go a little bit longer
and allow the plant to die.
Now that I've remembered what my original statement was,
those companies that we will not name
because they're challenging,
but they're also doing some,
some of them are doing some great work,
but they're charging enough to,
I've seen 10 packs of Feminine Seeds for $700, $800.
Like I've in the Canadian market, easily hitting 350.
You can find all of these out there and half the time,
I mean, some of the higher end brands that I find,
they often have those high quality products,
but you get into those middle of the lane brands
and it really feels like they're trying to put that,
that product out and you get littler seeds.
You know, it really is dependent on the genetic.
I hate saying size of seed is variable because it's-
Oh, they can be so different cultivar to cultivar.
Like it's crazy.
Like the Northern Lights Autoflower,
they're like big, chunky seeds.
Like they're huge.
And then our Kenberry Diesel are like so teeny tiny
and it's just the genetic.
And it's funny because the Kenberry Diesel that we put out,
that one is like a 30%, you know,
that is our heaviest hitting THC cultivar.
And it's like these teeny tiny seeds
with these little red stripes.
And yeah, it's just, it's funny.
They look so different.
Some of them get that tiger striping striations across them.
Some of them are just smooth.
They don't have any striping whatsoever.
It's neat how the genetic, as unique as the genetic is,
the seed is just as unique as the plant.
It's like a little fingerprint.
Yeah.
Actually, since we're chatting about that,
everybody see the grow room?
I'll take you to our vault.
I can show you some flower and some of our seed.
Awesome.
Very exciting.
So while you're walking there,
Lani, to touch on that,
because I think there's an interesting point of conjecture
because we run into this challenge in Canada
and it's kind of through lack of awareness
to a lot of the consumerism.
Like the Canadian standard market is to Tiva, Indica,
what percent of which is which.
And then the ever going sale is always about
the THC percentage and trying to lock down
that highest number, hit that 30% consistently.
And oftentimes I find that those plants
aren't really my favorite.
They're not my go-to's.
They're not the ones that I keep in my library.
They're not one of my favorites.
I really like, if you can open it,
if the fan goes off in my grow
and I can smell it down the street,
I have the right genetic.
I don't give a crap if it's got good THC.
I don't care what the percentage is.
If I can smell it, that's what's important to me.
So you find that is a challenge trying to,
because it's really not the end user that's aware of this.
It's more like your middle of the road,
your provincial purchaser is purchasing off of you
and putting these restrictions due to these labels
that makes things more challenging.
Can you speak on kind of navigating that BS a little bit?
It's really hard.
It's really difficult.
A good what the fuck moment for sure.
Actually, I'm gonna step into our,
just it's a little quieter.
This is our dry room.
So it's really challenging.
Oh, there's an echo in here.
It's super challenging
because especially we don't have our sales amendment.
And so without having that direct access to market
for flour, we are at the whim of the processor
and we are at the whim of what's called sell through.
And so, a 30% will sell within two weeks.
They will sell out from the wholesaler to the retailer.
And so that creates this,
this is what the demand is.
That's what the cycle is.
And so, you're 20 to 27%,
they sell out just as quickly
as those high, high hitting 27%.
And so when you have something that's a lower THC sub 20%,
super challenging to move.
I have literally been in two different locations
literally been in just about every retail store
from Edmonton down to Lethbridge.
I have, I'm doing a Northern tour in a couple of weeks
but I've been in so many stores
where they don't even bring anything in under 20%.
And it's really tough.
Yeah, so our first flour that we put out
and we put it out into free rolls.
We had an apricot dream
which is a strawberry dream queen
crossed with apricot papaya.
Beautiful terpenes, super fruity, just smelled amazing.
Like you open the box of free rolls
and like, it just hit you in the face
and it's completely packaged.
Like, you know, and it was a tough,
like I literally was like knocking on doors.
Like I was going retailer to retailer
and being like, just bring in one case.
Like just bring in one case, let me change your mind.
And they did and then they kept selling out
as people tried it.
And they were like, wow, this is like a great experience.
You know, this is, it was a good experience.
Then we put out Violator Kush, which was a one-to-one
which is like, you know, it was 8% THC, 10% CBD.
And that one I had to really like hit the street
and be like, okay, like this is a balanced cultivar.
If you got people that are coming in, they wanna sleep.
They wanna, you know, they have pain
and I know we're not supposed to talk about that
but you're gonna have people ask for it.
This is where you, that this is where you
you kind of point them like those balanced cultivars.
And there was a huge lack in the market.
And so now that we've got that out there
and we've built a name for it
we're running Violator Kush again now
and we'll be putting that out to flower early summer.
And we're super excited about that
because now it's something that people really want
and they really enjoy.
And the thing is there's just as much work, energy
and quality to that product, but we have to sell it as a mid
even if it's a great, even if it's a great market.
You have to sell quads as mids.
The market, the market is just, it's brand new
and it thinks it knows what it's doing, but it's like,
you know, I always say that we're all quietly
pushing forward and, and kind of like correcting as we go.
And I really believe that eventually we'll get
out of that kind of that goofy, like, you know
25% or bust thing because my favorite strains have been
like in the mid teens, you know
and adding that CBD and the myth with CBD
like ruins your buzz that a lot of people still believe
is completely wrong.
It actually enhances your experience.
I think that education, getting out there, the LPs
connecting with the consumers, retail stores
things like that, really, it really is just
like getting out there and grassroots rooting it, right?
Like it's just pounding the pavement
and talking to people, right?
So it really is, you know, and we put a lot
of work into R and D, like I'm just showing you here.
These are all, these are all re-vegging right now.
So these are all our plants.
We maximize our space as much as possible.
So this is on our mezzanine.
I'll kind of give you a little tour just to show you.
So these are all of our winners.
So once we get all of our testing done
we get the terpenes, the cannabinoid content
and also we test a lot of stuff to see, you know
when we had that spider mite outbreak, you know
we found out, oh, these ones, this particular group
right here didn't get spider mites.
So we put all of this work and effort into that.
And none of it gets translated in price, you know
which is unfortunate.
But it is what it is.
And we just have to survive the next couple
of years and build a name and build a brand.
And I think that's really what a lot of folks, you know
you look at like the North 40s and the Dunn Cannabis,
you know, so sad.
Like I think about first organics.
That was, they were the first micro license holder
in Canada shut their doors, you know
organic living soil through a beautiful product
great terpenes, and then just couldn't get product
on the market.
And, you know, it's these small mom and pops
that are really the lifeblood of this industry.
And I don't know if they're even going to have a chance
to fulfill it.
It's crazy now, but I would love to know a little bit
more detail about the flowers in there
but I did have a request from one of the guests
that are in here.
I know it was a bit echoey
but we would love to kind of see the drying room
there as well that you have.
Oh yes, sorry.
There's so much.
We're so nerdy.
Okay. We're just so nerdy.
We want to see, we want to see the stuff.
There was a couple of comments that were made as well
but go ahead and describe this.
I got to track back.
Okay.
So we are so DIY here.
Like we are literally like, we just upgraded our
we just upgraded our basement.
So all of this here, this is all extra racking
that came with all of our shelves.
So all the shelving units that we had,
we were literally like, we had our first flower coming in
and we were like, shit, we got to fucking hang this up.
Zip ties and duct tape.
Zip ties, zip ties.
And then we use little S hooks.
So we use the less hooks and we just hook everything on.
We do a full plant hang dry.
And they're just, they're just carabiner together right now.
It's just to make it easier to sanitize everything.
So we, we take all these racks, we sanitize everything.
We sanitize the whole room.
And yes, I am in a secan.
This is our secan dry room.
You have to make it work.
And that's the thing is like when you're struggling
cause there's a lot of passionate people.
There, there are so many passionate people
in the conversation that, that, that talk
into this thing that want to do this
and want to take part in the industry.
And there are a ton of major, major goddamn hurdles
but I love these moments because they show
that you got to dig down and dig deep and do it right.
You have two decisions in life.
It's follow what people tell you to do
and do, do what you're supposed to, but you feel is right.
And sometimes we have to compromise
in other areas to make these things succeed.
And one of those things being, hey, I got to compromise
by having, you know, a higher THC flower.
I have to get that product out for the market right now.
But you know what I'm going to do is I'm going to
put that product out, but I'm also going to put
out this and this product.
And I'm going to use the connections that I make
through this to get those things out there,
create that exposure and help move the entire industry
forward and that's what it is.
Step-by-step in time.
Now you might have some secan in there now
but that being said, I bet you people aren't producing
the same quality in a properly close,
in like a high end, super high end space.
One of the things that is often misses people think,
oh, it's about like I can throw all the technology
into it, impossible.
I got all the money.
I'm going to throw all the money into it.
And often that causes more issues.
The more working and moving parts that you have,
the more often things go wrong.
A mechanical timer plugged into the wall that goes
to your light, if it's like a good cheap Canadian tire one
is 90% of the time more successful than an automated one.
You're going to use as a plugin and do it
through an app on your phone.
It just, it's consistent.
It works better.
I just.
And if you have one fail, you have, you replace it
like immediately and you can buy it
at your local hydro store.
Like that's the big thing.
We are really fortunate because we are in an urban center.
Like we're just outside of Edmonton.
So we have like great access to different hydro light
like hydro stores and shipping, right?
We're on a major highway, all that kind of stuff.
So we are really fortunate in that
if we have anything go down, we have solutions immediately.
But you have a lot of micros that are way out in the boonies
and the home growers that are way out in the boonies.
So if you have something go down, you have to carry some
of that equipment, you know, just to have it in stock
to make sure that you've got something
in case something breaks.
And I, you know, I always, I get asked the question,
you know, where do you think growers kind of fall
down the most?
Like what's the most challenging thing?
And I think sometimes it's lack of planning.
It's like lack of planning where it's like,
oh, like I'm gonna be transplanting in two weeks.
I better make sure I have all my medium ready to go, right?
I'm not searching for it the day before, like my, you know
cause then your seedlings get root bound, you know
like all of these kinds of little things
that you have to think about, you know, just planning ahead
knowing what your cycles are makes a huge difference.
Now I'm not gonna say that we do a bang up job of that.
We have had rooms go monster crop on us
because we didn't have a dry room ready.
We've had like, we've had actually the monster crop happened
as well because we had a light cycle go out
and it started reveging on us.
And so we didn't know.
And like, this was happening at night.
Like we thought that our lights were going out
and that we just had a timer malfunction.
And so we're like, why aren't these plants turning?
And why do they keep growing?
Like they're so, so it turned into like,
we had like plants almost up to the ceiling
because they over-veged and like this shit happens.
It happens in your basement.
It happens in a facility.
So the nice thing is, is that it happens in one room.
You know, so like, there is something to be said
about splitting off your grow into multiple sections.
So if you have one thing go wrong,
you only have it with one crop
as opposed to the entire, you know, the entire facility.
So I don't know.
I go off on tangents.
So, you know.
That's great.
I just love that you're like, you up cycle
and that you use all the resources and stuff.
And not just because like, you know,
monetarily it makes sense and financially, right?
But because like, you know, it's like as a maker myself,
I know that you're a maker.
I use the whole plant when I'm doing stuff, right?
And so wasting any of it hurts.
So like, if you're gonna be spending a lot of time
and money on equipment, like it's, you know,
dual purpose is such a great idea.
But I really like that you're showing us so too,
that, you know, sometimes you don't need
like super fancy equipment, right?
I, a lot of my garden is like, I do living soil too,
but a lot of my garden and the planters and things
are like dollar store, Walmart, you know.
I'll purchase stuff that I need to,
like lights and things like that,
where I spend money where it's important.
But, you know, for the most part, demystifying,
like the growing process in cannabis itself,
like is so important right now.
And I love that that's what you're putting out there.
And that's what makes it intimidating for newbies,
like new growers that wanna get into it.
They're like, they see all these videos and YouTube
and they're just like, oh my gosh,
like I have to like put all this, buy all this equipment.
I mean, did you know you can just buy like just a veg,
right, like just to get your seedling started
if you're gonna grow outside,
you could just buy LED strip lights.
Like literally it has the three LED spectrum,
the red, blue and green.
You could just buy like strip lights,
put them in your garage or put them
just above your windowsill.
Yeah, and like, it's so fun, like, yeah.
A lot of times when you buy things
that are not meant for cannabis growing,
they are way cheaper.
As soon as it's like, this is for cannabis,
it's super expensive.
It's the same thing with nutrients, amendments,
like all of these kinds of things.
There are lots of things that we do
that are kind of unconventional, but it's like, it works.
So it just to show like how much we do
in such a little amount of space.
Like these are the four, yeah,
these are the backs of our four,
there's four on this side and then four on the other side.
But like all of our space is taken up.
There's tanks, there's racking.
Like we literally, like every spare inch
is utilized at all times
in our little tiny 4,000 square foot facility.
Yeah, we maximize, we get our bang for our buck here.
So I'm gonna take you to the vault.
This has got all kinds of-
The ET cannabis said it well here.
It is the trash gardens are the best.
You gotta make it work with it
what you make it work with every single time.
I don't mean trash gardens is a trash garden,
but it shows character.
It shows that you're willing to do what you can
and you're not gonna use a billionaire's budget to do it.
Oh, I have a trash can for my water bucket.
It catches water and then I put a hose in the top
so it drains into another bucket.
I got them for 12 bucks a piece.
Like it takes time to put it together,
but it's better than spending 300.
I would rather buy seeds or clones for that money, right?
Like put the money where like in genetics
and in lighting or whatnot, taking care of them.
But you don't have to spend a lot of money
to like make them grow good, right?
Like I put banana peels into a jar.
There's my potassium, like, you know, but-
Ooh, what's that?
What's it?
So this is a wedding cake.
We were testing out the genetic.
This one has been a building block for a lot of our stuff.
So that's a wedding cake.
I don't have, everything else is like packaged right up,
but I do wanna show you our seeds
cause that seems to be really the focus on everything.
So I'm gonna take these out.
We try and focus cause otherwise it would be hard
to like navigate a conversation.
Yeah, we had a lot of comments.
I got a cherry cake.
I wanna just grab one more.
We would have ended up talking about your hash production
for the whole period if we-
Oh yeah, exactly.
Well, we can do that again.
We'll do that again.
How you put everything together.
I remember like, you know, I met Kylie a few years back
and I like, you know, through her social media and stuff,
been watching her like put everything together
and it's just been amazing seeing that.
Like, you know, maybe I can do something like, you know,
and I started building my garden in the back
because I'm like, I'm not waiting for somebody to help me.
Like, you know, I'm gonna do it by myself.
Yeah, absolutely.
It's inspiring to do that.
And that's, you know, it's been really cool.
So yeah, I'm sure we could spend a whole segment
on like what did you do to like build this facility?
Cause you built it from the ground up.
Yeah, it's, we didn't have a lot of money.
Necessity is the mother of all invention, right?
Yeah.
So here, I'll just, I'm gonna,
instead of trying to turn around my camera.
So this is Cindy in Vegas.
So this is Cinderella 99 crossed with wedding cake.
Oh, that would be a super popular one.
And this is cherry cake,
which is cherry pie crossed with that wedding cake as well.
I don't know how clear that is for you guys.
So you can see here, we put dry packs.
So it's totally the opposite of flour.
You wanna keep everything as dry as possible.
So we have these silica gel packets that we put in,
we change them out as they change color,
we change them out,
make sure we keep as much of the moisture
out of there as possible.
And that just ensures that our seeds last longer.
They're more viable.
I mean, we've popped seeds.
I mean, I don't know if you guys have probably,
but I mean, we've popped seeds that are like 20 years old.
Really?
Does he have a special trick for those?
Cause there's oftentimes one of the things that come up
and actually gets asked to me,
I don't know about you, Anita.
If this happens to you as often,
but I get a lot of questions like,
oh, I found these seeds from my dad's stash
from like the 60s.
How do I pop them?
And often, usually people point out like,
hey, I think there's a PGR that can be used.
I forget exactly what it's called.
It's a hormone.
But in general, I always kind of just start with three
or four and try it out.
See how many you have and just try and get it there.
But it can be fearful because that's exciting.
Finding those uniqueness.
Those old ones have a lot of special in there too.
So one thing that we do,
or I know that my grower does when he,
when Dustin does, when he pops seeds
that he's not totally sure about,
like how long they've been sitting around.
We stuff them with a little bit of 80 grit sandpaper.
Easiest way to do this is to get a matchbox
and put the sandpaper just line the bottom of the matchbox.
Throw your seeds in and give it a shake.
And then that, what that does is that just scuffs
the outside just enough to allow water to get in.
And then we soak them for 24 to 48 hours.
That helps to soften the shell of the seed
and gives that the germ, the ability to break open.
So you soak that 24, 48 hours.
You just pour that out, put it in a damp paper towel
or a damp cloth, dark, dark, cool room
and let her buck, get that taproot going.
We don't like to plant anything unless we see a taproot.
We do basically the same thing here.
We don't scuff them because these are like,
a lot of these genetic seeds are less than a year old.
And some of them are literally,
like some of them are literally, they dry.
And then we're germinating them right away
to run our feminization tests and our germination tests.
And yeah, so that's kind of our little trick for that
is just, you just wanna make a good environment
for that baby.
Make a little incubator.
Little incubator, yeah.
Yep, soften them up a little bit, get them, warm them up
and then talk, talk nice to them.
Be nice, give them nice stuff.
All in all, you guys are pretty, pretty, pretty new
when it comes down to it,
when it comes to breeding projects
and kind of developing your own lines and stuff like that.
A lot of what you're talking is kind of crosses
that will probably have a little bit of variety
in their phenotype and variation, right?
Are there any projects that you like have on the hush hush
that you're working on a little bit more of an inbred line,
like a more consistent species
that might be a little bit further down the road
for people to look out for and get excited about?
Yeah, so this, I mean, you've got,
these genetics have all been bred and crossed by Ron
for a good, some of them,
there's a good eight or nine years into them.
Like, so like our wedding cake,
that one's been crossed, developed and stabilized
to express the same throughout.
And so, and he's done crosses with a lot of these before.
So they're not, you know, they're not a hundred percent
just, you know, we're not just pollen checking
to send it out there.
This year, like, so this next seed run
that we're gonna probably start beginning,
maybe mid summer, this is when we are going to be
all of that phenol hunting of everything.
So those blue cherry pies,
we're gonna strengthen that genetic,
really finding which ones have the best terpene profiles,
making sure that, you know, we look for pest resistance,
we look for stock strengths,
we look for commercial viability.
You know, if you get plants that, you know,
just have a ton of foliage and small buds,
that makes for a lot of work commercial wise.
You know, so that is,
those are some things that we are working towards
that electric lemonade is one that we are definitely
gonna be stabilizing and working on a little bit more.
But yeah, absolutely.
We definitely have not, don't have the years
under our belt in this facility.
But with the breeding expertise that we have,
we are making it.
We're making it, we're building a name for ourselves.
And that's also why we don't charge like, you know,
$300 for a pack of seeds.
Number one, the market's not gonna take it
because we haven't proved that out yet.
We have to get there and we put a lot of love,
a lot of experience and a lot of dedication in what we do.
And yeah, so I think that answered a little bit.
Some of the stuff that we're working on is hush hush.
I would love to see that Cindy Vegas
on the market sometime.
Oh yeah.
I did put that one in the multi-pack.
So we will see.
We will see.
If it doesn't come out to Ontario,
I will get them to you
cause they are gonna come out in Alberta.
That is, you know, honestly, I'm not gonna say,
there's an LP that had a Cindy Jack on the market.
Like it was the flower.
So popular, but because each of them were seeded,
it's from seed.
It was not viable to like produce on a master scale,
but I miss it so much.
I like, I love that Cinderella 99 in there
and with the wedding cake.
Please, please.
OCS if you're listening, we want it, you know.
Awesome.
Well, we're coming out to the hour mark
and usually try and go like between an hour or two.
We've dug into a whole lot,
but I'm thinking we leave more for another episode
in a few weeks or so, maybe next month.
And we'll check out the next hash production.
Maybe it will definitely have to have,
I'm sure a lot of people on here would love
an opportunity to chat with your breeder
and get a lot more detail into those types of things.
So we'll invite everybody to come to our breeders,
to one of our shows.
And I'll make sure everybody sees that in the comments.
I'll put that in here later on
to try and make that connection as much as possible.
Yeah. And I'll offer up both of them.
I'll offer up Ron, our breeder and Dustin,
because he's just as instrumental in the breeding.
And a lot of these genetics are what he's cultivated
over the years.
So yeah, those two, they're a team.
Yeah.
They're the heart of this place.
It's about the people that put the work in
every single day and highlighting those
is the best thing ever.
So thank you so much for taking the time, Kylie.
So where can people find you as a closing right now?
Where can people find you in the great big old world
of the Canadian licensed market of health?
Where can we get all of you?
Because I frankly love doing this stuff.
Twitter and Instagram.
Twitter and Instagram.
Twitter and Instagram is where you can find us.
That's where you will find all of our drops.
Like anytime a new product comes out,
it goes on the market,
it's going to be announced via social media
because it's the cheapest.
Yeah.
It works.
We don't have a marketing budget.
So that's what we work with.
And we're just Parkland Flower on both,
on both Twitter and Instagram.
And then our website is www.parklandflower.com.
And yeah.
Lori asked, when will one province be able to sell
to another?
And you are in multiple provinces, right?
You're not just in Ontario.
So we are.
We are BC, Alberta.
Did I miss that?
Did you say that BC, Alberta?
BC, Alberta, New Brunswick, and Ontario.
And this summer, this spring, sorry,
we're moving into Saskatchewan as well.
And I am trying to find a licensed producer
to work with us to get our seeds to the Atlantic provinces.
It's really challenging.
They're really small markets.
And so they're kind of tapped out
on their sort of their bigger folks.
So you have to kind of come in under someone else's license.
So that's what I'm investigating right now
is it's trying to get into the,
oh my gosh, I would love for someone to grow my genetics
in Newfoundland, my home province.
That would be amazing.
Is that just for those provinces?
Or like, are you able to produce,
you're able to produce your seeds at the Parkland facility
and then ship to BC and the other provinces, right?
It's just there you would need a separate producer?
You have to, no, you have to have a different producer
to just go under their distribution channel, right?
So yeah, so every province is kept
by the provincial government, right?
So Ontario is OCS, Alberta is AGLC,
New Brunswick is cannabis, New Brunswick.
Newfoundland is Newfoundland Labrador cannabis.
And so those provincial bodies only accept,
they will take a certain number of producers.
You know, you have to get through their qualifying round,
I guess you would say.
And New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and PEI
are not taking any more licensed producers right now
whatsoever, which makes it really challenging
for new micros coming on board.
Now it's probably different,
like so if I had a cultivation facility in Newfoundland,
I would say that most likely I'd be able
to get in no problem because the provinces
will work with their facilities that are in their province.
It does work the same.
Yeah, they favor that facility, yeah.
Absolutely, Quebec, super tough market.
And Quebec and Manitoba
don't have recreational home growing.
So that's a huge, actually, I would like to do a shout out
because this is really important for home growers
and the folks that are watching right now.
Take a look at Toba, T-O-B-A, T-O-B-A,
Browne, G-R-O-W-N.
And so that's Jesse Lavoie.
And Jesse is doing a massive push for,
he's basically going to taking the Manitoba government
to the Supreme Court to get them to allow
for recreational cannabis growing
in the province of Manitoba.
Same thing is happening in Quebec.
You can grow medical in both provinces,
but you cannot grow your four recreational plants.
And so join that fight, sign up, sign the petitions.
If you're in those provinces, reach out,
chat with each other.
Just because we've gotten to legalization,
it's not perfect.
And a lot of us are exhausted.
Folks that have advocated for cannabis
to become legal for years are super exhausted,
but we still have to move the puck forward
and make cannabis more accessible to everybody,
fairly province-wide or like country-wide.
We are sort of the template
that other countries are gonna look to.
So I'm super grateful for legalization.
I love not looking over my shoulder.
I love not being nervous when I'm around a police officer.
I'm very, very grateful for that.
Is it perfect?
Absolutely not.
But there's changes happening.
We just have to speak out about it.
That's my last soapbox.
Yeah, well, people think you get thrown
into this legal environment and that it's like,
oh, it's all gravy up here.
And there are just so many more issues that come out of it.
I mean, for my mind, the cannabis plant isn't legal
until you can go to your garden store and pick up seeds
and you can talk about it with your neighbor
and trade cannabis between each other.
And people think, and the craziest thing
is people think that like, oh, I'm gonna have home growing
and it's gonna limit the amount of cannabis being purchased
or consumed on the traditional market.
And it's completely untrue.
You increase the volume that's taken in.
These people are the people that wanna purchase a product.
They wanna explore it and they wanna be part of it.
So you're really just creating more customers for yourself
by permitting growing.
Because that's how a lot of first timers are into it too.
They're like, oh, I wanna try this,
maybe cook it for some medicine,
maybe smoke a little bit, maybe just grow up for fun.
You can get a lot more people with honey
than with vinegar, right?
With sugar than vinegar.
I think it's so important.
Unfortunately, that's not the mandate of the government.
The mandate of the government
is not to build a vibrant cannabis industry.
But unfortunately for them, it's already happening.
And cannabis, like I'll just throw this little statistic.
Cannabis, the GDP that the cannabis industry
brought to Canada now rivals the dairy industry.
We need respect.
I think the industry was $17 billion last year.
Because you gotta think,
it's not just like the actual cannabis product.
It's all the jobs, the insurance companies,
the transportation, sanitation, HVAC, engineers,
every single-
Security.
Security, all of it.
And it's a huge economic engine.
And we are taxed to death.
We are taxed and feed to death.
And yet dairy, wheat, oil and gas,
all of these other industries, they get subsidized.
It's crazy.
Every time, and one of the crazy things is,
if you look at it in general,
last year's stats for the highest amount of hires,
the single highest employer in the US last year
was the police.
Seconded only and by a significant margin by cannabis.
And in a not completely legal country,
it's not even federally legal.
And one of your highest new employers is cannabis.
And it's not even federally legal.
The potential in what we can do as an economy
to be able to help everybody and create more wealth,
but more connection, but also more plants.
I think that's the thing is people start consuming
and then they start growing
and then they get part of this industry.
And all of a sudden they're realizing
that the way I grow this, the way I take care of this,
it really affects how I feel.
But the biggest turn is from that,
is all of a sudden is now I'm thinking,
well, if how I grow this
and how I take care of this plant affects how I take it in
and how I feel, it's not just that.
What about my food?
What about how I'm getting my food to my house?
What about all these other little things
that start coming into question
and coming into line that needs to be really pointed out?
And I think it's just absolutely crazy.
It's like trying to tie down an elephant
with dental floss.
It's just not gonna work.
Something's gonna break out, period.
But thanks again.
I think we should call it that
because otherwise we'll be like going on for a while.
We can keep going forever.
I know, I can talk about regulations
and like problems I've had with it over the last year.
I could go on for hours, but yeah, definitely.
You know, I just wanted to also just make a point
before we get going that you mentioned like,
you know, getting involved and reaching out to,
you know, Toba Grown and anybody else,
you know, in your province.
You know, being engaged with the system,
I think is really important
instead of just complaining about it.
What I hear is people complaining
and then just kind of like,
well, I'm just gonna do my own thing in the corner now.
And I'm like, well, why don't you do something about it?
Like we need people.
We need people that are passionate
to make the changes that need to happen.
This is a starting point where it's not where we're landing.
And this industry really needs passionate people
that are gonna be pushing the puck forward
for the greater good of like for everyone.
Everyone will benefit from this.
So anyways, just wanna leave that with that.
I will do one more plug
and that's for the Alberta Cannabis Micro License Association
which I am the president and founder of.
And we advocate the Alberta government
to make changes for small business and independent farmers
that are growing in the province.
So that's acmla.ca.
Okay, last plug.
Well, awesome.
That is it and we are calling it.
Thanks everybody for tuning in.
Thank you all.
Thank you so much.
Last little promise.
Thank you, Smiley Rodri for pushing the Manitoba homegrow.
Appreciate when people in the legal market
push for homegrowing.
Yes.
Thank you so much.
Well said.
That's awesome.
