Hello everybody! How are you doing? Hope you all are well. I am doing well. As things are going good, everybody's coming in set up.
In just a sec, guys, we'll be right with you. And we get the room set up and all of our experts come to join us.
Hi! Hi Ashley! I'm going to give you a mod. Can you just mod up all the speakers when they get in and we'll get the show started?
Well, I just get us started on the YouTube side. I appreciate it.
Anyways, we have everything rolling. Hopefully you can hear me. Let's have a look. And you should be excellent.
So we have an awesome show coming up for you today. We're going to have a little bit of a recap on last year.
But without any further ado, let's get into it. Because I'm just going to do this intro over again, aren't I?
I missed you guys. I haven't seen you. It's been nice. Look at the gardens doing well.
Everything's looking good. Strong. Great. Elsie, great to see you. Always good to see all of you.
I appreciate it. Thanks for coming to the show. And we will get it rolling right now as I am very excited to have everything going.
Boom.
And we're up and running. How are we doing? Hey, everybody. Hey, Dr. Anubis. Hey, Cory. Hey, Anthony.
I'm going to make you all moderators. Just give me a moment here. Hello, Josh, Johnny.
So I thought we'd have a fun day today. We are just getting back after New Year's.
Hope everybody had a great year and is enjoying everything. We might have some of the other experts join us shortly.
It might be all of us who knows, but we'll find out in a little bit. So we have an awesome day planned.
I have some looking forward to talking about last year, what we kind of went through.
We are going to be going through potentially next year and have a discussion about what we think are great topics.
I figure we use this opportunity to ask the community as well to see kind of what you want to see in the future for the Dank Hour.
I think there's a lot of opportunity here for us to give some of the knowledge that you have and share a little bit with us and be with the experts, too.
You know what? Come on. You come back pretty regularly. Come on up and hang out with us today.
So we'll run through a little bit of the subjects and maybe spend a few minutes on each of kind of the hot topics that we talked about last year and then jump into some of the other stuff.
I just want to let's just run through real quick and talk about a highlight over the last couple of weeks.
So I see each one of you. So we'll go through the usual order. Ashley, Dr. Anabas, Corey, Johnny, Josh, Anthony and Matt in that order.
And introduce yourself. Damon was there, too. Introduce yourself and tell us a little bit about maybe something that happened over the last few weeks since we've seen you, because I know there's been a lot of changes probably for everybody.
So I'm looking forward to it. Without any further ado, we'll let Ashley get the conversation started.
Hello, Ashley. And how was your break? It's great to see you again. We missed you.
Hey, guys. Happy 2022. I'm excited to start this new year. I think we all had the same thoughts about 2021.
So let's put our positive vibes out there. But anyways, my name is Ashley Hubbard.
I am the director of cultivation for a fully aeroponic indoor grow out in Jackson, Michigan.
I've been in the industry for going on eight years now professionally. But what I'm excited to report is I got a Puffco Pro.
So I have been dabbing my little heart out. It's probably one of my favorite things in the last couple of weeks.
Anna, are you ready?
Oh, there we go.
Oh, it's her. I'm so excited.
My phone was doing something weird. Hi, everybody. I'm Anna Schwalbe. And you know, my end of year was not so awesome.
I've been in the hospital. So I figure wrapping up the end of 2021 is just fine with me and going into 2022.
I have, I don't know, it's gonna be so much better, I think.
I'm here in New Jersey. I moved out here from Colorado last year.
And I'm working with a company that's growing cannabis aquaponically, which was new to me when I got out here.
And it's been a wonderful learning experience. And we just experienced our first snow here in New Jersey.
I live on the coast, so we're very much in a weather bubble.
So we don't really, it doesn't really snow here, but we've got quite a bit of snow on the ground.
So that was interesting to see, especially since I come from Colorado, where it does snow quite often.
And yeah, I guess I, you know, and then, you know, I have a PhD in cannabis science or whatever and teach modern cannabis science at CU Boulder and do all those kinds of things, lots of science education sort of stuff.
And I'm really excited to start off the year and talk about cannabis.
Hey Anna, good to see you. Glad you're doing well. Hello everybody else down there. It's always good to see you.
Happy 2022.
Yeah, it was a good end of the year, I finally took a break after writing my massive paper for my diploma.
So I guess I'm edumacated of some sort now. And yeah, it was just really good to finally finish that after that long journey and now just took on a new contract.
So, nothing better than finishing school and getting a job in less than 30 days. Am I right?
So, huge, huge opportunity for Resin-A Cannabis the start of the year.
And I absolutely cannot wait to tell you all the more about that when the time comes, maybe that time comes in 15-20 minutes or two weeks or not sure but really excited to share that with everybody and just continue to learn about the cannabis industry and then pass that information on to everybody else.
Johnny, your turn brother.
Hey everybody, happy new year.
I haven't been up here to speak before but my name is Johnny.
I am the cultivation manager of a one acre outdoor grow and the last couple weeks I've just been kind of unwinding, relaxing finally.
The year is over, my work for the season is over and I have just been getting my indoor back up and running and I just set up a little space to do R&D and be able to grow cannabis for fun and pleasure for a change which I'm really excited for.
So, yeah, happy new year everybody.
Josh, you're up next bud.
Hey, thanks Johnny.
Thanks everyone.
It's great to be here and happy new year.
I'm Josh Virk.
I'm a cultivator and researcher.
I've worked in breeding projects.
Currently, I am starting a new venture working on a project to bring some quality hash to the Canadian market.
We'll go too much about it at the moment but it's definitely something that will get brought up in the future.
I'm just excited to be here.
Matt, you're up.
Hey everyone, happy new year.
I'm Matt, cultivator.
I've worked in the retail side, medical side, rec side, Washington and Oregon.
Now, I just grow as a caregiver and this year, I'm actually coming up, I guess.
I guess we're kind of dovetailing Josh.
I'm going into the whole hash kind of excursion.
Also, I'm working on some super focused, if you will, lack of, well, it's not really a lack of, it's a better term.
It's a great term.
I'm working on more like cannaceutical based products which is going to be fun.
Damon, you're up.
Hey, what's up everybody?
My name is Damon Giesbrecht.
I'm a long time medical cannabis patient.
I was one of the very first ones in Canada.
Now, I'm a consultant for First Nations.
I work on a really cool project with some friends called Fire is Fire.
We got a YouTube show that we do, Discord that kind of blows up on my phone, sorry.
Yeah, that's pretty much me.
I've got a lot of hidden talents and I like surrounding myself with people that naturally draw those talents out.
One of them is my good friend, RJ, who's going to introduce himself.
RJ won't tell you guys this, but he is the number one hash extractor, doesn't matter solvent or solventless, in North America.
Go ahead, RJ.
I'm definitely not, but thank you very much for the kind words.
Not even close.
What's up everyone?
My name is RJ.
I make hash and stuff in the Canadian market and I also have a show called Fire is Fire on YouTube.
I've been involved with the plant for about 20 years.
I'm really excited to wind 2021 down.
I took three weeks off at the end from work, so I really got a nice set of time off, nice chunk of time off and it's been nice to reset.
I'm happy to attack 2022 in a different way because, man, I'm sick of this shit.
Anyways, thanks for joining us, everyone.
What's up, Anthony?
Everybody listening, make sure you get a hold of RJ for his chicken and waffle recipe.
He makes the best chicken and waffles.
Man, you could live off chicken and waffles, I'm telling you.
I pretty much do.
We have a song.
It's absolutely hilarious.
I'm not going to sing it because the dude that sings it, or Buddy Jamison, knocks it out of the park every week or every day.
I used to give chicken and waffles to all the cart kids when I worked at the golf course.
It was one of the specials they could roll through and get.
Man, I used to make that all the time.
Beautiful.
Well, my name is Anthony.
I go by Phileo Phil, brother Bone, Mr. Toad.
I have been breeding since 1996.
I have been working on some of my old medical strains, but what's got me kind of excited is a cut that I recently picked up.
It was the very first cannabis plant that I bought when cannabis became legal.
It was something that you could do legally from the legal system.
I'm hoping that I can grow that plant again in the exact same pot that I had purchased the very first time, just to see different expressions.
I want to grow in the same place with the same inputs, with the same type of soil, sun, and everything, just to see what we can have.
Just an old nostalgic type of grow.
Besides that, not doing much.
I hope everybody else has a positive year and everything that they do is successful.
I'm brother Bone, and I'm out.
Awesome.
I'm London, your guide for the dank hour on your regular basis.
I'm super pumped.
I'm very excited.
We've got a lot of exciting things going on.
Shout out to Forest Fire and the other shows that are taking place.
I mean, you guys have a great show and do very regular things, so don't miss out on that.
What time is that at, RJ?
Saturday is at 10 o'clock, right?
Saturday is 11.30.
Sorry, Sunday is 11.30.
Sunday is 11.30, so don't miss out on that one, everybody, because that is a fucking hell of a show and a great time.
We definitely talked about some dank fire, and that is for sure.
Without any further ado, I want to chat a little bit and say hello to you all and talk about the exciting things that we have coming up.
We have some new shows and some shows that are dropping out.
Some new shows that are coming up here on the cannabis project, specifically here on the dank hour.
We have a lot of fun things going on, so I'm excited to talk about them.
But first, the idea for today's episode was to talk a little bit about the previous things that we had talked about on the dank hour.
And kind of have a little update, talk about what we did then, maybe revisit the subject for a quick moment, go through our audience effects.
We have a few panelists that might not have been here for that discussion.
And we'll talk about some of the stuff before we actually came on Future Cannabis Project.
For those that do not know, we are live semi-casting over to Future Cannabis Project right now.
And we are recording that as well.
And we did shows even before we came on Future Cannabis Project, actually for a little while.
So there's a lot of content that wasn't even recorded.
So it'll be kind of fun to talk about some of these things that we went through over the last year.
And I'm super excited.
I'm pumped because we've got a nice full panel of most of our experts here, as well as two new additions.
So thank you, Anthony and Johnny, for joining us today.
It's always amazing to have you on board.
And excellent.
So I'm going to open up.
So one of the first things that we're going to drop, and we're going to give a shout out to Joshua Rustafer from Dutch Bloom that does regenerative agriculture.
And I think we did an amazing conversation there.
Corey took a pretty deep part of that one.
Do you have any takeaways to remember that one, Corey?
Do you remember that conversation?
I think you were talking about breeding a unique flavor, Joshua.
Do you remember that?
Yes.
My PTR actually is of one of the books that was brought up in that conversation, The One Straw Revolution, where, yeah, purchased it and digging into it.
And so I think that's kind of one of the big takeaways from that.
From that, it is kind of the overarching conversation that we had there is really kind of looking at, you know, minimal inputs in what you're doing and just really, you know, I don't know.
For me, it just gave me, I went off into really this kind of nostalgic trip of when I first started back in California in the early 2000s as a real young pup.
And the two gentlemen that showed me how to do this thing from the beginning, you know, wouldn't let me use anything related to temperature monitors or I had to, you know, it was no gadgets involved.
It was, you know, looking at the plant and understanding what's going on with that.
And that was just, you know, an invaluable experience for sure.
You know, is it the best way to do it?
Maybe in the beginning, maybe not.
But, you know, to another side of it, there's so much value with just doing it that certain way.
So, you know, that conversation definitely had a pretty good impact for me for the end of the year.
And really kind of refocusing and getting ready to go after I finished my paper.
I can agree with you right now.
We have a couple of new people and I really I love asking kind of some of these open ended questions, but that are also kind of like you don't usually ask them.
Not open ended, but they're a common sense question that isn't usually asked.
And then I think with the experience of the experts that we have in the States, it really becomes awesome.
So I'll ask Anthony, you know, since we're on this subject, what is regenerative agriculture to you, if you don't mind?
Diving into that a little bit.
You're on mute there, Beau.
I think you might have dropped out there.
I'm going to throw the question over to Johnny, because I think we had an excellent conversation today and you'll throw some good energy into this.
So what's regenerative agriculture to you?
And when we throw that type of a word out there, because it's not often stated.
So if you don't mind taking a moment.
So for me, the phrase regenerative agriculture can kind of succinctly be put into leaving the area, the soil, the earth better than how you found it.
Not depleting the soil, giving back to it via, you know, the proper nutrition and microbial activity to keep that land rich and fertile.
That would be, I guess I would sum that up.
Awesome. And I think that was an amazing summary.
And we have Matt. Oh, there you go.
Tony, are you going to try again?
I'm sorry, brother. I had someone talking to me here and I couldn't pop off in there.
I'm very sorry. For me, regenerative would be trying to return back more to the area around me than I'm actually pulling away from it.
So I kind of want to make sure that when I leave, if I do, that the place is always in a better position.
I need to leave, amend stuff. I don't want to be adding unnatural inputs.
If I can try to source something that's more local, that's the kind of things I would like to get.
Supporting local people around me also that are offering those things when it's available.
Be it the worm farmer that's around me, even if I'm going to be making ferments and if I don't collect them locally,
try to get them from local farmers that are growing and selling stuff at farmers markets.
It's a good place to source different fruits and vegetables that you can start to use in different fermentations that you want to use.
There's a whole different way to go from making the place around you a whole better situation.
I love that responsibility to return more to the environment than what you took away.
I think it's a nice little system to live by culturally as well that we often don't touch on as deeply as we could.
Now we do have quite a few episodes and I actually forgot to build a slide for this one, but I'm going to bring it up because I have Dr. Anubis on the stage.
I always love the opportunity to jump into these things.
One of the first subjects that we really jumped into was mutations and what mutations are and tried to really break down,
is a mutation necessarily bad? What kind of mutations there are?
We did a whole episode about that.
Dr. Anubis, it's great to hear you and see you again.
Could you just touch on a little outline of mutations, what we've talked about and concluded,
and where do you think we should talk about next year for subjects when it comes to this very deep and interesting realm?
Don't worry about going too, too deep, but definitely don't be afraid to let us know.
Cool. Don't go too deep. That's a big subject, London.
Go deep. Just go for it. It's all right, Dr. Anubis.
I guess most mutations aren't really going to do anything.
We get bases that get substituted or they're incorrect or little deletions and insertions and whatever.
Most mutations don't do anything, don't result in any change, but they can.
You can have a local mutation on a single plant that could lead to abnormal growth patterns or some kind of weird coloration or something like that.
Generally, when we talk about mutations and when they make a big impact,
either something that's detrimental or something that could be positive,
it's going to be in the germline.
It's going to be something that is carried in either the pollen or the ovum.
Then it's going to be the offspring, so the seed individual that's going to carry that mutation is actually going to show as a difference in a phenotype.
Some common mutations would be things like world phylotaxia,
which is where instead of having two leaves coming off of a node, you would have three or four.
We have albinism or natural variegation can be the result of a mutation.
Fasciation, which is an abnormal growth pattern that can be genetic or it can be the result of something environmental that will cause an abnormal growth pattern.
There's all kinds of mutations in cannabis that are super interesting.
Oh, freak show is an abnormal growth pattern in the leaf shape.
That was the result of a pheno hunt.
They found this weird leaf shape that can be found in other plants.
If the mutation doesn't mean it's better or worse than anything else,
and most mutations are going to be sort of neutral.
If it's detrimental, generally the individual doesn't survive to reproductive age.
If it's beneficial in a natural population, that mutation might increase in frequency,
leading to more prolific numbers of individuals showing that trait.
So like ruderalis, for example, is a mutation in the flowering time.
All right, I'm done.
Just glaze over like a super in-depth topic.
I think it's really cool because there's like a very highly established mutation kind of culture in a lot of other plant species.
I mean, if you look at them, some tomato varieties are bred for different,
they have unique leaf shapes, much like we see the opposite of what we see for cannabis and freak show.
There's some leaves, kind of tomato varieties that have a potato leaf or a thick leaf without the separation in them.
There is also a huge community of, I believe it's variegated plant lovers that love unique variegated plants.
And you can actually get into it.
People do like hard planting and look for these unique mutations and stuff like that.
Like it's such a cool fucking space.
And I just like, there were so many, I thought it was such an important topic to bring up because it's one of those things in the space where we lose and have these issues or problems come up.
And we see them as a problem or an issue or exactly that.
And we get rid of it and we chop it where, you know, unique and special things have come out of things like variegation.
Like we spoke about with a unique chem dog, Chem D, had a lot of variegation.
And we have an awesome photo of that that was actually posted in the previous one.
And it really helps to see that.
I mean, Anthony, could you talk a little bit about Chem D's influence on cannabis breeding, if you don't mind, if you have a little bit of conversation about that?
Well, like Chem D has steered quite a few different cultivars and trends in cannabis since it's popped up.
And actually more than Chem 91 than the D since it was found sooner than the D.
But the D does breed slightly different than that 91.
The D has a variegation pattern that pops up.
Sometimes when she becomes shy on micronutrients, she will start to express a variegated pattern on leaf, which also can pass when breeding.
She's very dominant in the way she likes to pass her structure from the plant.
She can show some tendencies to what appears to be a plant that probably might have came from an S1 creation when she's showing these breeding tendencies, having some of her traits, having repeatable allele frequencies that are showing higher than, say, a line that isn't a homozygous.
So she does breed homozygous for a lot of her traits.
And when she does show up, you'll see a lot of the leaf patterning that shows up from what appears to be a micronutrient.
The nutrients in the soil.
Can anybody like is there any like really popular strains that are very common nowadays that have come out of breeding projects with Chem D that would be like super, super notable for Chem 91?
The work that JJ's done, Stardog, Trace Dog.
There's the Chem Della Chem.
I mean, the list of stuff that Chem's in just goes on and on.
But the Chem very, very famous would be the stuff that JJ did through the Stardog work.
He's done multiple breeding projects with that line.
There's the Illuminati, the K-Dub Fin.
There's the Corey Hame cut.
These are all different cuts that came from different breeding projects that are all used from multiple different breeders from myself too.
I mean, you can go through the list of different cuts that are given by a Chem cut to use to produce either some brand new work that is very good herb or to try to recreate some of the stuff to save it.
Awesome.
I think we got the last of what you're saying there.
And I think we've touched on that really, really well.
I wish I made a slide for that because it would have been more smart.
But regardless, you can't see us on the clubhouse side anyway.
So the next show that we'll talk about and we actually had a really awesome conversation about Mighty Microbes.
We had Colin Bell come in.
And well, actually you had it, Teresa, I'm sorry, I'm totally spacing on the name, come in as well.
Do you want to talk a little bit about that episode and what we kind of chatted about?
Yeah, so the microbes episode was really, really great.
I learned so much from Colin actually.
And for those of you that don't know, Colin created Mammoth Pea, the compost teas that you can find in a lot of everyday growth stores.
So we learned a lot about his formulation on how he came to find those specific species.
His driving factor was he was trying to make sure it could be applicable kind of with whatever type of nutrient and in a very harsh environment as well.
Because from an indoor grower to an outdoor grower, there's a lot of different nuances to how we grow.
So he was giving us a lot of info about actually how they came up with that formulation.
I loved that episode. That one was fantastic.
And come to find out, and this was something that I actually learned in that episode, because I was always a little weary of liquid beneficials.
Because depending on the species, they can go into an aqueous environment and then actually suffocate and die.
So come to find out through that episode, though, that they utilize specific species.
And to keep them alive while they're sitting on the shelf and in your grow storage cabinet, is they actually formulated the liquid component to be a certain ratio of, I believe it was alfalfa.
I could be wrong on that, but they're utilizing an actual plant exudate to keep all of those microbes alive, which extends the shelf life.
So that one I thought was really cool.
Now Tess from Willow, she was letting us know kind of all the different biodiversity you can find throughout your grow.
And just common species that are prevalent naturally in our environment, but depending on where you're located, different states have different testing regulations.
So she filled us in on how you can make sure you're applying them correctly, whether between a foliar or in a soil application.
Just the best uses and practices to make sure that your grow is clean and your plants are in a healthy environment.
So that episode I absolutely loved. Learned a lot from both of those two experts.
So they were great guests on the Dink Hour.
I really liked how Colin explained their system of selecting the specific colony of bacteria that they were going to do and how they made sure to use a salt-rich environment that would be challenging for a lot of microbes to grow in, enabling them to have a bacteria that won't be completely counterproductive.
So I just thought it was really interesting and a lot of footwork and everything.
I know Josh, you had a little bit of fun with that episode as well. Did you have any good takeaways from that one?
Sorry, I'm having a bad internet connection. What was that?
So we were just talking about the Mighty Microbes episode and how I just mentioned how they bred the specific microbe that was not specific, but in general, they used a salt environment to breed their microbes so that they would be able to handle salt-based nutrients on a more stable basis.
I just wondered if there was any takeaways that you had from that Mighty Microbe episode with Colin Bell and Willow during that show?
Yeah, it was very interesting actually learning about what you're bringing up there.
I've gone from synthetic growing to organic, no-till living soil.
Having that synthetic background, I've always wondered about using different synthetic nutrients in conjunction with an organic soil, but trying to find that balance where you're not actually killing your microbes.
Just wondering whether or not you can actually create a living soil that has microbes that can survive with that small amount of salt-based nutrients on top and what that soil would look like.
And then what the final product would end up being like. Would it have that soil that we find in organic or would it not? I don't know. I think it's something I'd like to play around with and those kind of stem from that conversation.
Josh, I've actually seen mushrooms forming in soil using a high PPM of 20-20-20 fertilizer with the addition of humic acid.
Humic acid is such a powerful, powerful thing that it still encouraged that microbial growth even though there was a high PPM entering the root zone and hitting the soil.
That's something that I would incorporate if you're not incorporating and for everybody to incorporate. It's amazing stuff.
Absolutely. I love humic acid. I also use that in my grow as well.
We are literally doing a side-by-side trial. Actually, thanks to London for introducing us to Quad Neutro.
We are running a side-by-side two strains. One row is getting it, one is not.
The ones with that being applied are just... I mean the root structure is pretty incredible how much more defined it is.
We're excited. We're only in week four, I believe, of flower and we've been taking weekly pictures.
Humic acid is great. It helps so much with nutrient uptake as well.
We got to get a live... We got to do a video tour like we did with Manny.
While we're mentioning it and we're going through what we previously did, like we did with Manny De Silva when we went through his flower room of your facility.
At some point, if that would be possible, I don't want to put you on the spot here and make you say that you would do something that you might not be able to do, but I think that'd be super cool.
Yeah, I'll check into it. I think that'd be dope.
Dr. Faust, I don't know if you guys have looked much into him.
He's essentially who has written a lot of the research on humics and he started BioAg in Oregon.
If you guys catch some of his podcasts, it's kind of incredible what research they found.
They have so many field studies on a bunch of different crops, wheat crops, fruit crops, all these different things.
You can see the side-by-side pictures and it is, like you guys are saying, night and day incredible.
If you don't use some sort, I mean, I would make sure that it's a good source, but if you don't, go listen to Dr. Faust talk for like a half an hour about it.
And you'll be like, oh, okay, I'm going to use this. It's pretty cool.
I don't even know where to begin with it because there is just so much about it. It's like a whole show on its own.
Absolutely. Yeah, I think we should definitely do it. Maybe we should even try and get Dr. Faust on because that could be an interesting conversation to be had.
Just a moment, make sure everything's going all right here.
But our next point, oh, next thing I wanted to talk about was actually, I want to dig in the KNF episode.
And we did just have Matt roll up who's a KNF guy and we'll get to you in a moment there, brother, in just a second.
But I actually have an interesting point of contention because I took a lot from this episode.
I had a lot of fun with it and actually explored getting into making labs myself, like right off the bat.
Interestingly enough, I produced labs and actually curdled the milk and did the whole process, had success with that.
I'm going to be experimenting on my plants tomorrow and actually putting them in a side by side with a few and running my test runs where I do just one basic change.
So that I can actually see what's happening, not changing a whole bunch of stuff.
So we're going to try adding the labs into my system on four of eight plants and see what the comparison comes along.
I'm very excited to see how that goes. But that was like a really fun and inspiring process.
And it really opened up my eyes to a few different things.
A, the fermentation and rotting, but also like, hey, this is how things were done beforehand.
You know, like cheese wasn't like, we didn't always have short shelf stable fucking rennet.
We didn't always have all these things and there were ways of producing these products.
And it felt really gratifying using the natural world around me to take that next step and dive into that.
So I'm really excited because it inspired me a little bit.
So I'm quite excited to jump into that.
But if we could, Matt, now I see in your thing that you're a KNAF regenerative living soil grower.
Can you tell me a little bit of some of the regenerative techniques that you might use and say hello?
And if you have any questions or comments, go ahead and jump into that now.
Hey, guys, I was wondering how much would you use humic acid?
Humic acid, how often would you water it?
But I throw everything at my plants.
I put labs on it.
I'm right now into making my first OHN, which in Canada is stupid expensive.
Vodka is, I just did my first round of vodka and I'm already at 60 bucks.
So I don't know how far I'm going to be going in this, into the lab.
I'm wondering really, like, can I only do two rounds of vodka?
Like, do I have to do the five weeks?
Because that's going to be like 60 bucks a week.
So, so, Matt, you're you don't have to do it.
However, you know, it's traditionally taught that you're going to do the five five extractions from that process to really get the most out of it.
But you could even stop at one. But you have to be careful because it's going to be extremely concentrated as opposed to something that's been kind of aged more.
So the OHN is expensive.
It's one of the things that I'm considering dropping out of my regimen because it's so costly.
And I want to cut down on the sugar inputs as well.
Yeah, the sugar. Well, the sugar is in that is actually the least is more than vodka.
Yeah, I mean the alcohol, but I guess if you only make enough for 40 days, then you could go with no, no alcohol.
You got it. What you got to do is produce your own vodka first.
And then, and then, you know, like people, there was a couple people in the chat.
I just want to jump in because I want you guys to continue this a little bit because I think it's important.
The vodka, and we're talking about exactly extracting hummus, right?
The vodka is in Canada, alcohol is a lot more expensive.
There's a lot more taxes on alcohol in general.
It does cost quite a bit more up here.
So it isn't like, yeah, it's quite expensive.
And I can add a lot to your cost on that.
What's a 60 in the States?
Matt, what is a 60?
I guess it's like, what was it 1.75?
A quarter.
A quarter of whiskey.
A quarter of whiskey?
A handle of really shitty vodka you can get for $12.99.
Like, really, really.
$26 bucks up here.
Canadian.
Yeah, it's crazy expensive.
We're not here to talk about booze.
We're here to talk about cannabis.
So does that get your answer there a little bit?
Does that help you out with what you're looking for there, brother?
Yeah, it was more of the humic acid.
How often would you water in humic acid?
So just for us, it's going to completely change with what you're applying,
particularly if you're making your own.
But we use the humic trial that we're doing.
We apply the humic once a week.
And then we also do a phalonic as well.
So once a week.
But again, depending on kind of your formula,
that was actually a great episode.
If you've got time, revisit it.
Because I asked that same question.
Well, how much of this do you know you should be diluting or applying?
So I can't speak for what he enlightened us on, unfortunately.
But it's going to take a peek at that episode.
I think that'll be really helpful because I asked kind of that same question.
But your humic, we apply once a week as part of this trial.
Are you making your own?
No, no, I'm using GIA.
Well, I mean, here's a perfect thing to do.
Apply it once a week.
Take diligent notes.
And then see if next time you maybe want to do it.
Or if you want to do a trial.
I mean, the one thing that I could say is you can't.
You're never going to be mad if you take notes.
You're like too many notes.
You can't have too many.
I mean, that's not true.
But if you're really diligent about what you're applying and if you want to run
your own experiment, I mean, water one with once a week, water one with twice.
But when you're done with that, make sure you're taking good data for it.
So something that we're doing with this trial is we're actually weighing our
root mass, which is something we don't normally do.
But we're applying a new procedure.
So we want to measure both canopy and roots.
So if you are kind of experimenting with that, I mean, set up one plant, one trial,
make a good marker in that pot, take good notes on that, and then kind of just see
how you want to dial it in.
All right.
Thanks, guys.
Sorry to take this off.
No, you're good.
From what I see for the most part, too, and I apologize, Josh, I'm going to get
super quick, it's like one to 100 or about for the lowest, which is about 20 mils per gallon.
And then as I browse across the products, I think the most I've seen is like 35 or 40
mils per gallon.
So, I mean, there's like a range to start with, like if you don't have a measurement,
but there should be a starter measurement on the side of your bottle that you should
play with.
And like Asha said, like play with it because I've noticed too, like some strains don't
need, especially with humic, like they don't need as much, like they actually like a little
bit more, or I mean, if they like a little bit less, a little bit more, which is kind
of neat.
Thanks.
Yeah.
And my living soil, when I add water, because I'm on town water, I add a teaspoon of dissolvable
humic acid, just black dissolvable humic acid into a gallon of water.
I just add a bit of water, throw the teaspoon in and then fill from there just so it mixes
up really nicely and dissolves.
Well, dissolves is probably not the right word.
It doesn't fully dissolve, but it's mixed in there really well and it does a really
good job.
I pretty much do that for every time that I water in there.
Every now and again, I'll skip it.
But yeah, if it's one teaspoon of that dissolvable stuff, I got it from, I think it's called
the Organic Pantry up here in Canada online.
Yeah, it's great stuff.
Works really well.
Humic acid acts as a way to kind of break the chloramine bond too, if you have chloramine
in your city water.
So it's a great thing if you're using tap water in your grow to just, I mean, you don't
really want to be having chloramine in your water anyways.
So just having that teaspoon in a gallon, it's a great idea.
Yeah, I use a carbon filter on my top as well, but I figure having the humic in there just
kind of gives a kind of double edge there and, you know, kind of chelates anything that
could be harmful and kind of makes everything a little smoother for the plant.
Awesome.
Well, oh, go ahead, Matt.
Oh, I was going to say, like, subdue is kind of a better term, just because you can still
accumulate a mass amount.
It just like makes everything available for a time being.
And then you can, you got to be careful because if you still like, especially in like a living
soil system, you're using it, I guess it's subduing the chloramine long enough for the
system to use it.
It's still there technically, but that's a whole nother.
He goes into that, I'm pretty sure.
I'm just going to shut up.
Fucking Matt, I appreciate you.
So Matt, OK, Matt, did you get every piece of value that you needed out of the conversation?
Oh, not you, Matt.
Matt is the best.
You should.
I got to change.
I got to change it to my last name.
I was literally going to say, I don't know how to answer.
Yeah, thanks, guys.
No problem.
And then so our next, what is it?
Another great episode that we had was one of our first guest breeders that came on stage,
which was Aladdin from Khalifa Genetics.
Now, that was a really fun conversation.
He came on as a guest breeder during the day.
We actually did a conversation later that evening about kind of land raise cultivars
and breeding and touching into that.
Now, I think there is some interesting points that we really touched on that episode
and a lot of methodology that was chosen.
They took a lot of the old school land raises and brought that in.
Now, Anthony, you have a haze for days.
That's a very old school haze.
It's very unique.
I might as well bring that up while we're talking about it.
And haze is a very interesting variety.
I would almost consider it like a tough to grow plant if you're doing an indoor type of thing.
Could you talk about your haze for days and what your interpretation of haze is?
Yes.
So there are my haze, which is just a continuation of a vine that originally came to us in around 69.
Mine comes from a collection of seeds that were from a 1976 preservation.
I know it and it goes through a few different breeders before they reach me.
The person I got them from passed them to me in a trade.
Since I've been growing haze since the early 90s, it's one of the first plants I've bred with.
I wanted to know if they were real.
So I planted them out and I've been running these since 2011.
This actual haze for days that I have the F3s.
Through the F3s, I started doing some breeding with some of my other males that I have just to ensure myself that they exactly what they said they were.
It turns out the lady had haze seeds.
And these seeds produce plants that grow just like you said.
They grow extremely different than most every other cultivar that's out there right now, unless it's actually been crossed to a haze.
They grow very fast.
They are very pliable.
They have high plasticity in their stems.
The plant breeds very heterozygous, which means it's going to give different traits, different phenotypes that you find and dig through.
But they're all going to be pretty similar in structure.
Huge plants with a wide open plant structure.
Mine have given quite a few terpenes that lean towards the peppery, cat pissy side.
Some folks have pulled some citruses out of there, but it's more of an old school terpene profile that I call more on the woody side that comes out of there.
She's a very good breeding plant, something that I like to introduce to other true breeding, shorter cultivars to speed up the pace of their growth to increase the size of that plant.
And she also works great if you're trying to breed for plants that wash well.
She will give you an open bud structure in many of the progeny, which now are very efficient in leasing their trichomes.
So she's a killer plant for breeding, something I recommend everybody use her for if they do pick her up.
I have a great way to handle this towards Dr. Anubis.
I have a question for you.
What, in your perspective, is this desire for these land-raised strains or these very old loom, heirloom, swatly?
What's the driving desire for these things?
We know and we've talked about it, they're not the greatest necessarily for a home indoor grower that's going to grow in a two by two tent that's going to grow one plant.
Maybe it is, but most of the time it's not.
So my question is, what's the big desire for these things in your mind?
I honestly have no idea.
I think there is this sort of, I don't know, there's like this thing that people seem to think that all of the crossing and hybridization that's been going on in the last few decades with scandinavus breeding is somehow drowning out or covering up some of these old school genetics.
And so there's kind of this movement to try and preserve some of these original genetics of these plants that were moved around the globe, planted by humans, then became locally adapted to specific areas, and then kind of showed different phenotypes and different expressions because they had adapted to different areas.
So we've got things that were adapted to conditions in Jamaica versus, I don't know, Europe, whatever.
So, but, you know, when land races are escaped from cultivation and then become locally adapted, generally these wild type or wilder populations that have sort of been let go and led to let, being left up to their own devices to kind of live where they live and do what they do to just be happy populations of plants.
Generally speaking, those are not plants that you're going to want to, you know, just pick and consume.
Generally, the quality that we perceive in wild populations of plants is not there. Like wild tomatoes, wild strawberries, wild bananas, wild just about anything. It's not super great.
And it's, you know, our efforts in breeding these things to make them what we want and what we perceive as quality products.
Are more about what we are looking for. And that would be things like, you know, larger buds, more terpenes, just more cannabinoids, higher yield, things like that. Those are things that we don't generally see in these wilder populations.
So I actually don't understand this whole push to seek out and try and bring back some of these land race strains, other than that they are sort of the starting point and we could potentially increase the genetic diversity.
Although I don't see this hybridization, you know, the extensive hybridization over the years, I actually see it as increasing diversity because everybody's picking for different traits.
And we're not homogenizing everything into sort of one big mixing pot. We're actually kind of diversifying everything, which is why we have these little cubby holes of, you know, things that are very gassy or very lemony or very purple or, you know, whatever the case may be.
So I am confused by this and I know there's a couple other people, breeders and stuff that also don't really get the land race thing, other than to preserve germplasm and genetic diversity from that which everything came.
The same thing as, you know, we want, you know, potatoes and heirloom potatoes and tomatoes and stuff like that. They're not necessarily better per se, but there is a, I guess there is, you know, this, we want to preserve genetic diversity kind of thing.
But you would have to ask somebody who's super into land race strains why they are out to, you know, seeking them out, I guess.
I don't know if that answered your question. That's all I got.
It did. And you know what, you fucking answered it wonderfully because this was a really challenging question to ask because there's a lot of opinion and stuff like that on this specific subject.
So I thought it was very interesting, but I did want to jump in and let Matt jump in because it seemed like he had a few opinions on that.
And then I wanted to ask Anthony, maybe just that question is he hunted for these traditional land races and what was his desire for that? But go ahead and start it off.
Yeah, no, I agree with what Dr. Amber said. And I would kind of beg to put this statement forward. It's a divided, I think it's a divided group.
I think there's a true side that wants to go out and seek unique things and like find like the unknown, if you will.
And then I think there's a side who thinks old and thinks land race heirloom and they don't know and they don't necessarily know what they're saying, like what they're asking for when they say that.
And I think they think, you know, like early on genetics that were popped because if like if a lot of people like you guys are saying saw them in the wild, like I saw fields that were wild in Afghanistan and a lot of it was crap.
And where it was good was where somebody had like found a certain one and like started breeding it in his little like they have like little villa type things like they're walled in areas.
And like it, you know, there'll be wild stuff right on the other side. You know, these like huts are like, you know, like 10 feet.
And like you'll see all these like random wild strains around it. And they're sitting there trying to breed one inside of these walls and, you know, it's still, you know, it's still not what you're seeing as like maybe deemable.
And they're using it mainly to process so they don't care what it looks like either. A lot of places. So like that's a whole nother thing.
And, you know, so we've really worked and things that we found have already been worked kind of like Dr. Amos was saying and a lot of people have kind of like said on, you know, in recent weeks too. It's like these things naturally are there to deter like herbivores.
And we've kind of like over time made them pleasurable away from what they're naturally attempting to do is keep us away. I don't know if I said that right. But yeah.
It's a weird mix.
And then like we're also making them spend a whole bunch of energy on stuff that they normally wouldn't spend energy on. I mean, the whole point of a plant is to reproduce and make seed.
And we have taken that ability generally, for the most part, away from them. So these female plants are spending all this time and energy basically trying to get pregnant when we're not, when we're trying to stock them.
So they're making big buds, putting forth a lot of energy, trying to make, you know, more trichomes so that, you know, just in the hopes that they can attract some pollen so that they can make seeds so they can push their genes into the next generation.
And so everything that cannabis is, everything that we've made is totally, completely unnatural. And you would not see that in the wild just because it, you know, that's not what these plants are putting their energy towards at all, or what they would be putting their energy towards at all if they were left to their own devices in the wild.
You bring up a point that I'm, I don't know, I'm probably going to get hated for saying this, but if, you know, like if cannabis is conscious, like the way that, you know, some of us hope it is, I think about this often.
I'm like, man, we kind of are in this like field of like stressing the plant, you know, the, you know, constantly stressing it out. And if it is conscious, it might not actually like us as much as we think it does because we keep it away from its lover, you know, and all this crazy stuff.
So, yeah, bring up some good points there.
I think that's why we're seeing, and I know more people are growing it now and paying more attention, but there's a lot more, you know, we're seeing a lot more hermaphrodites or just new nanners, or even just getting seeds with no evidence of any kind of male structure anywhere.
And people are scratching their heads. And I have a feeling we're pushing this plant towards being more hermaphroditic because we're not allowing it to reproduce in the natural form that it would rather do, which is outcrossing.
But we're kind of forcing it to try and, you know, reproduce by selfing because the plant doesn't realize that, it doesn't realize that all it wants to do is make a seed and have a baby that will be able to bring the genes to the next generation.
So, but I don't know that for sure.
I don't know, I don't think like a plant at all.
But, yeah.
I agree 100% and appreciate you both saying those things.
We're growing this plant in the most unnatural way, and we keep trying to expect things out of it that the plant wasn't evolved to do. And exactly what you're saying, the plant's having endogenous hormone sways, that's causing a hermaphroditic expression, because the plant wants to replicate.
That's what it has to do to make it. And by the techniques with that we're utilizing that are reducing the chemical markers and expressions in this plant through the breeding that we're doing geared only for getting ourselves psychoactively high, is causing a plant to lose the ability to survive in nature through Founder's Effect.
We are literally taking a large population and whittling it down to these 10 or 12 baselines that showed up in the 80s around here. And we're all doing the same damn thing.
So, for me, to try to get into what most people consider land race, which for me is wild ecotypes, which would be plants that nature is taking care of, man has no hand in it.
I don't want the stuff that has been produced by a family for 40 years because they've already line bred it for what they want it to be. Now I have to spend years working that to where I want it, or I should be happy where it's already at.
The wild ecotype for me offers the recessive genes in the plant that could produce these novel cannabinoids and terpene profiles. Right now we've, as a community, went and basically committed genocide on a plant and removed. That's why we all have such a narrow idea of cannabis.
It's blueberry, it's OG, it's lemon, it's oranges, and the plant can produce so many more different profiles that are so much more beautiful than the ones that we bottleneck them into.
So I used to try to find lines that either were not touched by very many hands or as few as possible. That way I could try to enter for the commercial purpose to actually get stuff out there.
So it's a big challenge.
I'm looking for traits. I'm looking for a plant that has the most desirable traits over another plant. In the case of land vegetation, it's to express high THC for many, many years. We've bred out things generally by accident.
I think in the environment, but when you bring them outside, they do horrible. So being able to get land-raised varieties, or maybe not even fully land-raised, but heirloom varieties that do have some of those traits that hadn't been bred out of them yet, and then integrating those into breeding projects, I think is a really valuable thing to be able to do.
Even taking the varieties that we've bred, that really high cannabinoid potential, like 30% or whatever, but then integrating it with a land-raised that has a more broad spectrum of cannabinoids, and being able to play around with cannabinoids in a slightly higher level potentially with that cross.
I think it would be pretty interesting to be able to pull those different traits from that space.
Like I said, home-growing, it's not very practical, but I think for pet projects and for people that are passionate about playing with that side of things, there's definitely some interesting things that could be found in there.
You could think of it as genetic rescue, when you've got a population that has very poor genetic diversity. All of your alleles are either at fixation of either the recessive or the dominant trait, because all alleles are going to fixation at some point, either fixation or loss.
When you have that, and you've got a genetically poor gene pool, you can use those ancestral, I guess they're an ancestral type because they're older, and they're not wild, but for this kind of conversation, I guess we'd call them wilder types.
You can use those to bring more diversity into a gene pool where you've lost the diversity through either a bottleneck or just bad breeding.
You can potentially rescue some stuff, but I don't think that the genetic diversity in cannabis has been going downhill.
I don't think we've been breeding it, as some people think, into some kind of homogenous gene pool where everything's the same.
I don't see that as happening. We could use it as an injection of new stuff, like you were saying, Josh.
I don't know. This kind of stuff gets my brain going. Now I'm not going to be able to sleep. Thanks, Josh.
You could go there with bad breeding as well. I agree. We're not bottlenecking necessarily so much as there's just a pile of bad breeding that's also happening, unfortunately.
When you have that much stuff, when you have a market that wants things so quickly, like Anthony was saying, that leads to the inevitability of bad breeding.
You take a good person and tell them that they're not going to make money unless they have something new every four months.
It takes six months to start a breeding project, let alone test it.
Eventually, corners are going to get cut. The people that have integrity, it's going to take time for those things to balance out.
People in the industry, we found those people that actually shine and actually take the time with their breeding projects.
Like Anthony said, it's a battle the whole time.
It's not the bottlenecking or loss of diversity, but the actual fact that people are taking tiny populations and making these new populations that have lost the genetic ability to fight against nature.
That's why we get so many plants that are powdery mildew receptors.
They're not able to fight it off in nature because we spread that out of the plant.
We were only looking at mutations that we could see or something we could smoke and taste.
Nature makes sure that a plant can handle the pest population and the pathogens that are going to show up.
That's why the plant survives. It does that with a large breeding population.
Man takes tiny populations and repeatedly reduces that amount each time someone breeds with it.
The plant begins to lose the genetic coding to offer that in the next set of progeny.
When a person takes 10 seeds from a guy that took 10 seeds of a guy that took 10 seeds, eventually they'd lost the genetic part of the original gene type to offer any of those abilities.
That's why we're at the point where we're at now where so many plants are out there that are different and diverse, but so many of them are not homogenous for any of the traits.
If you let them go out in the wild, if you didn't water them, if you don't go take care of them and stake them up, they're going to fall over and die.
The wind will blow them over. The wind pressure will kill them.
These plants have not been bred to survive anything but a picture on Instagram today.
That's the problem with the breeding that's going on here.
Too many people passing off stuff that truly is just weed that they wanted to make and not anything that has true breeding potential or the ability to survive in the wild without the person that loves them.
I love that. Survive long enough for an Instagram photo? Go ahead, Matt.
I was just wondering about the powdery mildew. I've been in and out of a full facility up here doing construction work.
They had a sign up on the mother room saying powdery mildew. They had a date. It was a while back, at least a month from when I was there.
I'm just wondering. They said they killed the whole room. I just don't understand if it's systemic.
Powdery mildew definitely is systemic.
Is it because of our feeding?
It's a mycotoxin. You don't want to pass that to people as a medicine.
It's basically worthless to somebody on a level of passing it to the next human.
The best idea is they should have killed the powdery mildew before the plant had a breakout.
Too many people go to flower because they have to make ends meet and they're growing plants that are contaminated.
They can keep them clean. Once they find out they're dirty, they should have replaced them or figured out a way to clean the room.
You can't pass powdery mildew. It's not going to pass toxicity tests. It's going to come up with multiple different hits for pathogens.
It's a waste, really, in the commercial system.
Matt, curious. Do you recall the...
...setup of the grow? I wanted to ask you a couple questions about it. I was curious.
It's an Aurora grow.
Do you know if they were using DE, like, Govitas, or were they using more LED style?
I know they use Govitas. I've never seen such a stack of Govitas along a wall.
We were walking up there along the top of it. They're all cooler rooms.
I think we were knocking out the Govitas. They were having a bunch of Govitas going back.
This is pretty common. This is anecdotal from my experience.
This is super common with Govitas and a lot of the DEs.
A lot of people don't dim them or really manage their humidity when the lights are off.
What happens is they'll shut off the lights and there's no real pressure keeping the water down. It starts to raise.
This is noted in nature, too. It's kind of neat.
Then the lights come on super quick and they're too strong for the moisture to leave.
The moisture is stuck on the leaf. Then PM grows, essentially.
This is why if you have really intense lights and you have high humidity, you should bring the lights on slowly so the vapor pressure can rise.
That's a huge thing with those DEs.
Cocoa grows. People that don't have silica dominant or are not feeding a lot of silica because the epidermal layer isn't thick enough to defend itself from PM.
It's just a whole mix of problems.
It's really common in larger groves with DEs and such.
I just have a feeling it's what we feed our plants.
While we're on it, we did actually cover this subject in depth a little bit.
I think we broke it down into three main areas.
Other than plants not being bred in a methodology in which that stems, like Anthony said, from a strong plant that has resistance to these types of issues.
Dr. Anubis, I know you had something to say there. I didn't want to continue the forum without you letting me have your word.
I was just going to say with powdery mildew, if you can see it on the plant, it's everywhere.
That's just the part that you can see.
If you've got walls that are made of porous material like drywall or sheetrock, it's in there.
Once you've got powdery mildew, it's really hard to get rid of unless you have some serious pest management procedures put in place.
Yeah.
In my experience, the key in the open invitation is the environment.
You can have powdery mildew around certain plants and they won't get it.
Certain areas in a room will get it and other ones won't.
If you can try to control the environment and sway, get a lower humidity, more airflow, more light exposure, it goes a long way in keeping powdery mildew at bay.
Once it is in there, it's tricky.
If you can't control the environment, it can get out of hand rather quickly.
I was going to also mention about the energy trade-offs again.
It seems to me like the plants that are more susceptible, and I'm sure this isn't the case all the time, but the plants that are more susceptible to powdery mildew are the ones that have higher THC.
It's kind of like they're busy making phytochemicals and they sort of forget about the whole disease defense.
Whereas plants that are a little more robust to these different pathogens don't necessarily have the higher potency because they're balancing their act between what they should be focusing on.
If they're being attacked by something, they need to put up their defenses and put some energy towards that instead of making various compounds for us.
That's interesting that you say that.
Just kind of thinking about when powdery mildew really becomes super pervasive and hard to get rid of is during the stage of the plant's life where it's adding a lot of biomass and starting to flower.
I mean, A, there's more biomass and there's less room for air to get in, but also it could be kind of the result of the plant starting to produce those secondary metabolites, potentially.
Would you say that, Dr. Anubis?
Yeah, I mean, I always, like I said, I don't think like a plant at all. I don't know what they think at all.
But I do feel like if you're spending your energy doing something, you're not spending energy doing something else.
So you only have so much energy to put towards everything.
And if you're putting a lot of energy into growing or putting out terpenes or cannabinoids or whatever, you're ignoring something else that's going on.
And that's when I feel like defenses are down and it's very easy for a pathogen or a pest or something to kind of come in and get a hold, get a stronghold and sort of take over a little bit.
And with this plant that's been coddled by us for so long, it really doesn't do very well on its own.
And that's why we need to focus our attention on what's going on, because the plants that we're growing really are spending their energy in odd places in terms of survival and defense.
That is really interesting. I've done a bit of work with PM and resistance and of the, you know, we'll say 50 plants I've done actual PM testing on, I found I think four or five that I can think of off the top of my head that were actually resistant.
So, you know, placed into a space, PM added to that space and, you know, allowed to infect it.
And, you know, plants with PM right next to the one that was resistant and the resistant ones ranged from, I believe it was maybe 16 or 17% to 21 at the highest.
So that's actually pretty interesting because out of everything they were kind of on the lower end of everything that had been tested in there.
And they weren't the lowest THC ones, but are cannabinoid overall ones. But yeah, that's a very interesting point.
I argue this isn't like too new to like the plant world, like the greenhouse scene started dealing with this in like the early 90s, like hardcore.
And like, there's some good studies where they really started to call out the late 90s and started to figure out like really how to breed for like PM.
It was essentially just filling a whole greenhouse wall to wall with whatever crop, like say you're going for like tomatoes and or, you know, cucumbers.
And you plant, you know, all of them, feed them all like silica, whichever, and then put the whole greenhouse under severe like PM conditions and then coal, whichever ones don't make it through.
Or whichever ones aren't, you know, like resistant and then you go to the next like generation and keep doing it because they were having like horrible, horrible issues.
Like the 90s was a lot of cool little like studies on it because they were, like I said, like struggling with it.
And it's like really unique, like we are in like the pioneer stages still of like indoor growing or like greenhouse growing and then indoor growing itself is like literally really new.
Like we are like the pioneer. It's odd to think like we are kind of the pioneers of this.
Yeah.
And Matt, what you're mentioning there is a reason why using the land races is beneficial. You could take a land race and grow those in that situation, cull the ones out that were good for powdery mildew susceptibility or not.
Either way that you're looking for whatever trait and then use that to breed a mono hybrid that now has a smaller amount of genotypes for the trait you're looking for that you can use the progeny of to now use for breeding projects that carry that trait.
And we can do this with that wild population because it has that larger amount of genetic coding that possibly could have the ability to fight off powdery mildew, which we've lost in some of the today's hybrids because they've been bred the way they have.
So if we go into a large population and pull from a large population of seeds, we will find what we're looking for to breed together to create that new strain that does exactly what we want.
Potentially, but also you're going to have a trade off with that you're going to get those those land race strains that have the powdery mildew resistance or other resistance to certain things. They're not going to be very high in THC.
Yeah, you're going to have a hybrid now that sure it's resistant to powdery mildew or whatever, but it's also not going to be high in THC. So you've kind of taken a step back to where we were when we started breeding these things where they did fine with, you know, some of these pathogens, but they weren't very high in THC. We've been pushing the THC and we're losing some of this resistance. So sure, we can go backwards.
We go back and it's easy to breed the THC back in it. We've been doing that. We know how to do that. We're trying to breed plants that can handle pest resistance.
We may or may not lose traits more than likely will, but that's what the mono or di or tri hybrids were that were after that can breed particular things and that breeders now uses that to breed back into his line to represent. It's just like breeding an auto flower that represents our diesel or OG.
It only has to represent a few of the traits and the auto flower of those two parents and people accept it. But with breeding for pest resistance or pathogen resistance, we would need to be able to have that first and not worry about the cannabinoid percentage secondary because that can be re-added to it through the breeding project.
It can, but still you only have a certain amount of energy. You can't. It's still the plant still only has a certain amount of energy to put towards everything. And so if it's putting its energy towards being pest resistant, you're going to lose something somewhere else. It's like a teeter-totter. Like you can't have everything.
So choices need to be made. You're not going to have, you know, a 30% THC and powdery mildew resistance. Or if you can, you're going to have some other trade off where you don't have a lot of biomass that's produced. You might have a lower yield, something like that.
Have you seen Dr. Anubis, Dr. Jordan Zager's work? He's a PhD from Washington State University. He wrote the, essentially, they're starting to write the regulatory stuff on gene expression for cannabis.
I haven't. I haven't even heard of that person. What's the name again?
So Dr. Jordan Zager, interesting individual. He actually just found the genetic expression, if I am saying that correctly, that is linked to powdery mildew in cannabis. And it has submitted a couple papers. It's pretty cool.
And he just did a podcast with Kiss Organics, shout out. But he has some cool stuff like in the works on that whole thing. And he talks on deleting PM. But yeah, it's kind of the same thing even with like hermaphrodism, though.
Separate from Dr. Zager, I should separate this because this is my own statement. Separate, you know, it's like people, you could even argue like getting rid of like hermaphrodism and some of these like cultivars that seems to be like natural, like say, MendoBress, you might be deleting some sort of genetic linked, you know, terpene or like cannabinoid or something that makes that as unique as it is. Food for thought.
Can you send me his name? I didn't, it's Jordan.
Zager. Z-A-G-E-R.
Why don't you just shoot it over to him on the back chat there and we'll keep the conversation going forward, everybody. I hope we're doing well. We're actually rounding out to about an hour and a half here, which is usually when we call it an evening.
We like to be respectful of everybody's time and it's getting a little bit long sometimes. So we're not going to quite cut it out there. I do want to invite people to come up to stage. And what I would like to pose and ask, and I'll ask as our closing kind of area. Awesome. Thank you for posting that up there, Anthony.
Is we'll go through and kind of talk about as we move forward, what we want, what we're looking for, what we think could be an interesting subject that needs some clarification for the space to have on future episodes of the Dank Hour for more shows.
So if we start with, we'll just go through PTR as usual. And if you're in the audience or over at Future Cannabis Project and would like to throw an idea or something out there, don't be afraid to pop it into chat or put your hand up and come up on stage and throw a suggestion here.
We'll do this for about, you know, maybe 12 minutes, I'll give it. And then we will jump up and end the show there. So, Ashley, is there any kind of like, what would you, what would be your cool episode for next year? Is there something interesting that's been pecking at the back of your mind?
Ooh, that's a loaded question. But I would think something that I'm really interested in is just really uptake of micronutrients. Just really how you kind of develop a good, why don't we do this, a balanced mother's recipe would be fabulous.
Sorry, I'm typing this down so I don't forget them because I do want to try and do, I think it would be really fun to be able to like revisit this and go like, hey, guess what? We did it. So Dr. Anabeth, you're next. We'll go through right through PTR. So Dr. Anabeth, Johnny, Josh, Anthony, Matt. And then while you're up here, Matt, if you've got an idea, second Matt, go ahead, throw it out there.
But go ahead, Dr. Anabeth, what would you like to dig into this year and discuss whether it be something that you really want to dig into and clarify and get some exposure out there or whether it be something that you have interest in learning about?
Man, I was not ready for this question, but I want to dig into some epigenetics because the last talk that we had that was supposed to be about epigenetics really wasn't about epigenetics.
But I want to have some conversations or at least one surrounding epigenetics at some point, maybe.
But does that include, Dr. Anabeth, like when you say that, just to confirm for my layman brain, like, like environmental sway, I guess, or like environmental phenotypes?
Yes. So it kind of straddles the line between a temporary environmental stressor that goes away after the stress has gone away and doesn't get passed on to the next generation and permanent genetic changes, which are basically mutations in the genome that are absolutely permanent.
So epigenetic changes can be the result of something in the environment that causes some cause some sort of stress.
It will then lead to a change in expression of whatever gene, which then leads to a change in the phenotype, allowing that plant to quickly adapt to environmental changes.
But they do also stay on the genome and get passed on to the next generation and potentially several generations after that, after that plant was, was,
what do I want to say, stressed in that way. So it's sort of a survival technique that plants in particular use because they can't just get up and leave when things get a little bit crazy.
But let's say, for instance, there's a drought. If you, if you as a plant can have some sort of epigenetic response that allows you to quickly adapt to that drought, that, that change needs to be passed on to your offspring.
But of course, you can't change your genetic code. The only thing that you can change is those marks on the genome, which then the offspring would get and then they would be born into the drought situation and then be able to survive also to get to reproductive age and have more children. So that's quick and dirty. But yes.
I'm refraining from asking a bunch of questions because we're about to start that episode right now. So I'm just going to.
Johnny, what about you? What do you want to dig into?
Well, I guess it'd be nice to do a deep dive on more Korean natural farming and JADAM for growing cannabis in particular.
Bio accumulators of certain nutrients so people could start trying to fine tune their compost piles is something that I would really enjoy. And also, I'm very excited. I just ordered my first worm bin.
And I'm going to start doing some vermicomposting. And I think that worm castings, there's just so much that can be said about castings and their, their impact on soil and plant health. So I guess diving into that would be great. And I'm really excited to be getting this, this bin and I'm kind of diving in myself.
I have a whole bunch of research articles that I'm just waiting to open up and dive into. So yeah, I think that would be pretty, pretty neat to go in.
I've always had this fear-interested JADAM, but we'll explain that later. Josh, what about you? What do you want to dig into next year? Or not next year, this year, I guess.
Yeah, no, it's a good question. I, you know, everything Johnny mentioned, I was just thinking, you know, and Anna mentioned epigenetics, it's definitely something I'm interested in as well.
But, you know, an additional topic to those, I think, you know, even on the industry side here in Canada, you know, looking at the different things that go into, you know, making products for the market for consumers.
And, you know, saying how, you know, we can make and get consumers, you know, products that, you know, work for them and how consumers can understand, you know, from the production side and from the retail side, the different things that go into that.
Nice. I like that one. Anthony, what about you? What would you like to dig into this year?
Well, kind of leads into something that me, you and Cheddar Bot have been talking about. How about the introduction of cannabis and food and how patients can go about making their own safe edibles that are easily dosed out for themselves.
So they don't end up too fucked up or maybe not fucked up enough. You know what I mean? I used my first company was a edible company and I ran that for quite a few years. And I believe that's something that's quite misunderstood in the cannabis industry, especially with new people coming in. So maybe that'd be a cool topic.
Very cool. Looking forward to that one.
God damn, there's so much gold right now. I'm going to have to listen back on this episode because I'm missing some of it. I tried to type faster. I can't type any faster on a phone. But I did want to throw this one out here as well. I think it's another one that comes from the FBC side.
Many micro hobby peeps would like to know the viability of home tissue culture as a path to overcome from an undiagnosed issue with their plant or for home propagation. This is something I've had a lot of interest in, in home propagation. I think there might be a reasonable enough way to get about doing it.
I think there's actually, he's not here, but I have been chatting a little bit with Connor, who just finished his PhD and is back here in California about possibly doing something about tissue culture there. So we'll see. I would love to dig deep into tissue culture and that methodology and thought processes as well. Dr. Anubis, did you have a question?
No, I'd love to hear some tissue culture chat.
Matt, what do you want to dig into next year, brother? Oh, sorry, Anthony, did I interrupt you?
I was just seconding Dr. Anubis. I say me too.
Go ahead.
Pretty much everything but remineralization. And I think it's maybe one of the, like, I guess, I guess, actually, a mix of what Ashley and Johnny were saying is exactly what I hope to see, I guess, now that I'm thinking about it.
Awesome. And Matt, number two, did you have an idea or something before we finish up the show for the day?
About what Dr. Anubis was saying, and the whole not seeding your own crop in your own environment is what I really find is going to be detrimental to cannabis. And have a good night, guys. And I can't wait for the next one.
I'm sorry. I had to say goodnight to my baby really quick. Give me a kiss. Give me a kiss. You're so cute. Yes, you are. Sorry, I have a four-month-old and she's adorable. And like, what's going on? But anyways, regardless, I would say, I think that's a really good point.
And I think tissue culture and what we were talking about a moment ago, so I totally slipped there.
Agar, agar, tissue culture, environment. On that as a closing note, you, sorry, Matt, you said you want to talk about seeding. And I think you're on a really good point here. And I think, Anthony, we figured a really good episode going with how do we bring breeding into a small home environment?
Like, how do we enable your person with a very small setup to do a little bit of exploration with breeding, but also provide enough herb to take care of them? I think there's a lot of avenues to talk about with using like with just pollinating little sections. And I think we could dig into that pretty good.
Anthony, what do you think?
I find cannabis a lot more difficult with pollination because you can't just take a Q-tip and go into the male plant and then take it over the female and like a zucchini.
Well, I have a technique of storing the pollen. I do that.
That's the thing about, yeah, I mean, there's definitely ways about doing it, but like I think you can cut, if you don't do that right, you can cause a lot more, not really harm. If you're, especially if you're only growing like one plant and like you accidentally pollinate the whole space and you also need your medicine.
While it's great to have seeds and be in a small home grow if you have a four by four and you're like, you know, you're living pack to pack, like, like grow to grow to save money for you and your family or what have you.
That, that loss of like the whole space getting a little bit more pollen in it.
Cause like I said, once that opens and you can pollinate a whole room, a whole space, like that could, that could detriment somebody that sets them back a little bit and not, not just kind of with their medicine from, from moving forward.
Cause there are definitely ways to extract that out there, but depending on the setup, I mean, you could be four to five months before you have your next set of product.
You know what I mean? Like it's just, I think it'd be a great area to touch on. Go ahead, Matt. And then we will finish up.
Yeah, I would say when you guys go to talk on that, like totally like I'll come in and kind of explain how I do it. Cause I've actually never, I've never like open pollinated and I've kept, like I have a Mazar line that I worked for quite a few, quite a few levels.
But yeah, like I've only done the Q-tip method cause that's how kind of, I was taught as a kid in like the ag space that I was in. But yeah, so it was kind of, it like threw me off. I was like, no, like it works. Like I was, so like I'll totally show my method if it's like worth anything.
Awesome. Well, I think that is a great, no, definitely be there for that. I think there's the exploration that needs to be had here. Cause I think it's the next time it's like evolution of the world. We need to all start breeding our own cannabis for our own medicine. That's the next step. But anyways, I appreciate each and every one of you guys on the stage. Don't forget to follow all of the people in the stage. Don't forget to subscribe, like, and do that whole thing over the future cannabis project.
Now I am going to mute myself here, but I'm going to leave this room open for a couple of minutes so that everybody that is in clubhouse side can like follow and, and strive to aid the channel, but also all these amazing moderators and everybody else that's in this room together that we can keep going and keep moving forward as a group. Don't forget to go future cannabis project on YouTube as well as there's lots of content coming out there. We have ask the cannabis nerd coming tomorrow night.
So don't miss out on that one. We have a couple of people joining us on stage here. That will be back again tomorrow where you get to ask questions to the experts. So again, thank you all. Thanks everybody here. And thank you again. I had to figure out a better way to stop thanking so many people over and over again. But anyways,
Bye friends.
Bye everyone and awesome paper at the top. Super cool. Thanks Anthony.
I swear to God guys, I swear to God. I checked this time. There's no way that the muse I was so eloquent. You guys know this. Thank you for don't tell him John you're mean. So anyways, like I was saying tomorrow.
So tomorrow we have ask cannabis nerd a whole bunch of other things going on. I don't know what's happening after this show tonight. Let me double check before you all go because if there is another show you don't want to miss that right?
That would that would be unfortunate. So if we look open the Google Calendar, we do not have another show today. But tomorrow we have a fun way growing with Marco and then ask cannabis nerd in the afternoon. So a lot of fun stuff going on. I hope you enjoy that show. Make sure what I said there in the big gap with make sure to go on to Dagadot Academy and check out what's going on there where you can submit questions as well as submit anything else.
To what we can do on the shows and what we can bring on here. So appreciate you all happy growing. Keep it keep it green guys. Keep it green. And gals, everybody, everyone just yeah, we're gonna end
