room to get together. Just take a moment. We get everything good
to go. Now we are live on YouTube and getting everything
set up as well. Make sure that's good. Make sure everybody can
hear me over there. Settings. Hello. Hello. Awesome. Give you
the thing. Sorry, just getting the digital stuff set up there.
Hi there, Anita. Check, check. Check, check. Awesome. Well, we
should be coming loud and clear on the other side. We'll give it
a moment while people come in and have a little bit of chat.
I'm looking forward to today's show. We have the opportunity to
share space in actual human person space on a few occasions.
So I'm very excited for it. I'm sure that we will have a lot of
fun things to talk about. I think you're doing a lot of
really cool stuff out here in BC. There's going to be a fun
conversation. That is for sure. I'm just burning a minute or two
while we let people pile in the room. If you're in the audience
there, there's a little square on the bottom left hand side. If
you go click that little share and go share on clubhouse, you
can make sure to share. I'm gonna do that right now. Share
the show that we have going on right now with our awesome guest,
Andrew Gordon from the BC Craft Cannabis. Go up. I'm looking
forward to it. I'm going to share it. Come join this
awesome.
Yeah, I'm sharing too. Thank you so much, Lennon.
There we go. We will get the conversation started. Everybody
starts to roll into the room. How are you doing, Anita?
Hi, hi, everyone. I'm doing really good. I'm just trying to
share as a lot. Just saying hi to the people out here and not
out there.
Awesome, Andrew. I don't know what link you want to share. I've
made you a moderator. If you want to share, I don't know if
you want to do the call for the summit. You can pop those up at
any point in time so that people can be directed to it too. I
have put those in the description as well on YouTube
so that everybody over on the YouTube side will be able to get
in. I'm excited to have a Canadian conversation. I'm also
excited because I think the idea of a cooperative is something
that needs to be spoken and discussed a lot more. We have to
come together as a group and a society to make things work a
little bit more fun. How do you think usually go as we go
through introductions, say hello to everybody, and then hop right
into our conversation and get into it. Without any further
ado, I'm going to ask you to go first today, Andrew, do you want
to introduce yourself real quick to everybody out there? We
have people starting to load in from the YouTube side. We have a
pretty good audience.
Yes, wonderful. Thank you. My name is Andrew Gordon. I am
serving currently as Vice President of the BC Craft
Farmers Co-op. Forgive me, I'm in transit right now. My wife
sent me a last minute message that she was running home late.
So I just got my little guy off to jujitsu. I'm just getting
into my house right now. On the road. This is the great thing
about clubhouse. You really can be on the on the road and still
contributing content to the conversation that's happening.
So that's great. So yeah, I serve as Vice President of the
BC Craft Farmers Co-op. Really wonderful organization that we'll
definitely delve into here. First and foremost, I'm a patient
for cannabis. I have used cannabis successfully since I was
20 years old, currently 40 to manage my symptom profile for
PTSD and avert a pretty debilitating pharmaceutical drug
regimen associated with that. So patient first, plant focused
been an advocate since about 2000 late 2014 early 2015. With
the MMRU in Vancouver on the retail side, was part of
pre legalization retail in Vancouver, Hamilton and Toronto
and transitioned in in 2017 with the company aura that had a
licensed location in Vancouver. We transformed that into what is
now Kiaro publicly traded retailer with 17 locations
across Canada. I've also had a chance to serve as a director of
what was can CD now acres the associate cannabis retailers
during that time. A chance to speak and engage in a lot of
engagements and be a part of the community. I'm proud to say
since 2015. And in my role at the BC craft farmers co-op, I'm
really focused around events and the membership. I serve as chair
of the membership committee, and really, you know, advancing our
mission forward, which is an important one. And you know,
co-ops are very powerful vehicles to move forward the
mandate from a grassroots perspective. And I'm really,
really proud of the work that we've done at the co-op. And
again, that we continue to do and we have a wonderful summit
coming up. We'll get into some more details around shortly.
That's gonna be happening April 20 to 22 in Kelowna at the
Eldorado hotel. And again, we've been able to co host with acres
on that and really bring together an amazing group of
stakeholders and producers and processors and nurseries and
pick and shovel businesses and supporters and vendors, as well
as government, Secretariat and the BCLVB and the LCRB, many
MLAs and MPs are coming. And again, just driving the mission
forward for small scale production and processing in
this province and really advocating for positive
purposeful change to reduce costs and support success and
cultivate change in the legal marketplace. So yeah, I'll pass
along to Anita for an intro and then happy to dive into some
questions around the co-op and the event in April.
Thanks, Andrew. I'm Anita, everyone. Hi, I'm located in
Ontario, Canada, I'm really excited about talking more about
what we're going to be talking about today. I'm also a patient
as well. And came into like a lot of us, you know, seeking
out relief from different things and, and came to, you know, the
this, this plant and this community for a lot of the same
reasons. So yeah, I'm gonna just make my intro brief. I work in
the cannabis industry, but on the marketing and sales side, as
well as a lot of content creation and creative parts to
as well. So yeah, I'm looking forward to contributing where I
can and listening in as well. So, Damon, you're up next.
Thank you, Anita. My name is Damon Giesbrecht. I'm a
compliance inspector for the Zagame Cannabis Board out here
on Treaty 4 territory. Really interested to hear your story,
Andrew. I've been following along for probably about three
years now is when I first saw your name pop up. So it's nice
to meet you, Andrew. London and Anita, it's nice to see you guys
as always.
Our resident troll and joker, Damon.
Also, I'm the best grower on the planet. Fight me in the
comments. There you go. I get it.
I love it. But yeah, so we like to have a little bit of fun
here. We also like to get down and have great conversations. We
had an awesome chef last week. We have a double hitter of bug
brain brilliance coming next week. I can't believe that came
out of my mouth smoothly. But we have a brilliant bug brain panel
next week where we're going to actually have Robert Claude and
Matthew Gates, like kind of like the Canadian and American heavy
hitters of bug talk coming in next week. But with that, yeah,
bug war is awesome. But with that done and over with, I'm
super excited to get into this talk. So I got to ask Andrew,
first and foremost, what exactly is a co-op? And I think that's a
good definition point to really get into that because some
people might be stepping in and go, what the fuck's a co-op? And
why would that be necessary for me whatsoever?
Yeah, again, you know, not everyone feels the kind of
corporate structure can achieve, you know, a lot of the goals and
aspirations and particularly the ethical dynamics that, you know,
a new industry represents, particularly one that's plant
based and really small scale in approach and again, has come
from a prohibitionist, you know, reality and environment. So, you
know, by definition, I guess, you know, it is a legalized
structure. It's essentially an autonomous association of
persons united voluntarily to meet common economic, social and
cultural needs and aspirations through a jointly owned
enterprise. And that really, you know, in terms of a, you know, a
dictionary definition, hits a lot of the high points. But in
terms of spirit, it's really, you know, democratizes the
engagement of being a part of something and gives everyone an
equal share and vote in the process of, you know, developing
whatever mission you set forward for that co-op. And there's, you
know, wide set of, you know, data available out there that
speak to the, you know, economic and social and cultural impacts
of co-ops and how they really benefit members and community
and really create, you know, long lasting effect. You know,
cooperatives, in general, are able to really, you know,
accomplish mission in a way that really incorporates all the
interests of the members and does so in a very democratic and
diffused manner, in terms of responsibilities. And so, you
know, looking at the impact of co-ops around the world, I mean,
we've definitely seen some some great examples. And for us, it
just seemed like a natural fit for the mission of cannabis and
the work we had to do from an advocacy standpoint and from a
resource development standpoint. And, you know, I get the great
privilege of being a part of, you know, the founding member
group, and really looking towards building, you know, a
better understanding and conversation in the industry
that's more responsive to the small scale producer need, which
isn't always represented in some of the even associations or, and
especially within the corporations that are driving,
you know, a lot of the work forward in the industry. And so
we really found this to be a model that we could shape and
shift, according to the aims and aspirations of the small scale
producer and processor industry. And again, really,
you know, defining the criteria by which we make decisions and
move the mission forward. And I'm really proud to say, you
know, the co-op again, is focused and realizes the
opportunity to reduce cost and support success and cultivate
change. We really rally around that with our stakeholders of
independent retailers and service providers and small
scale farmers and processors and nurseries, you know, across BC.
You know, it's been a mission that's taken about two years to
create, we had to get, you know, about it was about six months to
get it off the ground, we were able to get some seed funding,
you know, kind of outline all of the bylaws and requirements and
legal structure. And then, and then from there, really, you
know, did the consultative process. And that's the other
thing that's really great about co-ops is that, you know, you
get a chance to really engage and infuse the feedback into
manageable and important mandates that are going to make
a meaningful difference in the landscape of the mission that
you're moving forward on. And so, you know, the co-op, again,
it's all about really, you know, we have in BC, just such a
recognized group of craft farmers, you know, cultivating
at the highest level. And we're working with an environment
that's extremely overregulated, that really prevents a lot of,
you know, the innovation and imagination from from taking
root. And so, you know, by, you know, creating a grassroots
organization whose mandate was really focused around, you know,
creating value for small scale producers and, and building
capacity, you know, within with their interest in mind, you
know, we really aim to help maintain BC's top position as an
international cannabis leader and innovator. Again, provide
access, safe access, and transition opportunities from
the unregulated or illicit market. And then again, extend
that opportunity around the world. You know, BC Bud is, you
know, where you go, definitely has a reputation that really,
you know, is more than the whole is more than the sum of its
parts. And so, you know, we really look to reflect and
respond to that opportunity. And really, again, accelerate the
opportunity for transition for small scale producers that are
looking at the regular opportunity, but but have yet to
really root with an organization or a mission or a cause that
has their interest in mind. And so there's a lot of great
groups out there that are doing, you know, great advocacy.
But the co-op model, again, democratizes that and creates a
level of transparency, transparency and accountability
that you often, you know, don't see in kind of traditional
corporate models, or even association models, where the
hierarchical structure kind of prevents the flow of
information. It's very much a roundtable discussion within the
co-op. And I'm really proud to say that, you know, again, we
survey our members regularly, and we really build our mandates
and policies and advocacy agendas around that feedback
and extend that opportunity for learning, you know, into every
conversation we have with government and regulators.
This is good. This is where it gets cool. And this is you're so
well explained there. I just gotta say, Andrew was just
eloquent. And I hope I can follow up with a response is
just as smooth and well. But this, the passion is that often,
especially our community, you know, looks at a situation like,
you know, large corporate conglomerates coming in and
changing things, how do we get in and vet the laws? How do we
do things to help change our industry and move it forward?
And it's very frustrating and almost daunting. And that's
where like a co-op comes in handy. And there are things
being said in like our, in our other chat, like, sounds like a
gang life, but like, the idea being is that we can work as a
team together to achieve more. And I think it's super, super
valuable. And it's actually been used in a lot of other
spaces and has that maintain a lot of success, a lot of growth
and a lot of development. So I think it's really awesome what
you're doing. So let's dig into the early part of it. Why? Where
did you what came up with the idea? Who came up with the idea?
And because it wasn't just like, oh, you know, 10 years before,
you know, I'm gonna open a co-op for cannabis one day, there had
to be some sort of thing there was there a specific cueing
point or specific, maybe a piece of law that you needed
think needed to be changed or be, you know, put forward or
countered against? What was it that caused this whole
happening for the BC cannabis co-op?
Well, I think a lot of it was, you know, the challenges within
the regulatory environment, and the lack of consultation that we
saw between regulators and industry stakeholders. You know,
that was a powerful thing. And then really just realizing the
economic opportunity and partnerships that could be taken
advantage of to drive forward, a positive purposeful change
within the industry. And so, you know, early on in our
development, the founding group came together and really
outlined, you know, what our bylaws and mandates and advocacy
focus would would look like. And really how that model would be
shared in terms of what upside success would look like and how
that would be filtered out to throughout the membership, and
really drawing opportunities to us to help again, reduce cost
and complexity for stakeholders entering into the regulated
environment, whether they were completely new to it. You know,
we really form that mycelium that provides that information
stream that nutrient base. And really that interconnectivity
that allows you to thrive in a very challenging environment. And
if you look at really where the success of the pre legalized
market was was founded, and it was in the relationships and in
in the engagements that those stakeholders had between each
other and for each other. And that's really where that spirit
came from. And early on, again, we recognize that, hey, like
this is an industry that, you know, run in a very, you know,
relatively speaking, unsophisticated banner was
generating billions of dollars in economic revenue for the
province and in so many areas, particularly rural communities
where your primary secondary industry had really, really been
eroded, you know, by outsourcing and poor government policy. And
now with COVID, you know, tertiary industry really being
affected and jobs and, and displacement and concern and
debt being acquired, all became factors in realizing the
potential of cannabis. And we've been able to move the mandate
forward significantly with government over the last year,
especially seeing advancements and policy developments around
direct sales and farm gate and reducing security check barriers
and, and, you know, really revising some of the regulatory
regime that makes it so daunting. We've seen a lot of
success through and our original if you go on our
website, the bc craft farmers co op.com. It's we just actually
revamped the website really, really proud of it. We've all
put a lot of work into it collectively. But we put forward
a very important economic development and jobs creation
model to government that it was really focused around, you know,
two key tracks. And this is really what spurred the
development of the co op was, you know, early on, leading into
legalization, we didn't see that up that up tick or that, that
transition in, you know, the micro regulations didn't weren't
set right away. And that was an issue. So you got, you know, you
kind of stumbled out of the gate as it were. And then it became
very costly, the build first mandate came out so that it
forced, you know, prospective licensees to not just get into
the licensing process and begin to build capacity with
prospective investors and stakeholders and their
organizations, as they were on the licensing track. But now,
you had to build your facility first before you could even
apply for a license. So the barriers kept increasing and
becoming, becoming more complex and more costly. And so, you
know, we really wanted to put forward to government a plan
that reduced some of those barriers on some key fronts.
You know, we recognize that economic partnership,
particularly here in BC with the provincial government will
reflect and you know, we've done a little analysis on the
numbers, I know, is approximately a little over kind
of 6000, almost 7000 growers. And so if we transition and even
30% of them, which is a very reasonable figure within the
first two years, you know, that would amount to an economic
partnership that would reflect, you know, 10s of 1000s of
direct and indirect jobs. $2.5 billion in economic activity and
over 500 million in annual revenue, revenue for
governments at all levels. So this is nothing to sneeze at,
especially when you know, we're dealing with the impacts and
disruption of COVID. You know, we're dealing with, you know, a
lack of consumer transition into the regulated environment,
which hurt all stakeholders across the industry. And so we
really took it upon ourselves to advance this economic
partnership and jobs creation model. And again, work to reduce
the barriers allow for a transitionary phase for some of
the Health Canada approved ACMPR producers, you know, getting
them in respecting their growing seasons, really looking at some
key shifts in policy and mandate around, you know, again, the
the caps on micro cultivation facilities mean these are
facilities that, you know, in the heyday of being able to get
five or six on some decks, I saw $8 a gram, the reality is you're
down to 253 bucks a gram in a lot of cases. And so, you know,
doubling that micro cultivation or microprocessing size would
would allow for a much more economically viable model, we
want to really start to establish targets with the
federal government, we're one of the only industries where the
government really has no accountability in terms of how
long it takes to get back to you, how long your license will
take, you know, and that's, that's quite tragic, when you
look at the economic capacity that our industry represents,
not only in this province, but across the country. So working
to establish some two year targets, or just some targets in
general, for licensing approval, and we're starting to see the
momentum of that work happened last year, the fastest class of
licensing that happened was micro cap licensing in this
country. And that was represented over half the
licenses issued last year. So I think we're somewhere in the
neighborhood of 280 290 micro licenses, a little over 70 here
in the province of British Columbia. So we're starting to
see that inflection point. And we're starting to see again, you
know, now that the big pubcos kind of faltered and failed, and
created all that bluster, and we realized that the emperor has no
clothes. Now it's time for craft to come in and fill that void
and really meet the needs of consumers, which is really what
consumers wanted the whole time. You know, decks were telling
people, it was something else. But you know, again, so you
know, setting some targets, setting some some framework for
that. And then really looking at some of the other mandates
around testing regulations, you know, the microbial counts for
small scale producers were kind of daunting. So we've been able
to get a little bit of room and a little bit of dialogue with
government around that, you know, allowing for the buy local
campaign to embrace cannabis here in this province. I mean,
the BC government's throwing millions of dollars into
promoting local buy local campaigns. And it's really
important that cannabis is represented and included in
that. So we've been advancing interests around that, you
know, obviously reducing some of those draconian security
clearance barriers that really, you know, perturb so many from
even applying, let alone getting through. And then also, you
know, really holding the government to task around
creating a task force to reduce unnecessary red tape, getting
something focused in terms of, you know, discussion within
government that, you know, consults industry on a regular
regular basis to provide that level of accountability and
transparency we need to drive the industry forward.
Love it, because that's what we need to do is we need to drive
some change, but also make the change enact in the way that we
want. And not everybody is going to be able to focus on that
change. We need people that are like deriving this forward. And
we need systems in place and methods and, and culture in
place to help move things forward and create drives
change, because we're part of a huge, larger industry that's
going to get a lot bigger, especially as we see
federalization and stuff like that change later on down the
road. So but this is often like these conversations are really
awesome for an introspective thought of looking at I want to
break it down a little bit. I'm wondering if you could like what
as a farmer of, you know, in your program, what are the
benefits that you're going to receive? You mentioned cost
savings. So how does that work out? Or does that mean you're
teaming up with people to purchase things in a group where
you would have a buying power? Like, for example, you know, if
you have a large chain of restaurants that all have the
same menu, and you go to your large, your large distributors,
like Cisco or GFS, which you know, some people might know
these names, they you'll get a discount because you'll pay far,
far less money for your food because you're buying for 13 to
40 restaurants, they're going to get a better cost on it. So is
that kind of what's happening helping these producers get
these prices and get that buying power by teaming up with other
farms around them? So as a financial point, what are we
looking at? Like, is there often that type of savings? Is that
what the farmer is going to be looking for and hoping to get a
part of and what else what other benefits like specifically?
Could that mean?
Yeah, you know, shared cost savings is definitely a part of
that. And we've had a number of our supporters step up and offer
exclusive discounts and opportunities to our membership
Kootenai savings, you know, the three biggest barriers, at least
in my opinion, and what I've heard from feedback from the
industry, are financing, licensing and zoning. And so if
we can really work to move the needle on those three things in
particular, we're really going to open up opportunity for this
industry to really drive through and, and realize the economic
and social and, and personal potential that these businesses
represent. And so, you know, we've been able to work with
Kootenai savings to get some discounts around and some
opportunity to get bank accounts to get savings opportunities
generated through that. CertiCraft has opened up an
opportunity for us to get discounted rates. So we're
really focused with our vendors, insurance companies as well. So
really covering some business bases that are necessary, you
know, insurance, finance, you know, operational software and
technology solutions, you know, reduce testing rates, things
like that. So as we grow our member base, you know, there's
lots of supporters and vendors that come to the table that
that obviously want to work with those producers and advance
their business interests as well. And it's definitely a
shared synergy that really dovetails nicely and promotes
the industry growth as a whole. So you can definitely look as a
member to benefit from those types of savings opportunities.
And then, you know, just on the general advocacy front, again,
working through the zoning and licensing issues, you know, and
again, many of these farmers are rooted in small scale
communities. So, you know, advancing the economic model,
the data direct from industry to government and decision makers
on their behalf is so important. You know, I've worked as an
independent representative, you know, of a retail organization
that had a pretty sizable footprint, going to government
advocating for our agenda. And at the end of the meeting, they
were like, this is great, but come back to me when you have
more people behind you. And government really only responds
to an aggregate, because they can't be seen to give one
organization favoritism over the next, they really want to see
the industry as a whole, advocate for a shared agenda of
interest that they can begin to work towards meeting. And so
that, you know, in terms of the value that we create the
provincial and at the local level, is so important, you
know, we provide templates for engagement with MLAs and MPs, we
set up meetings with local MPs and MLAs with our members, so
they can convey their points and have a structured agenda to work
from and have some policy points and data to pull from. You know,
that's a very valuable exercise for a small scale farmer that,
you know, has an important perspective to share, but often,
you know, doesn't necessarily feel that they have the kind of
structure or data to pull from to make that a meaningful
engagement with their local representative or even a, you
know, a structured one. So, you know, those types of resources
and foundational elements can really make that conversation
much more fruitful. And especially coming out of COVID,
I mean, economic recovery, particularly in rural
communities is absolutely essential. And so, you know,
getting our members to not only just be, you know, successful
businesses, but successful advocates is so valuable. And
then really, it's a shared opportunity we have to support
growth, economic for small to mid sized business in this
province, which represents 98% of the businesses in BC. Another
really important thing that we get a chance to work with, and
through at the co-op and can extend to our members as a value
point is this Indigenous reconciliation, and the
promotion of women entrepreneurs, I think those are
two key initiatives that we really put a lot of resources
and energy and time behind. And this summit is a great example
of that we've reached out to all the local First Nations and made
sure that, you know, we've really done everything we can to
be, you know, forward and considering their needs and
interests and inviting them to participate, and learning from
them in a respectful and responsive manner. And then
extending those concerns and interests and the survey points
that we gather into our conversation with government as
well, so that they know that they have a partner and an
advocate, you know, that is trying to advance their
interests, you know, through the channels of engagement with
government that are afforded to us all. And so I really, you
know, take that to heart. And, and again, you know, I get the
great privilege here, you know, to, to, you know, work and do
the love, do the work that I love on the on the traditional
ancestral and unceded territory of the Squamish and
Tsleil-Waututh and Musqueam nations. And I really want to be
mindful that, you know, this is their land, and we have an
opportunity to really steward this in a way that can be, you
know, positive and partnership driven. And, and again, work
with them to really build economic capacity and
diversification within their community. And I'm very proud to
say that I've had a chance to work very closely with First
Nations communities and in my work in retail in particular as
well, in Saskatchewan, when when Ciaro got their licensing, you
know, we got a chance to host a conference that really
introduced the First Nations communities there to the
opportunities that that the hemp industries and the cannabis
industries had for both retail and production and processing.
We had well over 200 delegates come and from from all treaty
nations within that, within that province, it was wonderful to
see, I mean, they have three and a half million acres of
arable land that's available for hemp production. And they were
very, very excited about the economic model and the jobs
creation and the designatization and the harm reduction elements
associated with what the cannabis industry represented as
well. So really, really proud of that work. The other thing that
our membership can really benefit from is, you know, the
access to information and expertise within the co-op
around agricultural innovation and environmental protection as
well. And so you know, we've really made that a key focal
point for a lot of our discussions, and a lot of our
resource base, if you go to our website, thebccraftfarmerscoop.com
you can go through that and really get a sense of the
resources and capacity we're building for members in terms of
best practices and policy templates. You know, our safety
awareness campaign is something that we're really, really proud
of. We've partnered with Agsafe and WorkSafeBC. And we're
creating a campaign that's really going to enhance and
evolve the conversation of safety in the workplace. And
that, again, is a huge value add when you look at, you know, the
time away as a result of injury or illness or stress, that has
an impact on the bottom line for a company with only three to
five employees. So really putting together, you know, a
rich resource base of policy templates and best practices and
workplace safety resources in partnership with, you know,
major entities in our space, Agsafe and WorkSafeBC, you know,
they don't have to reinvent the wheel. A lot of this work's
already been done and cannabis is very much a part of the
larger agricultural sector. And so there's resources, and
investors and stakeholders that we can pull into the
conversation here at the co-op that adds so much to fuel the
mission of small to mid-sized producers. So I would say in a
nutshell, that's a lot of the key high level points. And we're
also advancing, you know, key interests around this buy local
campaign, we're developing a BC certification standard with the
provincial government, that's really going to provide a
recognizable symbol for BC products as part of that buy
local campaign. And then just in general, you know, advancing
that public health and research and education and, and pulling
from our members, the data necessary to move the needle on
those key issues and allowing them to feel that they're
contributing and being a part of the overall growth and
well-being of their community, not just their business.
I think there's also an awesome centering point that you provide
often, especially in Canada, Canadian legislation, law, and I
bet everywhere in the world, I'm pretty sure this is consistent
internationally, is a lot of the times when there's big public
meetings, or there's things or there's places or there's
methods for you to speak out about is they're usually not as
easy to grasp and find and having a community center that
you can go to see and enact some change or hear about these
points, references is so important. I've said it time and
time again, we've got to come together as a team and work
together where it is, whether it's you coming as a
cooperative, in just your little neck of the woods in your
square block and trading clones and take care of each other and
passing plans or it's, it's in a larger, bigger industry place.
This is this is something that like grassroots can be done to
help support move industry and change. And I know Damon, I love
and appreciate you. So I'm going to blabber a little bit and reset
the room while I do this. But I'm going to come at you with a
little question regarding kind of what your thoughts were on the
Canadian policy for, you know, native First Nations people in
Canada. But I wanted beforehand to just do a reset and say
welcome to the Dank Hour moving industry for BC Craft Cannabis
Co-op conversation. We have Andrew Gordon from the BC Craft
Cannabis Co-op come to discuss it. So we're going to have a
couple I'm going to ask you, Damon, that question. And then
we're going to go over to Anita and see if she has a question.
Then we're going to get on to the summit because I think it's
pretty interesting. But we are having a great conversation. So
if you want to learn more about the craft, craft farmer co-op,
you can check the link in the description or at the top of the
page here on clubhouse at this exact point time to go there,
click it and check it out what we're going through. I've opened
it up a little bit there and you did a wonderful job with the
website. It's very beautiful. But anyways, before I get into
it, what a white man retailer feels, right? Really, it can
carry a lot.
Yeah, I hear you on that. And, you know, I think just to make a
quick comment, London, you know, provincially, we do have a
section 119 exemption as part of the regulatory regime here in
the province that does give the right for, you know,
considerable leeway for integrating First Nations
communities into the regulated supply stream and regulated
licensing regime. You know, it's been exercised strategically a
couple of times to really create some opportunities for unique
supply stream scenarios between licensed producers and, you
know, sovereign retailers on their territory. And I think,
you know, we have to open up a wider dialogue within the
conversation here provincially, because there's a lot of stress
for retailers that are seeing at least ostensibly, you know,
these First Nations communities opening up retail and production
on their land and at least ostensibly to them operating
outside of what they perceive as the regulatory regime. But
really, there is a big education campaign that needs to be
exercised here in the BC Craft Partners Co-op. And this summit
in particular will be addressing this topic in a very meaningful
and significant way around, you know, just because it's a First
Nations business doesn't mean it's unregulated. And I think
that that's a good starting place for the conversation when
there's so many retailers out there that are so anti First
Nations, in so many ways in terms of them and their
engagement with the cannabis opportunity, because they don't
feel they're playing by the same rules or this or that. And I
think you're perfectly right there, Damon, that, you know,
again, we really do have to understand that they are
operating on a different platform in terms of their
sovereign rights, both federally and provincially and what the
intersectionality between those reveals in terms of a business
opportunity for themselves. And I think we need to get much more
educated as an industry around what that entails. We have an
obligation to do that, in fact, because this is something that
you know, at the outset of legalization, many First Nations
communities feel that they weren't consulted at all. So we
got a lot of catch up and work to do to get them integrated and
involved and invested in the cannabis sector. And especially
in a way that does allow them to feel like they're, you know, a
part of this larger movement forward in legalization. So
yeah, we got we got a lot of work to do in that regard, for
sure.
I think you did an amazing job, David, and both with that,
because it was a challenging and big question to ask. And it's
not like easy to respond to that. So I appreciate both of
you. Anita, before we get on to the...
Just if people want to go back, Marcus, when Bubble Man was on,
his comments were the best. And I'm not going to quote it, people
can go back and look at it. But you know, Marcus really hit the
hammer on the head when he was explaining how he addresses
these concerns that come up. So if anybody listening wants to
look back, I can't remember what episode it was. It's probably
about three, four months ago. Tail end of it, Marcus talks
about, you know, the rights to self determination and what he
tells people. And that was, you know, I don't want to misquote
him, but people can go back and find that. I don't know if you
remember what he said, Lon, didn't, but Marcus really hit
the hammer on the head. Yeah, I hit the hammer on the head with
the hammer.
He's absolutely amazing. I love Bubble Man. Every time I've
watched, you know, Ash Church or any sort of engagement he does
on IG, or in person, I've learned so much. One quick
comment I had in London just before, I didn't mean to interrupt
you there. But, you know, I think the thing our industry is
missing with working with First Nations communities is the
opportunity we have to allow them to lead, particularly on
policy and regulatory reformation. You know, when we
look at direct sales, and we look at Farmgate in this
province, a little not a lot of people know this, but it was
actually First Nations communities that got the
provincial government to move that mandate forward. We had
been bitching and bitching and bitching for a long time as an
industry, well, you know, but at least a year and a half since
legalization areas. And we were, you know, during the consultative
process, you know, complaining about it too, that this needs to
be foreign, we need to see this reflected in the regulations,
and oh my god, you're missing a huge opportunity. And it was the
First Nations communities in the province through the Section 119
exemption that actually created the space for those regulations
to come into focus. So we need to give a lot more credit to our
First Nations partners, and let them lead in the dialogue with
government, because to be quite frank with you, they got a hell
of a lot more prerogative with government than we do. And we
need to recognize and respond to that opportunity as an industry,
and really allow them again, to lead that conversation, we need
to be invested in involved with them in a way that allows them
to understand our needs and as an industry where we think this
can go as well, and then give them the opportunity to really
see the commonality in the interest of moving regulations
forward for all of us. And then, you know, they can really be
that fertile test ground for a whole bunch of advancements in
the industry to get the government comfortable with the
idea. So I would love to see, you know, opportunity for them
to not just be consulted, or, you know, given, you know,
certain certain opportunities, but to actually lead it with
government, because they have those inroads, they have that,
that mandate, they have that prerogative. And they can do so
much for our industry to evolve regulations in the direction we
want to go. This does not have to be a contention us for
contentious us versus them dynamic, this can be very much a
common cause that you know, where the rising tide raises all
ships, and again, allows each ship to have its own course. And
I think we need to respect the size of the ocean we're on here
in terms of what legalization represents. And not everyone's
mandate and mission is going to be the same. But but the common
cause is to stay afloat and, and to thrive on on your own boat.
And I think, you know, again, if we can really just get past the
the short sightedness that we have in terms of it's an us
versus them dynamic in terms of who gets what and what they're
doing. And this doesn't make sense. And my business is being
impacted, like, this is a general push towards better,
more open regulations that allow the entire industry to grow. And
they have been at the forefront of so much of that advancement
and been so underappreciated in the exercise.
Yeah, I see. It's that unison thing. It's we do this stupid
thing as people all around as we look at others, and we compare
ourselves to them. And it's flawed, because we have this
comparative objective view with the world around us, it can
often create these tensions and thoughts and these methodologies
we see it all the time. For every one great person you meet,
you meet 10 people to try and screw you over the process. It's
a it's super challenging. And people need to be a little bit
more open to this and not realize that everybody's out to
get them. But also realize that we need to support and prop up
the right people in the right situations. I think you guys put
it so so well. But Oh, go ahead, Damon.
I think a lot of people in this industry want to fight with
windmills, you know, that imaginary enemy, right? And they
just make it worse on themselves. Like I've seen some
guys go on for six months about something. Meanwhile, the second
party is like moved on, and you know, they're living in Mexico,
right? So and that's just, you know, maybe it's the competitive
nature out of gardeners in general, like you get it with
tomatoes, you get it with lettuce. So but with cannabis,
it's a, there's a lot more imaginary enemies that people
have. So yeah, just to highlight what you said,
Mondred.
Thanks, go. Thanks. Go ahead, Anita.
Um, I, I'm loving this conversation. It's really
interesting for me, because I come from, you know, more
communications and educational background, from like a tech
industry. And the type of growth that we see a lot of the times
is like very like corporate, right? Because that's, that's
what type of industry is like around us all the time. And,
and watching the cannabis industry try to grow like
corporate, and you can see it just kind of like stagnating and
in in different spots, you can see the the pain points and
things like that, because it isn't like, like a widget, like
as many would say, it's, it's very different of a if there's
there's so much community and educate, like, so much spirit
that's around cannabis as a whole. And so much history and
meeting and to a lot of different people that coming at
it in an organic way is really the only way that I think that
it can happen, especially, I've talked about this before, where
Canada is such a small country in comparison. Yeah, there's a
lot of us but but in comparison to global or even our neighbours
to to the south, we don't have to do things in the way that
others do. Because we do have an opportunity to have like a
smaller community and come together as a group. And I love
the idea and the partnership of a co-op. I've, I've even talked
about that with in a marketing and sales capacity as well.
Because smaller is is what cannabis does better, it's
smaller batches, it needs the attention, it needs the care, it
can't thrive on this mass scale and be ignored. And so it needs
that special personal touch. And, and so a co-op really does
make sense. And having that even for the retailers, I know that,
you know, a lot of people are thinking strengthen numbers, but
how do we do this? How do we do this? I love that this is
happening in BC. But I want to know like, you know, and you
know, even having like that, I think you mentioned like a
designation for BC bud, because that's important to like, and
there's designations like Champagne for like, you know,
in that part. And I think that that would be an important like
progression in our industry. But also for other provinces too,
because yes, yeah, of course, BC, you know, is a station,
like an important part in our history, but all the other
provinces also like are growing and doing other things as well.
So how do we how do we as a community in one like translate
that into like, somewhere where like, you know, in Ontario,
where I am, I know that there's a lot of smaller craft growers
waiting for licensing or, or, or waiting to do what, you know,
each of the bigger ones are doing, but it's so hard trying
to get into a market where there's restrictions on
marketing, there's restrictions on all sorts of different things.
Plus, there's all this layers of like taxation. So you can't have
a lot of profit between for other things like education or
brand awareness, and so all that stuff. So how do we translate
what we're doing in BC into other provinces, especially my
provinces, because I'm selfishly wanting to know this information
because I would really love to see that like happen everywhere.
Yeah, I think, you know, the cooperative model is something
that can be extended into really every, you know, province or
situation within Canada here. Again, you know, this isn't
something that, you know, is just exclusive to BC, you know,
we definitely saw the opportunity and, you know,
obviously come from much more of a grassroots community based
approach. So it made a lot of sense in terms of alignment. But
you know, the economic case for co-ops is there and, you know,
again, establishes, it's established in international
values and principles. And, you know, we're a proud member of
our BC Co-op Association. So whatever province you're in, as
I understand it, there is a co-op association in your area
that you can reach out to that's dedicated to building, you know,
that province's co-op economy. And, you know, these are these
are real thriving, vibrant communities, a lot of times and
represent, you know, here in BC for the BC Co-op Association,
you know, over 2 million members, 700 businesses and 50
billion in total assets. So these are bohemus in and of
themselves, even though they are small and grassroots and
democratic, democratically driven. And, you know, it's very
compelling business model as well, in terms of building your
business case or value proposition. You know, they are
twice, there are twice as many BC co-ops that remain in operation
after five years compared to other forms of enterprise, and
they create jobs at a rate nearly five times greater than
their counterparts or publicly traded companies. So, you know,
there's a strong economic model to pull from to build support
from local stakeholders. Again, there is a cooperative
association in your province. Forgive me Anita, you're based
in Saskatchewan or Ontario?
Ontario.
Yeah. So there's definitely been a movement out there. I know,
you know, one of the original people that brought the idea to
the table was a gentleman from Ontario, myself and David
Hereford and a couple of the other founding members got
educated. I believe it was a dairy cooperative that kind of
built some of the early kind of structure and understanding that
this could be a viable option to build not only, you know, some
economic capacity, but some real advocacy towards government
through because governments really respond well to the
cooperative model too, because of its transparency and
democratic nature and roundtable model. It's really, really
important that, you know, you demonstrate those principles to
government when you're coming to them with ideas. So they know
you don't have this kind of hidden agenda, or hierarchical
structure that prevents representation, and the free
flow of ideas and information to get forward to them. So you
know, I would definitely encourage you to look into your
local cooperative association. There's a lot of capacity there.
We've been building in roads across the country to look at
establishing other co-ops that have, you know, a similar
mandate, and it can come from a similar governance structure for
the cooperative or for the cannabis side of things. So
please do, you know, give me a follow and give me a DM, I'd be
happy to follow up and send you some resources. We've worked
with a couple of groups that have also expressed interest in
that regard. And I'm happy to connect you with our leadership
team to explore that within your context in Ontario, because
there's tremendous capacity there. That's where the bulk of
growers and processors and producers are. It's where we see
most of the microclass licensing as well, too. So, you
know, the opportunity to get this thing to be reflected
across the country is there. And it's just a matter of really
rallying the stakeholders and getting a little seed funding to
to get the mission off the ground.
It's really exciting stuff. I am definitely sending you a DM
about it. And I had another question, but I forgot what it
was.
Um, I think
we're at about the hour point. And while we talked about some
heavy stuff, we talked about some government stuff and some
of the some of the business, we got down to business there,
which was awesome. And I really appreciate it. We're going to
get down to the party now. Because we have because you have
a very interesting event. And actually, everybody at Future
Cannabis Project that wants to come along and join us will be
available. So let's, let's dig into this craft cannabis
summit. And for those that are in the audience here in Clubhouse,
I've put that link at the top of the page for those over at face
over on the YouTubes, you can go ahead and find that in the
description that will read up a little bit more about the BC
Craft Summit. But tell me what's going on? What's a BC Cannabis
Summit?
Yeah, this is going to be a wonderful crescendo moment for
our industry so important coming out of COVID to get together
again, you know, I came back from Lyft in November, had
tremendous energy, tremendous opportunity to connect and re
and reconnect, most importantly. So you know, the summit is is
really just just an expression of that and and the need to come
together and really rally around our common interests. And so the
BC Cannabis Summit is happening in Kelowna at the Eldorado
Amanteo Resort right on the water beautiful, you know, the
mayor's office, tourism Kelowna have really done a wonderful job
embracing this opportunity. We've really not received the
stigma or inertia or indifference that we were
expecting at the outset of this, they really opened up the
community with open arms, we found a venue where consumption
is not only going to be tolerated, but celebrated. And I
do assure you that it will be celebrated. We're doing this in
partnership, in partnership with acres, the Association of
Canadian Cannabis Retailers, and our key leads on this weed pool,
which is a wholesaler out of Saskatchewan and a key member of
our group helping to transition in because of the model in
Saskatchewan so great for in terms of vertical integration
and direct access between producers and retailers, and
Dutchie. And again, you know, it's a technology solution
provider in the space on the POS and services side that that's
creating a lot of value for retailers. But again, we're
going to be in Kelowna, April 20 to 22. And we also have the
Budtender Awards and the AR Cannabis Awards dovetailing into
it as part of the festivities. But it's really focused around
policy and regulations, you know, cultivation, processing
manufacturing and retail, we're going to have some expert panels
networking and social activities, and really drive
forward this conversation around jobs creation and economic
growth and really celebrating BC's craft cannabis sector
together. And I'm proud to say that the BC cannabis
secretariat, the LCRB, the BC LDB are all coming out making
presentations engaging with stakeholders being a part of the
plenary discussions. And, and so we're a bunch of MLAs, MPs, I
mean, we have, you know, lots of great representation from
government and regulators, industry stakeholders, leaders,
thought leaders from across the industry are in attendance, I'm
proud to say we're sold out. So it is, it's been a difficult
proposition, because FOMO is beginning to set in. And, and
we're honestly at capacity. But this will be our inaugural
conference, we expect it to be a perennial favorite moving
forward. And, and again, it's really gonna, you know, the best
ideas come out of the rub of ideas. So we're bringing people
together to accomplish just that there's going to be some
preliminary surveying that's going to be happening around
some key policy initiatives, direct sales, farm gate, onsite
consumption, you know, some of the the other regulatory items
that I mentioned earlier, we're going to really engage the
stakeholders at the event through that, you know,
formulate the answers and really direct that towards the policy
and decision makers moving forward. And again, this is a
chance to really, you know, reconnect everyone in the
community. This is a highly skilled sector. And we have a
significant opportunity in front of us to really make the economic
impact and achieve the aims and aspirations that cannabis
legalization represented to so many. And I'm really, really
excited to be a part of it. You can find out more information
about it at the bccraftfarmerscoop.com
backslash summit. If you go to our page, you can get all the
details there we do still again, we're sold out. So the waiting
list is even completely full. I wish I could even direct you
there. I'm really proud of our, our partnership with First
Nations communities in that area as well to say Elks Okanagan
people have really embraced this opportunity as well and, and
are really providing a lot of the guidance and, and, and, and
support in terms of how to represent and respect and, and
include, you know, their communities into the conference
programming and events. So look for that as a key part of the
programming. And, and we're lining up just just an
absolutely great series of chats of presentations, and of panels
and this is going to be again, what I suspect will be a
perennial favorite. The Eldorado and Menteo have not shied away
from allowing us to really embrace the plant and the people
in the movement that made this all possible. And again, I'm
extremely proud and excited to be able to be a part of the
planning committee and, and pulling together the sponsors
and, and stakeholders to really make this everything it can be.
And, you know, we had a great programming meeting today that
went over, you know, kind of the whole lay of the land and what
what everything's going to entail. And, and we're
overwhelmed with the level of generosity and support we've
received. So we got a great tagline, roll it up, hash it
out. That's gonna be the spirit of engagement. And it's gonna
be a very, very exciting time for the cannabis industry. And
we wanted to put it somewhere that wasn't Vancouver or
Toronto. That was the other big thing. So we're putting it, you
know, closer to where the producers are. Kelowna was, you
know, a natural choice in that regard. And, and again, this is
not a pay to play venture that you see in a lot of conferences
to a lot of the speakers and presenters and panelists have no
sponsorship connection. They were just invited for their
expertise and their experience. And that's another thing I'm
really proud to say is I think it's going to generate some
really meaningful conversations and outcomes. So excited to, to
share that with you all today. Thank you so much for this
opportunity, London. Very grateful to you.
Awesome. I'm grateful for having you on. You've done an amazing
job of like running a store and everything like that. We do,
hey, we do usually run between an hour and a hour and a half.
If you're if you're not in any rush there, Andrew, I'd like to
open it up to see if there's anybody down below or in future
cannabis to ask some questions before we have
Absolutely happy to happy to address some questions, have
some conversation.
Awesome. So that's available. If you guys have any questions,
pop them into the chat now pop them up down below. You can go
ahead and raise your hand and come on up to the stage. I saw
Tom was there. Do you want to maybe while we're waiting for
some of this to come through? Do you want to maybe give me some
of the details of some of the fun events that might be
happening? Some of the good good points of time I understand
there's gonna be like a rooftop patio and maybe some like live
plants like you want to go into some of the yeah, your bud stuff
because I'm sure everybody's gonna be excited because while
it is sold out, you'll be able to people will be able to catch
segments of it on future cannabis project because we're
gonna do a lot of shooting of this during the day. So I'd love
to build up some excitement.
Absolutely. Yeah. And we are going to be live streaming the
event as well and you can participate virtually. So stay
tuned for the information coming about that shortly. We did get
such overwhelming demand that a virtual component was absolutely
necessary. So we're really investing a lot of resources and
making sure that people who either can't get in or can't
make the trip up can still participate in the conference
and be a part of the festivities. It all starts on
420 which is an audacious goal. You know, everyone anyway, in
terms of bringing, you know, large conference together, but
we really felt it was the right way to kick off the event. The
actual conference itself is the 21st and 22nd. But we are
starting on the 20th just to bring the community together.
And to have, you know, a really meaningful engagement. We're
going to host the Budtender Awards there with Adcan on the
20th and those awards will be handed out on 420. We do have
the rooftop consumption lounge at the Menteo resort open. That
is like I think it's over 1000 square feet, maybe bigger than
that 1500, almost 2000 square feet of rooftop patio. We'll
also have a bit of a reception area in the ballroom beneath it.
You know, Kiero has stepped up as a major sponsor for that. So
very grateful to them that they decided to do that. But we are
going to have a blast puffing, chatting, imbibing, really
soaking in the ambience that is this beautiful waterfront
resort. Again, music, entertainment, you know,
obviously, cannabis will be flowing freely, the plant will
be celebrated and on point, we're going to have a between
two Buds section that we're going to be running you and me
London, very excited for that content. And we're gonna be
mobile and really engaging stakeholders of all varieties
and in ad hoc conversations and content generation scenarios.
We really want it to be a free flowing, fun engagement. It's
not going to be a stiff conference where we're
regurgitating speaking points here and marketing decks, this
is going to be a real live meaningful conversation. And so
on 420, obviously, we're celebrating, you know, the plant
and the people and the movement behind what made this all
possible. Again, we have the Budtender Awards that day. On
Thursday, we get into our programming, we've got some
awesome keynote speakers, some great panel discussions,
experts top of their field coming in and providing insight
and expertise around major regulatory reform and economic
and social advancement opportunities within the sector.
Again, thank you to our sponsors, Weed Pool and Dutchie
and and On Fleet in the El Dorado, really stepping up and
making this possible. And then Thursday, we have our
hospitality night. It's also going to be the AR Cannabis
Awards will be given out that night as well in the Manteo
Resort.
So what's what's that? Like, is that like a is that a home
grower competition? Or is that like an industry competition?
Like what exactly is that?
Yeah, AR Cannabis is a retailer, I think they have seven
locations, maybe eight in BC, I'm not exactly sure. They were
the legacy shop MMJ that transitioned in, became AR
Cannabis. So good solid roots, in terms of their understanding
of cannabis. And, and again, they're this components can be
focused exclusively on craft producers. So there'll be no
LPs, large scale ones, publicly traded ones in particular that
will be winning any awards that night, I'm proud and happy to
say, it's going to be focused on the small scale producer, it's
going to be focused on the consumers and the bud tenders,
really highlighting and featuring the best of that. And
Tom was in the room earlier, he's one of the key ambassadors
for that I was gonna ask him if you wanted to share a few words
on that, but he stepped out now. He's been in meetings a lot of
the day, I've been in two or three meetings with him today
already. So planning the conference. So we got the AR
Cannabis Awards. And you can go check those out to just Google
AR Cannabis Awards. And there's a there's a whole competition
happening right now that you can vote for and contribute to lots
of great categories, lots of great representatives from the
craft sector there. So we're handing out those awards
Thursday evening. Friday, we're right back at it with expert
panels and discussions and keynotes. The Mayor of Kelowna
is coming by for a keynote that day as well, which will be
great. Again, integrating the community into the landscape of
the larger commercial and social interests of that
municipality. We got again, our First Nations partners coming
out and providing some great insight and, and again, really,
you know, respecting, you know, the culture and traditions from
the Okanagan people and the Seelks in particular that have
come and really, you know, helped support this conference
and, and allowed us the opportunity to really host it
within their territory. So which is traditional and unseated. So
really respect and admire that. And then on Friday, we have our
after party planned at the end of the day. So it'll be a chance
for us all again to come together and really enjoy the
spirit of the event. And then there's some programming planned
for the weekend as well, which will be happening off site
through one of the local community centers. David
Hereford and a group of growers are hosting that there's going
to be some panel discussion there and presentation, but
really, it's a launch point for tours out to a lot of the local
farms in the area. So if you want to stick around for the
weekend, there's a lot of great programs and opportunities
available to you. And, and again, really, really proud to
be a part of this thing and rolling it up and hashing it
out with the best and brightest in the industry.
I fucking love people that smoke cannabis that are in this
space. I mean, you're all such wonderful people. I hate to say
it, Andrew, but you're so well spoken. And we're so clear about
everything you said. There are not a lot of questions, although
we did get the request for we did get the request for the
meaning of life, the universe and everything. And I promptly
responded, although I was beaten to it by another fellow with the
43 42. 42, man, you got it wrong. It's 42. Right now I'm
questioning life.
It's a leap year.
The wrong answer generates the right answer faster than
anything.
Absolutely love it, David or Anita, did you have anything?
Before we do our close?
Yeah, I just wanted to say so long and thanks for all the
fish.
I have nothing I can't I can't top that. That's I had a great
conversation, though, as always, I really am learning a lot and
also taking notes because I'm hoping maybe to manifest a
to manifest a trip there during 420. So there you go.
It'd be lovely to have you.
Well, I'm looking forward to it. That's for sure. It's gonna be a
lot of trouble streaming over there. So before we go, I always
like to end these on the highest note possible of our highest and
dankest guests of the evening, which would be yourself. So
where can people find you? And where can people get involved in
your life ask you questions and harass you just in general?
That's funny. Well, I am my Instagram handle is ATG van city.
You can check out my profile here on clubhouse. Please do
give it a follow. I'm happy to engage ask questions provide
support, connect you with anyone in our industry. I really take a
lot of, you know, pride in really creating opportunity for
others. I set up a personal mission for myself when I came
out of university to create value and improve health and
wellness in my community. And I found something in cannabis that
allows me to do just that every single day. So that's really
what I'm about. You can also check out the BC craft farmers
co op on Instagram, you can check out our website. I do
advising with a lot of different companies too. So if anyone's
ever looking for path to market strategy, or anything like that,
I'm always happy to connect you or give you insight or resources
to something. I really just want to see everyone thrive and
survive in this industry and do so in a positive purposeful
manner. So you're welcome to give me a follow and reach out
anytime. Thank you so much again, London for the
opportunity to participate in in the Dank Hour here.
And Andrew, I just want to Oh, sorry, London. I didn't mean to
cut you off. I just want to say thank you for your work that
you're doing with the First Nations of Canada and helping
educate, you know, retailers that might not necessarily
understand, you know, the right to self determination. When
things first started in Saskatchewan, it was pretty
heated. It's getting better. Like it's not horrible. You
know, instead instead of seeing things on social media, people
are just kind of keeping it to themselves now. So I have to
thank you for that hard work, because I know what it can be
like dealing with a retailer that, you know, just can't wrap
their head around how, you know, the right to self determination
works. So thank you and keep up the good work and not return my
friend. Thank you, brother. I'm very grateful for that feedback.
And where the flavors fire. Did you like the week?
I had to ask but anyways, we're terminating the room. Ciao
everybody. Love you all. Thank
you. And remove you take the brand away. Take that there. Can
you hear me? Probably not. Maybe it is possible. Make sure
that that room is shut down. Yes, you can. It has been a
lovely evening. A great chat. I do enjoy it every time with you
guys. We are up next week with probably the buggiest panel ever.
We've got Claude from Claude Robert from Claude. I say his
name from Claude Robert from Anita's joining us and then
Matthew Gates next Tuesday, joining us, which is going to be
a lot of fun. That was great. So don't forget to check out and
support everybody that you that was on the panel tonight. I will
point this out is tomorrow there is a fantastic day of things
happening and we are going to get into that. Before I leave. I
did have it open earlier, but we should make sure that we have
there because I know you guys want to know what's going on
tomorrow and later on and everything because I think it's
pretty important. So we're going to open up that calendar. We're
going to give you a rundown of what's going on and then we're
going to say good night for the evening. I have been enjoying
some of my recent run of Velvet Sky has been absolutely
delicious. And I look forward to working on a little bit more.
I've just done my first run. It needs a lot of work still. But
for a first run, I'm pretty happy. I'm happy with it. So we
are looking at what the hell day is 20 seconds. So tomorrow we
have Growing with Marco at 1pm. We'll have an Ask the Canvas
tomorrow at afternoon. We have seed collectors at 7pm and I
might be popping into that one. I'm excited to possibly be out
Ted Cho. We will see. Following that we have Brian and Layton on
Thursday at Joda Herb every Thursday night at 6pm for a
fantastic show. I'm not too sure what it is. It's a surprise to
me for this one. So we'll find out later on 7pm on Friday, we
got Breeders Profile, which is actually really cool. I think
Chad Westport is doing breed for Raw Genetics. And we got
Planting Trees with Mr. Trees happening on the same day as
well. So we got lots of stuff going on there. We're going to
be rehashing Breeder Roundtable. We're going to be bringing lots
of stuff forward. So don't forget to get on socials, get in
the place, do the things, be the people, check out Cunning Folk
because that is my new, not new line, but it's my brand that I'm
co-branding with some amazing people. So definitely please
check that out and arrivederci y'all.
