What's going on future Cannabis Project community? It's that rotten son of a
blunt, Lobster Fan Farms here and tonight we got some exciting
conversation. We got the Relentless Solvenlist crew, gonna be reviewed by
the Review Crew in LA and listening a little backstage it seems like
everyone's got a lot of exciting stuff to talk about whether it be Terps or
genetics or just what's doing that do. So I'll let you guys kick it off. I think
we got Gabe leaving the Review Crew. Yeah, I'll let you guys spit your shit.
No, appreciate you. I think I've been a big fan of Relentless. You guys, I think I
first smoked the flower probably, I don't know, I want to call it six months ago
but maybe it was a little bit longer. It was the five on it which I think people
are loving right now and I've been really impressed generally by y'all's
ability to offer what I sort of perceive as hash forward cultivars as really
high-quality flower. It smokes beautifully. Y'all have the Lima Loca out.
We're about to taste it for the first time. I don't think any of us has tasted
it and we're gonna smoke through four year flavors and just stoked to chop it
up with you. So do you want to introduce yourselves?
Yeah, I'm Don Relentless Melts. I'm the one that started the company like
whatever X amount of years ago. 760 Grower. I handle most of the breeding and pheno
hunting for Relentless Melts. Cold room cuts. I handle a lot of the data. Yeah, we all
work as a team. There's a fourth member but he's out of the camera right now.
And then we all work together. I built out a spot with my boys. Guys, luck of the
draw, I kind of got fucked over by this dude and then someone that he linked me
up with ended up being a really good friend of mine and put me in a position
to pretty much get us where we are now. So kind of like a big loss turned into
like a little bit of a win just the way it played out. That's awesome and so do
you want to tell the story of how y'all connected I guess? I met Relentless Melts
back in probably like 2019. I brought him bags of like Wilson Zero and some
Shopikana from Oni for fresh-moistened processing and then I've known Cold Room
Cuts since I was probably like 15 years old. I've been homies for a minute. Yeah, so
when we were younger we had a buddy who had a nice backyard space that we were
hunting through different stuff in. We were just making seeds, fucking around,
seeing what we could do outside. It wasn't anything too serious I would say.
It was more just for fun but we definitely got to see what the potential
could be for running like 20 really large outdoor plants or actually trying
to make money with an operation basically. What were the genetics on
those outdoor plants? Most of it was just bag seed. I mean we did get some
stuff in. I remember there was like some Crater Lake B6 from Dynasty Genetics. I
remember we were running some Exotic Mike. I think we were running some Grease
Monkey Crosses. What else? Pretty much just mostly bag seed, bro. Like back then
mostly bag seed. Then the next year we started getting into like Hash Genetics,
Harry Poms, you know. Stuff like along those lines. How old were you when you guys were in this?
I started growing there probably when I was about like 16 years old.
Yeah, I was like 18. Probably like 2015, 2016.
And then when, you know, how did you build out the library that currently exists?
I realize that's a big fast forward but this Lima Loka tastes really awesome.
It's cool that you really do pull like more of a citrus turf out of papaya and
moonbow. It's a cool selection. But then the other things like the KC, the
Puntang Pie, the Blueberry Joe, the Peach Milano were all really interesting and I
feel like sort of at least very thoughtful selections.
Yeah, I mean like most of it is just we've been hunting a lot at the current spot that we've been at.
And then I mean there's been a couple strains like the Lima Loka we've had
for in library for about two years now. A little bit over two years. So most of
it's been coming through from our current spot but we do also have some
strands that we've kept from past projects as well.
Yeah, we're big on hunting from seed. It's like one of our most important things.
We try not to do any intake on cuts except for like the Peach Milano and a
couple others. But like I know the market's really big on having your own
shit right now. So that's kind of what we're focusing on. We're trying to be, you
know, stay unique and stay ahead of the curve.
And that's true. And on that topic I wanted to mention like the fact that you guys
brought out KC36 for Pineground Canyon. That's something you really, I've never seen before at least
and I know that was all of our first time seeing that ever in flower before. So like you
mentioned just those really unique selection that you guys are breeding
yourselves and just taking those cuts that you don't see in flower before.
Yeah, we didn't breed that. That's actually from Casey Brains. He's a breeder in
Holland. Shout out to the homie Rosman. He actually, he's from the UK and
they're not allowed to import seeds from Holland to the US. So we had to use
him as a proxy. It's like really, really old. It's like, I think it's at least like
40 to 50 years old. It's supposedly a White Widow cross. I mean they change
what it is on the website. But when I was growing up smoking hash a lot I would
pick up from Higher Grounds. I'm sure you guys have heard of him. Yeah, same dude.
He was really, really big on the KC36 and that changed how I was, how turpy something
could be. And it kind of inspired us to go down that path. We've washed some of it
and it wasn't really, the phenos that we have weren't the best washers. So we
tried to dry batch and it ended up being really fucking good. So we're gonna run
that back really soon. Yeah, that one's awesome and it's super cool that you're
running old Dutch stuff. Because I feel like, you know, and we had this
conversation last night about all of the stuff that we see at these regular
sessions and so much of it is the modern, you know, like, sherb gelato stuff.
And so to get something that's so much in that candy realm but so Jeanette, from a
pedigree standpoint, so different. To me it's really sick to be able to see that.
Yeah, guys let's pivot for a second. Talk about how good this Lima Loka is.
Because this is what we're smoking right now and it's absolutely fire. Very citrus forward, which
you know, like Hatch was saying, is really cool to get out of, it's a papaya moonbow, right?
Papaya and moonbow cross. I mean this is excellent. It's very, very enjoyable smoke.
Just off rip. But the flavor is, you know, unique citrus, which I love. Fruit bowl
citrus. And there's definitely though, it does feel like there's some gas to it.
Which I appreciate. I mean the moonbow can sort of have some recessive stuff to it.
And this definitely has power. A lot of citrus stuff. Sometimes it's super bright and just gets you,
I don't know, buzzed in an anxious way. This is pretty even keeled in a way I really enjoy.
And there's like a fullness, I feel like, from the moonbow. So you were saying off camera, and I wish
we had had that conversation, that this came from a six pack of seeds. Can you talk about why you
picked this pack of seeds and then what you were looking for in that hunt?
So honestly bro, like I just hit up fucking Relentless Notes and I was like, yeah bro,
like I had multiple gallon bags of seed packs from multiple breeders. And we were just going
through what I had. And I had a pack of that Piro Loco. And he was like, bro, you gotta pop that.
Because at that point there wasn't too many people on it. We'd seen a couple things from a couple
people already running it. But then we wanted to try it out for ourselves because it wasn't
super blown out yet. And yeah, bro, we got super lucky. I hunted it out of like a four by four
space, one light, out of my mom's garage like two years ago and pulled it out. Luckily, the only
fire pheno out of that entire hunt was 10,000% worth it. And we backed that up for almost a year
and a half, two years until we could actually grow it on a production scale and get it out.
I just kept it in tents in my apartment for basically a whole year.
Wow. That's, I mean, and it's, it takes dedication, you know, to keep a mom like that. So
what was, what was being run in the interim? Like when Relentless was conceived, I guess,
what were the first couple genetics that got run?
The first stuff that I brought to Relentless would be Wilson Zero from Oni Seed Co. And I believe
Masonic actually bred that stock, but the stock that I bought, it was bought under Oni Seed Co.'s
brand. And it's a Wilson, it's Wilson F2 basically what the Oni, or what the Oni's version of that
Wilson Zero is. And then I was running some Strapacana F1 as well as what I brought some
material. Then I'd say about a year ago, year and a half ago, about, we were running a couple
Hella Seed Co. Gap Crosses. We tried to run some third gen gear. We ran some more Oni gear.
And then just anything that made the cut that spring we brought out, we had like a lot of
Strapacana phenos. Again, that year that was looking good. We had some Afghani Landrace
Prostipapaya, which we ran up pretty well as well. And then we had a couple, we had a couple
gaps on the field as well. That's awesome. And are any of those still in rotation?
Unfortunately not. No. Yeah.
Yeah. Things change too. Markets change.
Yeah. So I guess, are you down to talk about that? I mean, I think that this is labeled
solventless conversations, but off camera we were talking about how the market is shifting
a little bit back into flower and then y'all have certainly been killing it in the flower market.
And it was a pretty quick transition, it seems like. And so do you want to talk about what
motivated that?
A lot of it has to come down to do with the cost of produced rosin inside. It doesn't make sense
to, if you think about how much an outdoor producer can make in one season and the cost
of produce that compared to an indoor facility where they're getting the same amount of overhead
every single day, it doesn't make any sense to make rosin. So there's a big difference in quality.
I think a lot of people, if you look at a jar of rosin on the market, it's usually not labeled
indoor or outdoor, it's just rosin. When someone buys it, they don't know what the
fuck they're buying. So a lot of it has to come down to education on the market.
Another thing is if you're a producer, you have to come up with new flavors all the time.
So you guys probably know it's not easy to find something that washes. It's really hard to find
something. And if someone wants a new flavor every single time, the burden's put on the
producers to pheno high and that usually ends up being an L. So we're learning as we go that we
should stick to what works. And if there's a gap for flour that we can fill, then we're just going
to do that, dude. We're still going to do hash and rosin. It's just like we're going to focus
on flour because it just makes more sense for what we're doing right now. Well, and I just think it's
really cool. Jazz was saying that he'd never seen, and I had never seen the KC and flour before.
You're bringing these flavors that in my mind, and because there's so much pressure on hashmakers,
like you described it perfectly, to the flour market and people like me, who are primarily
flour smokers, miss out on. I had never seen any bazooka Joe Pheno before get dried. And then the
blueberry Joe is super cool. And we'll roll that one up in a second. But it's actually sort of,
at least in L.A., kind of breaking new ground. There aren't a lot of people bringing these
chirps. And so do you want to talk about maybe the differences between pheno hunting for flour
and hunting for hash? I mean, obviously yield, but the other stuff? There's a lot.
I mean, it's really important, especially when you're like pheno hunting for hash, you're less
concerned on how many grams per light you're going to produce. You're more concerned on how much
resin per square foot you're going to make. So when you're hunting for hash, you're cool with,
say, like something that does one and a half a light dialed in, and then it'll dump, say, seven
up. You know what I mean? And with flour, you're going to want something, you know what I mean?
You don't want like three light yields. You still want something that's going to be still good to
the end consumers. You want something that's terribly, smokes good and it's going to dry good
because the bigger the bud, it's the harder it is to dry. The longer you're going to have to go on
the dry. But really for the flour, it just comes in a lot more. You don't have to worry about bag
appeal on hash a lot more. You know what I mean? Like the colors, you don't have to worry about as
much. More so on the hash though, you have to really, really look for a resin that is going
to extract well and resin that is also going to be melty and not kind of more of a dry resin.
You know what I mean? But those are more so like the differences that you'd be looking for.
You know, I mean, also on the dry end too, like not all, not everything that is terpy on hash
end is going to dry well in the dry room and come out smelling good, tasting good and all that kind
of stuff. So there's also a trade off with what terps are going to stay good in the fresh batches
and what terps are going to stay good in the dry batches. There's a lot of change as well from fresh
to dry in the time that it takes to dry and cure.
That's super real. And it's, I feel like there are a lot of people who are skipping a lot of
the steps that you just described. And so it's very cool to see. And especially like this,
the bazooka Joe has changed in the time that I've had this jar. It's the blueberry terp.
Yeah. So that's another thing. Like it's a weird battle where you have to pick and choose how wet
your herb is before it gets to someone because that bazooka Joe takes a lot of time to cure.
Like ideally I'd probably cure that another month if I were to personally do that and it wasn't
about making money and being a business, then I would drop it later on. But it's also like,
how long does it take for a reseller to give it to the person? And then there's that gap in time.
And then there's the gap in how long that person has that jar. So it's like, it's a weird, it's a
weird recipe for how like, how cured and how dry it should be that we're also playing with. And like
every strain is different. Like that Lima Loco was like smoking the day it was trimmed,
like absolutely smoking. Didn't have to cure anything. It was ready to go.
No. And it smells very bright and it smelled bright the first time I smelled it. You'll want
to smell the jar. The flavor translates very nice on the palate on this one while you're smoking it.
Yeah. That's another thing too. We're really big about it should taste how it smells. And if it
doesn't make that cut, we tossed it out. Yeah. I feel that, man. I appreciate how the flavor
tastes the same all the way to the last quarter of the jar. It smells really good. I agree.
Yes. It's hard to find with flavor and normally transitions due to the resin accumulation.
Start it out. Oh yeah. So should we spark the KC36?
Hell yeah. Real quick before we spark this, you mind if I smell that jar one more time?
Yeah. The Lima Loco or the? No, that one. Yeah. KC36. So we're about to light a jar,
a joint of KC36. Smells awesome in the jar. This is insane. KC36. Oh my lord.
So what is your favorite terp in the stable right now for flour? I would say probably,
I don't know. I couldn't speak for the rest of the boat, but I'd probably say Lima Loco.
I mean, that's up there for us. We've been planning on doing a good amount of crosses
to really start bringing, because it really translates some of those gassier back end notes
on some of the crosses we've been seeing. So we're trying to explore that to see if we can start
making some new gassier flavors with it. It doesn't seem like the lime or like the citrus,
like the more citrusy terps don't really translate too well in the crosses,
but we still got some more R&D to see and still got to dry the batches.
Very nice. And how about the other two? Your favorite terp in the stable right now?
Yeah. I got to go Lima. Yeah. We've been waiting for the Lima to shine for a while,
so I feel like we're all pretty attached to it. That's tight. I like that you guys have the,
you got the jar rocking right there too. It's the virtual ad dude.
Is that the, did you reverse it as the male in your recent, I guess like you,
seeds are coming soon, which is really cool. So on the seeds that are coming up, it is a
grateful gap male cross to Lima loca. And then we were taking that cross, which we have pretty much
finishing up. And then that is going to be ended up in the new crosses. We have a winter male out
of our selection. That was way better than all the rest of the males. So we just hit that to a bunch
of our winners up in the stable. We hit it to a pin tang pie, juice man, peach Milano,
blue gummy shark, Lima loca. We did a back cross with it. There's a lot of stuff that we,
that we're crossing it up with right now. Yeah. But yeah, the next I think the next round of
crosses, we're probably gonna be reversing the Lima loca and then probably stabling it off a
little bit. Just get a couple of good crosses out there and then start working on some other stuff.
Do you mind talking about what that other stuff is? We're still not a hundred percent sure yet.
So what we're doing right now is, is that we just, Silverland, this is got back from Spanibus.
We just got a bunch of Spanibus exclusives. So we're going through a bunch of karma genetics,
grounded genetics, some terrapogs. And then we have some land race crosses from, I think it's
Indian land race exchange. And we're gonna be popping up a bunch of those. I'm gonna be figuring
out whichever the best female stocks are, figuring out what males are looking the best
out of those female stocks and then get it ready to make some crosses with those and see what's
going on. And how was Spanibus generally? It was dope. It was my first time being in Spain. I had
a fucking blast, bro. The culture there is hella different. I was just telling these two, they're
like, tobacco is really tied into smoking weed over there. It's all like, people smoke a lot
of Moroccan hash. So it's like, it's super different from the US scene. And I was telling
them like, there's people smoke more hash because there's a lack of good flower. And I'm sure that
scene's gonna change over there pretty soon. Because like, I saw more good rosin there than
good flower, which is the same thing in the US in a way. It totally is. I mean, as a flower smoker,
it's harder to find good flower at the big events in cups than it is to find good hash. It feels
like the good hash is kind of everywhere. Yeah, I would put it that you can make more mistakes and
make good hash than you can make if you were to fuck up good flower, it wouldn't come out good.
But you can make mistakes in hash, and it would still probably smoke properly.
And the other thing is too, is that you can store that hash for a good amount if you have the good
processes of storing your stuff. Like you could have a competition batch and hold on to that for
a couple months and still be pretty much as good as it was the first day that you pulled it out.
So one thing with the flower is like, when you chop it, there's only so much time that you have
until it's not good anymore. Any strain basically, even the terpidus ones will go bad after time.
Yeah. Well, and I think that that's maybe a good segue into because I've always found
that soil grown flower grows up much more nicely and has a more meaningful shelf life than hydro.
And I think it's really sick that you guys are soil and have to, how long have all of
y'all been doing soil? Were you ever hydro growers? I mean, I've dabbled in cocoa. I've
dabbled. I haven't done anything like deep water culture really. I've dabbled in like
aero plumbing and stuff like that. And, you know, small rock wall cubes and stuff like that. But no,
I mean, I've always grown flower batches in soil for sure. I think it's the way I've
tried a couple other things just for other uses of stuff. Because like it's pretty scalable if
you're going to run cocoa or something like that. Saying if you're going to do like a breeding
project or something like that, it's great to know it because you're not really, you're more
in a mindset of producing seeds than producing, you know, quality small batch flowers in that
standpoint. You know what I mean? Totally. So, you know, there's different processes.
But I mean, soil grown for us, it's just like hand watered soil grown fabric pots. It's just,
it's the life for us. You'll see it on every single guy. We flex that we grow in soil every
single time. No, and you have to, I feel like because it does provide, I don't know, I'm a
real believer in the meaningful difference. And so I guess I'm looking through, were they all flowered
in 70 days? The latest batch. The latest batches. I believe that Casey batch is 62 to 63 days. 62 to
63 days. And the next batch of Casey that we're going to be doing, it's going to be long. I think
we're going to take it a little bit longer. It wasn't done when we pulled it, just how the room
played out. Yeah. But I mean, I think we're still enjoying it, but I'd be interested in seeing it
taken longer. But I feel like, I don't know what some of the brighter fruitier turps. I don't know.
I don't know. I mean, you all would have some real, I'd be interested in hearing what you have
to say about this, but there's some value in pulling stuff a little bit earlier. And so how
do you decide when you're pulling stuff in terms of turps versus power? And I think that is something
people are interested in. I mean, it definitely goes in hand. I mean, there's definitely the
turps are changing a bit the longer you go. And it also, the turps can change a bit just on stress,
temperature differences from your last runs, watering differences from your last run.
Like we noticed with our five on it that a lot of like the more greener batches are seeming to
like bring through the turf that we're looking for a little bit more rather than the purple batches.
And there's just certain things that are like slightly different in between that. But I mean,
the pull date, we've definitely been seeing like a little bit more of like, say like a cinnamon
cardamom from the Lima loca the longer it gets pulled. And there's more of that citrus up front,
the earlier pull it, but you're not really getting that power from the Lima unless it's taken 65 days
or longer because the first run I took it probably about 60 days. And then I remember there was a run
that we took it pretty short just to see who's still gonna have the power behind it, but it's
pretty much 65 days and after where the power is going to be, but it does really start getting
slight changes to the back end of your profile after about day 60. But it's just dependent on
really what you're looking for. I mean, we want power when you're smoking it. We don't want it,
you obviously want the turps to be up there, but there's definitely gotta be some power behind it.
And even this case, say, you know, taken a little earlier has some power behind it and it has that
Dutch thing about it where you can...
Yeah, it's so different from anything here.
It's awesome to bring the fish.
Yeah, I'm happy that we had this one around. I'm excited, Max. You're gonna go in for a dab.
I think the KC36 is great smoke after that Lima loca. That Lima loca is super strong. The KC36
like brings you like energy. Yeah, it's got that hashiness to it. It's a good pairing for sure.
Yeah, that's a fire one.
Oh, hell yeah.
Hell yeah.
That was a real small body tomorrow.
I'm going for a little bit of a dab.
KC36 in that run?
Yeah.
I think it was just three plants that run.
Three plants? Damn.
Yeah.
And so, yeah, I mean, as much as you want to talk about like what is the current setup like?
It's all soil, but yeah.
We got 20 flowering lights, so we're a pretty small batch compared to everyone else in the game.
I don't know. We take a lot of pride that our spot's small.
Like we all love what we do, bro. Like we're all weed heads. We smoke weed all fucking day.
We love to spend time in the garden. The spot that we built out, I could have fit a lot more
lights into it, but I wanted to do it the right way because our mentor was big on hand watering,
big on soil, big on fabric pots. We've learned a lot from him. Shout out to Invincible LA.
He's the homie. We wouldn't be where we are today without him. I don't know if he's going to watch
this, but much love to him, dude. He's put us in a good position, bro. But yeah, we also have,
I think it's like eight lights in our bedroom, something like that.
Yeah, it's eight with some planting strips and stuff like that.
Yeah. So like we're on a little bit around 30 lights overall.
That's, I mean, no, that is relatively small compared to a lot of people who
similarly will use the small batch nomenclature. So that is real. And I think it's a valuable
marketing thing, but it's also just cool to see the product of, like these turps are so delicate.
I feel like they need to be handled. I would be curious to see any of these turps scaled up,
but they really shine in a small batch situation. So you were saying that a lot of your stuff was
taken from seed, which is really cool. The peach Milano is one you took in as a cut.
Max is about to take a chug. So do you want to talk about what would possibly qualify to get
into your nursery as a cut? I mean, nowadays we're not really
taking intakes. We're doing collabs on breeding and stuff. So I'll take intakes out, like the
breeding spot and stuff like that for seeds. That's definitely in the cards. But we've just
been running into many problems, bro. People really be not really having the cleanest spots,
honestly, bro. I'm not really throwing shade at anybody's way or anything, but it's just like,
it's really hard to get cuts in, even from very reputable people that have big nurseries and
stuff like that. It's really hard to get stuff that's, even if it's mold free and bug free,
it's still going to have maybe hops or something like that. And then you infect the rest of your
garden with it. It comes down to trust at the end of the day. It's hard to trust anyone outside of
our small circle because we've all had problems with getting shit from someone and we end up
getting fucked over. For sure. And not like, like Audrey is the boy, we'll probably take
cuts in from Audrey. But besides that, there's really not many people we're getting cuts from.
And so in addition to the Peach Milano, are there any other cuts from anything else in your garden
that you didn't hunt yourself? Yeah. There's a lot. Yeah. There's a good amount. So we did do
some intakes last year and then pretty much, I would say September of last year, we were like,
we're done with intakes. It's just a lot of stress dealing with all that kind of stuff
and making sure quality controlling a lot of this stuff that was coming in before it was coming in
was, you know, it's just a lot of extra hoops that you got to jump through when,
on honestly, like if you hunt the seeds yourself and you do a thorough hunt, pick your genetics
right. You're going to be able probably to pull something out that's going to be doing decent for
you. It'd be better than risking everything for a cut. You know what I mean? But yeah.
Do you want to talk about what we, what we intake? Oh yeah. What else did we take?
So we intake juice man. We got juice man from Roro Dre. We got Kunting Pie from Felony Farms.
What else we got? We got Blue Gummy Shark from New York Dill. Correct. Shout out to the boy.
Oh, we got, is that it? Yeah. I think that's it. Everything else we hunted in house. Yeah.
It's only a couple of them. What is the terp on the Blue Gummy Shark? It's straight candy, bro.
Yeah. The name is spot on. It's pretty much a Blue Gummy Shark. It's like the white belly of
the Gummy Shark is what it tastes like. Damn. Do you guys enjoy growing it? Oh yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. It's easy to grow. Yeah. It's a nice. Yeah, bro. I think it's like 1.8 a light,
maybe almost two a light. It's pretty good to grow. Yeah. And like 4% to mush.
Nothing crazy, but it's good. And that's solid. That's, you know, that's a good, like across the
board type beat. Yeah. That's the minimum I'd want to hit for to call it even, even call it a
hash trade, you know, 4%. Yeah. Bottom line. That Pizzamonto though. Dumper bro. Absolute dumper.
How was it? Yeah. Pizzamonto is fire.
And it was, it was a lot of the homies favorite and flower too. I like, wasn't able to get my
hands on it. I, when I tried to circle back around, um, and I think that you guys, there's
a real buzz around your flower, which is really cool. You know, what do you want to speak on?
You know, what do you want to speak on? Just like what, you know, how that happened? What,
you know, what the journey was? Uh, I think we fucked up a lot working with the wrong people.
And then we ended up working with the right people and they got it into the right hands, bro. I think
that's a big part of like making your brand pop. You have to work with the right people. Um, so
much appreciation for all the resellers that we have and wholesalers, like you guys can make
what we do a lot easier. Um, and, uh, I don't know. It's a lot about exposure, bro.
If you're shit's not in LA, you're not, you're not anywhere. Like, uh, you just have, you have
to be popping in certain places to get it going, bro. And, uh, luckily the people that we work with
know the hands, the right hands to get it into and the right markets to get it into. And there's
people that can appreciate flower and think it's not taxed or overpriced and appreciate what goes
into it because there's not a lot of people doing small bat shit, bro. Like a lot of it's
fill up a giant warehouse on rock, wool and grow a thousand fucking lights of fucking money and
then sell it. Cause that's the, that's the majority of the game. So we're trying to do
shit different. And, um, I don't know, luckily, luckily the, I think, uh, the market changed so
much the last few years that people are down to pay the price for flower that they've ever been
down to pay before. So, and it's, you know, I think that in a lot of ways, at least relative
to where the, the hash market price perspective, it, it seems worth it. Um, like to me, these,
these experiences in these turps are really exciting and to be able to get these particular
turps in flower. Awesome. And I think a lot of people are still in the mentality that you would
only take in a verified cut and that hunting stuff is too hard. And so I love that you guys
are flipping that on its head and finding a way to make it work. Um, and so do you want to talk
a little more about the seed project? I think that it's really cool that, you know, that is
something that was taken on rather quickly. So the seed project, we basically started just cause
we needed more strains in house. You know what I mean? Pretty much being, if you want to keep
the buzz going, you're going to have to be dropping new flavors all the time. And the fastest way to
drop new flavors in our opinions is sitting down with your best strains, really thinking it out and
making crosses with it. Um, and to kind of just turn it into something where now we kind of want
to start, cause at first we were going to just pretty much just keep everything in house and
stuff. But, uh, now we just kind of want to give it out to the market. Cause we just, even when we
go buy seeds, there's just not many people who were trying to go buy seeds from us up. And we're
just trying to bring different flavors to that market as well on top of the, uh, bringing them
to the flower again and bringing them to the people, to the smokers, not just the growers, you know?
So do we know, like, do you know when the first flower from that hunt is gonna, gonna,
Yeah. So that is going to be dropping the original Lima, Lokey, Grateful Gat Cross will be dropping
probably, I don't know what you say, like two months, like probably two months. Chop in two weeks.
In a month. Chop in about two weeks. So end of April, it'll drop. End of April after 420. But,
um, those I'm pretty hyped for, you know, some of them have, um, more candier, less gassy Lima
turps. And then a couple of them, which we're more excited for have more of that back end gas with
like more of just straight lime. There's less citrus on it. So those ones were more, were more
hyped for. I think we're going to be doing maybe like a little tasting or something in the future
for those Venus. That's so sick. Yeah. It sounds sick, man. Um, and I guess speaking of just like,
you know, like tasting experiences, what were the first turps that, that got y'all each
respectively, like excited generally, you know, like what were those first moments?
When I'd say probably the first turps that I came across, cause I'm, I'm pretty young. It was,
it was probably like, that got me excited was probably OG,
papaya back, like back, back in the day, papaya and probably form pet cookies. That was like,
back in the day. I really liked that. I gotta say, yeah, probably like GSC or form cookies.
I was growing GSC and OG in a shed when I was like 18 years old and I just got out of high
school. So those are some of the first things I like came in contact with. I really liked those.
What about you were loveless? Probably like white widow growing up. Uh, I started smoking
weed in high school and I had a little buddy that, uh, his dad grew pot and, uh, he would buy from
him and we would all sesh after school and it would just get you so fucked up. I literally thought
I was an alien. I was that high. Like I remember like hitting like a two foot bong when you're like
16, life changing. So lit. Yeah. Hell yeah. And so is, is there a possibility ever to,
to work with widow stuff or is that, I mean, uh, I know there's a guy in LA that still grows it.
I forget, uh, I forget his name. He's got the old school lights and everything. I, I
slipped my mind right now, but, uh, I've seen some people collab with him. I think they wash it.
I don't know exactly how it washes or whatever, but, uh, I'd love this. I don't know. We're,
uh, we're big on trying to bring the old school times, the new school. So I think if we can find
it, we're down to do it. Um, cause we just need new turps. The market's fucking suffering right
now with the church. So any new tears for dumping clouds right now. Yeah. And so it seems like,
um, a couple of the crosses are, are, are archived. You want to talk about why archive is one that
you've, you know, when you were hunting yourselves, you've been with the archive.
We really went hard on the archive gear after we hunted out the pure local. So we popped the
pure local, got the winter cut out of that, um, realized how fire it was. And we were like,
we got to go through our types here and really go through it and find some other good stuff.
But yeah, um, we went through pretty much all the face-off crosses. We went through a couple of
men, no crosses, but it's still some more stuff we're looking to get, but it's, it's sold out
and like more rare, older stock that we're trying to find. So I'm trying to find like some of like
the older dosey doe crosses and stuff like that. That'd be awesome. But I face off is one that I,
I think I'm saying in an upcoming review. Yeah. Just never ceases to fail. Um,
in any of its applications. Um, and it's cool the way you've integrated it and offered it in
flower. Cause a lot of those face-off crosses, my experience, like other than Z face, you don't
really see in flower. Yeah. I mean, it's that face-off cut that you found is awesome, bro,
because it pretty much translate, translates the female cut over like the tips from the female cut.
There's not much, uh, face-off crossovers like on like say like a Z face or bazooka,
you're getting more, uh, tips from the female cross rather than the male cross,
which is cool with that cross. No, it is for sure. Um, and yeah, so do you want to talk about,
you know, your male selections? Cause I think that's something that a lot of, um, modern breeders
will skip sometimes and just go straight to reversals. So yeah. What are you?
I mean, we run males, especially just to keep, um, the stock regular. We want our males in
it's easier to make, um, new flavors in our opinions with regular seeds. Um, so with regular
selection, we're really looking for the best. So we'll do a big phenol hunt on say 10 to 12
different strains. We'll pop a pack or two of each or maybe even three, if we're really hopeful on
something. Um, and we'll just see what we get. Um, basically the best females, we're going to
take the male out of those. And then we're going to run all of those males to see what's just the
best male out of it. Take those males have probably three to four of really good males out of the good
female batches or out of the having a lot of good sisters. Um, and we would, uh, then take that and
then cross that to see what is the best one. Cause then even there, you don't really know
if that male is still going to make a good cross or not until you actually do it. So we still want
to use like a couple of different males of the same offspring to really see if we could find the,
the trace that we're trying to pass on. Um, cause it's not always how you really think it's going to
go. So right now I'm going to spark up the Poon Teng pie. Do you guys want to sniff the jar and
let us know what you think on the dry part, get like a really sweet floral citrus. No, it's just
an incredible, incredible taste. Yeah, honestly. Uh, it's funny cause like we all didn't think
that that one was the greatest and everyone else fucking loves it. Um, it's got a really nice nose
to it. Yeah. It's got like a really sweet candy nose. Yeah. Candy nose. Fucking smells great.
Yeah. It's exciting to try it. Smoke. Yeah. Yeah. This is like a monster bro. Like ginormous
fucking knives. Like, like your arm dude. Just straight growing. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. I really like this one and grape pie isn't something you see in fly. I mean,
yeah. A lot of the stuff that's in this, you don't see in fire, but I feel like particularly
the grape pie, I'm going to come out in an interesting way in this, you know,
I was a big fan, um, of this one, but I, all of the turps are just super interesting.
It's hard. Now and later is a great, reminds me of like a down later. Good fruitful terms.
Ambiguous, like really dank. Yeah. Long lasting flavor. Um, so just while we, while we gather our
thoughts on this joint, um, I think I saw today that y'all are doing art with the homie. Curse
is now, um, do we talk about that? I mean, that to me was super cool to see.
Oh, he's just the boy, bro. Like, uh, I'm super big on marketing and packaging. I it's like one
of my favorite part of the, of the job. Um, he did the Lima Loka. Uh, he pretty much does like
most, he does all our flower stuff. Pretty much. I have another guy that does our rosen jars.
Um, but yeah, he's the homie. He knows exactly what to do and how to catch the eye. Uh, he did
our new moon logo. That's our seed company that we're getting going. Um, yeah. I think
a lot of people clown the, the Mylar game and all that shit. But like, dude, it took the weed game,
like what all this time to get to the point to packaging that we're packaging is important.
You go to the store, you can't see anything in that aisle that's not packaged and it has to look
nice. Like, uh, the other, like months ago I went to like the, the movie theater and this movie
theater was like suffering and they were buying their candy in bulk and selling it in plastic bags
in the front. And it just made me like cringe. I was like, what the fuck is this M and M bag
with no fucking characters on it, with no bright coloring on it. It was just like not appealing to
me. And like in this day and age, if you can't make yourself stand out with your art and you
can't catch someone's eye with the cool little jar, you can hit on it all you want, but like,
it's not fucking going away. It's super important. Like if you can make your quality match what the
jar looks like, then like you're set, dude. Like I don't know that many growers that are
actually killing it with no good packaging that now I'm like not no good art. You're probably
falling behind. You're probably crying about prices right now, just how it's going.
And I think that, um, in recent, like very, very recently, I've seen a lot of people move from
crying to like, all right, well I got to try it. Um, you know, cause I think that people are seeing
that it's the way and that you have to brand yourself and that you have to also distinguish
yourself. You can't just be running runs. Um, you know, and then sort of the whole scale model
doesn't seem like it's working in this current moment. And I thought it was really prescient
to you guys, um, to start dropping flowers. So when was the decision point to start moving
to flower? Cause I know it was before I started seeing it. Um, I think it was the market that
kind of wanted to make us change a little bit, dude. Like, like we were talking about earlier,
there's a lot of stress on hash makers. Um, the, like the checklist that has to happen for
something to be worthwhile to make hash very fucking long. Like there's so many different
kinds of resin and the kinds that make a profitable, uh, amount of money for a plant to get washed.
Like, dude, like if you were to pop a hundred seeds from a bunch of people, how many of those
strains we're going to wash really good? Probably like two if you're lucky. And then you don't even
know if it's going to taste good. And then you're fucked on that. And you got to take the hell on
it over and over and over again, dude. Like there's no, like the hash game is destined for
high yielding profitable strains. And is that the best thing for turps? Probably not. Like that's
why the outdoor guys have a huge advantage. Like they're killing it right now, dude. Like if you
have a field, you've got fields of greenhouses and you have fire strains that you've got from
someone or you hunted out, you're crushing it right now. You're happy. You're a happy man.
But if you're inside and you're hunting stuff and taking Matt L's when the flower markets, like, so
say you have something that doesn't wash and you got to fucking dry it. You think you're going to
get a good price for mids fly right now? You're going to shoot yourself in the foot every time
you get a bad Fino and you're never going to win. That's just, that's just how it's going. So like,
we're just trying to make it make sense and like hunt good shit that makes us all get paid and
makes people happy. And they really enjoy their smoke when they get it. We're not going to ever
drop a bad batch on someone. We're picky as fuck. I'd rather take that along that than like,
like ruin my name over a bad batch. Totally. Well, I'm sorry. I just wanted to say real
quick before you say that this has like really nice apricot flavor to it. Getting to my second
round with it. Absolutely. Fruit comes through on the taste, man. I'm going to say these guys
didn't like how it smoked. I liked how it smoked and we, we were about to throw it out, honestly,
but we kept it. Yeah. I just, I just asked him if we still had it. So we'll run it back
three, five years, pretty soon. Hell yeah. Well, it's also one, you know, as the grower,
you sometimes don't always get to see it cure up all the way. You know what I mean? And sometimes,
and you have a relationship with it in the garden, as opposed to the final end product. Like it's,
it's good to source data from the marketplace and we're glad to be a part of that for you guys.
Um, it is really phenomenal smoke. Um, I guess one thing that I was curious about,
as you said earlier, you know, you shouted out the vendors you work with and the brokers,
and a lot of those are really very picky curators at this point. And you mentioned how important it
is for you guys to be, um, you know, a really enjoyable end experience. Like this isn't,
these aren't work packs, you know, you aren't just sort of what, you know, it's, it's a very curated
experience throughout. And so do you want to speak to that? Um, and sort of just generally
sort of how you're elevating and sort of part of this elevation of the flower experience that's
going on? Um, we just do it the old school way, bro. Like we mix resi's every morning. We don't
have a bat sitting in with a fucking machine that feeds your plants for you every day.
It's like, I would describe what we do as a lot more of an art, not to talk shit on people that
have a production spot, but like, there's a difference between watering your plants by hand
every day and spending time with them. Then like going into a room and watering with your phone
and then dipping the fuck out and making all your money on the side real quick. Like there's a,
there's a big difference. I think, uh, I think a lot of it comes down to like,
we really just love what we do. Um, it's really been an uphill battle. We've had a really
tough fucking year, bro. We've been, we've gone through stuff we can't even talk about.
Um, just taking L's bro, like getting fucked over. Um, learning to trust each other is a
lot. Like we've really come together as a family doing what we do. Uh, we'd our purpose, bro. Like
we'd like, it's our whole life. There's not a moment that we wake up. Like we're looking at
our cameras at our spot when we leave it. It's in our minds at night, every day. Like we go
every single day that shit has to get watered, bro. The bedroom, the flower rooms, it's never
ending. Uh, someone, if someone fucks up that we lose our genetics, like it's not, there's no
backup drippers or anything. Um, and we're like fully invested in this, bro. We don't do anything
else. Like this is our whole life. We, we fucking love weed. So, uh, I think it shows in our product
that like, there's a lot, like there's a lot of passion to, into it, bro. Like if it was about
money, we'd be doing something else than this. Like it'd be a lot, it'd be a lot easier to make
money doing something else. We're not licensed. Like we can get fucked over any minute. Like
we just love it. That's all it is. Yeah, dude. That's how you get the best flower.
Well, actually it's powder and you don't see these chirps otherwise. Like who the fuck is
growing KC 36 and flower. And other than someone who like loves someone in Holland that does.
Um, so is there anything, you know, that you guys feel like we haven't gotten to,
that you want to cover? I, this has been such an informative conversation.
I don't know. Um, I think, uh, Oh, so I think this dip, this dip in the market, like, I think,
uh, I think people are getting pushed into doing things that they haven't wanted to do before. Like
breeding. I think there's this next decade is going to be one of the best things for the weekend
that has ever fucking happened ever. Because if you're not making new shit, you're not coming up
with new flavors. You're going to get left the fuck behind. So, uh, I think for the, for the,
for the smokers, um, it's going to be a great decade, bro. I think there's going to be more
genetic genetic diversity, uh, coming up in the next, the next few years than there's ever been
before because people have to do it to survive. Um, I don't think it's ever gotten to that point
before, bro. Uh, so it's, I think, I think we're in a really exciting time. Um, and there's a lot,
there's a lot of people working behind the scenes to make it happen. Uh, I was just over when I was
in Spain, I was seeing Moroccan hash that nine weeks harvest, uh, bread. I was seeing gelato hash,
like people, people buying like lower grade hash that actually smells fucking fire when they're
used to smoking, like forbidden fruit and like all these old school genetics that just make money.
And like, I don't know, it's just, it's, it's crazy to see an old school form of art get blessed
with new genetics. And there's just people that are like making connections and doing all this
shit behind the scene that you just don't know until like you pull up and see all the work that's
being done. So, uh, yeah, I just, it's an exciting time. I think, uh, I think it's a hard time for a
lot of people, but I think there's light at the end of the tunnel that we're all going to get
blessed with new flavors. That is super sick. And so I guess, can you speak to the cross that
maybe you're most stoked on that, that y'all are working on? That's hard to say. I mean,
I would probably say this, this, this Lima Loco grateful guy. I know I keep saying it,
but that's probably the one that we're pretty much stoked on right now. Um, we're pretty stoked on
running like this karma genetic stuff. Cause we, I've kind of dabbled with it, but I haven't really
gotten into the barrel hunt on this gear before. So I'm really stoked to really get into this stuff
and seeing if we could bring some gassier chips with these fruit chips and bring some new expressions
up. That's something I wanted to ask too. Did you guys happen to grab anything from Spain and
what genetics did you see that are super interesting to you that I know in most of the
Rostec companies, actually a lot of the Spanish companies and European companies were super,
super high. Um, if you guys were there, could you just speak on that and what you guys saw there?
Uh, I grabbed like mad karma gear. Cause like we're, we're big fans of that work over there.
Uh, I just think like, there's a lot of still stuff over there. They really love skittles.
They have good taste. They have good taste. People would not think that people like, I don't know,
they smell good in Europe and people don't really think they do. But yeah, they, they got like,
they got stuff that we've never even tried out here before. And that's kind of like the Casey,
like you were saying, it's just like, we're trying to bring some of the different stuff over
to America that we've really never seen before. And they've had the case.
Did anybody grab any bass triangle family farms?
No, we didn't get any. Why they got some years or what?
I know, but I think they want first place flower. It was a, it was a unknown Z cross. It was Z and
some sort of cookies and cream of two. Nice. I wanted to ask, uh, what, uh, do you guys have
any like favorite clubs while you guys were there? Any, any campus clubs that you guys really?
Oh yeah. Uh, shout out to Turkey BCN. If you ever go there, you should go there. They've
never seen welcoming bro. I landed and I fucking got a grinder as soon as I was there.
So I was ready to say, shout out, shout out friend. Shout out friend, bro. Exactly. Yep.
He's the homie. Yes, sir. Brother. He's the homie. Yeah. Super welcoming, bro. It's a nice
feeling to get somewhere and be able to smoke. You guys know how hard it is traveling with weed
and being a fucking stoner, bro. You got to worry about your head stash. So it's nice to have some
comfort. Did you, uh, yeah, you try, you try a lot of hash. I'm sorry. That's awesome, but it's
awesome that you're in the Terby, but Terby is a great place. Great people. Spain's a great place.
I used to, I stopped at a HQ Barcelona too. They're the ones that hosted masters of Rosin.
They have a really cool spot too. They're all welcoming. Super sick. Yeah. Those are the only
ones I want to. So did you try the last of the skittles? I think that one first place there.
I did. It was super loud. Yeah. And they fucking love skittles in Spain. So it makes sense.
Everyone loves skittles. So can't really lose it. That one. True. Skittles is a cool one. And we
were having a conversation last night and I think a lot of, or a portion of the audience doesn't
really know about skittles. Um, which is interesting, but it's yeah. How would you guys describe it?
And then also I'm sort of looking at the table and not seeing any skittles. So is there a reason
why there isn't a heavy dose of Z in your, your library? The skittles, honestly, we're trying to
bring some good skills to her. So we're trying to bring something different as well along the skills
lines, a lot of skills in it, but we also want a different backend with it. Um, one thing about
skittles is it seems to run a little bit different under LEDs. It takes a little bit more dialing in.
So we're just trying to bring some batches. Like we did do some Z face. Um, we do have a cut over
with another farmer, um, that we do believe to be a keeper, but we wanted to make sure under his
HPS spot that it was running good before you're going to run it back out. So there will be some
skills in the future. I will be making Z face crosses and there's probably going to be some
skills stuff that we're pulling out this karma stuff that you guys will probably see as well.
We like, that's for sure. We run that pink Zoger. That's a Z cross. That's the one. Yeah. That's
the keeper we have. I don't know if you guys tried that one yet. That's the, um, skittles
ex papaya, right? I believe word. Yeah, it's a good one, bro. It's like a, I don't know,
like a straw, like a really strong Bobby Skittles. I would say like a candy skittles.
And am I right in the, that's one that didn't quite dump. Um, cause I feel like I saw it.
The first time we washed it, it didn't do that good, but this, so we've noticed like,
obviously when you dial a strain and it can dump a lot more, um, that one can fucking dump. We do
jar tests on print. We used to do jar tests on everything just to see what we would do if we can,
if it's viable to wash or not. Um, and yeah, that one was probably like a four or 5% or if we were
to wash it, but, uh, it yields for flower. Like it's a really nice one. So we've been running
around that back pretty soon here. It cares. Well, pretty much everything scales is crossed
it with some sort of skill structure or profile to it. It really dries well and it cures well.
It just smokes well. Yeah. Yeah. Um, no. And that, that pink sugar was really good. I feel like
I saw a jar of it a while ago and it was one of my earlier introductions to y'all's work and
it was fire. Um, and it was a really cool jar. Um, do you remember that? Oh yeah. That was at
the FCP session. We did get to try it out. That was some, um, and the flower is really, I mean,
everything I've tasted from the recent two runs has been sensational. Really. I mean, just very,
very flavorful, which is not something you always get. Um, yeah, we just, uh, we just
smoked some beds and we were talking about how bad it was for the price that we paid. So we were
true. It's tough. And like, I, I try to not as a reviewer highlight that stuff, but everything I've
gotten from you guys, I felt pretty confident, you know, talking about, which makes my life easy.
No, for sure. For sure. I mean, we're, uh, we're consumers too. So we know how it feels when you
buy a bad batch, bro. And I don't want to be the dude that's dropping bad badges, especially for
the price that our shit goes for. Kind of be fucked up the fuck you ever on that. For sure.
And so I guess if you're comfortable talking about it, like what is some stuff that you guys do like
that's out there on the market? Um, you know, as consumers, uh, fresh, fresh vibes. Yeah. He's the
homie we smoke. We've been smoking a lot of his stuff for a minute. Um, I'm a, I'm a fan of, uh,
big fan of Tanco by their stuff. I like their blue Zushi. I'm a big, I'm a big Z head. Um,
Dr. Ladybug, Dr. Ladybug. Yeah. From Percy. We pick up from Percy Terps. Uh,
Dr. Ladybug, shout out Percy Terps. Yep. Um, yeah, bro. We, uh, I don't know. We all smoke together.
We're all picky as fuck. Yeah. So, uh, so when it comes to our smoke, uh, we try to flush it as much
as we can. And then like super meticulous about how it's trimmed and how it's cured and how it's
tried and how it goes in the jars. I'm a picky ass motherfucker. So there's like, there's SOPs
on everything. These guys both get yelled at in their ear, bro. And they fuck up. And, uh, I don't
know. I try to be on top of it, bro. Like I, like we have very high standards here. Like, uh, if it
doesn't meet those standards, it goes, it goes for the low. It doesn't go under the company.
You guys like someone said someone the other day was posting our jars saying we don't miss,
we miss all the fucking time. You guys just don't see it because we, we just take the hell on it,
bro. Um, and if it's like, if it's not translating as good smoke, it's not getting rerun. We're not
going to run it here. Like it's gotta be top tier. And so are you, if you're comfortable and like,
to whatever extent you are, can you talk about your different SOPs and soil? Like you mentioned
a long flush. So is that just true water only at the end? Yes. Yeah. Just straight RO water, bro.
Um, we do like a three week flush, get everything, everything out. We honestly don't even feed that
high. Like there's people that are running super high EC crop steering, all that shit.
We don't do that. We just read the plants. We re we check PPMs in the runoff. Um, we don't do a
super high feed. Um, I don't know. It's just, it's grown with love, bro. And like, we don't put a lot
in so we don't have to pull a lot out. Um, it's gotta be smooth smoke. That's the biggest thing.
And, uh, yeah, which is like, we get mad, bro. When we, when we pay, pay money for something
and it ends up not being good. So, uh, we just, we want to provide a good experience that fronded.
He had a thing. It was a terpy memories. When you smoke something really fucking good, it gets
burned into your head forever. You never get a good experience with turps. Like that shit's
ingrained into your brain. Yeah, no. And it's true. And I think that, yeah, it's to me seeing
Casey and flower was one of those and it lit it is it's fruitier than the hash. It seems in flower.
It's so different. It's totally different. Yeah.
It's super cool. And so I guess, yeah. What, what were those terp terp memories for,
for y'all? Those, you know, ones that got instilled. I know we talked about the,
the widow and the cookies, um, and those things, but were there any really distinct ones?
I remember, um, back in the BHO days, I smoked some, uh, some 10, some 24 K from, uh,
you know, it's dank. He used to run a BHO company down here in SoCal and, uh, Oh my God, bro. I
smoked it off a hot title and it just coated my mouth for like 30 minutes and changed my life.
I didn't even know we could taste that good. So, uh, I don't know. It's crazy how like, uh,
an aroma can take you back to a certain time. Like every time I crack open that peach Moana,
it kind of takes me back to that kind of shit where, uh, I don't know. You just, it just, uh,
get stuck in your head and you just think about it all the time. Another thing is when you try
something new, have you guys noticed that it never tastes that good again? When you try something new
for the first time, like a new flavor of Rosin or a new, like a new strain, like some of there's
like some effect on your brain where it just like, it blows you away. And then it's like a
fleeting experience trying to get that, that first hit taste again. Well, and I think that to me as a
reviewer, like when someone can get that expression level, like, you know, Z when someone can hit Z
and make it taste like the first fucking time, like that, that is a killer back. You can command
the ticket. Um, and I think that's true with a lot of them. Oh, what is that? That blueberry
Joe serious. So we're about to roll some of those up. Matthew PR nods.
Yeah. Good job. Seriously. Beautiful flower. And so the bazooka Joe is one that's like a known
hasher. Right. So, um, and I've never heard anyone describe it as berries, but this does have a berry
turf to it. Definitely after the care, um, or my bathroom, but most people know. Yeah, this is,
but, uh, most people that I've talked to, they, they said they get like straw Nana off of it.
Like a lot of, uh, like say a straw Nana trip or like a 14 or strong Nana trip off of it. And
honestly, out of the, if you don't have to, we didn't, we didn't really find anything that was
strong and heavy. It's more of like, say like, like an Indiana bubble gum kind of like handiness.
It doesn't have the strawberry, but it has that sweetness to it, you know?
Yeah. We ran a bubble gum Wilson cross thing. We had one bubble gum, Fino that
had that similar, super sweet note that this happens on the smoke. It's not really,
it's not in the aroma, but it's really on the smoke. It's like this,
almost like you're sucking on a sugar cube at the beginning of the inhale.
Yeah. Um, I'm definitely smoking, stoked to smoke on it. Um,
do you guys have any questions? Um, what, uh, what are your guys' favorite plants to grow?
Peach Milano.
Grows itself, dude.
Dude. Garden State genetics really solid, right?
All of the, all of the juice man. We love our papaya turps over here.
Yeah. That Jumanji was one of the happiest plants in the garden, man.
All right, dude. Smoked that whole jar in one hit.
I mean, it can be happened. It can definitely, it can definitely make that happen.
It smells awesome. And so this is, it's a tangy, right? But it gets, it's not orange at all.
It's a tangy times, peach rings, times cookies and cream.
Cool. Hell yeah. Um, the peach rings is one that I've always wanted to see in flower,
but I think no one will ever dry a branch of that. It seems dedicated for, for the hash. Um,
are there any things in the stable that are like that, um, that you don't think you're going to be
able to, to produce this flower? Probably blue gummy shark. Yeah. Um, we're going to try probably
to dry plant this next one that we're running it up and see how it dries out. But we don't have
too much faith in it not being good. Uh, like it's just way, it's just too good at scratch.
Juice man would be pretty tough as well, just cause it's going to take like two months to cure
the top nugs come out. So thick, even after they're dried, then it's, it's really hard to
get the inside of it to the right, the right time to smoke it when it's actually dried all the way.
Okay. Well, and it's cool that you, you know, a lot of these have papaya in them and papaya,
you just generally don't see it in flower. Like I think that that's sort of what I'm saying,
that you're bringing new turps to the flower market. You certainly are bringing new turps,
but there also isn't like papaya is one you don't see a lot in flower, especially not
indoor. And so there, are you selecting for certain things on the papaya crosses?
I wouldn't say so. I just would say that we had a lot of papaya stock back there from say only
crosses and other breeders. The thing about papaya, I really think why most people don't
see it is because papaya itself, like the original papaya, it's, it's really prone to herming.
You could get a lot of seeds in it. So I don't know if it's the change of lighting in these
past recent years that's been making us be able to pull papaya back or what it is, but it seems to
be, most people are scared of the herms. They don't want to run it because it's, it's prone to,
to herms. But from what we're seeing in our setup, it runs pretty good.
So it might be an HID versus LED thing, but I'm not too sure.
Sick. I mean, I do, I do enjoy the flavor and I've always, it's always been some of my favorite
hash. And so getting to try it in flower has been a really cool experience. And it's interesting
to hear that that sort of is the reason why a lot of the cool, cooler turps, I guess,
are prone to herming. Yeah. It's a bummer. Yeah. Someone just said in the comments,
the exact same thing. Yeah. We had a good one. This like Lifesaver from Bog. Yeah. Do you want
to show that? We had some Bog seeds Lifesaver that was herming. And so we had it all washed
and it was a, not a producer for hash, but we have some head stash. It's really dank.
Do like 11 grams of some really dank rosen, but we put about six pounds of fresh frozen into that.
The hash game will straight bend you over, dude. It's awful.
Right. Talk about taking L's as a feno hunter and hash maker, right?
It's awful. Yeah, dude. But I mean, it's unique turpy stuff. Is it good at least? You're a fan of
it? Yeah. I think we do like it. So I guess, but you guys were single source, right? I mean,
with the hash. So do you want to talk about what motivated doing it that way?
Control. Yeah. I'm a control freak. We have really high standards. There's people that
wash nasty shit all fucking day and you would have no idea what you're smoking. Cause like,
that's just how it is. A lot of bad actors bringing shitty material through. And you think
that the reputable stuff like that. Yeah. And there's a, I don't know. I, I, uh, relentless
started as like, as a contract, as a contract worker, bro. Like, uh, I would, I would buy
material or work with farmers and, uh, I don't know. I just, I wanted to team up with a couple
guys that would know, they know what the fuck they were doing and we wanted to do it right.
And it ended up working out the way it did. But, uh, yeah, I think, uh, if you're, if you,
if you're a farmer, you should probably be single source if you're, if you're going to make hash,
just, just to know exactly what you're getting into, bro. Cause otherwise there's like distrust.
Like I feel like there's a lot of people that think that everything washes, almost nothing
washes, bro. I can probably count on like my, my fingers, how many strains in the world actually
produce really well. And that's why when our homie who watched this for us told me the number,
I was like, dude, I trust you. Like, don't worry. Like, yeah. Like, you know how it is. I've like,
I've been growing for like 10 years. I've been making hash. Like it is. Yeah. So that's always
jar test. That's my, that's my advice for this episode. If you're, if you're someone that wants
to make hash and check your resume, always jar test and the, I do the stringer test. You can get
a glove. It's kind of common knowledge at this point. If you can get, you can touch the resin
and it sticks, sticks and makes a little stringers on your, on your glove. And it's probably going to
make good hash. But the jar test is the only thing that's going to tell you how much hash is going to
make, bro. It's a good way to avoid taking fat L's. Cause I, before the jar test, even as a,
as a producer, like hash maker, it fucking sucks buying material. And then you end up losing tens
of thousands of dollars for no fucking reason. Yeah. So how did you get into making hash in the
first place? I have been making hash since I was like 16. I've been, I've been watching bubble man
and all that other fucking shit for fucking ever, bro. I mean, I was making hash on pizza boxes
before freeze dryers were around. We would go to fucking pizza hut and go buy cardboard boxes,
dude. And they'd look at us like we were crazy and 30 boxes and go fucking wash hash in a trailer
and fucking dry. And it was meds. This is before Rosin. It was straight meds. You'd smoke fucking
hash and they would fucking fuck your throat up, bro. But it was a learning experience. I don't
know. It was, it's crazy to see how much the game has changed. So like relentless started as a,
it started with a hair strainer and a dream, bro. That's the truth of it. Like when Rosin first came
out, I was smashing patties, the flour smashing patties, a hash that I washed, smashing my homie
stuff. And, just, just, just chasing wanting to smoke a lot of hash for less money kind of put me
to where I am now. Kind of just tumbled and snowballed into my life. I feel like that's a
lot of us. I just wanted to smoke weed for less money. And then we end up where our life is right
now, bro. But yeah, I've been making hash for in a minute. Shout out to Richie for letting me wash
your trailer, bro. Thank you for doing that for me. And so did you ever blast or were you always,
oh fuck no. I was so scared of blowing up, blowing myself up. I never got into it.
Luckily there was a big underground hash scene in SoCal. There was a guy named,
I think it was like high-end solventless or some shit where he was just doing deliveries down here.
So we were super blessed to get, to get full mountain Rosin when it was first starting to
get popular. There's actually a dude in San Diego that I think he pioneered one of the first
Rosin process, many some men. And so the scene's been big down here for a minute. So luckily
we were ahead of the game when it came to that shit.
Hell yeah. And so what were, what were your first experiences with hash that got you stoked on it?
Just the high, like it's nice to, like, I feel like a lot of stuff doesn't get your body high.
And for some reason, like bubble hash, we'll just do that for you. Like it'll get your body
fucking floating and hit, I don't know. It'll check boxes that Flower can't check bro.
And like, yeah, I was, I was pretty big on, on bubble man. Like I said, growing up when,
when like he said, like hash is the message, Flower is the messenger. That shit was fucking
in my head for a minute, bro. Hell yeah. Yeah. This, the Bazooka blueberry Joe is smoking.
It's smoking. You getting blueberry jerks. Yeah. And much more than a week ago. It's cool.
It's funny. We had some dude roll through and he was like, this is not it. I don't want to
pick it up, but I'm sure if he came a week later, he'd probably pick it up just because that's just
the way it fucking goes, bro. It's a, it's a cool one. What do you guys think of the blueberry Joe?
I enjoy it. It's definitely flavorful. I mean, everything we're smoking is flavor forward,
which is, you know, that's right off the bat. The most important smoking. I like the berry
turps on this one as well. I like, I have been pretty stoked on, I've been pretty stoked on,
you know, the various like separate fruit experiences on each jar, you know, one leading
more apricot, one leaning more citrus, like one leaning more berry and then the, you know,
Casey kind of being more old school, ambiguous, sweet, like awesome, delicious. I mean,
you guys absolutely killed that shit. Thank you. We were just, we were just talking about having
to hit every fruit category on the market. Yeah. We have this. So you guys definitely are,
you're hitting that mark. Well, and so that, you know, was the goal of TGA. I think sub cool was
like before I die, I need to make every fruit and he feels like he did. Is there another fruit that
you guys feel like you want to bring in to the flower market? Yeah. We're hunting through banana
runs right now. We're trying to, we're, we like banana turps. I think there's not really any good
banana flower out. There's a lot of banana OG hash, but like, that'd be a really good turf to
bring the flower. I don't know. We don't really see too much of it around. I feel like there's
also a lot of like Asian fruits. We're not getting to see examples. I don't know if you guys ever
smoked Emerald cup concentrates back in the day. You guys ever smoked any of that? It sounds
familiar. I can't wait to have some flavors that would blow your mind, bro. They would have this,
there there's a, there's a fruit called a pomelo, like a melon and the curves that they would,
they would drop his hash. It was like the exact same thing. It was like, you cracked up in a
melon and they used to have this other strain called Holy Nana crack, which is the green crack
banana OG cross. I think. And it was literally, there was like Finos that would taste like a
banana peel on your tongue. Like it was, it was insane. I still remember that shit. Turpy memories,
like. Turpy memories. They're real. We grew out and we only found one female, but we liked her.
A banana, the banana God Z three that was like Masonic and surefire.
Yeah. And we got to, so what did, what was your experience with that? We got all males and we
lost, we lost that battle. We got one female, we got lucky. Like I can't believe we got one
and it was a good one. We're so yeah. Please save me a jar of that, bro. I want to try it still.
Yeah, of course, dude. We'll, we'll get you in some of that. Yeah. Because the banana is so
full. I don't know. It's a cool one. I think you guys would like it for sure. But I agree with you
that a lot of even like, like even like pear and Apple turps I haven't seen executed super well.
We were just talking about like the only Apple turp out there is like the sour Apple and Apple
fritter, which aren't really like an actual Apple turd. Yeah. Fritter is one that I am not that into.
It had its place. Yeah. The world moved on.
Totally. Yeah. Wait, so Jess, what do you think of the blueberry bazooka Joe?
So I really liked the bazooka Joe. It comes to us like a light blueberry turp. I always like,
I watched the shits in the food network as a kid. So like, I always like to equate strengths to food,
but to me it tastes like a blueberry yogurt. It's like super nice and creamy and hits all those
notes. But I want to ask that you guys said you grew up in Cush and like, so I'm born and raised
in San Diego too. And the scene out there was unique in the fact that genetics we had growing
up was unique with that. The P91, I'm specifically from that region as well. And then the meat
breast and stuff. But do you guys have any plans to incorporate any of those more gassier strains?
Like I know you guys mentioned. Yeah. Yeah. That was the whole trip to Spain, bro. That was
securing all the headbanger and chem 91 and all the Hindu sour and all that shit. Yeah. We're
going to try to get into the gas thing. We were actually, I was making a list on our menu of our,
the genetic lineage on all our strains and it's lacking, bro. I feel like American genetics right
now, great pie, chopped cookies, papaya, all fucking itself with GMO and skittles. And like,
it's, it's just so bottleneck that we got to open it up.
It really is. And when you think about what we smoke in California is very concentrated. What
we think of as exotic, but the world itself more so in those land races. Yeah. Great. That is just
something I think you guys are really innovative on it. It'll be interesting to see where that
goes and we can't wait to see what. So what's the, what's your favorite jar out of what's in
front of you guys right now? I think the Lima, the cake, bro. Shout out Percy turps for making
sure that we have this jar for this video. Yeah, that was, you know, it's incredible smoke, but I
really adored the Poon Tang pie from the second I got it and the five on it, we don't have here,
but I thought smoked really cool. And so you have two differentinos of that.
And is that, is that something that was in-house or I guess what was, what's the story of the five
on it? The five on it, I bred outside. It's five alive across the Strava Cana. So we got a cut of,
we got a cut of, we got a cut of five live from SD farm tech down in San Diego. And then we
crossed that to one of our keeper Strava Cana males. And we made that cross.
It's a really cool turf. It has that sort of fruitful thing. What I don't think I smoked
the other Fino. What is the difference between the three and the other one?
So the three is more of the fruit bowl, like you were saying. And then four,
it's more along the lines of like, it's, it's citrusy, but it's not choppy and it's not citrusy
like the Lima either. It's, it's like a blood orange or red grapefruit. Yeah. Grapefruit.
Kind of. Yeah. But very citrusy, super sweet, not much gas on it at all. Whereas the five on it,
three is kind of got that like a full fruit taste with like a back end of a little bit of earthiness
to it. Yeah. So, I mean, everything from y'all is heavy and I think that, you know,
that's a testament to taking it out like 65, 70 days. The resin quality is there for sure.
Totally. All strong. It's all hit. Yeah. Smoking four joints was, was serious. But so what
you took the dab. Yeah. So I asked this already, but like, what is, if there,
if there is a next round sort of stuff coming, what, what can we look forward to?
I would look forward to some of these, uh, sallow crosses that were running from Karma.
There should be some bangers up in there. We're running some CZ, which is, I believe it's a shared
Skittles cross, I believe, if I remember correctly. And then we're going to be running some grounded
genetics, uh, Z runs crosses as well. Um, that Zilk road from, uh, it's like a, it's like a OZK cross.
Yeah. Zink. Definitely be planning on checking like some more Skittles boxes this next year,
checking some more boxes that we don't really have. We have some chem, uh, chem cysts from
Canada across to grape pie, which has a really nice, uh, grape pie turf to it with a little bit
of like almost blueberry-ness like the blueberry or like the blueberry gel does on the front.
Um, and that's something to be watching out for. If you guys like grape turps or blueberry turps,
that one's going to be a solid. That's nice. That is my favorite turf. It's from a pack of freebies
we left the fuck out. That's so sick. That's always, and like, shout out the seed banks for
showing love with the breeders. Don't get enough love either. Like these guys are the only people
that are changing the game, bro. Like if the people aren't making new shit, we're all, we're
all walking backwards in the same spot. Like there's no, there's no point. I mean, the same
flavors forever. No. And I mean, I just, as a reviewer, appreciate it so much. And jazz, I mean,
for you too, like, don't you feel like you just, you see the same flavors over and over again? Like
I love animal face, but like, I don't have it in me to describe it a new way. Like good animal
faces, good animal face at a certain point in the same as true of skills. And so getting to see new
turps also like is, you know, like it unlocks a different, different neurons are firing. Like,
you know, it gets me more stoked or a different stoke. Um, do you agree with that?
100% like genetics, you just don't see where to get you more excited, right? It's their profiles,
we know so little about terpenes, but it's cool that we just get to experience new things. There's
always new ways to describe stuff. As reviewers, I like to say the best weed is something you smoke
and just immediately the review kind of writes itself like good weed just writes itself just
like it rolls itself for the most part. So that's my undeniable experience when it's good. 100%.
Yeah, yeah, no, absolutely. Fire. Um, y'all have anything else?
I think we're chilling. We're faded, man.
Just one more. Just one more, bro.
Yeah, I mean,
I literally just put some back in my jar. So I guess I'll add more back on.
God damn it.
We really appreciate you guys coming on. Y'all's flower is definitely stuff that has gotten me
really stoked recently. And we I just appreciate that you are bringing different new flavors. This
conversation was super enlightening. I know that I asked this one other time. But while
Max preps the last dab, is there anything else you guys want to cover anyone else you want to shout
out?
Definitely shout out Invincible LA. Definitely shout out SD Farm Tech.
Yeah, shout out to all our supporters, dude. You guys, you guys, you guys make life worth living.
We really appreciate your guys's kind words. Please tell us when you have a good experience
and a bad experience. We want to hear it like it fucking makes our day when you tell us
that that shit's smoking, bro. Like we love to hear it. So yeah, just I think that's it for the
shout outs. Fucking you got anyone? I think that's it. Yeah.
Joan.
Hell yeah. Well, this was a lot of fun. And like everyone's like, Yeah, I'm just
absolutely fried. I think this peach Milano smells so good. I'm jealous of this dab that's
about to go down. Thank you guys so much for coming on. This was so much fun.
Having a fun bro.
Of course, of course. And thanks for putting love into the flower. That's a
we got to ask the team which one of y'all are the hash head then which one of the flower heads?
Smoking wise? Yes. Damn, I think we all smoke mad flower, bro.
We smoke we smoke we smoke big dogs all day dude. In Amish.
Big dogs.
Hell yeah.
You got another 100 degrees. All right, we're not gonna we're not gonna force you.
But honestly, when the when the peach Milano the exhale just smells incredible. You get that stone
fruit which like check off you know if you're getting every fruit in on the aisle like you
have that one for sure. Yeah, that's a that's a banger bro. I had a buddy that was smoking some
pepper.
We're about to wrap up. This is the last day. Big blob. Let's go. That's a serious blob.
I'll let you guys. I didn't know if you had fallen asleep on the East Coast.
So no lobster. I'm at a preschool dinner in LA. Hell yeah. Hell yeah. Well, Peter, we'll get you
some of this relentless flower to try and we just appreciate you having us on and letting us have
this awesome conversation. Yeah, dude. It was a dude fest tonight. Yeah, true.
Hell yeah. All right. Well, I'll let lobster shut it down. See you guys.
Hope everyone have fun. Everyone have a good night. Oh yeah, guys. Appreciate it.
