with that. Right. And we are
of amazing achievements. I first want to say congratulations on that. I'm very proud of
you going out there and kicking butt constantly like that. That's really impressive.
Thank you.
You're making me blush.
We got, yeah, shut up. We got, we got, we got Rackham's here too. Somebody I really
look up to. Big influencer in the game here that's taught me a lot along
the way and really influenced me on how I, how I share and give all my information to
you guys. Big ups to Rackham for that. You guys need to give him the big ups because
he was really one of the four first front guys other than Paul here that really taught
me a lot about how good of a, of somebody that's willing to share the information, how
much that affects you personally and motivate you. And then it also makes you look up to
that person and want to be that, that kind of person and be that guy that passes on the
information that you were given and be that generous guy. Really appreciate that for you
Rackham's and, and Paul, both of you guys are really amazing for that. And like I talked
about last time, Paul is one of the OG guys that really turned me on to this. Pez bro
over there. Nice to have you on here again. And then we, Puffin Saltin has just joined.
I see that nice logo, but I don't see nobody yet. Oh, there we go. There we go. Nice to
have you on here. What's up guys. How you guys doing? Good. Nice to get to meet you.
Definitely. Same, same. What's up Rackham's. How you doing, man? What up brother? Doing
it. Working, you know, never stops. Right? Yeah, no doubt. How are the microphones all
sounding pretty good? Am I sounding all right? Yeah, you good. How about you? 918? Yep. Yep.
All good over here. How about you Paul? There we go. Can you guys hear me good? Yeah. I
hear you now. Awesome. Awesome. Nice to have all you guys in here. Wanted to get a little
bit of background on you Puffin. I know a lot about these other guys here. Don't really
know a whole lot about you. I've heard about you. I haven't really had the chance to got
to meet you. Yeah, I mean, we're all, we're out of Southern California. We're pretty small.
It's only me and two other guys. You know, just kind of always had a passion for cannabis
and hash and you know, just the business in general. So just tried to do my best to make
the best hash that we could possibly, you know, make with the proper, you know, flower
that we can find in the area, which thankfully we're in Southern California and it's easier
than some other locations, but you know, I don't know what other questions you got
for us. So yeah. What do you, what do you like to produce most? Do you produce a ice
water hash? You produce just rosin or? Rosin really. Full spec rosin 4179. Yeah. Let's
see. Everything we press is on a fluxes giant master press. Did you say 49? 40 to 179.
179? Yes. I don't feel like I don't feel like bags ever. Like where do you find that bag?
Where do you find that bag? One? So it's not 179. It's basically the 180 before it. We don't
pull that. We remove that. So it's 40 to 179 just before 180. What brand of bags is that?
Everything we use is ice extracts. I actually just picked up new bags from them. I love their 44
gallons. They're big 44 gallon fucker. This thing is so nice. I got a couple of those
and they just, they hold up so well. All right. You could beat the shit out of them. They're
great. Yeah. You could be the hell of them. You don't have to worry about them ripping.
I still take pretty good care of them. But your 40, the 40 U is the one that's really the most
delicate and the one you got to look after the most. Then I use the flux press that I said,
I use a rosin ink bags. They're out of Florida. The guy's super cool. His name's Dave Dawson.
Really nice guy. Let's see. What else do we use?
You hand mix? You hand mix?
You can see the cans in the back. Yeah. And then one of the weird things that we do that I don't
see a lot of people doing is I hoist the bag actually out of the can with kind of like a noose
and a block and tackle. So it's like a three to one ratio. It's really easy to pull it out. You
don't have to use, you know, my little, the guy, one of the guys that works for me is like 120
pounds and he pulls it up. No problem. And I mean, there's 6,000 grams of fresh frozen ice
and water. It's, it's fucking. We need to get that going on a video. You sound like a sailor, bro.
When you get you on some main sheets. So if you, if you pull out your bag like that,
um, the, the can itself, is it elevated so you can drain off or do you still have to live?
The, the cans just on the ground. Uh, we have it on casters just because you'll notice you just get a
lot of condensation. And I noticed when it's up above it, it seems to hold a better temperature
than, than on the ground. I mean, unless I was in like an ice cold room and like on the concrete,
I, I lift that bag though. You still have to lift that can though.
No, I don't live the can. We just literally, I mean, there's probably about,
I don't know, maybe 30 gallons left in there once I pull it out. Cause the 44 gallons,
not even that maybe like 25. And then we just hand scoop a couple with a two gallon
until it's low enough to where it is easy to pick up and just dump over.
Okay. You have to eventually have to lift it out.
Yeah. With no, no backbreaking works. Just, I'd rather work smarter than harder. I'd rather take
an extra minute than lifting that heavy ass thing up and possibly spilling it all over the place.
You guys know when they're bigger than it is, the, the, the, the,
the water just starts flying all over the room. So yeah.
Yeah, for sure. For sure. I know exactly what you're talking about. That's always fun time
playing with that stuff. We do have a really bitching. Um, we have a really bitching,
let me show you guys this guy. I really backed this guy,
this a watermaker right here. Let's see if I can point to it. Uh, it's weird with the camera.
There we go. Right there. That watermaker does really good work. I can get like 50 gallons in
an hour. So if you have a lot to pump or you really need the water or you keep washing and
you notice no matter how many washes I do, hash just keeps coming out and you start to run out of
water. That thing can save my life and can definitely have water ready for me pretty quick.
So I really bad ass. What does the unit like that cross? Uh, they're like 1100 bucks, but
like an RO unit. It's RO, but if you saw, like, let me see if I can unhook this. If you saw the
size of the RO filters that are on this thing, they're massive. Oh yeah. Way bigger than normal.
And then this membrane, yeah. And then this membrane up top is what really helps with the,
with like the chlorines and all that shit and all the hard waters and heavy metals. It really takes
it out. You really kind of, I don't think you're supposed to be allowed to have that filter in
Cali, but they hook it up. It's called like K something filter. I can't feel like a two to one,
one to one, man. It's proper man. Zero. So like I, I need the Evo 1000. Is that what you guys use
on this guy? It's a GX 1000. Yeah.
Okay. I think I'm using a fucking 3000 Evo 3000 if I'm not mistaken.
I have to check, but it's, I have a high flow pump on mine as well. So it kind of helps the
pressure gets the PSI up to about like 80, 80 PSI. Yeah. That's definitely the proper. Yeah. I mean,
I only have a fucking 55 gallon drum that I can work with in my, in my headquarters right now. So
I need the return of water to be supplemented just as quick as I'm using it. Yeah, exactly.
That's what I'm saying. And sometimes it starts to go quicker than you expect.
Yeah. Like you said, sometimes you'll be on your like seventh wash and you'll be like,
damn, I need to keep going. And you're like, gotta go. I gotta ask you though. Cause that's,
that's one of my things is what you know, like you're saying, well, you're, you're,
you want to keep washing it and keep washing it. But I've found that most of the time when I keep
doing that, all I'm breaking off for stocks. It may, it looks absolutely, absolutely. You're
going to notice. I'm not actually getting really anything off of that. At that point,
I've taken stuff out and been so excited. It's still dropping, throw it in the freezer. Cause
I'm out of RO water, you know, pull it out the next day. And then by the time I've got it through
the freeze dryer and pressing it, I'm like, Oh, sons of a bitch. There was nothing. I'm really
not, you know, I'm wasting my time. Yeah, that's true. That's true. That's
what you got to think about. Cause you get all excited when you see it coming out and you're
just like more gold, more gold. And you keep doing it. And then by the time you get to the
truth serum, the press, it don't press out. Yeah. There's definitely a fine line you got to take
care of. But at the same time I have archetypes stopping, even if I'm pulling out stocks,
cause I'd rather, I'd rather run the experience of pressing out nothing than, than, and then risk
the, the, not the, not, you know, and dumping out. Yeah, exactly.
Well, you also, you also gain the knowledge of knowing where, where, and when to stop by doing
that. It might be a mistake of some sort, but you learn from that mistake saying, okay, come this
sixth or seventh wash. I know that there's nothing but stocks cause my fucking Rosin yield just
plummeted. Now I know when I go to wash the strain again, or if I have more to wash, I know I can just
stop at five, call it a day. You know, that's the learning curve that people don't realize.
It really is. It's something you need to log into your, your tool belt and add to your,
to your repertoire of what, what strains you do. And it's why logging everything
is really important. The more you can log everything down and write down when you did it
and where it came from, where it came from in the farm. Something I've been doing more recently is
not just logging what day I took it down, but where I took it down from in the farm. What,
what greenhouse was it in? You know? And so I can start really pinpointing things down at what time
of the year, what does what greenhouse do the best and things like that. You know, I can manipulate
even more because there's so many more variables. Like you said, you start knowing, oh, at the fifth
run, this one's starting to drop off on the actual quality that I want. It's going to give me stocks
and everything. And maybe I'll do that towards my food grade or something. And I won't even waste my
time pressing all of that into the rosin or something, you know, and, and, and still pull
it out of the plant, you know, to get the best in the max yield that I can get. But then at the same
time to, to, to use it as my, my, my knowledge that I gained from it. That's a really good idea.
Dr. Justin Marchegiani And I'll notice like even the same strain, you know, you have the same,
I, I'm not growing everything myself. So I have a lot of, you know, farms that I'm getting from.
But the same strain will grow different at different times of the year. And you'll notice
that if it's like a room where you have a certain amount of lights or you have a certain amount of
space, the better the return on like the whole crop, you know, if you're like normally you're
getting 15 pounds and then there's that one time where you're like, fuck, 19 pounds, dude, we
crushed it. It always pumps more rosin for me too. So I seem like the better the crop, usually the
more rosin I get almost 99 times out of a hundred. So I really, you know, I'm always stoked for that.
But then I purchased my fresh frozen. So then it's like, fuck, well, there's more money out of my
pocket. But yeah, there's a big day when you're, when you're usually expecting like a 13, 14 pound
room, they're like, yeah, it's 20. You're like, Oh, that's, that's a hold on. Let me go to the
piggy bank. You know, the, the one thing with, with tracking all that information and all that,
I did a lot of, you know, analytical stuff like that when I first was starting out.
But it's, it's, it's, it's so different every time, especially with, with me, I'm either
I'm growing it myself and I'm trying something new because I want to do a new strain. I don't
want to be running, you know, the same thing. I've got to go where the, where the patients are,
what their customer wants. So that's, they don't want the same strain over and over again.
So all of that, that analytical information is just, it's so hard to follow. It's so depressing
at times when you think you know what you're going to get and it doesn't come anywhere close.
And it's like, I'm here growing or even be able to strain again. So,
plus it takes the fun out of it. I like to gamble. So
yeah, there's nothing better than big spoonfuls coming out of the bags.
Yeah. You got no idea. It's coming. Oh baby. That's what we had today. I was just like,
we're just like, Oh yeah.
I compare it to like crab fishing when they're like pulling up the first pot.
Yeah.
Like, is this string going to be the string or what?
You never know what you're going to get.
Even if you know the strain, even if you've watched three, four, still, if you're watching,
watching multiple batches from the same garden, if that was pulled at the same time,
if you, unless you're doing that, you never know what you're going to get. You could have run the
strain just like, just like Puffin said, like different times of the year, even fucking same
genetics and different growth situations indoor when it comes to like, like just the nutrients,
the simple things like that could be, they could be growing the exact same way, whether it's
scrogging or in tomato cages or whatever, but the nutrients are different. The flowers can be
different. So many, very, a lot of people don't think about that. The variables are fucking mind
boggling.
Yeah. There's too many.
It's too many.
That's why I always tell everybody farmer is the one you got to remove from that equation.
You got to remove the farmer from your variable. You got to make it so you have the same farmer.
That's the, that's a hard one to do, but.
Even with the same farmer as me being a farmer, it's still impossible. It's still impossible.
It is. It is.
You never know what's going to happen, man. You're at the mercy of mother nature.
Yeah, absolutely.
We're farmers.
Yep.
There's bad, bad season, bad crops and there's good ones. There's huge fruitful,
few fruitful years, you know?
Yep. Absolutely.
Definitely. Definitely. So I'm excited though. We got, we got, I don't know if you heard about
this puppet and we have a cool little class coming up here.
Oh, I didn't hear about that. Is that all going to, but you guys are doing it in person in like
in Oklahoma or somewhere, right?
Yeah. All of us, California guys are going to go out to Oklahoma. It's going to be
me, Rackham's, 918 OG and Pezbro all in Oklahoma. I'm really excited about that.
That sounds sick.
About to rip Oklahoma a new asshole.
Yep. California style.
Oklahoma's not ready. That's for sure.
They're dying. They're dying for this though. I mean, this is what they've been dying for.
I've had a lot of people in Oklahoma reaching out to me saying that they wanted to see all of us out
there and asking for us to come out and couldn't think of a better group of people. It's really
awesome. 918 OG's putting this together. We, me and him have been talking about it and he's
got to bring together a really cool group of people. It's just, it's really amazing to have
Rackham's and Pezbro and me and 918 OG in the same room, giving all of our information for two days.
It's going to be a pretty cool.
Dude, it's priceless, man. I'm like, you guys are giving it away cheap, man.
Those people better have a big ass notebook and a recorder and all sorts of shit.
Yeah, exactly. We're going to be bringing out all the knowledge that we have. Rackham's is going to
show his solventless diamonds technique that he does to produce the THCA.
That's priceless, man. I mean, he's given that knowledge out before and
I've went over it a million times just to know how to do it.
It's been a good meeting. I appreciate him letting us know how he does what he does.
Yeah, that's going to be really cool. I appreciate you coming out, Rackham's,
and doing that. That's going to be a really cool one.
Yeah, man.
I just made the bus I wanted to go to.
It's a technique that I, I mean, obviously you can call it Rackham's tech, just like they call
your shit bird tech, whatever. I mean, I got my tech from somebody else, just like all of us did.
Yeah, you pull from what you know, man.
Yeah, but at the same time, it's kind of, I don't know, maybe I'm just not used to
people calling it Rackham's tech and shit. It's general knowledge. There's just quirks and tips
and tricks that I know that I can share with other people.
No, it's the little things.
You know?
Yeah, dude, when you bust down temperatures that THCA melts at, there's been some more
testing that you and your buddies have done and things that we've done and learned throughout
this that we can really bust down for people and simplify things like you did for me. You
set my game up on diamonds, like to the next level by far, hands down, no question. I wasn't even on.
I was kind of just fumbling around, not refined it at all. And then it's definitely Rackham's tech
at this point. I mean, I would say that the diamonds with the sticks, that's something I
was like in awe of when I seen the sticks that you made the first time. Dude, it was something
I wanted to do so bad. I was like, oh my God, I need to figure out how he did this.
And then I was like, but I got to give credit to fucking Phil Soil Grow and Solveness. He's
the one that did that first before me. Phil from Soil Grow and Solveness, that's the man right there.
He's the one that he didn't share any knowledge. He just shared pictures just like I have
with a bunch of fucking kids or a jar, a four ounce jar with all these fucking coming out.
It was like, what the fuck? So I just kind of racked my brain. How the fuck did he do that?
And I figured it out. Luckily, I mean, I just, I hit the light bulb on that one. And I give him
the credit for that for sure. I just kind of took it to the next level, I guess you could say.
Yeah, but you got to give yourself credit. I've watched you, and I've seen those,
when I first saw you put it on and everything. And so I tried to do the same thing and try to
create and recreate and then watch Bird and talk to Bird about it a bunch of times. And we're like,
I think this is what he's doing in this. Yeah, you got to give yourself credit, man. That is
innovative right there. Don't get me wrong. I've fucked up quite a bit of batches.
Didn't get it on the first try. That's for damn sure.
As we still do. As we all still do. Yeah, exactly.
I've had two frigging catastrophes over the last couple of weeks. I had
my hydraulic line blow out, shoot fucking hydraulic fluid into the ceiling.
And it was weird. I heard it. I'm like, what is that noise? And I turned everything off and I'm
listening. And then I just see the hydraulic line bubbling like a water balloon. I'm like,
oh no. And as I go to release the pressure, it just shot everywhere. I'm like, oh no.
What pump do you have? Do you have an MTX or a-
I got the BBA.
You have a BBA.
Yeah.
Did they fucking, did they replace that thing for you?
Fuck yeah, they will, for sure.
I mean, they will, but it was like 50 bucks down the street.
They would.
I didn't want to wait.
If you would have wanted to-
What the hell happened?
100%. BBA would have. BBA's good. They're hands down the best hydraulic pump in the game.
I know all five of us would easily say that there's nobody touching a BBA pump right now.
Nothing on a BBA. Everybody, hands down, you guys are killing it. We appreciate it.
And I've heard nothing but good things about them. And when I dealt with them,
nothing but good things.
Like I said, we did more into the cannabis shit too. I mean, they're starting to fucking,
they're starting to interact a lot more with the cannabis community, even like my page
alone. I'm sure your guys do, but I'd noticed that though. I mean, I'm just waiting for
Harvest Strike to fucking get their ass in gear and start selling some of them too.
That would be awesome.
Yeah.
I don't want to be in your shit.
Oh my gosh.
I'm telling you, man, there needs to be another fucking company that comes out
that can compete with them because there's obviously other freeze dryers. There's
the doppelizers and shit. But at the same time, there's nobody else in the market other than
Free Harvest Strike that they've got kind of a monopoly over this shit for home models.
Yeah. It's huge.
If we can find another fucking company that can produce that same quality or better machine
at somewhat of the same price, maybe even a little cheaper, that would change the fucking game.
Especially for people doing shit at home, not just for cannabis, but for food as well. That's
a lot to invest. And I'm not saying that the technology isn't worth the money. I get it.
It's 20 fucking 500 bucks. It probably costs fucking, what is it? Where is it at? Right here,
right behind me. Probably costs 500 bucks to build, but the software is what you're paying for.
No, you're paying for the software for sure. Absolutely.
Yeah.
Yes, exactly. That's the difference between each model too, is what the software is.
I'm ready to build my own with the fruit crisps that I'm doing. I need a big machine. I'm running
three large pharmaceuticals right now. It takes 40 hours to run-
Have you looked into Whistler Techs?
Yeah.
They're massive.
I know that's the thing. I'm going to have to step up to a $100,000
freeze dryer. I just don't know how to do it.
I got them for like 40 and 30.
I've seen some of those, but they're really weird. Food wouldn't work in them. I don't know what the
hell that is.
Yeah, you could talk to them. I talked to Whistler Tech about it.
It's got this thing on top with all these different little poacher things that come
out. I'm assuming you just put all your hash inside there in a big jar?
They have different models. They got ones that are similar to the Harvest Rite. It's just all
the components are secondary. It's like two units separate. You get two separate units.
It's like stackable, right?
Exactly. The equipment inside is much better. You should talk to Whistler Tech.
If you talk to them-
There's another company too that Bubble Man talks about. I can't remember,
they call their freeze dryers endophilizers if I'm pronouncing that right. I don't know who the
manufacturer is, but they're more on the commercial side of things. Might be in the $100,000 to $150,000
range, but talk to Whistler first and foremost.
Yeah, because Whistler's got it for like 30K.
I can't knock my Harvest Rites too much. Once I get them in place and these oilless pumps now-
I love my fucking baby. I love it. This is my side bitch right here.
Exactly. That's my money man.
I just got her home. I gave her a fucking kiss. I'm sure you saw that on my stories.
I fucking love her. She does me well. She hasn't done me wrong. I almost blew her up
the first week I had her. Literally, like a cloud of smoke came out of her.
What?
And I saved her. Yeah, dude. Long story short, I was measuring for the hose.
You know how we all get a three foot hose? I was measuring for it. If you don't know this,
pro tip, you can call Harvest Rite and ask them for the number for their hose manufacturer.
I know they're making new hoses now and whatnot, but you can call the manufacturer. They're in Utah
and you can have them make you a custom hose for like six foot hose for 80 bucks.
Oh, that's awesome.
And they gave me a 90. So they gave me a 90 swage lock, not swage lock, but a 90 degree elbow. So
the hose comes down instead of out and it's a six foot hose. But I was measuring for that while I
was on the fucking phone with them. And I put a tape measure down along the wall and the plug was
just enough out of the outlet for the fucking tape measure to slide into the fucking outlet
and fucking ground and shock the system, dude. And the fucking thing was on. I was like,
I stood back, a fucking mushroom cloud came out of it. And I was like, no, no, no. Oh, fuck.
They're like, what's going on? So I was like, I just blew my machine up.
They're like, what? Is that your only one you have?
I have another one right here down below me. But yeah, this is initially my only one at that time.
And so luckily, since it's on like rubber plastic, like feet pads, it wasn't touching
the stainless steel table. So it was looking for a ground. So it went all through the fucking
machine and it started, the electricity went down the drain hose. And fucking by the time I was in,
by the time I was able to pull it, unplug it, it stopped. Thank God. But I didn't fry anything.
The computer's fine. The only things I fried was the hoses because it was looking for an outlet.
I got lucky, bro. I was like, oh my God, I just fucking blew a 3K.
We got to take care of them and you don't move them. You don't touch them.
I have a hard enough time changing shelf limits when I have a hard time getting them.
Yeah. I mean, they can be finicky and touchy for sure. But I mean, I moved mine.
I mean, you've moved yours a bunch, Bird. I mean, I've seen you move yours.
They can handle a beating. They can handle a fucking beating. I mean, this other one I have,
dude, this fucking thing that my cousin-in-law let me borrow. It's a medium, just like my side
bitch. But this thing went through, they ordered on eBay for like 1800 bucks and it came in a box,
not even on a pallet, just in a box. And it came all fucked up. The back of the vessel
was broken off the back body of the frame. It gets snapped off.
They got a shitload of bolts on there too. There's like 20 bolts on that thing.
I wish I could show you. My cousin-in-law, her husband is a gangster because he put a bunch of
like three-eighths bolts through that bitch and fucking bolted them down and it's back in working
order and it works fine now. The body's a little banged up, but I mean, that's what you get when
you buy shit on Craigslist, I guess. Like you said, they're pretty tough. I do the
classes all the time every few months and we put mine in the car and move it around and drive it.
Yeah. I mean, every now and then you're going to get a lemon. And I think that's when the people
that hate Harvest Rite the most for like having an inferior product or whatever they want to say is
because they just got... It's a production line product, man. You're always going to have shit
that fucks up all the time. But if you take care of it, if you take care of your pump, if you have
an oil pump, you fucking do that maintenance every... I do my maintenance on my oil, especially
when I'm in the grind of washing every week, compressing and all that shit. I'll change my oil
after three batches. I usually don't do it every batch, but I'll do it like every two to three
batches. I'll dump the oil and put fresh shit in. Or I'll just keep an eye on it. But monthly,
I take the case off, the front case, and wipe it all down because there's always going to be a
little bit of water in there and dump that water out. I keep my oil clean. I keep my vessel clean.
It's just like a vehicle. You maintain it, it'll last.
Wipe it down, make sure it's nice and clean. Dude, I'm taking the sides apart and just vacuum
the inside because it just fills with dust. I've been up in the guts of this motherfucker
so many times, you have no idea. I could probably build one from scratch.
Since we're all on these freeze dryers, we've got a bunch of different guys using freeze dryers.
Let's go through everybody's shelf temps. What's your shelf temp?
I'm at 35.
I'm at 35.
30.
I go back and forth. When I first got mine, I was doing 35 because that's what you told me
you were doing, bro. Once in a while, I drop it down to 30 to see if I can see anything different.
When I drop down to 30, my hash seems to be a little bit drier where I want it to be.
Does it take longer for you?
Total run time, I'm going about 15 to 19 hours from start to finish.
But if you drop the temperature, does it take a little bit longer than you would have 35 or 40,
maybe?
Sometimes, I'm not home, bro. I don't know. My clock is still running. By the time I get home
from work, it's about 19 hours. I can't tell. Sometimes, if I come home from work, I'll notice
that it's done at 2.30 or 3.30 in the afternoon. I've started it the night before about 6.30 or
7 o'clock in the evening. Just because, again, I work full time. I just got to work around my work.
I can't wash when I can freeze dry. I've recently got a lot of help with another hand.
It's been really good, man. It's just stepped up a lot for me that I haven't been able to do in a
while because I've been solo. It's just been tough. The reason I ask is because my thinking,
thought process behind it all is like, obviously, the lower your shelf temp,
whatever your shelf limit, shelf temperature. For people who don't know, shelf limit on a
freeze dryer is your temperature of your shelves. The colder they are, in my brain,
the longer it'll take to pull that moisture out when it supplements. The warmer the plates are,
the quicker that process happens in theory. I'm understanding the practice.
Yeah. I've noticed that a little bit. I'll have that issue work because right now, what I'll run
is I'll be able to get it done in four hours and 15 minutes of dry time. That's the setting that I
put in the machine, not the time that I'm timing it. That's the number I put in the machine for
final dry time, for dry time just in general. Then I'll notice that it could take a little longer
if I do it at 30 than 35 because like Paul was saying, I used to do it at 35. Then Budsmith was
telling me, and I've heard other people telling me that they've done it at 30. I was trying 30.
I would notice that it would be a little bit longer at dry time if my hash I put in had a
thick patty. Now, if I keep it a really thin consistency, that's like an eighth of an inch or
less in my tray, then I haven't noticed it affecting my dry time. I think just because
like you said, the supplemation, it'll happen. It'll happen still due to the fact that there's
not the density of the hash in there stacking on top of each other.
I feel like what it comes down to is the amount of water you end up having, regardless of the
hash amount. What the machine is doing is working with the water, not the hash.
If you have a lot of water, then it's going to have a lot of work to do and pull that water out.
If you have a lot of less water, like you just said, like an eighth inch or less, or less moisture
in general, like Green Thumb, George, I believe his name is from down South.
Mm-hmm.
He fucking, he sieves his hash onto the trays. Remember our old school way of sieving the wet
hash onto the fucking parchment or pizza boxes? He'll do a whole tray of just that and dry it.
I can only imagine what his dry times are because there's fucking no water in there.
Yeah, exactly. I got a buddy who does it too, but I really am not seeing much. I noticed
what helps me the most is having, I got my tray liners on the actual trays. Let me see if I can
find one. Shit.
I saw someone ask what temperatures we run our rooms at. I try to run definitely before
36 degrees. That's ideal. If you can run in a 36 degree room, you're balling because that's cold.
I'm at 40.
That's cold, man.
That's cold, bro. I'm not really that tough.
Yeah, you got to be a tough, you got to be Eskimo, man. You got to be from North America.
I'm from Southern California like this guy down here. We're not used to it being that cold.
Nah.
If you're below 55 degrees, you could wash hash. I say a sub 55. You don't wash hash above 55
degrees and you can wash it below or any colder than that is better.
When I'm doing fresh frozen, I try to get obviously below 55 no matter what. I'll do my
best. I have a cold bot. I have an AC, but my AC I realized after I bought it, which I haven't
upgraded yet, that it's too small for the cold bot to properly run. I end up running two ACs in
here just to get it down to temperature. If I'm doing dry cured material and I know that it's
more than likely going to go all to rosin and not be kept as hash more than likely, like I know I'm
not going to get a six star, then I know I can probably work around the 55, 60 degree. That's
where my AC will currently put me at. If I need to bump down because I know I'm fucking with some
melty shit or fresh frozen, for example, I mean across the board, you want to be like Bert said,
you want to be under 55, 50 no matter what. Otherwise you're going to be fighting an endless
battle.
Sub 55 is what always was taught as well. When I work with hash, but you'll notice 55 degrees
isn't cold enough for some fresh frozen. You'll have to be sub 50, be below 50. There's some
hash that'll just come up. You'll notice it when you wash it. When you go to gather it in your
bags or when you're going to spray it, it'll be kind of clumpier a sand than it would be the fine
beach sand floating around while you're washing it or while you're gathering it. You'll notice
it clump up and that's when you're going to want to make sure you get it in a colder room.
And you can do other little minor cool things like shoving your buckets with the bags in them
inside your freezer and getting the bags colder thing, keeping all your equipment colder because
that's really important. Everything you use to touch it that you can keep colder is a cool
little trick to use as well as like a bucket of ice. I have water I add back to my hash when I
put it on my trays to thin out the hash to the consistency that I want it to be at when I'm
going to dry it in my freeze dryers. And I have that cup of water in my 55 gallon drum in the ice
all getting really cold so that the water I add back to my hash to get it to the consistency I
want is super cold. Oh yeah, I get huge 80 pound blocks of ice and I just fill these bastards with
them and I get it freezing cold in here. It's probably about 44 to 48 on average. It's damn
cold for sure. But I got massive, I got a massive three and a half ton. Yeah.
How big is your room? Like 14 or something?
No, it's not even that's like 11 by 13.
Yeah, that's fucking
It's so cold. I would say less than 20 minutes, it's down to 44 degrees. And that's when it's
100 degrees outside because I'm in so for the last five months.
And so if you can get 44 degrees, you guys are doing great. Yeah, 49 degrees is what I usually
like to work at, I would say is a comfortable temperature that I can put in eight hours
of work without hating my life.
You know, it sucks.
End of the day, the end of the end of the day, moral of the story is the colder the better
with everything that you are. As far as 20 degrees, the colder the better, whether it's
your bags, your ice, your water.
We can go too cold. We don't want it.
There isn't too cold. You don't want to turn into a slushy. You are literally in a slushy machine.
So 32 degrees, you don't want to be under 32 degrees.
No, if you're trying to wash under 32, you're just overachieving.
Yeah, you're going too far.
I'm manual wash.
So everybody does different. I do wash with the machine.
And I know Rackham's I was gonna say, I knew he was gonna say, he's Mr. Paddle.
I know Paul Pespero does wash with the machine just like I do.
I do the same technique that I was taught from Frenchies Canoli on how to wash.
Yeah, I see.
I got the washer.
He acts like he doesn't use it.
But I noticed he has a nice insulated wrap around his washer.
So obviously he uses it.
I use it.
I do want to get a washer for like test runs or stuff like that,
because it's just much more convenient.
You definitely need to go and check out.
I think actually George Greentham posted it,
how to do the whole conversion with like the really bitching like L pipings.
And I got I got a thing on my page about it.
I don't know who did it, but awesome.
Thank you so much whoever did.
And for small batches in the cubes with some ice,
it's definitely going to work way better than breaking your back really quick.
I mean, it's just it's convenient.
But I think the proper way should be by hand.
There's a sound you get.
There's a feel you get when you know that the mix is and the ratio is right.
In my opinion, you can tell when it's just too watery or it's too icy when it's like oatmeal.
You know, there's different there's different ways about it, too, because like, like
Pest Bros was saying, fucking Paul, he's he was by himself.
I'm by myself.
Majority of time when I'm in my HQ, I'm by myself.
And more often than not, if I'm washing with the machine,
I can watch with the machine dump a load, fill it back up with water,
turn the knob and start collecting this hash while that's washing right?
Yeah, with the with the with the stainless steel vessel,
like the one I have right here, the S9 still works one.
I have to watch that, lift it up, drain it, bring it back down and then try to cover it
up with a bunch of ice and like a covering to keep it fucking on chill fucking road.
You know, chill, chill Avenue, so to speak, while I'm pulling bags,
they got nobody else to watch.
It's kind of sitting there.
So on in a sense, if you're by yourself, maybe hand washing isn't for you because
you don't want your shit to get waterlogged and just sit there for 20 minutes while you're
pulling bags.
But at the same time, you have the like Puffin was saying you you end up having a lot more
control over what's going on to your hash.
And I mean, so there's some give and takes to that to the situations that just like where
what are you doing with what do you need to operate and streamline that operation?
So I was using three machines prior to the wash vessel.
And I was like, I need to see what's up with his hand washing.
And so I got picked up the vessel.
And I love hand washing.
Now, the only downside is, is the fact that like I mentioned that by myself, so unless
I had an apprentice or somebody helped me out to spin the shit while I'm pulling bags,
not only kind of saturating your material longer than you are.
Yeah, especially if you're dealing with fresh frozen, you don't want that you want to get
those fucking heads off quick.
Yeah, exactly.
Like, that's one of the reasons I like using the washing machine is I can get a nice rhythm
going.
Like he said, I work all by myself.
I don't have no help with me.
I don't have a team of anybody.
It's just me and me and me.
So it's like the how easy do you want your operation?
Yeah, I got machines.
Because I got a second hand.
Yeah.
Yeah, you know, I built my my room to work solo, you know, enough for a second person
to help me when I can or when I have the when they're available for me.
My room is similar to Puffin's.
My room is 11 by 16 or 12 by 16.
I have a 24,000 BTU AC in there 240 volt with a cool bot on it.
And, you know, I use a 70 gallon tote, similar to what Puffin's doing, filling multiple garbage
cans up with ice water.
And, you know, I pre chill my water.
It's so cold.
Like you can't put your hands in there.
You know, it hurts.
Like that's what you're looking for.
And like Bird was saying, if if it's too warm and you're working with fresh frozen and you're
trying to collect that hash of that once it's gone into your bags, it clumps up.
You want your water super cold so that it washes it off those bags and stick to the
microns of those wash bags.
You're going to lose that.
You can't get it out.
Yes, the greasy shit.
You know, especially the greasy shit.
Absolutely.
So my room is usually 40 to 44 degrees always, even if it's 108 degrees outside.
It takes 20 minutes to get cold in there.
I freaking love it.
I put eight hours, nine hours a day.
I mean, it's tough, but I don't mind.
I enjoy it.
So a little another little pro tip, I think the fucking 918 put me onto this.
I can't remember either.
That was me.
There's a view puffing.
Yeah, dude, I picked them up.
It didn't work too well for me.
I don't know.
I tried that.
You got it.
You got to add a little ice to put it works.
Yeah, I use some big blocks, you know, but but I got blocks too.
I got five of these now.
Yeah, I sent you like the the one that they use like for Hawaiian shavings.
They sell buckets that don't crack.
Yeah, yeah.
I was going to Home Depot and Lowe's or whatever.
And I was buying the small one gallon or two gallon buckets and filling them with water.
So I had big, nice ice blocks to work with.
And they just cracked the bucket like almost a week.
So sorry, on Amazon, you can buy on Amazon, you can buy the ice block molds.
They're like 50 bucks.
I bought one.
They're stainless steel.
So I make a lot of my own blocks.
It helps.
It saves you money, you know, instead of going to the store and having to buy.
Now with the question to you guys with the RO water, does it does it seem that those
icebox tend to last a little longer since it's a cleaner, more pure water?
Or have you?
How do you mitigate that?
I can't really be a judge of that because I've never run it without that machine.
And my room so cold, my ice water lasts for so long in there.
Yeah, it's so cold, man.
You know, when I first started before I had ice machine, even I got a bunch of pictures
at the dollar store, like drinking pictures.
There he is.
I bought a whole bunch of those drinking pictures and filled them up with water and froze them
in my ice chest.
And it had big like cylinders from those pictures that I would pull out and put in my freezer.
So I could just drop those into a 55 gallon drum.
Nice to have you back here.
I lost you.
The phone died.
Phone died.
I should have never done this on a phone in the first place.
Thanks.
Thanks.
You can actually see everybody's comments and everything.
Now I went and stole my daughter's Chromebook and I was like, there you go.
Yeah.
Back in what I missed.
Can we recap everything?
Yeah, we'll get right on it.
We were laughing a lot about you.
Well, I'm going to enjoy those jokes.
We were laughing about you.
You can on the playback, bro.
Yeah, well, that's true.
I can watch that.
I'll be able to see it all.
I'll be giving you plenty of payback.
Yeah, exactly.
You were talking about the class earlier.
I know that, but yeah.
I was going to see.
Speaking of the class, what's going to be happening at the class?
So let's see here.
I kind of sitting down at a class kind of syllabus and I think it's pretty much,
you know, I think it's all pretty much there.
Maybe it's a little word tweaking, but we're going to be going over really everything.
I want to be talking about, you know, in your starting material, which is how we make our
magic work in the first place.
So, you know, what are we looking for?
What experiences have we had on the, you know, the grand illusions on this one's going to drop
and talking to a farmer and you talk about other stuff and then it doesn't make anything.
That's the hardest conversation I've ever had before.
But in this business, but, you know, I want to go over everything.
I want to be able to kind of pass along what are you looking for?
People don't even realize you can look at these trichomes under a microscope and be like, oh,
yeah, that one's a big old stock with a big flat head.
That's not coming off of there.
So just those types of things from the beginning to I want to I want to be able to show the
different types of washing and being able to show that from a high level, you know,
mass production moving 40 pounds through to hand paddling and being able to show, you know,
especially people that are, you know, like, you know, like yourself, Bert, with all of the
techniques that I've picked up and everything and then from Nick doing the hand paddling.
So I think that's going to be a huge, you know, game.
Are you going to have your big machine out there?
I am.
So are we going to be showing everybody how to use that one as well?
Yeah.
So I'm going to have that.
I cannot wait to use that shit.
Small, modified washer.
Do what?
What is that machine called?
Oh, spray.
I'll spray.
I'll spray.
Who's that made by?
That's low temp.
That's what I thought.
Made by low temp.
I'm excited to see it in person.
I haven't got to see it in person either.
The whole idea of the, you know, the rounded off corners in the back and everything.
It's got it on every side.
So you're going to you're going to be impressed with this machine.
I know.
We've talked about it a lot.
Yeah.
And then but I also want to be able to show how I've started with, you know, the 20 gallon
bubble magic and, you know, bag bubble bag dude machines and how you can easily modify those
going to Ace Hardware and getting rid of those crinkle hoses.
You know, first off, I hate seeing people still washing with those.
And then just, you know.
Did you got rack them?
Is he going to actually show everybody how to make those diamond?
Well, we're going to.
Yeah, I want to go through the pressing.
I really want to just have, you know, all press a little bit different.
So I don't know what would be better.
I don't want to take away.
So I'd like to for us all to be able to kind of show how we press the size bags we use,
how we make our flow directional flows.
We what do we you know, our pressures, every temperatures, you know, and if we've got the
time, you know, that's why I'm trying to work with you guys on this syllabus.
Really.
I would like for all of us to be able to do that and have, you know, I think that bring
a lot of because I mean, that's that's a big part, right?
Yeah, I think that would be fun that we're each going to all that stuff.
Our different techniques on pressing.
I think that's going to be fun for everybody to get to see how how it is done.
A little bit different, but we all can achieve a really high quality product at the same
time at the end.
So it's going to be cool to get to show.
So, like I've learned from a bunch of different people and I pick up little tricks from each
person, you know, and and use it as how I do what I do.
And so I think that's one of the cool things about having us all there is you'll be able
to kind of pick up certain nuances and tricks and things that work best with your hands
and and your end product that you're looking at achieving, too, because we're all doing
different things and wanting different products at the end.
And I think we're all trying different things.
The big thing there is on the pressing and being able just to show that there are so
many options.
There's so many things to this that are not set in stone that can be achieved different
ways by the THA separation by either doing that manually on a press or doing that in
a jar.
Or, you know, I almost view the pressing is the big thing.
You know, your temperatures, you're getting it off the heat and everything.
The next steps are as wide as the culinary, you know, that, you know, it's cooking.
Basically, the way I see it is, is there's so many different things to do with it.
Treat it almost like like we talked about going to a real high end candy classes.
The next thing to do.
Yeah, it's something I've been doing lately is doing some cooking and making candy.
Well, I don't mean like I don't mean I don't mean making it into food.
I mean, the way you can know exactly the structure and everything with heat or with cold.
Like like what temperature it takes to to make chocolate correctly and to temper it
and all the different techniques of candy making is is very crucial on temperatures
and things set off at certain temperatures and you won't get the proper sheen to something or
the effect that you're looking for without the exact exactly.
So that's why I've been kind of playing with that a little bit, too.
Like I've been telling you something I feel like is candy making is something very relevant to our
our Roz and I think that's something that we need to take into.
To the next, it's what's going to separate you from every, you know,
how are you? How do you have your end product? You know, what are you doing different?
I mean, like how do you guys view the Oklahoma market? How do you guys see that from?
You know, I don't really know too much about it. I see what I see of it is it's
it's kind of young and popping. I feel like it's it's it's there's a lot going on in it right now
and they're evolving pretty quickly. I see a lot of people in it.
I don't really see anything bad from it. I haven't seen a ton of.
I mean, to me, it almost looks like, you know, like you said, it's young and it's almost like
a teenager. They're doing I can't I can't keep up with all the different like
consistencies that are coming out and people are doing crazy stuff, you know,
and some of it's good, some of it's crazy. But it's like we're all over the page on just
seeing people innovating a lot of stuff. Who knows? So, you know, we're all standing on the shoulders.
You know, it was like that here, too. And when cannabis went Prop 215 first popped up in
California, it was it was the Wild West. I mean, that's what we hear that Oklahoma is like. It's
the Wild West for cannabis, you know. So I see that I see Oklahoma becoming flooded with cannabis
in a couple of years. That's happening here in California. We're so flooded here with cannabis.
It's insane. Prices are two hundred and fifty bucks, three hundred dollars, three fifty. Like
it's ridiculous. So I don't know if that'll happen in Oklahoma. I hope it doesn't.
I know that a lot of California that have moved to Oklahoma expecting to grow like they grow here
in California to grow the same there, and they failed. Definitely different climate.
It's totally different there. So huge learning curve there if you're if you move from a different
state into Oklahoma and you don't know the growing weather, the growing ways there. So
you definitely have to adapt there and learn a little bit different than it's done here in
California. So I don't see anything bad happening. I just hope that Oklahoma doesn't become flooded
like it is here. Yeah. Hard to say that won't happen. You know, the market is the market is
getting kind of flooded right now with everything going on with the, you know, legalization hitting
all the different states and everything. So and the popularity of it being more
and more to every different age group, it's really becoming less of just a fad. I think
everybody thought it was going to be a fad and it's not. So hopefully it doesn't affect it. But
I think it's all coming in. The market being overly flooded and saturated is just inevitable, I think, really.
Everybody wants a piece of it, you know, and I get it.
No, exactly. Everybody thinks it's a quick dollar.
So we got we got it. We got it. It's going to be like a two day class going on there in November
that you got going on. I got it. I got a class coming up here in October, the 23rd and 24th.
That class is all filled up right now. So I'll be doing another one at some point in October.
A few months after that. But I'm looking forward to that one after my class here in October.
We're going to be going all of us to Oklahoma in November. What is that?
20, November 12th and 13th. 13th, 14th.
13th, 14th. Yeah. No, I just got my plane ticket. I should know.
November 13th. I got mine tonight too, bro.
13th and 14th. Yeah. If anybody wanted to come check us out at that in Oklahoma.
I was going to tell you guys to stay at the River Spirit Casino.
Don't tell everybody else that. Damn, I haven't even got my ticket.
I got my ticket. Now I'm going to get my ticket. There won't be any rooms.
Thanks, bro.
All the suites are rented out.
Exactly. Only janky rooms I've called because Jeremy told everybody.
You're selling right now.
Anybody wants to stay in that because I want to go play at the casino.
I'm ready to get on the roulette table, have some fun.
Everybody reach out to Jeremy if you want to get a ticket for the class too.
There's going to be some tickets available still.
Yeah. What's the ticket information, brother?
Right now, email your information to OG at 918OGS.com or just hit me up on Instagram.
It's at 918OG underscore. It's kind of hard to find me. They usually shadow ban me.
If you hit me up on there or just give me a call on my cell, it's 918-510-1149.
No, you just f**k yourself right there, brother.
Wow.
I'm going to get my telephone number. You can get my telephone number.
Just go to my ex-wife.
I'm going to get your number.
You're about to get some creeps up on your f**king phone call.
You're going to get a prank call of the s**t out of you.
Put you down on my ass, man.
Is that all these weird people on the other side talking about s**t?
Yeah, I'm going to get a prank call of the s**t out of you, dude.
You're going to get a prank call like another f**ker.
I'm looking for my next ex-wife.
So, if any of you ladies out there are interested, I am.
There you go.
Ready.
Everybody, everybody.
It's going to be good times, though. I'm excited. It's my first time to Oklahoma.
Yeah, me too.
Hey, I'm super scared to fly too, like a little baby girl.
You're all good, bro. I'll be on the flight with you, dog.
Are you going to drive, bird?
No, I'm going to be holding on to Pensbro, crying about it.
It ain't bad, dude.
I've been to Oklahoma quite a few times.
The flight's not that bad.
Once you start getting into Oklahoma, once you start going down a little bit,
descending, there's a little bit of turbulence, you know,
because it's pretty windy out there sometimes.
Yeah, I'm excited about that.
I'm going to get off that rock.
Really looking forward to it.
You guys are going to need Xanax all of a sudden.
No, just take like a whole syringe of RSO.
Yeah, it's going to be really, really bad.
Yeah, he thought it's going to be, we're going to be all right,
but you know what's going to really suck when you go down towards it?
It's going to really suck.
It's going to be really fast and the f****** wings are f******.
Yeah, just f******.
But yeah, I'm not excited about that, but I'm going to be doing that.
Having fun, just making it.
I've never been to Oklahoma.
I've never been there.
So, I mean, me and Rackham's are going to be out there for our first time.
It's going to be, it's a really cool place where we're having the whole class that same night.
There's a company, if you're not following right now on Instagram,
it's called the OKC Sesh and they're in Oklahoma City and they have sessions once a month.
And they've got like sponsors and that type of stuff to come out.
So really good turnout and you can smoke indoors.
So at this facility where we're doing the training, we can smoke inside.
So we can bring their own rigs, their own stuff and be able to set up at the tables
and smoke right there while they're paying attention.
But that same night, the Oklahoma City, the OKC Sesh has rented the same building.
So I'm going to try and work out a deal with them where I sponsor that
and can just leave all my stuff set up.
People can come in, check it out and we can get like everybody that goes to the class a ticket.
I don't know about all this yet, but-
Chris Bounds Yeah, let me set it up.
So everybody can call that phone number.
It is-
Chris Bounds
I'm watching all the messages over here.
I'm trying to-
Chris Bounds
It's like, no way!
Chris Bounds
Yeah, I'm like, can't that guy go back and re-edit it?
Chris Bounds
He can like, isn't there a moderator guy that can bleep shit out?
There's got to be something.
Chris Bounds
Too late now, bro.
That's live.
Chris Bounds
In case we show some pitties or something, right?
Chris Bounds
You just put out your personal phone number for everybody.
Chris Bounds
I think he's yelling at me in private chat right now.
It's just, what the hell are you doing?
Chris Bounds
It says, what the hell are you doing?
Chris Bounds
I hope everybody prank calls you.
Chris Bounds
No, no, no.
Call me.
Chris Bounds
As like a business owner, basically, I have to answer every call.
So every fucking time I get-
Chris Bounds
It says, I don't know the numbers 99% of the time, but it's a grower wanting to talk to me about something.
But it's like, we're calling you about your auto insurance, your auto thing.
Chris Bounds
No, man.
They were calling me about your warranty.
Chris Bounds
Yeah, it is required.
But this is such and such with blah, blah, blah.
And I'm just like, thank God you called.
Chris Bounds
I'm going to call him up and I'm going to change my phone number so he don't know it's me.
Chris Bounds
Be like-
Chris Bounds
3am speed dial.
Chris Bounds
Come on, this hippie spinach person needs to get deleted.
Let's see here.
Not deleted.
I like you, hippie.
I like-
Chris Bounds
3am phone calls.
Yeah, well, we know he's in Oklahoma.
So make sure you know the Oklahoma time that you call him.
Make sure it's 3am in Oklahoma time.
Chris Bounds
I'm going to answer.
Hello, this is Jeremy.
Chris Bounds
7-5-3-0-9.
Chris Bounds
So what are the sessions like out there in Oklahoma?
Are they, I mean, I don't know if you've been to a session in California at all.
But I know they can, they kind of go both ways.
They can be really cool and clean.
And they can be kind of grimy and rugged.
And like, you don't know if you're going to get robbed when you leave type shit.
Like, how's it out there?
Jeremy Koster
You know, it's all pretty, it's pretty cool.
Most of the time you're going to events that, you know, we've got some really neat places like
Relax Park in Oklahoma City, where it's all outdoors and a dispensary on site and a bar
and everything.
These Oklahoma City sessions, they're done usually at the Magnolia and OKC,
which is a really posh, cool area.
So most of the things I'm going to pop ups, you know,
sessions that are going on at night or, you know, at dispensaries.
So you get the gambit, of course, different locations all around town.
But most of the time, these, you know, these big sessions and all,
and like I was going to tell you, you should bring your DJ set
because it's got a perfect area over by the problem.
The airplane.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, it's better than bringing the tortilla maker, but.
I don't think anyone catches that.
So we're trying to gather all the stuff we need together for the class on the
on on our little conversation meeting.
And he's like, hey, I need this eight inch tortilla maker.
And so I'm bringing it on his carry on.
I don't think you should bring me a DJ.
That's basically like a little DJ set up.
It's about the same size.
And I'm sure TSA will get a kick out of it.
You're like, what the fuck is this?
They're going to be like, dude, you're not bringing the tortilla maker.
I mean, think about it.
If I'm like if I was thinking about like, do I bring a paddle?
Do I bring my tortilla press?
Do I bring like all this shit that's like for food and stuff?
Like I'm just a chef.
What do you want from me?
Leave me alone.
Right.
I'm trying to have all the supplies you need, you know, so.
Word.
We definitely need some time ahead, you know, right before,
at least, you know, kind of looking at all the different types of hash.
And, you know, I've got testing on everything.
So we'll be able to look at things and say, OK, you know, I want some along these lines.
Yeah, we'll make sure we give you a call on that phone number.
That phone number is 918.
Bird is a dick.
Good time.
I'm taking a nap.
I need a little bit.
Yeah.
I saw you doing a dab muffin.
You were doing a dab.
I don't have my dad right now.
I'm actually on a tolerance break right now, believe it or not.
What is that for you?
Good for you.
Fire.
This is some this is Wi-Fi two to four.
This is full spec.
So 40 to 179, like 40 to the 180 back.
That's dope.
I like that.
I'm about to press like 100 grams of it.
I don't know if you guys want to do that.
I was wondering, actually, they were saying sometimes you like to do some pressing.
I was wondering if you actually wanted to have it like set up and ready to go.
So what do you got there, Paul?
I'm sorry, I can't zoom in.
All right.
This is some blue gas from Intrepid Genetics that I got from pharmacy bros that I watched
for them.
I thought I would have to smoke any of that.
This is a full spectrum, 45 to 159 fresh off the press.
Fresh press.
And then we got Rackham's.
We got the Rackham's right there.
Rackham's Tech, some diamonds.
Yeah, buddy.
And some sauce, some diamonds and some sauce.
I wish I could flip my camera, but I can't.
Oh, well.
Diamonds in the sauce.
What did you have now?
When I saw you smashing something up there.
You got muted because you were too annoying.
Yeah, but take the whole glob.
There you go.
He told me that if you're going to fire up your freaking torch, that mute yourself.
Now, I will agree I'm annoying and need to be muted.
But I love you.
Now, we need to just give you a hard time.
What is that Rackham's?
This is some of my Sunday driver, single source.
Sunday driver.
Yeah, going by the wife as always.
I got some lemon head Skittles here.
Yeah, I've been on a tolerance break.
For how long?
About two months now or three months now.
How long do you do a break for?
Just until I'm ready to come back, I guess.
I just noticed I had some pretty decent anxiety when starting to have having to ingest a lot more.
Either solventless or just flour in general.
Started noticing anxiety kind of picking up.
So I took a break and I've noticed that that's kind of dwindled away a little bit over the
last few probably last four to six weeks.
That's been a game changer.
I'm definitely going to come back, but in moderation.
I mean, we all know that cannabis kind of reacts differently to each individual because
of our chemical makeup or whatnot.
So, I mean, changes how it reacts with you as your body's changing.
Whether it's taken orally with the edibles or smoking it.
I mean, orally is totally different experience than smoking it.
And we all know that.
Yeah, I mean, if anything, I'll do some gummies or whatnot before bed type of shit or after
I work out.
And I've been taking notice of a big difference in my mentality and my focus and whatnot with
not smoking as much.
Am I losing him?
Wow.
Am I still here?
What?
Am I still here?
Yeah.
Yeah, we got everybody.
I'm just making sure.
So how many grams are we going to be pressing here?
Somebody just commented diamonds and sauce is a hype product for the children.
You know, if you're happy to say you ain't trying hard enough.
I know.
And I got shit a while back because I called it a novelty, you know, and I meant it and
I didn't at that time.
It was kind of I like to say shit like that, like anti flower, Rosin, Rosin Club type shit.
Just to just to fucking ruffle people's feathers.
It's all fun and games.
Oh, yeah, it's all fun and games.
Oh, look at that.
I like that.
You see that little piece of track he did there?
That was sick, dude.
You see that?
Yeah, like he had like the little pizza thing, dude, that you do.
What's going on with the calendar?
That's right.
I think I think we're legal with that, right?
Yeah, I hope so.
Oh, yeah, I can't see nips.
Dude, I see more nips than that on the other hand, dude.
Oh, no shit, right?
Yeah, you know, as long as it's blurred a little bit, it's fine.
That's what I've seen.
So I'm sorry, I didn't hear exactly how many grams you say that was.
Oh, we're doing 100 grams.
It's three bags, basically 33 and some change on each bag.
So like, basically, I can get like an immediate.
OK, that's your percentage.
Dude, that's bad.
That's bad ass.
That scares me.
It scares me watching you.
I'm nervous for you, bro.
No matter what.
What do we get on the regular, man?
Every time I've seen this fucking podcast and he's pressing, she's always doing a fucking
hundred fucking goddamn grams in a single press.
Jesus Christ.
Jesus.
That is insane.
That's just scary, bro.
I got shit to do, man.
I got to go golfing.
I can't be waiting all day.
I'm down to play.
That's four presses for me minimum.
Dude, I got like 12 grams of press.
I'm not even kidding you, bro.
That'd be like eight presses for me, bro.
Yeah, I like to do like 20 grams of press.
Look at that.
Look at that color.
Look at that color coming out.
Damn, you can't even see it.
Dude, it's like the same color as the fucking RJ Baber with a little yellow to it.
All right, we'll get some flow going here.
Sorry for the slowness.
How many tons is your press?
It's 10,000 psi, so.
And you max out, don't you, Puffin?
Oh, yeah, I max out.
Wow.
Like 20 ton, 25 ton?
Jesus Christ.
Yeah, I think it's 25.
Yeah, that cylinder looks more like a 25, I was going to say.
It's the bigger one.
It's not the small one.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure that's a 25 ton cylinder.
So basically, it could kill you then with those strings.
The whole thing looks like a death machine.
That thing fucking blows.
It's going.
Yeah, you're dead.
That's legit.
They're not.
Why you got to be all negative about it, Nancy?
I'm serious, though.
I'm not being negative about it.
Everywhere, dude.
What are you talking about?
You drive a goddamn, what kind of vehicle you drive?
I bet you that thing will blow up any time you drive it.
Me?
You're talking about me?
Yeah.
Oh, man, my truck just blew out yesterday on the way home on the left-hand driver's side.
What's the point?
You're talking about the press, goddammit.
I'm just saying the thing looks scary as fuck.
Look at that thing.
I agree with that, guys.
That thing looks bad ass.
What do the springs do going upwards?
They're basically just holding the plate level.
They just pull it back up when he releases the pressure.
It doesn't actually hold it.
Yeah, that too.
It keeps it a little bit more level.
Okay.
Yeah, it's mostly to pull the plate back up too, so it just automatically pulls it up
and to keep it square, like you said.
That's not going to, it's not, if the pressure is downward, the whole cage would have to
explode, which is like burly steel.
Yeah, dude, that thing ain't going nowhere.
No.
So what PSI are we at now?
We're at about 7,000.
Damn, so he goes way higher than we do.
Fuck yeah, he does.
Dude, we would go like, I go like 3,000 PSI.
Yeah.
There's about 9,000.
It's all about your square inch.
So if he's got a huge ass fucking PSI.
What temp are you at?
Dude, there is no fly on that thing.
I'm not squishing for.
No, what temp is it at?
I didn't hear.
220 he said.
Jesus, dude, I'm excited.
What the fuck?
Yeah, it's short now.
Fast, it's, it's, yeah, I get it.
I know, so like.
I get why, how you're doing it, yep.
Wait, that was 220?
220.
Let me know if the color's too dark for you.
Yep, pull it.
That's gorgeous.
Can I ask you, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is
it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it,
Can I ask you, can I ask you guys a question here?
And in case you think I'm, I'm bluffing.
How's the stability of it after that, at that temperature?
Is it already like jar tagged now?
You know, I mean, I'll leave it in the jar for about a day and then I'll, uh, and then
I'll whip it up.
But it won't really.
You can see the writer consistency like that though, right?
No, you can see that though.
It's already kind of caked up.
Yeah, it's definitely caked up.
But you couldn't do, you couldn't make.
It's that's, that's, that's past fresh, fresh, fresh at that point.
Yeah.
So let me, let me ask you guys something like, if I feel like if I'm taking material,
Sorry, I might be losing you guys.
Hold on.
Let me open my door and, um, and squeeze it.
And I squeeze it super extra, you know, I put everything into it.
I'm, I'm pushing out stuff I don't want at that point.
I changed the color.
Yeah.
Yeah, I agree.
I don't know if you guys have seen that or.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I feel like once you go past like three or 4,000, you start.
Well, I'll go up to, you know, five just to make sure I've got it.
But once again, that also determined that also is determined based off of how much you're
pressing.
Right.
Cause you're not actually using.
I love the skin tone outside.
You look really good.
I know it looks, looks warm.
You look so cool.
A cool warm.
A cool warm.
It's a nice filter.
I can't mess with you bro.
I can't even line myself up correctly.
Damn, that's good though bro.
Beautiful.
A little over an ounce.
Yeah.
And then what I'm going to do.
No, no, there's way more than an ounce.
I'm going to like a freeze out for a second.
How much in the jar?
How much in the jar exactly?
Hold on.
I'll let you know.
Give me one sec.
Don't tell us yet.
I didn't see it.
I didn't see a tear weight on that jar.
He's guessing.
He's guessing.
Tear weights right there.
Oh, okay.
There it is.
Nancy, he got you.
He just wrote that.
He just wrote it.
He just wrote that.
Oh, come on man.
No.
That's a four ounce jar.
It's like a quarter to third full.
Then he's got to have like at least two ounces or a little bit less.
I was saying a little under two ounces.
I was going to say like 40 grams.
I said 40 already.
Who did?
Me.
Oh shit.
Okay.
I'll say 40.
Or I'll say 39.
How many grams did he squish again?
But he didn't gather all of it that quick.
No.
That's easy math.
What was in the jar?
Oh yeah.
That was just what was in the jar.
That was just he smashed so much.
He better get 50 at least all together.
No bro.
He got more than that.
At that time.
That's what I'm saying.
30 grams on the sheet.
Hold on.
It's easy math.
If he's getting 70%, he's about 70 grams.
It's like 31 and a half in there.
Dude, I bet you he got like 80% yield on that.
I called it first.
I said he got an ounce in there.
28 grand.
Fucking 30 right there.
You called that shit on the button there, didn't you Rackham?
I fucking feel so many of these jars.
I know exactly what the measurements are on that.
This guy is in his first rodeo.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, it is 50 billionth either.
But what you got like maybe another ounce on the paper on the parchment.
Oh, no, I guarantee it's going to be over 80% inside, inside around the pouch and all that
shit too.
I mean, it'll only take me a second to grab it.
The Wi-Fi.
This is the Wi-Fi.
It's just so easy to deal with from washing it to stuffing the bags.
Sorry, just stuffing the bags to pressing it.
Obviously you saw it just coops out.
Once I throw in the freezer for less than a minute or two,
it pulls just right off the paper.
There's no pain in the ass to it at all.
There's no way to get it.
Easy to work with at that point.
All right, let's have a gentleman's bet.
He's going to collect it all up.
Are you collecting it all up, Pepin?
Yeah, yeah.
Give me like one minute.
I'm going to do it on camera though.
So yeah, we want to guess here.
So who has to buy the first round of beer?
Let's all bet a gram next time we see each other.
Yeah, who's fine with that?
Next time we see each other.
Yeah, who's fine the first round or whatever we're doing that night.
So I say 82 grams.
Okay, that's close.
Anybody else?
So what?
You don't even know what it is.
Oh, yeah.
I don't fucking know exactly what it is.
I like the way you tell me it's close.
That's close.
I'll say 72 grams.
He's going 72, all right.
Oh, man, you got no faith in me, huh?
I'm going to say 84.
I got over 80 in that.
That's good.
I'm going 81.79.
Yeah, 82 wins.
I'll just take 81.
No blowouts.
It is good to go.
So each one of those bags, how much is in there?
There was a little over 33.
Okay, all right.
See what I mean?
How easy it just pulls right off.
Yeah, yeah.
Let me see if I could show this.
How cold is your room?
What's your temp in your room right now?
73 degrees.
Oh, wow.
Super stable.
Yeah, very stable.
It's that high temp press, bro.
But you would expect it to be less stable at that higher temp, my mind would think.
Right.
It also tells me that it's got a lot of THCA in it.
Exactly, especially with how bad it butters up just so fucking quickly.
I don't know if I can show you here.
Hold on.
Of course, that's what Rackham says.
That's got a lot of THCA in it.
You see this part right here?
It's just literally like butter.
Yeah.
That's what it looks like.
That's the THCA converting over pretty much instantly.
Yeah, exactly.
What's your guess for weight?
82.
You got 82 with me?
I'm at 82.
That's my birth year.
Okay, I'm going down to 80.
I want just 80 even.
You can't change that.
I'm changing.
He just used the same number as you.
All rules are off.
Chancey, stop it.
Just stop it.
I'm taking 80.
Stop it.
We got Chris Martinez picking 88 grams out here.
I want to see a 90.
We got the moderator doing 76.
I got an 80.
I want an 80.
I'm at 87.
I want to get that scale in the picture so I know there's not like-
Oh, goodness.
We're looking at Nancy over here all worried about all logistics.
You think Puffin's good.
He time-wastes.
Man, he just wrote that tear weight on there right before he-
Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha.
Yeah, right.
There's one on the bottom.
I wrote that on there.
Yeah, right.
We got a bunch of people guessing.
Bunch of people guessing here.
87, huh?
67%.
Come on.
Yeah, right.
I will bet you a lot of money that it'll be more than 67.
What did I say?
72 or 78?
I can't remember.
I don't know, but you didn't say-
You went low.
I think you said 76.
I was going low.
Like I said, my feelings were a little hurt right there.
I think you said 67.
I was probably 76.
Yeah, we'll see what you think.
I don't know about that.
We can rewind this tape.
Yeah, I know.
We're going to rewind it to get your damn phone number.
I think if you guys walk up-
918.
There it is.
There it is.
Right there.
9309.
Booyah.
I love this, man.
That's awesome.
Oh, God.
You guys are a good bunch of cunts.
I like you guys.
Feelings mutual.
All right, here we go.
Big reveal.
Oh, fuck.
Big reveal.
Are you going to add those numbers?
Yeah.
Maybe.
I hate gambling.
This guy wants you to stay at a casino out in Oklahoma.
It's an Indian casino.
Of course it's an Indian casino.
Yeah, they're top notch.
We got actual games now.
Dice.
Yeah, it's no longer just fricking bingo.
If they got some three card poker, I'll fuck with some three card poker.
But that's about it.
Here we go.
We're putting it in the same jar.
That he wrote the number on right after he heard it.
Yeah, we know.
All right, first of all, we're going to take that little theory.
We're going to take that little theory and discard that real quick.
I'm not doing no conspiracy theories.
Let's use my jars that I have pre-weighted and ready to go.
Let me see the jar.
Let me see the jar.
Oh, pull, Nancy.
Pull, Nancy.
Hey, all right.
I said it wasn't a tear weight because it wasn't on the bottom of the jar.
We couldn't put the jar upside down because it was full of rocks.
Let me see the jar from the side.
He just wrote that one too.
He got you.
All right, OK.
Nancy, all right, OK.
Here we go.
OK.
Who's got a calculator?
That looks like about two and a half.
That looks like a little over two ounces.
All right, we got it.
It's a little over two ounces.
We got the-
What's the two ounces?
Right?
We can see it.
We got it.
Who's got a calculator?
What's 187?
I can tell you what it is right now.
Yeah, you got it.
All right.
Where are we at?
84?
Yeah, boy.
86.
86?
86.
Paul's the winner.
I got 84, so I guess-
Paul, you're going to bless all beer when you get here.
Paul's the winner.
No, I think the biggest loser would be you, that you had to buy us all stuff.
80?
I'm in the 80s.
I'm still in the 80s.
I got first round.
Who's Rackham's?
It would be the biggest loser.
All right, I'm going to buy everybody a tequila shot when we get together.
I like that.
That was not good.
We're all getting tattoos also, so just by the way.
Hey, I'm down.
I'm ready to go.
Let's **** get a spot right here.
I'll take it back.
Okay, I'll give it back.
I'm going to finish this up.
I just got my new girl.
I'll take it back.
Uh-oh.
83.
It's 83.2.
83.2.
Which still means all wins.
Yeah, it's still pretty good.
Still pretty good.
Killed it, bro.
Yeah, it's a good one.
Good press.
Yeah.
Yeah, man, at 82% on 100 grams.
That's legit.
He did that **** live for all you guys and acted like it was no big deal.
I was nervous watching the guy do it.
You guys have no idea, bro, how much stress that is.
Dude, he made it look easy.
He was like, oh yeah, we'll just get more to come out.
Look, it's just really simple.
So why...
So I just got to talk to you, Puffin, here.
Yeah, hold on one sec.
Sorry.
I'll move this.
Somebody tell me what's your first name, actually?
Josh.
I apologize.
Josh, what's your phone number?
You call me here.
It's 918.
So listen, why do you have the need to press that much at that temperature?
I can see exactly what you're doing now with your different bags and your big plates.
So you can do a lot at once.
But I don't see the need to be that high in temperature.
Okay.
Well, I press lower and I get less return.
And I have no problems with my color or my terpene profiles.
So everybody's happy.
My customers are happy.
Well, how big of a yield do you think you lose?
So if you did 100 pounds just like that, you think you'd be closer to the 70s then?
Yeah.
If I press about 180 or 170, I'd probably be in the mid 70s.
So by the way, food for thought too, like SolvenlessMine,
he presses all of his hash at 200, 220.
And also the reason why I honestly want to know 918
is because that's the way I was taught by Superior Solvenless.
Yeah.
I've heard a lot of people do it.
I heard some people at 710 telling me that they did that really high temperatures over in the 200s.
Yeah.
And there's quite a few other people that I've heard doing it over in the 200s.
Yeah.
I think it has a lot to do with the reason that people do it at a lower temperature
tends to be because they're going for a translucent look of the rosin.
And I can still achieve that too.
I can separate it and then make it fresh press and put it directly in the fridge.
And it'll look like shatter.
It'd be crystal clear, perfect, good to go.
That's not my prefer way of having my product.
I make one type of product and there's very rarely where I have someone that's such a good customer
where I'll go ahead and do them the favor of giving them fresh press because they request it.
But in all honesty, it's easier for me too.
I can just snap it right off and hand it to them.
But I prefer rosin.
It's just something I like.
I like the way it works.
I like to work with it.
That alchemy of it, of the change of it and watching it change, like you said earlier,
you're cooking with this.
Yeah, exactly.
People need to understand too that if you're pressing at 180, 170, 180,
because people are asking questions about turf loss, that extra 20 degrees,
you're going to lose those turfs anyways.
There's not much turfs that you're going to be gassing off at that 180 compared to the 200.
He's proven that.
Yeah, if anybody here that's on this chat or anybody that I know can vouch for me,
there's no loss of terpenes in my product.
It's absolutely.
I agree with you.
When I first started pressing, I learned at 220.
I learned at 210.
All my stuff came out like a snap and pulse style rosin.
But back then too, I was pressing a lot of flour or all flour.
And I was getting translucent colored rosin that had a light gold color to it.
That's what I learned.
With flour rosin, I would agree.
That's where I would want to do it in that 210 range right there to do flour rosin.
And you also understand my bags are so big and what I'm doing is so big.
On that plate is so big.
It just helps to be able to get it out of the freaking press as fast as possible.
It creates that degradation in the color.
The faster you get it off the press, it doesn't matter.
It's not actually that hot.
It's gone.
It's into the jar.
Another pro tip when pressing at that temperature,
depending on the hash that you're pressing,
usually a live rosin or live hash, whole plant fresh rosin hash.
If you're pressing at 220 directly into the jar,
you can actually take that jar immediately after it's been pressed,
seal it up and put it on a heat mat at like 100, 110
and get that shit to crystallize into the jam text that bird does.
That's another one.
Another way to eliminate the oven side portion of the jam.
Yeah, you kind of do the oven technique inside on the press.
I've heard of other people doing that as well.
Yeah, American River Extracts has done that before and a few of my other homies.
Yeah, the most of what I would see when you get a lower temperature,
you're going to get the only thing you're going to really receive from that is a consistency
of like a little less shattery consistency and more of a fresh press that'll be like gooey.
It depends on your heads too.
I mean, like obviously I work with a lot of just straight hash,
not live hash or fresh rosin hash.
I work with dried cured material most often than not.
And that even in itself, some of the genetics just pump out,
just fucking auto butter instantly.
And that's also based off of how the grower grew that said hash too.
It always falls back on how it was handled prior to you getting it and growing.
But some stuff that I washed was just consistently dry as fuck.
Some shit that I washed is completely wet as fuck and super turpy.
No matter what temperature I pressed it at, I tried to go lower and didn't work out.
Tried to go higher, didn't work out.
But once again, those variables tend to play a big part of this.
And what we want to get people to understand is the best way to mitigate that
is it's like, say, if you have a hundred grams, like a hundred grams,
like press five of them, see what the fuck happens.
Press a couple of grams at different temperatures, see what you get.
And which one, which consistency do you like right off the bat?
Unless you're trying to like do a cold cure or keep it fresh or do a jam or whatever,
then you can figure that out after the fact.
So your initial return and what that consistency becomes is going to be based off of your
temperatures, of course, but it also is based off of the hash that was procured, so to speak.
Yeah, for sure.
I did a post on my Instagram not that long ago about stuff,
auto buttering right on the press.
Some strains just do that right away.
Sometimes that's a really pretty look when you pull it off the press and it's crystallized
already on the press.
Some strains just like you said, just do that.
And I like to kind of let my hash tell me what I'm going to make it into and what
temperature I'm going to press it at.
I don't do it all at the same temperature.
And I like if the stuff auto butters up on the press, then I'm definitely making that
into a whipped consistency.
That's what I'll prefer.
I think that'll be a best representation of that strain in rosin.
So that's kind of what I'm always trying to achieve is what do I think that's going to
best represent that strain and give everybody the best representation, whether it's a fresh
press, whether it's a whip, whether it's a jam, what am I going to do to best present
it for everybody?
And that's kind of something you just learn from trial and error.
And you find while you press it, it kind of speaks to you and tells you what you can do.
Yeah, for sure.
That was impressive, Josh.
Here's some final product of the first wash.
There you go.
Yeah, that was very impressive.
You had all of us in awe over here when you shoved 100 grams in there.
I was just like, I've seen him do it before.
I've seen him do it before.
I've been seeing it all the time.
I just follow my live page.
I'm probably pressing that three or three times a week.
I didn't.
I just followed you when we started talking.
And then I was like, yeah, I got to follow this guy.
They were telling me, the Future Cannabis Project guys were telling me about you pressing
all the time live.
And I obviously have been missing out.
That was awesome.
Looks good, man.
It's nice and greasy.
This is the one that's a little drier, the Wi-Fi.
And then this is our Mac one.
Definitely still, they're fantastic colors.
God, those are beautiful jars.
That is so much work.
What do you guys think about that?
He's showing right now, he's showing us a drier resin and a wetter resin.
Everything's exactly the same.
So I see people talking about that and bringing it up.
The fact that some people frown upon a drier resin, maybe because it was cured or un-cured.
It's not the right word.
Last season, I did a bunch of material and every strain came out dry.
Every fucking strain.
That just might be the strains, man.
You never know.
It's just the grower.
But my question is in regards to the wetter consistency versus the drier consistency
and what you see in your patients and what they like more than the other.
Have you been able to explain that to others?
I personally like it when it's a little wetter.
I feel like it's preserved a little better because of the wet layer,
turf layer preserving the outside area from oxygen permeating in and degrading the resin.
And I feel like a little bit wetter is easier for me to manage on my dab tool.
And that's what I felt like my people that I deal with prefer is if they want it butter,
they want it wetter.
Unfortunately, like you said, not all does that.
But it also determines on what you're going to use it for.
Because if I'm putting some resin in a joint, then I like it a little drier because then I
can just crumble up a nice little flaky layer in my joint.
So the reason I ask is because people tend to think that the drier crumbly type of resin,
even if it was just happened, just that's the way it ended up being with all variables handled.
That is less terpered.
And I tend to see that's not the case.
Not all the time.
Well, just because something's wet doesn't mean it's more terpy.
It might have more terpy or physical oil content, but that doesn't mean that the percentage is
higher than this stuff that's drier.
I've got some drier shit that's loud as fuck.
I personally believe that.
Go ahead, man.
I was just going to say, I think some of them have a higher viscosity.
Maybe some of them have a little more fat to them and some of them don't.
The ones that are less dry, that are drier.
But as far as clients, I haven't had any complaints on whether some of it comes out
drier like your first jar or whether it's wetter like your second jar.
I have something to add to that too.
There's the matter to take into consideration once again, is the THCA.
And the percentage of THCA content that's in it.
That is the point.
So you have a drier resin, it's going to have more than likely have a higher THCA content
than your wetter resin.
Your wetter rosin.
100%.
That's probably what it is more than anything else.
I agree 100% with that as well.
So I get 100% of my stuff tested.
So I look at that.
I was also going to say, I've had all my stuff tested in the past, especially like the Mac
ones and the Wi-Fi's, the stuff that it's always been staples on our menu.
They have been tested in the past, even on BHO well back in the day before I even started
doing solventless rosin.
And I will tell you that the stuff that was higher in terpenes was usually wetter.
And the stuff that was higher in THCA was usually a drier consistency.
Now, it's not much.
It's very slight, especially with hash rosin.
You're only going to get maybe like less than maybe like 5% difference between almost all
hash rosin, even if it's not good.
Even if it's stuff that's almost to the point of food grade, it's still going to be high
in THCA.
It's good and it's not going to look good.
That's I have gotten.
I've gotten my stuff tested by numerous people that do our edible company.
Like I work with Super Chill and I've worked with a few other people.
And every time that they've had my stuff tested, even the food grade stuff that I would never
smoke in a million years, it's over 70% THC.
Wow.
So, well, yeah, almost all of my stuff is in the, you know, it's tested 70 to 80% THC
and higher.
But I don't know how much really it comes to that.
I mean, I thought I was just going crazy because I went to a run where it was just none of
it would do that.
And, you know, and I had my same procedure.
I changed locations.
It's strain specific, man.
Do what?
It's strain specific, man.
And I have stuff that's so wet.
People are like, oh, is there something wrong with it?
But I can't sell it here.
If dispensaries are like, oh, that one's dry.
And I'm like, this stuff is awesome.
And when people would buy it, they're like, this is the best.
That's the lack of knowledge right there, brother.
Yeah, I have the same problem, but there's just different types of customers.
The only way that you can mitigate that, Jeremy, is by doing vendor days at these dispensaries
and teaching the bud tenders what the fuck the difference is.
And also the community that comes through that door, that they allow you to set up a
table and not just have shit there, but just be able to sit there and answer questions and
explain that just because this stuff's dry doesn't mean that it was oxidized or anything
like that.
It just has a higher percentage of THC in it, THCA.
Some people might like that and they'll change their minds and they'll go over to the bud
tenders like, I want what the fuck he has right there.
Why don't you have it?
It's education, once again.
And you were talking about the sessions earlier, like out here, like they can be kind of cool
and they can be a little sketchy.
And a lot of them, they tend to lean on the lower end brands of like CRC Rosin or people
floating like massive packs where they got huge freaking boxes of flour coming from somewhere.
They're doing a lot of flipping and stuff like that, where when I'm there, they don't even
understand what the hell I'm having and they can't even grasp why it costs what I'm asking.
You know what I'm trying to say?
So it's all about education.
Don't judge your hash by its color.
It's like Rackham said, they're uneducated.
You know, when I first started making Rosin and I was going to all these cups everywhere,
nobody knew what Rosin was.
What is it?
Why is it double the price of BHO?
And I had to explain.
And I went home to my hotels and I couldn't even talk the next day.
It was just over and over again.
And you're just telling one person after the next.
We were at these cups where I was allowed to let people sample my product.
And I let everybody sample it for free because no one knew what Rosin was at all.
And I just educated so many people.
And it was insane.
And people were taking dabs on my product.
And at the end of the night, people are coming up saying, oh, my God,
I've never had anything like what you guys serve.
Thank you so much.
I did some of the best stuff I've ever had in the world.
Like, whoa, you blew my mind.
Had people come up and tell me, like, you've changed my life.
Like, you've changed everything the way I thought about things.
It's insane.
It's all about education and teaching people, explaining all those differences,
why it's more expensive, how much more work it is,
how much the work the farmer has to put into it to make clean, to grow clean cannabis.
Especially me, like all my products, I work with all organic farmers.
So, you know, it's just like eating an organic apple versus a non-organic apple.
There's a huge taste difference.
Huge.
Or an organic watermelon or strawberries.
It's a mass difference in the terpene profiles.
And it's all education.
It's really tough.
And in certain states, they just don't know yet.
And you have a tough one, Jeremy.
And it's all about getting out there and pushing, you know, what Rosin is
and why it's better than BHL.
And like that was my thing.
I pushed against BHL and then I just always hashtag BHNO.
And like everywhere we went to every cup, just like BHNO, bro.
You want to taste some real good shit or you want to go taste some crap, bro, for cheap.
We just went hard against it.
You know, I was so close to going with BHL, but then I flipped my mind.
It just completely changed me.
And I went against BHL.
Don't get me wrong.
I've still taken dabs of it here and there with somebody presents something that's unreal looking.
But it's very, very rare.
You're in the army.
Yeah.
You smoking SCRC, bro?
You smoking SCRC?
No, bro, no.
I'm in a fucking hell.
I'm just kidding.
You're like, oh.
Doing what you're doing, 918, is what you just teaching these classes and stuff.
That'll help a lot.
You're going to get it out to a lot of people.
And then they'll put it out to other people.
I think that's the best thing we can do right now is just try to educate the masses on it and talk about it.
Talk about our experiences, just like we're doing right now, so that everybody can hear that what they think is not necessarily what they're, you know.
I'm out doing pop ups every weekend or a festival or something I'm doing.
So again, call me on my number and meet me up at any kind of festival.
Yeah, call me on that number.
That's 918.
That's what I'm doing is educating everybody that I can.
867-5309.
But yeah, to elevate.
Have you gotten any phone calls yet?
I don't know if my phone's dead.
So I'll turn it on here.
That's probably a good thing.
I wish it was on right now.
No more.
If you can get into some of these dispensaries and facilities and actually ask them to do like a vendor day,
if they're willing to work with you, that'll be key for them and you.
I do it all the time.
So my real salespeople are the bud tenders.
So the bud tenders are who I'm constantly educating, talking to them.
And they do know, you know, they do it.
Are you able to give them samples to try your product?
The bud tenders?
No, no sharing, anything like that that's allowed.
So, you know, that makes it difficult and stuff.
But if you end up getting metric, sorry, real quick.
If you do get metric in your state, you can metric grams out to be for like one cent to give out to the dispensaries for samples.
That, well, that's what I do.
So I'll do, you know, stashes or whatever.
I'll collab up with a dispensary and I'll put my products inside.
Like we'll go to a festival and they'll have an on-site dispensary and I manifest everything to them.
And then I, you know, give them X amount or then they go buy it for a penny.
Yeah, exactly.
We can penny things out.
But, and that's true that, you know, the bud tenders is really what I've got.
They need a 918 OG t-shirt.
They need to understand.
They need to see this.
Ask me about my head stash.
You should go give them your phone number.
But most of them have it.
But most of them have it.
But the, it really, the knowledge is out here.
It really is big.
I was in a competition.
You know, what was it?
I can't remember exactly, but there were like seven entries.
And then in the next competition, right after that on 710, there were 31 entries.
And you had to be an OMMA licensed processor, solventless, tested everything.
And you know, it's, it's exploded.
Yeah.
You're going big up there.
I hope you win this cowboy cup, man.
Hell yeah.
I only have a few more days to enter.
I seen you post that.
I'm rooting for you, man.
You need to win that.
I got a nice entry.
It's really good.
Maybe someday.
Plus I'm in a lot of divisions.
I'm hoping to get one of these belt buckles from you someday.
You keep winning all these goddamn things.
That's what I'm saying about Emerald Cup, bro.
I'm trying to give me a f****** Emerald Cup over your f****** ass, a**hole.
I'm about to just enter just to be you.
Yeah, you got it.
Bring it.
Taking that s*** home every f****** year now.
Last two years.
Yeah.
I live out in the country, so I couldn't really hear you guys laughing at me.
That's all right.
I'm getting closer to the router.
There we go.
Camera.
Oh yeah.
Good job.
Camera one.
Here we are.
Well, I think it's about time maybe we could wrap this up.
We had a really good conversation.
Yeah, this is great.
Yeah, I think that went fairly well.
I guess everybody will give a little shout out.
I want to say thanks.
I'm Brett Bird from Bird Extracts.
Thanks for following all of this.
Anybody that watched all this, we really appreciate that.
We had a really good time.
And if you guys want to call anybody, there's the phone number.
Yeah, it's too bad you can't host this one.
It's too bad this one won't be reviewable.
Oh, it's plastic.
Darn it.
Hey, Jeremy, what's your address real quick?
I need to write that down.
Yeah, okay.
So what you want to do is go down 169, see a red truck.
Turn left.
We don't have any hanging out questions, do we?
Before we get out.
We got anybody to add anything we had to answer, we missed or anything?
Oh, in the chat.
There might be a couple questions guys.
Get them in while we can but one more time,
if you guys could let everybody know where they can find you
on Instagram or your social media real quick before we go.
I'm Paul Pesbro.
You can look me up on Instagram, Facebook as well.
Facebook, I'm not that active.
It's P-E-Z underscore B-R-O.
Oh, yeah.
Go ahead, what about you?
Right here, at Rackham's from IG, just spelled the same way.
No underscores, none of that business.
And that's about my only one.
I got my YouTube, which I've used kind of as much as I use my Facebook.
At Rackham's from IG for lives and everything else, hash related.
What about you, Puffin?
Puffin Solventless, we're out of SoCal.
I guess there's our label right there.
Just like that on Instagram.
We also got a website, puffinsolventless.com.
You get a lot of cool stuff.
We got like damp hats and lighters and t-shirts.
Do the car hearts.
We can be in San Fernando Valley.
We do some of the sessions, hemp session, and we're probably going to be doing
Friday night sessions as well.
So we're coming out with a lot of new cool stuff too.
We got gummies coming that are like insane.
We're doing like nerd infused gummies.
The nerd covered gummies kind of like that they've been making.
They've been coming out.
She's been doing gum drops.
My chick's been all doing all sorts of crazy stuff.
We have the Halloween theme puffin eggs, which are our freeze dried Skittles that are all
hash rosin infused.
We do all in-house.
It's our rosin and we decarb it and then we even fat infuse it.
So they definitely smack and hit pretty hard.
And we always got stuff on hand.
So bug us anytime you want.
And I can't thank you guys enough for having me on here and letting me share my techniques
with some people.
I appreciate you guys always giving out good information.
So to be able to reciprocate or give you guys anything that I've learned in this process,
it feels real good.
So thank you guys.
Josh, most importantly, people are noticing that you have an LA Dodgers hat and a Cubs
banner.
Go Cubs!
I'm all for the Cubs.
I'm a Cubby here.
I'm actually just a huge Chicago fan in general.
I love the White Sox and I love the Bears.
So Chicago is just like, I love the town and the city.
And I don't know.
It's just, I know it's scary and people get murdered like crazy, but Chicago has just
been my thing.
But I'm in LA.
So I'm Dodgers, boy, tried and true.
If I'm going to a Dodgers game, I'm wearing this, if the Cubs are.
Good luck with the Bears and your new franchise.
Oh man, it's a tough road, man.
Let me tell you.
Thank you.
Thank you, Chad.
We appreciate you helping us out.
I didn't get to introduce myself.
I didn't get to give my information.
I know you're wasted, but I'm not letting you kick me out with that playing the music.
You already gave out your number, bro.
What else do you need?
You want the Oscar music play out?
Yeah, the Oscar music play out.
You're not cutting me off.
I'm getting 867-5309.
Listen, hey, Chad, can you pull up my Instagram page?
I'm going to take a second here and make sure everybody knows how to get to this damn class.
Besides, where's my jar?
If you want to follow me, it's 918OG.
And there you go.
Look at this.
I got that right.
Rackham's got his account back.
He got his account back and I did not.
So there we go.
918OG.
Scroll down.
Everybody's up in their jars on the screen.
All right, where are we going?
There we go to the left right there.
The class, that one, exactly.
All right, cool.
There we go.
Rackham's.
Everybody come check that out right there.
Oh, look at all these jars are popping.
I love that.
Everybody check the class out.
Come and see us in Oklahoma.
The Experience Project.
You're going to have all of us out there.
We need to get Puffin to come out so we can have as much fun as we're having here with all of us.
Maybe I'll make a surprise road trip.
Who knows?
You need to come out with us.
Do you do be all of us from Cali?
Just call me.
Call me and I'll get you on the list there.
I'll go right on it, man.
I'm sure.
You've got my number.
You've got it.
Just quickly, what consistency does each of you like to smoke?
All of them.
Free.
Honestly, there's no real.
I don't mind any consistency.
I really just prefer quality product that has fantastic taste.
Same here.
If it's fire, it's fucking fire.
That's bottom line.
That's it doesn't matter what consistency it is.
It's fire.
It's fucking fire.
Yep.
I agree with both of you.
Now, straight hash on the other hand, I definitely don't want no two or three star.
You don't want that fucking five or six.
You got to.
You have fun.
Let me say one thing that I've been talking about this last week.
The star rating has nothing to do with rosin, period.
The star rating has nothing to do with rosin.
Only has to do with hash.
Are people putting out six star, seven star rosin?
Oh, bro.
Three star rosin, bro.
Six star rosin.
Nothing has six star rosin.
You haven't heard about the six star rosin, bro?
It floats around the internet.
It's heady.
It's only for the heady.
We have a hard time just between a five star and a six star.
And rosin is not hash.
Rosin is hash oil.
It's a byproduct of hash.
Next step.
Hash is its own entity.
Rosin is its own entity.
One comes from the other, yes, but that does not mean that it is hash.
If you would say the word hash referring to rosin around Frenchie,
you just about got yourself choked.
Oh, yeah.
Thank you.
I mean, hash is what we're trying.
We don't even want to have to do the next step of pressing it.
We want to be able to watch it and have beautiful freaking hash and be able to sell that.
That's the idea, but 99% of it's got squished.
Did you get sufficiently to plug yourself, 918Nancy?
I feel like it.
Again, that's 918OG underscore.
They deleted my account, wouldn't give it back.
Otherwise, I'd be at like 20,000 people yet.
No.
Okay.
You'd be at 20,000.
I don't even know.
No, I'd have two more than I do now.
He'd be at 3,000.
You guys, look at that.
There we go.
Go to the experience project.
That's the page I want them to follow.
That's the educational one I'm starting.
I'm going to just put all kinds of different ideas I'm doing.
Go buy a 28 gram baller jar bubble hash, and I'll give you some rosin evolution bags,
and you can go press it at home.
You can bring it to my lab at a tier two price, and I'll press it with you.
Oh, that sounds fun.
You got all sorts of ideas.
This is really cute.
I'm really excited to get a six mile.
Cute, he says.
Remember, you're coming to see me.
Dude, somebody's going to be 20 foot circle in the parking lot real quick.
You better not bring a knife to a gunfight.
No, yeah, we're going to Oklahoma, man.
There's going to be guys wearing spurs and shit.
Dirt roads.
It's all dirt roads, man.
The first thing I do when I get out there is get a belt buckle and a cowboy hat and some Wranglers,
so I'll be as tough as you.
Wranglers.
I'm bringing my eight gallon hat.
I'm bringing my eight gallon hat, bro.
I'm going to go get my Wranglers and hang out with you guys.
I'm just going to wash in my five gallon cowboy hat.
This was fun, man.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, guys.
Hell yeah.
Thank you.
Appreciate the Future Cannabis Project.
Yeah, thank you, Pete, man.
I love Pete.
I don't know where he's at, but yeah.
I heard him.
I heard him in there.
Thank you, Pete.
He's lurking.
Take care of that little one, man.
Yeah, Future Cannabis Project.
Appreciate it.
Yeah.
Hey, it was nice meeting you, Puffin.
Yeah, pleasure to meet you guys, too.
That was absolutely hysterical and fun.
We had a good time.
We should do it again.
All right, guys.
I'll see you guys soon.
Yeah, we'll do this again.
We'll go ahead and end the broadcast.
Thanks for joining us, guys.
It's been a riot.
Oh, wait.
Before you end the broadcast.
Yes, sir.
Today's Tuesday.
Brian and Marco tomorrow.
Yeah, I believe tomorrow night.
And then Thursday, we got Brian and Leighton.
And then Thursday afternoon, we got Hoda Herb.
And then you want to do something later this Thursday night?
I had something at 2.30 at Thursday.
West Coast.
Oh, OK.
All right.
Slipping into the mid-afternoon time slot.
What are you doing over there?
I'm freaking out, man.
Is that what you guys see that?
You look like you're doing that on purpose.
Max, Max, Max, Max.
Head for the box.
Is he doing a TikTok right now?
Hold on.
Is Jeremy doing a TikTok?
Can you throw his phone over right now, too?
Is he doing a TikTok?
What the fuck's going on?
I don't know.
I almost had a stroke, though.
Oh, my God.
That is insane.
I think we're done.
All right, guys.
I'm going to go.
This guy's having too much fun.
I appreciate the invite, man.
No better ending than that, guys.
See you later.
