Maine, they're like destroying all of the Norwegian,
what are they, borer beetles?
A type of borer beetle in the tree?
You mean the emerald ash borer?
Yes, I think that's what it is.
And they're throttling like every Norwegian pine
that we have in Maine.
And they weren't there like three years ago, basically.
Well, they were there three years ago,
but they certainly weren't there
maybe 10 or 15 years ago.
Then if you look out on the landscape of the island
or the hills and you can just see these giant brown patches
of trees and stuff, it's quite amazing how fast
they just decimate the population of certain trees.
Got it.
Well, just for everybody tuning in right now,
I gotta run up and finish making red bean soup for my wife
and I'll be back.
But just the one story I wanted to tell was
I'm harvesting all the mint seeds from my mint right now.
So the little like flower pods that have dried up
and literally half of them have, you know,
the little caterpillars like inching out as I harvest them.
And I guess, Matthew, would those be corn ear worms
that also like mint pods?
Or do you think it's, I need to take a picture of them,
but I was surprised to find a caterpillar
in all the kind of flower heads of my mint.
But.
There's a bunch of different caterpillars that'll do that.
That'll like feed on the pollen or the seed pods
or the flowers or whatever.
Could be the same one, could be something totally different.
Right, so well, I'm gonna throw it to you guys.
Elka, you're emceeing the conversation.
I'll be back in five minutes.
All right, I'll try not to fall on my face.
Okay, so I've got some notes here
from the information that you sent me online.
So that's that, if I get kind of sidetracked,
I can always come back to that.
All right, and it shouldn't be anything
that should throw you for a loop or anything
because it's your information to start with.
So if you read what you sent me,
then this should be all right.
I sure hope not.
Yeah, I sure hope not.
I don't wanna throw any curve balls.
Okay, all right.
Well, first of all, I'd like to thank you for doing this.
And we just met like a few weeks ago online.
I'd like to thank Mr. Leal for pointing me in your direction
because I'll tell the story.
Something weird showed up in my house
and it was like these little bugs
protecting some eggs like an army.
And it kind of freaked me out
because I'd never seen anything like that before.
So I like reached out on Instagram.
It was like, does anybody know where to find Xanthanol?
Because I looked that up
and that didn't show up on Instagram search.
So anyway, but within 24 hours or actually less,
somebody had hooked me up with you.
You had answered the question and my wife loves you now.
So I know how to identify those stink bugs early on.
So I appreciate that.
And doing it so fast, that's amazing.
This community is really something else.
I've never experienced anything like it actually.
I mean, I really appreciate that.
I'm also kind of, it's sort of surreal
that anyone gets to be able to converse
with so many people using something like social media.
It has its own problems, of course,
like any piece of technology can.
But I'm happy because it garnered the exact interaction
that you're describing here with people being connected
with me being able to give some information
to somebody else who's needing it.
And also I get to make cool connections
with people like yourself.
Yeah, that's what it's all about, right?
That's what it's all about, right?
Is there an echo on your end too?
On your end too?
No, it's probably because my microphone
is too close to this speaker.
We'll see if it's better now.
Yeah, I'll just ignore it.
All right.
So the reason that I wanted to have this conversation
with you, that is distracting having the echo.
Yeah, let me see if I can change that for you.
How's this?
Maybe we can turn down the gain.
All right, yeah.
It's still there, but it's a little lower.
Okay, I'll just try to-
I'll try to turn the microphone.
Okay, that seems to, now you speak,
make sure that I can hear you.
Well, I'm gonna turn off the microphone
when you're speaking, so there's no echo.
Oh, okay.
I'm sorry that I'm giving you chores already.
All right, the reason that I wanted
to have this conversation with you
is because the cannabis community throughout history
has been known for solving problems
sort of like this HLV thing.
It's like we've been posed many problems
throughout the time.
Like the first generation is leaving us now
and they solved a lot of the problems
just with like lights indoors and stuff like that
and just bugs and just figuring a lot of stuff out
for the next generation.
I guess I would fall into that.
And I think that this generation's problem
is gonna be this kind of thing now that it's more open
and things are getting passed around more freely.
There was a lot of diseases in the past too
because everything was so clandestine
and people weren't keeping clean environments
and it was just, you threw it in a plastic bag
and off it went and stuff like that.
It just, things were different back then.
So now that things are more mainstream,
you're having more mainstream problems.
So I'm really excited to have this conversation with you
and it seems like you're really on it.
And I don't know if you wanna talk about that paper
that you're getting published or not.
Would you like to tell everybody about that?
Congratulations on that by the way.
That's awesome.
I appreciate that.
How's my echo?
Is there an echo or is it just when?
Just when I'm speaking to you.
You know what it is Matthew?
One of these days, either you're gonna invest in
or I'm gonna send you some headphones.
I have headphones.
You do?
Can you grab them? Sure.
I mean I guess so, I just didn't wanna disrupt
the meeting, the conversation.
Yeah, I'd rather fix the problem
because this has happened in the past when you've been on
and I think it's just that the audio's coming
through your speakers and going right back
through your microphone.
Oh, well it's trivial
because my headphones are already connected.
Excellent.
Yes.
Look at that, he's unstoppable.
Okay.
But I think you need to pick those as the speaker source.
Can you hear us through those headphones now?
Yeah.
Okay, cool.
Can you hear me?
We can hear you.
Excellent.
So yes, so this is not like a research report
that I published.
I just wanna say that up front.
It's a chapter in an agricultural book.
The chapter's called Viral Diseases of Hemp,
Cannabis Sativa.
And the book, I'll put on the spot,
I'm forgetting the name,
but it's a chapter with many other things.
Oh, yes.
Viral Diseases of Horticultural Crops.
Is that correct?
That's right.
Did I put that in the email?
Yes, you did.
Yes, you did.
There we go.
Like I said, I tried to do my homework on this.
I'm trying not to fall on my face
and actually like get some good information
and have a good conversation here.
Not have a lot of dead air.
Well, one of us has to.
Well, I think you've already done yours
through the schooling and everything.
I'm really excited to talk to you.
So is there a direction that you wanna go at first?
No, not necessarily.
You just happened to mention the paper.
So I just wanted to mention that, or the chapter.
I had to condense a lot of information
to a small writing limit, a word limit.
So I had to be very creative
with how I structured and expressed things
and prioritize some things over others.
But basically I just wanted to say
that I go over a few different viral entities.
So viroids and viruses.
But I also wanted to say that I think
one of my favorite references in that chapter
that I make a mention of is reference number 19.
I actually had the paper up right now
called Zyberus-Unverlangicht von Hempsorten.
And my German is very rusty,
but basically that means on the susceptibilities
of hemp sorts or hemp varieties.
And in that paper, they go over a few different other viruses
that have been experimented.
Now this paper that I'm referencing here is from 1997.
So it's sort of recent,
but it's been quite a while.
They did some tests and they experimentally transmitted
several viruses that a lot of people don't talk about,
but some that people do talk about.
Like alfalfa mosaic virus and cucumber mosaic virus
and potato virus Y and a few others.
And I just wanted to kind of open up with this idea
that like you said, probably a lot of these pathogens
were already being experienced by people cultivating
either recently, contemporarily,
or also like millennia ago, potentially,
depending on a bunch of things,
or even a few centuries ago.
And that it is kind of only now that we're able
to sequence these viruses and take a look at what they are.
And even this 1997 paper, I'm not saying that I'm,
it would be wrong to say that it's wrong
or that it's dubious in validity,
but a lot has happened since the 90s
with regards to our ability to like assess viruses
and their ability to transmit and how that happens.
So I'm very excited to see some of these problems
get tackled kind of with the full on onslaught
of cutting edge technology with regards to that.
And I think hoplite and viroid will kind of be similar
in that vein.
We can start with that.
I know a lot of people are curious about it.
Okay.
I have something related to that that I'm curious about
that I'd like to have answered.
In those papers that you sent me,
there's a, I'll just read what I have here.
Gene silencing is what I wanna talk about.
As a gene silencing and how plants use it as a defense
against invasion and hide symptoms of their infection.
Also, did I understand correctly
that the viroids use it to function within the plant?
Like do they silence genes to be able to move around
inside of there and replicate?
Or did I misunderstand that?
No, you understood it.
So it's also kind of, it's a very recent discovery,
relatively speaking, when it comes to plant immunity,
but also the immune responsive animals
and even like how viruses and viroids get around
in their hosts.
RNA interference is one of these ways that that happens.
And so a lot of, to really condense it,
a lot of antiviral immune responses, essentially,
in plants make use of this because viruses are kind of just,
I mean, essentially at the end of the day,
they are these like kind of conglomerations
of a genetic material.
And so if you're able to disrupt that,
you know, through silencing or through like deletion
or breaking apart the functionality of these genes,
you're kind of ahead of the game that way.
And I don't think I could really talk about that
in great detail, nor that I think it would be really helpful
to do so potentially, but essentially speaking, you're right.
And yeah, I think there's not much more to say about that.
I'm gonna try not to ramble in this presentation.
Okay, so, because that's kind of where I'm heading
with a lot of my questioning is that,
can we like screw with the structure of this thing
in order to defeat it?
Or is that what you just said seems like
that that's not really a viable option
for fighting this menace?
Well, I think it would require,
I mean, like the plants have various plants
versus various viruses, right?
Because there's this great complexity
that we're talking about here that I don't wanna,
I don't wanna give credence to,
or I don't wanna not give credence to,
but I also want to sort of measure in how I talk about it.
Basically, plants already have these capabilities
to some extent.
And a big part of it is also gonna be the recognition
by the immune system, the specific immune system
of the individual plant in a population, right?
They're gonna have different levels of response
that's gonna be based on the plant's age,
it's gonna be based on the strain of the virus even.
There's a lot of complexity with regards to that.
I don't think that that will be the main way
that we defeat hoplite and thyroid,
because you either have to breed for that capability
and sort of augment it in that way,
or you'd have to use some other sort of methodology
to do that.
And the thing about resistances in plants
is that pretty much every treatment and every resistance
in reality causes sort of a selection pressure event, right?
There are examples where people have like,
I'm doing a lot of research on aphids right now,
because I'm gonna be making some videos about aphids
and how they feed and things like this.
And basically, there was a move to create wheat
that produced an alarm pheromone of aphids.
And, sorry about that.
Oh, oh, that is amazing.
I can't believe this is happening right now.
Well, we'll see if you'll see what I'm talking about soon.
That's really crazy.
Sorry.
A little serendipity there.
There's a little ant inside the lens.
There's a small little ant that somehow found its way
into, yep, there it is.
You just saw it cross past the lens.
That's amazing.
I've seen it before in other electronics,
but I guess it's really fitting, isn't it?
Yes, that's really funny.
But as I was saying, they put this alarm,
they basically created a wheat strain
that produced this alarm pheromone for aphids.
And the problem with that is that aphid reaction
to the pheromone, or to really any sort of odorant
that's gonna induce a response or behavioral response,
is plastic.
It's flexible, it can change.
And so they can become habituated to it.
And other resistances are like that too.
So it's not really effective to just go after one target.
It's gotta be multiplex,
or it's really a very feeble defense.
And so it takes a lot of effort and work
to kind of make resistances be kind of stalwart
and effective for a long period of time.
And I think that's kind of the problem here
is that especially viruses,
because they replicate so quickly,
and they can produce so many different mutated strains,
essentially, because of that replication,
that you very quickly end up with a bunch of things
that don't work, and maybe a couple of things
that maybe do work under the right conditions.
And then those expand out.
And we're even seeing this with the B. coli virus strains
that are infecting cannabis currently.
We're getting the warlin strain,
and other strains from beets,
and from like peppers and things like that.
And it's no doubt because these crops are also,
and have been for centuries,
affected by this virus, B. coli virus.
And so over many, many, many, many, many, many generations,
it's still a problem.
And it can be in native plants too, without symptoms.
Okay.
Yeah, that hiding of the symptoms thing that plants do,
that makes this a lot more complicated,
and just in general.
And you brought up a replication a few seconds ago.
Maybe we should start with like kind of describing
what this viroid looks like,
because I'm fascinated by it,
because it's a single strand of RNA.
It doesn't code, so that means it cannot create proteins.
It's all it is, is information.
It's a strand of information.
And if I understand correctly,
it's just the shape of it that makes it different
from another one, along with the information, correct?
Like it has to have a certain,
like they mentioned something about a hook or something.
Like it's just this line of information,
and then it has, I could be butchering this,
but there's a main structure,
and then there's the secondary structure.
And without that secondary structure, it can't replicate.
Is that on track,
or did I misunderstand what's going on there?
And how, like they mentioned, what's it called?
Like there's two families of these viroids, correct?
And we're concerned with the Pospiroviridae.
Is that-
Pospiroviridae, yeah.
Yeah, that's what most of these things are in,
in the other classes, a lot of tree viruses,
is what I noticed.
And they described the way that they replicate
as asymmetric rolling circle.
Can you explain asymmetric rolling circle
and describe to everybody,
like kind of give a visual of what it is
that we're talking about?
Like give the invisible some visibility, if you can.
Yeah, I can describe it, but only rudimentarily.
I'm not a virologist or anything like that.
But essentially there's like, so there's different,
so you mentioned shape, right?
And if I remember correctly,
there are a couple of different,
like for instance, a hoplite viroid is a cocadviroid.
So it's a specific genus of viroids.
And it shares that with a bunch of other species.
I think there's a citrus stunt viroid or something,
or canker viroid or something like that.
For those who are actually curious in this subject
and don't wanna just take my word for it,
you can look up the international, the ICTV,
the international something, or the viral taxonomy, ICBT.
Yeah, I'm not giving the name very well here,
but there's a large international community
that kind of tracks viral, sorry, viral genomes
and also viral families.
And you can see the taxonomy and the order to this.
And they do a really great job of having references
for kind of like the general physiological facets
that you're talking about.
Because I think I might actually,
if I go a little bit too far,
if I get a little too detailed,
I might misinform people.
I'd really like to not do that.
But essentially you're right.
There's like a circular kind of shape
to how the basically how the strain of RNA is formed.
And there's other ones that are kind of like a spiral
or they're kind of like more sectional.
And this is kind of similar to how,
like I'll mention another virus that affects cannabis,
the Leish-Clarosus virus.
That's not even a viroid, that's a virus.
It has a protein shell, a capsid.
And it's got a bipartite and if I remember correctly,
it might be also a tripartite genome.
I might be wrong here.
But basically it's got,
what that means is it has different parts.
And coronaviruses like Leish-Clarosus virus
are well known for what's called recombination
or pseudo recombination.
So one part of a genome can just kind of like,
I'm oversimplifying it, but it can like fuse.
It can recombine with another genome
from a different coronavirus, for example.
And that's really salient
because that really helps the variety.
And so the really successful parts of the genome do well
and the ones that don't perish essentially.
And there's even some evidence of that happening
between species in the same genus.
So yeah, so essentially that structure is really important
for being taken up into the cell to replicate
and that kind of a thing.
And it's especially useful because Hoplite and viroid,
it's very much, how do I say this?
It's transmitted really, really rapidly through,
as people know, through wounds, right?
So when you cut a stem,
you're damaging a bunch of cells and tissues
and things like that, causing a lot of mechanical damage.
And some of that mechanical damage
is gonna kind of create a pathway for that viroid
or that virus to infect some of those cells
that might be either partially damaged or not damaged yet,
but they lack a bunch of the defenses
that they would normally have from the plant.
Okay.
Hopefully that answers the question a little bit.
Yeah, like you said, that you couldn't get into too much.
You don't wanna misinform people.
And it's still general information and not well understood.
I got that.
It was kind of frustrating in those papers.
What isn't known?
On that note, how many universities are working on this
right now that you know of?
On Hoplite and viroid?
Yes.
I don't keep track of that in great detail, to be honest.
But I know that there are-
I appreciate an honest answer.
Yeah, and I know that there's a lot of private entities
that are like organizations and things like that
that are doing that.
Now, Hoplite and viroid,
obviously, the name kind of shows you
that it was well known in hops first,
and it was a major problem for people growing hops
and cultivating it.
And it continues to be.
But like cultivation of cannabis
is very different than cultivation of hops.
So I'm not sure if the same kinds of techniques can be used
to achieve the same objective.
So people didn't get rid of hops.
What they did was they basically were very, very biosecure
in how they produce their propagated material.
And then they kind of had a really good chain between that.
Like a lot of industrial agriculture.
You bring the clean stock to the location
and you're very secure about how it's transported.
And that's kind of like your main way
of defeating the problem.
Because it's not like, as far as we know,
it's not really vectored by anything, an insect.
Whereas like a virus like B. colitop virus
or Leishmorosis virus, it is vectored.
Both of those are vectored by different insects.
And so you have a much bigger challenge, I think,
from a biosecurity standpoint of defeating viral pathogens,
at least in cannabis.
Oh, but to answer your question.
So like there are private organizations.
Oh, I can hear the echo.
Is it still there?
No, sorry.
I think we lost Elka for a second.
And so I unmuted myself.
But give a long answer to his question until he cuts back.
Sounds good.
So basically there are a bunch
of different private organizations that are, of course,
interested in making advances
in the genetic sequencing of viruses and viroids
and pathogens of cannabis in general.
And almost assuredly, there's probably some level
of like public or university research going on too,
because there's hemp programs and things like that.
So I just don't really know to what extent in great detail.
But I think that there'll be a lot more
empirical research coming out
in the next like half decade or so.
I think his idea of being outside for this conversation.
Two more to the rescue.
Just chew up some time here.
Right.
So Cheddar Bob, what are we dealing with
on the rugged Maine coast?
Well, we just had a few days of rain.
So we're gonna see how that kind of plays
into the old PM and bud rot plans.
Calm down, my friend.
And currently I am dealing with a few mealy bugs
just prior to flowering.
So I'm trying to attack those with some Bavaria bassiana,
some EM5.
And I'm not really sure what else to throw at it.
Matt, do you have?
I'm a big advocate of Bavaria bassiana
for a lot of different insects.
And mealy bugs are really great for it
because they're basically, you know,
they're not totally sessile,
but they just stay put with all that wax.
And that's like their main defense.
The wax lets them shed water
and even like oils to some degree.
That's why a lot of people have to use surfactants
to make like compounds stick really well.
But Bavaria is living.
And as long as you get the spores on contact,
they're gonna penetrate the cuticle.
But there are other like compounds,
like botanical insecticides that you could utilize as well.
Now, you know, on that topic,
I recently, I had somebody contact me from Chile
and I made a video about it.
I think you're already aware of a root mealy bugs.
And it was really great because
although I'd seen them before,
I wasn't able to really document them
very well in that location.
That was in North America.
But like Elka was saying earlier,
you know, having this really quick
person to person conversational ability
allowed us to like interact
and defeat even a small language barrier.
Also, my Spanish was good enough to speak, I guess.
So I was understandable, which was great.
But all of those things were possible.
And we were even able to communicate about treatments.
They tried a hot water bath actually,
like 50 degrees Celsius.
And they dumped the roots into the water.
And they killed the root mealy bugs.
And they said that they would check in with me
about whether it worked or not.
Because I was curious if the plants would get shocked.
And apparently they didn't get shocked.
So that was great.
And I had heard about that technique
for root mealy bugs in general before.
But I'd always been kind of wary about utilizing it
for various plants because I don't wanna be the person
who has to explain why all these plants
are now like heat shocked and dying
because of something that kind of intuitively
might seem like a bit aggressive of a move.
But I'm really happy that that worked out for them.
And then a bunch of other people kind of chimed in
and said that they had also come across root mealy bugs,
especially in the Caribbean, for example,
and many other places in North America.
So it's great too because when you share something
like that, other people can come in and confirm
or deny whether or not they even had the same thing.
And that's why like sort of sharing
that observational footage is really important,
pictures and videos and that sort of a thing.
So I'm very happy to facilitate that knowledge flow.
Yeah, I'm sure there's going to be quite a number
that will be appreciative as well in the future.
Yeah, and then people who are even more learned
and connected like in universities and things like that
can do some like really good and important studies.
And there's a lot of that going on already,
maybe less so for like viruses, but I really don't know.
But I think it's more often the case,
especially that like more macroscopic organisms
like insects and things get looked at.
Now, I have a question about certain types
of sprayers and foggers.
Now I use like a Chapin,
the infamous red Chapin sprayer as for a foiler.
But I'm looking into getting using a fogger
because of the microbead size, right?
Now, I've been curious about with these mealybugs,
I find them a lot more inside
that brand new little meristem new growth,
that tight little node that you can't really pull apart
and get your fingers in there to kill them and squish them.
So which, I mean, which one do you think
is going to get inside of that little area better?
Like a full drench of the Chapin
or that fogging that like real big dispersal
of the microbeads from a fogger
with like a bossy on a Bavaria
or another type of something rather?
I feel like if you were working
with some sort of a chemical compound,
I might go with the fogger potentially.
I think both would be possible though.
If you were using a biological though,
I think I'd go more towards the drench.
I feel like that's a more,
or like some sort of a more traditional spray.
Okay.
And that's because maybe just you're not damaging
the whatever living microbes or entities
that would be in the water
from forcing them into such a small area.
Is that kind of what we're?
Yeah.
Like, I mean, I had worked with some
ornamental horticulturalists
who were dealing with various mealybugs
like citrus mealybug and long-tailed mealybug in roses.
And they had a similar sort of problem
but their plants even had thorns.
And so we experimented with a chemical compound
pulse fogger and auto fogger and also bio fogger.
So these are basically like jet,
not really a jet engine, but very, very hot.
Comparison of.
Cubes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But of course you use the bios.
We had to use the bio fogger
and it was a little bit, it was a lot more expensive
but it was a lot better at like, you know,
keeping the temperature and keeping the volatility
in a way that would be conducive to the life form.
And I just, and although your system
doesn't use something like that, I do feel like,
or does it?
Are we talking about a similar system?
I'm sorry.
I lost you for just a second.
Which system?
Oh, sorry.
The fogger system.
Is it, is it like, does it use like immense heat
to operate or is it?
So I feel like it's not like that, right?
Yeah.
I currently don't use a fogger
but I've been looking into like one of those petra foggers
or something like that.
Just because I was, my thought process was
smaller beads will be able to penetrate smaller,
tighter areas better.
But I didn't even really think about that
possible, you know, damaging the actual life
in what you're spraying.
So.
Yeah.
At least in those contexts, I would just say,
get a system that is specifically meant to use
biological agents like bacillus and bufari
and that kind of a thing.
And I think you'd be set.
But you're right.
Like, it is true.
Like, you know, when you atomize it
and you spread it that way, it does get everywhere
in a much more fine granularity.
And that has a real and a true benefit and value.
But I think that both techniques can achieve
good effectiveness.
Excellent.
Well, now that we have the regularly scheduled guests
and host on, I will get my ugly mug off here
and let you two continue with your chat.
Thanks for holding it down, man.
I do what I can.
All right.
I forgot where we were, but on what you all
were talking about, someone suggests I have
Japanese beetle problems like you wouldn't believe here.
And someone suggested the last time that I was on,
I was bitching about those.
And somebody suggested to me to use nematodes.
And what would, on the vein that you all
were just talking about, you may have just
answered this for him.
But what would be the best way to spread those around,
like you were saying, evenly without killing
little buggers?
Oh, the nematodes.
Yes.
And were they correct about that,
how the nematodes will get in there and eat the larvae
over the cool season?
And it really does a number on them is what they were.
And I looked into it, obviously, after they mentioned it.
But reliable sources on biology like that is kind of iffy.
I'm not asking you that.
I don't want you to do a commercial for anybody.
But I was just, the spraying aspect is what,
you probably just answered it for him, but I wasn't here.
So could you?
Absolutely.
No, it's a really great question.
And I appreciate you framing it the way that you do.
I try to keep an open mind.
And I try to, but I also try to, I guess,
account for the fact that organizations that
produce products and services are kind of definitionally,
they can have some level of corruption
or some level of incentive to maybe not give you
all of the information.
I'm not saying that people are all duplicitous or anything
like this.
But it's a factor to consider always.
So to answer your question, yeah, nematodes are,
there are several nematodes that are really great for scarab
beetles in general, your Japanese beetles
and things like that.
They're kind of subterranean.
And I think probably the most salient thing to say
is that if you're using a drench sprayer or something
to drench spray nematodes, you should really pay attention
to how that, literally, the spray nozzle or handle
is constructed and whether or not
there's a fine mesh screen between the opening of the tube
and the exit holes.
Because on a number of occasions,
I've had people utilize nematodes that come to me
and say that they use nematodes and it didn't work.
And more than a few times, it's because they just simply
didn't check their spray guns, their spray nozzles,
for example.
So small little details like that are important to consider.
But what happens is those nematodes get in the soil
or the substrate.
And they penetrate the insect.
And then they reproduce in it, essentially.
Bacteria in their bodies are what actually kill them,
typically, not the nematodes themselves.
And also, generally speaking, the larger the host is,
of course, the more biomass of nematodes you get.
You convert, basically, the larvae into nematodes.
And then those predatory juveniles, they leave.
And they try to find, chemically,
through sensing in the soil, signs of their hosts.
And they'll go and colonize those.
And that's how the cycle continues.
But if there isn't any hosts afterwards
that they can get to, then the population
kind of perishes locally.
So you have to reapply.
OK.
I wish that my municipality would just
put that in the spray trucks instead of glyphosate.
You know?
Just spray that shit around.
That would be helpful.
OK, well, let's get back on topic.
Like I said, I don't know where exactly we were.
I think we were talking about reproduction,
or maybe we were past that.
We were talking about sort of esoteric viral recombination
and things like that.
But I guess, to talk a little bit more about viruses,
I guess I just wanted to say there's
a few different viruses that people should be aware of.
Obviously, many people are aware of the Hoplitaen viroid.
But there's also the beet-colitot virus,
which is showing more and more prominence in North America
and other parts of the world for cannabis.
But it's known globally already as a major pest.
It costs like many millions of dollars in damage every year.
Ledge-clerosis virus is also similar in that way.
So the beet-colitot virus is vectored
by what's called the beet leafhopper.
And the way that you control for the virus
is that you prevent the vector, most primarily,
not by making a viral-resistant plant,
but by shutting off and disrupting
the ability for various life stages of the vector
to get into your area and then make contact with your plant.
Because they only have to feed-
That's where a guy like you comes in.
That's right.
OK, sorry to interrupt you, but I had to get that out there.
I've noticed that from the literature that you sent.
This is why you're interested in this,
is because you can play a part.
And guys like you, there's not a lot like you,
especially interested in cannabis.
But I should have asked you this earlier.
What got you into- How did you get into bugs?
Were you like a kid going around with the field guide
and picking up butterflies and identifying them
and stuff like that?
Or is this a later in life kind of thing?
I'm sorry to backtrack and interrupt you,
but I'm curious about this.
I'm curious about you as much as I am
about these bugs and the viroid and viruses
and stuff like that.
So, sorry.
No, no, no reason to be sorry.
Basically, I was always kind of a naturalist as a kid.
And I was hiking a lot as in the Boy Scouts.
I played a lot of Pokemon as a kid.
And I always say this, basically,
so it's kind of like ingrained in my head as a response.
But there's a lot of aspects of my childhood
that kind of facilitated what was already
like kind of a, I think like an interest in like plants
and especially insects, specifically.
And so that became an appreciation for ecology
and the environment.
And as I like hiked various places in the Boy Scouts
and I did rock marches and things working with the army,
although I never commissioned myself,
I did go to a lot of cool places
and do a little bit of training here and there.
And kind of all throughout those environments,
I kind of always kept that appreciation.
And I do like to say that as a child,
I did feel like various video games
kind of helped facilitate that appreciation
because like the creator of Pokemon actually
was a bug catcher.
People who are familiar with the series knows
that a lot of times you start the various games off
playing against people who catch bugs.
And indeed, like the creator of Pokemon
was also this person who was like running around in caves
and rivers, like catching insects
and like taking a look at them and that sort of thing.
And I think that's kind of neat to sort of share that
with the creator of a franchise
that was a childhood favorite.
And I think that it's also speaks to another thing
that I'm kind of passionate about,
which is the potential for like media,
but specifically things like video games
to like educate and teach people things
without them even having to like read a textbook
or something like this.
And I think that it's really cool
that I feel like that was a synergistic thing.
And now you have somebody like me
who likes to think themselves learned
and at the very least tries to help out people a lot
with all these sort of organisms
that people don't know a whole lot about.
And so I feel like sometimes,
some days I feel like a real professor Oak.
That's really cool.
I'm a big Nintendo fan too.
Miyamoto was something else.
I don't know if he had anything to do with Pokemon or not,
but he had a lot to do with Nintendo
and the Legend of Zelda.
You were talking about how the video games
can teach you things.
And the Legend of Zelda is a lot like that.
It's kind of a morality tale.
It's the same one every time too.
There's dozens of games,
but it's really the same game over and over and over again,
teaching you the same lessons.
Yeah, it's good that they're getting in the young minds
that way, in a positive way.
It influenced you to become the wonderful man you are today.
I appreciate that compliment.
Before I rudely interrupted you,
you were talking about the other viruses
from other plants that are affecting cannabis.
Is that a problem with viroids too?
Do the viroids jump around like that
from species to species?
I think that viroids tend to be kind of more host specific.
Yeah, like hop and cannabis being kind of cousins
so that they're susceptible to it.
Yeah, like actually, like for example,
I'm on the ICTV website right now.
Now to give you guys the name,
this is the International Committee.
That was the word I was not remembering right,
on taxonomy of viruses, the ICTV.
And if I just look here, Hoplite,
sorry for the typing.
Yeah, we can go down here to cocadveroids.
And yeah, so I have a list here.
We have Hoplite and viroid, which is a cocadveroid,
but we also have coconut tinnangaja,
hopefully that's what's pronounced, a viroid.
Coconut cadang-cadang viroid
and citrus bark cracking viroid.
Citrus bark cracking viroid,
that was the one I was trying to remember earlier.
So all of these viroids are in the cocadveroid genus.
So they're more closely related to each other
than like other species in different genera.
And I think that it is the case
that they're generally speaking kind of more host specific.
Whereas other viruses like B. colitop viruses,
it's incredibly, incredibly prolific.
And there's hundreds of different plants
that are infected by B. ctv and it's very estranged.
And it's really, really good at becoming very adapted
to specific plants.
So we tend to, at this point,
kind of organize different strains
by what they infect better,
but that's still kind of like a proxy.
Okay, so what would be,
what do you think is gonna be the way
that this thing does get defeated eventually?
Because right now it's just kind of running rampant
and everybody's scared of it.
And it's like, the thing that I'm interested in
is like, I'm a nobody,
I'm not running a huge commercial grow or anything,
but the seeds, I care about the seeds.
So, and they're saying that it's been shown
that it's traveling in seeds,
but they're not saying like at what rate yet,
because as we keep saying,
there's a lot of unknown about this
and that's what's scaring the shit out of everybody.
So what is your guess,
like you mentioned earlier,
like controlling the vectors from one host to the next,
but like, what else do you think
is gonna be a viable defense against this thing?
I'm actually sort of dubious
about a movement forward as well.
I actually spent quite a bit of the introduction
of the chapter that I was talking about
on or actually the sort of the introduction,
but also the conclusion
about sort of viral mitigation and cannabis,
because without, so without competent biosecurity measures
and sort of a whole community effort,
both at the supplier level with nurseries
and things like that, but also and distributors,
but also at the like local level,
people need to be biosecure,
people need to understand integrated pest management
and techniques like that.
And they got to understand the symptoms of pests
and that sort of a thing.
Without that, I think it'd be very difficult
to have like a really good control for hoplite and viroid,
and also other viruses for that matter.
And there's a legitimate, I would say,
and that's what I articulated in the chapter,
there's a legitimate disincentivization
in trusting organizations of authority.
Yeah, in general.
In general, but specifically in the cannabis space, right?
Historically, so unlike, for example,
in tomatoes or roses or whatever,
that's a really big hurdle.
And I don't think that this is getting easier.
I don't want to speak for the entire community.
I can't speak for the entire community.
But I do feel like that's a pretty pervasive vein
of perspective.
Until there's like a reason.
It was well earned.
It was well earned.
And until there's like a reason,
a really good reason for people to trust
that that's gonna continue to be the case,
I think people are gonna be naturally
and understandably kind of reticent.
To like sort of trust organizations
to like maybe take their genetic material even,
or to produce or provide the right legislation even
to like protect people at various degrees
in the commercial space, for example.
Or even produce cultivars that are either resistant
or free of the pathogen.
Because we even have problems with that too.
So I'm not saying that it will never get better.
But a lot of things have to change.
And also I'm very actually kind of worried and nervous
about the potentiality for some of these pathogens
to move back to areas of origin,
or at the very least sort of land-raised populations
in places that are not cultivated
or they're not extensively cultivated.
Because that can cause a significant problem
for germplasm or gene stock.
And if we ruin a lot of these like,
more or less feral populations that we want to like harvest
and cultivate and protect,
then we gotta be a lot more focused
about that kind of a thing.
And I just don't feel like that coordination is here.
And it might not be here for a few years or more
in the most ideal sort of context.
Yeah, and those land races that you mentioned
are already under enough pressure as it is.
They don't need something else coming in.
And it's been mostly human pressure over.
It's amazing some of them are still around.
Like the Indian land race exchange guy.
It's amazing what he's out there doing
is collecting all of that stuff.
And yeah, I hope he's successful at what,
you can see what direction he's going in.
But what else did you bring up there that-
I wanted to just, I just wanted to point out also
that like, you know, military tech buff
that I pretend to be, you know,
those that area of the world is also very hotly contested
for a number of geopolitical reasons.
So even if we were to get some level of competency
in fighting the pathogen, we might lose those territories
or they're already very difficult to access already.
And I bring that up because in the look for like
natural enemies to cannabis pests,
like the cannabis aphid, for example,
I've come across research like with parasitoid wasps,
like aphidius matricarii, which I talk about
in my cannabis aphid pest primer video
on my YouTube channel, Zinthanol.
And that parasitoid was found in the Kashmir Valley
parasitizing cannabis aphids.
That's like one of the only examples
that I was able to find in the literature about it.
And to me, that's very concerning
because that place is currently very, very, very,
very contested and I don't expect that to deflate soon.
So we could be shutting ourselves off
from natural biocontrol agents for us to use as well.
So it's really very kind of unfortunate from that angle.
That's a tough wasp too,
because that's a very cold area there.
Kashmir is that's Northern India,
where it's like up near China, correct?
That's very-
That's right.
I'm imagining that's who's contesting the area.
I don't wanna get into a geopolitical conversation, but-
Yeah.
That's right.
That's at least two of the over entities.
Okay, gotcha, gotcha.
So yeah, back to the toughness of that wasp.
That's really amazing.
And it developed up there, obviously,
to go after that aphid and yeah,
we losing something like that, that's way too beneficial.
That brings up something that I've got in my notes here
about how insects is like,
this is one of the most fascinating things that you sent me
is immune memory in insects.
All right.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, absolutely amazing.
It's like magic.
It's okay, I'm gonna explain, but this is my note here.
Immune memory or immune priming.
Infection creating protection against future infection
from the same pathogen, not only for the individual,
but also into further generations.
Can you expand more on that?
Because that's just, like I said, that's magical.
And it happens so fast.
So as you imagine that bug, that wasp we were just discussing
like it was able to develop that taste
for the cannabis aphid pretty quickly, I would imagine,
for, I know that's a different thing, but similar to that.
So I'm sorry to ramble on,
but can you explain that to us a little better?
Because it's fascinating.
Yeah, so actually you touched on a really great point
and something I was gonna say kind of already.
So I'm glad that you touched on like co-evolution,
essentially getting a taste for the host in the first place
because basically cannabis, to the best of the research
that I've been able to locate, cannabis and humulus,
we talked about hops, right?
Those are sister species.
And there were probably other species, maybe,
I mean, there probably were other species of cannabis
during its speciation event where it split from
the cannabis that we know about
and humulus that we know about.
And so they had a common ancestor like 19
to 27 million years ago, which is relatively recent.
And so I bring it up because when plants speciate,
our understanding is that, it's theoretical, right?
We've done genetic analyses of aphids, other plant pests,
and we've very, ecologists have studied
how these interactions come to be
and looking at sort of like deep evolutionary ramifications
and genetic aspects of that and that kind of a thing.
And basically, the cannabis aphid is a specialist of cannabis
for about Ford on cannabis, but there's also Ford on humuli
and it hosts switches between cannabis and prunus species,
like your plums and things like that.
And interestingly, the cannabis aphid doesn't do that.
So perhaps its ancestors used to do something like that
and then that behavior attenuated, we don't really know.
But that parasitoid, most aphids sort of specialize
as they co-evolve with their hosts
and parasitoid was for the same way.
That interaction has probably been happening
for about as long as cannabis has been around.
So it's been that way for a while.
And they get the ability to detect those aphids
by setting visual cues, factory cues, and things like that.
And they're able to locate their target.
But like you say, the Chasmere Valley,
it does get pretty cold and it is a pretty,
well, it's a very active environment.
And they probably rely very heavily on,
I mean, I think they also colonize other aphids as well.
So I think they're a little bit more generalist,
but they have to overwinter.
They have to like have a host
and they have to be able to exist in that host.
They probably overwinter.
This is just totally speculation.
I haven't looked into it.
But since there's only a couple of forms
that you can consider for that wasp,
it probably overwinters in the cannabis host.
Or in the cannabis aphid host rather.
When it injects the egg, the larva develops in the body.
And if it's like spring or summer perhaps,
then it goes on its merry way
and it closes and does its thing.
But I'm sure that if it's colder,
that's probably where it's overwintering.
And it's probably a long process
and they probably eke out an existence
until it's warm enough and then they come out again.
And so when you think about it,
that's a very fragile and sort of a difficult,
a precarious place to be.
You know?
Yeah.
What's amazing to me with insects is how fast everything is.
And that's why I touched on that immune memory thing
is because of how quickly, like that's just one infection.
And that insect can pass that on to its future generations.
And it's just, imagine if we had that type of ability,
there wouldn't be a big vaccine fight right now.
That's for damn sure.
Well, we do.
So-
Not that fast though, or do we?
Oh yeah, well-
We pass it on to generations and like all of that.
Well, yeah, for a long time,
the stressors, various stressors can do that.
And you know, I am embarrassed that I totally glossed over
that really important part that you were talking about,
the actual immune response.
So I apologize for that.
I told myself I wouldn't ramble.
But basically-
It's a good ramble.
Well, I appreciate that.
The immune response that you're talking about,
actually for a long time was either,
it was suspected, but wasn't really verified.
But insects do have sort of an adaptive immune response
like other animals do, like humans do.
And, but you're right.
One of the, so one of the things that makes a lot of insects
really successful ecologically,
because over 90% of animals are insects
or other arthropods for that matter.
And so the reason why they become so successful
is because they have very short lifespans
and they eat many different things
and they rapidly reproduce, right?
And so you get kind of the same advantages
that like the viruses we were talking about have,
which they replicate, you know, even at greater magnitudes,
which allow them to essentially, you know,
if you're gonna have like a selection pressure
kind of divert that line one way or another,
if you're gonna have something,
some sort of combination of genes that confers a trait
that becomes useful, then that's gonna get, you know,
copied and printed, you know, way quicker.
But insects also make use of this really rapid development
that you're kind of sort of talking about and alluding to.
And this immune response, you know,
that goes from like a parent to offspring,
there's some really cool examples of that
with parasitoids of like caterpillars.
So various parasitoid wasps utilize special viruses,
in fact, poly-DNA viruses,
to attenuate the immune system in caterpillars.
So when they insert the egg,
and I posted this on Instagram before
for those who were curious,
and I might make another post about it
if people are interested or a video,
but basically various like ignumen wasps
and brachynoid wasps,
they have co-evolved with viruses
to basically shut off the immune system
or kind of really just really disrupt it.
And then on the same token, certain caterpillars,
for example, or other insects have
basically been able to do the same thing for themselves
to fight, it's like bio warfare.
You know, they in fact use the same methods
to attenuate the attenuation.
And so you have this sort of climbing arms race.
It's really very fascinating to me.
As far as stress response is concerned,
you know, I've read some research that looks at
kind of stresses through human generations.
And there are people who have been victims of trauma
or have existed in very traumatic environments and contexts
that have, you know, we've been able to show,
we've been able to like test like the,
like to take blood tests and do sequences
of like grandparents and parents and then children
of those of that line of people.
And we can see the upregulation of certain genes
that are associated with stress response.
And in some cases it causes some very,
like some very life altering changes.
Some people become more susceptible to certain illnesses
or they become more susceptible to certain,
maybe in some cases behavioral disorders.
It's just one of the examples of things.
People become sometimes hypervigilant.
It just depends.
And that's just from like a genetic perspective.
That's not even entering the fact that
maybe a lot of people who are in traumatic contexts
also don't leave them.
And so that like predisposition,
that like genetic predisposition gets combined
with a real environmental force.
And so that, but that's why the predisposition is helpful,
right, because then that becomes,
it's easier to like have those stress responses occur.
Not really always ideal for human life though.
And so finding ways to attenuate that for people
is an important medical,
I guess you could say a journey.
Yeah, that's fascinating.
You just made a good case for nurture over nature, it seems.
It's really both.
Yeah.
Okay, that was a really good answer.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Sorry for throwing you a curve ball like that.
Kind of.
No, no, no, no.
That's very cool.
Talk to us about these other bugs that you're seeing
messing with cannabis, the moths,
the corn earworm, the hemp borer, flea beetles.
And you also mentioned something called sclerotinia.
Oh yeah.
You know what I'm talking about there?
Yeah, what's up with these little buggers?
These problematic things.
Yeah, so sclerotinia is a fungus that infects,
I find that it often infects like the stems
of a lot of various plants.
And I've seen it more recently in cannabis.
That's why I sent you that as an example.
And yeah, that's right, sclerotinia, very good.
So we, I kind of, like you said, as we grow,
as we cultivate more often,
we're gonna come across pathogens more commonly,
whether they come from other crops
or whether they were already a pathogen of cannabis
is not irrelevant, but maybe functionally irrelevant
for a lot of cultivators.
It's really just a question of what is it?
Where is it?
How can I stop it?
How can I prevent it?
And how can I cure it?
And so some of the, so sclerotinia is a sort of a pathogen
that infects systemically the tissues of like stems
and really causes a major vascular infection
that's pretty hard to get rid of.
In my experience, I don't know of any way
to really control it that doesn't kind of make use
of some like noxious sort of fungicidal agents
or possibly even botanical fungicidal agents
and things like that because of the way that it infects.
Even if you give a plant a great amount of nutrient
and you put it in an environment
where it's going to photosynthesize really well,
and that's sort of a thing,
the sort of necrotrophic nature of sclerotinia
is that it like will basically melt
and digest the plant cells in that infection.
So it's kind of like it totally bypasses the immune system,
the cellular responses and that sort of a thing of the plant
because it just destroys it
and then sops up the nutrients afterwards.
There's other fungi that are like that.
Whereas other things like the powdery mildew
that Peter mentioned is more of a biotroph.
And so it actually has to have, it's obligate to.
So it has to kind of play nice with the physiology
of the plant to siphon resources through its hostorium.
And that's why it's a lot less of a problem
in some instances.
It's a lot less lethal
because it's a good parasite in that way.
Yeah, so I just have to put up with it.
I have plants that it just gets it
and there's nothing you can do about it.
And I can't even get rid of the plants.
You dig up the roots and they're still there.
It's a bee balm, so it's a mint.
And it's tough to get rid of once you've got it around.
It's beautiful and it smells like Froot Loops
but the powdery mildew, I just use it now
because I know it's gonna be there.
So if I was, a lot of people don't believe in this method
and it may be bro science or whatever
but if I've got a plant that I wanna see
if it's gonna get powdery mildew,
I put it right next to that bee balm
and see if it's gonna spread from there
because you can see that it does get on other plants
that it's a little bit more susceptible to it
but not as much as it.
It doesn't just hog it all up.
You know what I mean?
It kind of spreads around.
But I've been told before that that method
really isn't the best way to test a plant
for powdery mildew.
But it's just, I only have so much available to me to use.
So that's anyway, get off on a tangent right there.
Yeah, the powdery mildew is kind of,
I'm assuming those are your plants, Peter.
That's pretty bad.
Indeed.
Yeah, it's ugly.
Yeah, so I mean, I just wanna just
sort of swage your concern here.
It is and it isn't.
So on the one hand, we should acknowledge
that there are many different kinds of powdery mildew
and I have a video that I'm rather proud of
that kind of goes over the different kinds
of powdery mildew in broad spectrum
called what is powdery mildew?
And because basically we should acknowledge
that not all species are gonna affect cannabis.
And so just because you have powdery mildew
right next to your plants,
doesn't mean that it's gonna be a suitable host.
And the evolution of powdery mildew in general
is kind of an interesting one.
There's some speculation that actually powdery mildew
before it was the erysipheles,
before they were what they are,
were perhaps soil pathogens.
And that over time, they went from decomposer to parasite
because they essentially developed more traits
that would allow them to take up a more parasitic role.
And in the study of symbiosis,
this can happen a number of different ways.
It's not just a pathogen influence,
but it's also the influence of how the host develops
and its sort of ancestral predispositions in that way.
But essentially, you can even have
like a mutualistic organism become a parasite
if like maybe it develops a few too many genes
that allow it to like, like I was saying earlier,
kind of like melt away or dissolve like plant cells
and things like that.
So like the tools that it uses to decompose plant matter
became exaptated essentially,
that's a technical term for like when a trait
that's used for one purpose gets used for another purpose,
like a horn being used to damage like competitive mates
then gets used to like open fruit or something like that.
You know what I mean?
And so that happens.
And so perhaps that's how powdery mildews became parasites.
And that being said,
people who study like powdery mildews of different plants
and are trying to do inoculation tests
do basically what you're talking about.
They of course confirm that the strain of powdery mildew
they have is actually virulent in general
and not like hypovirulent because that could cause issues.
And they also make sure that it's a species
that they think that it's reasonably sure
that will transmit.
But if they don't know, that's what they do.
They literally like do an inoculation test.
They put the powdery mildew leaves with all that conidia
and they just put it on the plant and see what sticks.
Like sometimes it is that easy.
You know what I mean?
You just have to know what you're working with.
Okay, yeah.
Little information goes a long way.
So what else do we have here?
Okay, we're talking about fungus quite a bit.
Can we stick on powdery mildew for one second?
Absolutely.
So different people, I remember,
I think I was talking to James Loud
and like Greg McAllister in the chat was like,
add silica, you know, baking soda,
you know, spraying baking soda.
I forget, James Loud mentioned a specific product
that he loves to combat powdery mildew,
but kind of what are some strategies to combat it?
So like you mentioned the silica,
and so like when, so some plants will sequester silica
to, it sort of strengthens the cellular wall.
I'm actually not totally sure
in all the different contexts that this can happen,
but I believe that's what's being kind of referenced here.
Because I have read some research
about some of the really interesting aspects
of like silica and this sequestration,
because it's not a nutrient, right?
But when it gets taken up,
it basically gets kind of used
in the construction of the tissues,
or rather it gets deposited,
might be a better way to like articulate that.
One of the things that I think
is maybe gonna be a lot more useful in the future
is utilizing like irradiation,
ultraviolet radiation, for example.
Now, of course, under the sun,
that is where you're getting a lot of UV,
but the atmosphere does protect
against sort of the more intense UV rays.
And so I'm curious, I'm cautiously optimistic
about the use of irradiation in cannabis for various molds.
And I've seen research that shows
that if you have the right intensity
and you apply it for the right amount of time,
even something as strong as like UVB or UVC spectra
can be very useful against powdery mildew,
because it literally, it physically destroys
and like disrupts the organism at a genetic level.
You know, it gives it a really bad sunburn,
essentially a lethal sunburn.
But you have to be careful
that you don't also do the same to your plants.
For example.
I know a remedy that I wouldn't recommend for cannabis,
but I knew a farmer that he would spray his fields.
He was a dairy farmer and he would spray his fields
with raw milk to take care of fungus problems
in his grasses and everything.
He had some of the most beautiful, healthy grass
you'd ever see and his cows were the same.
But something about that raw milk,
I guess the bacillus in there was what was eating away.
I don't know, who knows?
It was just, he was an older Indian farmer
and that's what he did back over there.
And then he did the same thing when he was living here.
So I said, I wouldn't recommend that for cannabis,
but for your squash plants, Peter,
a little raw milk might do you some good.
What do you think about that?
I mean, on that note, you could,
I mean, a lot of people are more and more interested
in sort of the microbiome of their plants.
And so not just the soil microbiome,
but the phytobiome and the epiphytes and things
that you can get on the leaves.
I'm a big, strong advocate of inoculating your plant
inside the tissues with endophytes,
but also outside on top of the tissues with epiphytes
and microbes that would sort of disrupt various pathogens,
not just powdery mildew.
How long you been battling this, Peter?
Like all season?
Still there?
No, kind of only recently.
It seems like with the squash,
it kind of comes out at the tail end of the growth cycle.
I don't know if it's the season or the growth cycle
or whatever it is, but.
That was my experience growing a lot of zucchini
is that when I let the leaves get,
people have told me that because the leaves
got really massive and there wasn't a lot of airflow,
that that was sort of a facilitating effect.
But I do feel like as a season kind of,
I didn't have any especially resistant cultivars
that I was familiar with.
So my understanding is that when it gets kind of
into this autumnal season,
that that's when it just becomes more active.
But I'm sure it's more complicated than that.
Yeah, but I do wanna try,
like my brother and his wife have a yogurt company
and they have a factory here in LA.
And one of the byproducts is whey.
And I just wanna get a big gallon of whey
and then dilute it down and spray that
and see what happens for that
and also for other purposes too.
Yeah, you should try it out.
I've had people come to me who have tried that
and had it not really work.
And I've had other people who've ascribed efficacy.
So maybe you should try it.
It would probably make a good video.
Carry on, Elka.
Okay, what else do we have here?
Yeah, the moths you were talking about.
Like how big of an issue is it?
You mentioned the corn earworm.
Is it as much of a problem in cannabis buds
as it is in corn?
Because those things can,
I've seen the corn earworm put people out of business.
Like they just quit farming
because they couldn't deal with it anymore.
And they were a chemical farmers,
corn, soybeans, switchers, all of that.
And even with all of the shit that they were spraying,
they still could,
it just, a worm defeated them
and put their family out of business.
So is it like that?
Are some of these moths like that with cannabis buds
or the kind of more of a mild infestation?
Yeah, definitely.
There's a lot of,
there are a lot of moths that the larvae of which
can cause massive crop loss.
Not as much in cannabis is the various armyworms
a problem in the same way.
But like fall armyworm and yellow striped armyworm
and all these other armyworm type moths in the noctuity
are a global problem,
massive problem in China,
massive problem in Africa
and massive problem in North America.
And also I think Europe as well.
So they're a huge issue.
And you can't even escape them
in some of the Midwestern states.
There's a fellow that I follow
who I believe is a research extension agent and professor.
And I'm forgetting where,
I think it's in Kentucky.
On Twitter I follow him.
And he was posting like a few weeks ago about,
he was doing all these butterfly net sweeps
just in like the plants.
And he's just getting like dozens and dozens of the larvae.
And then like he goes to like golf a week later
and he's like, man, I can't even get rid of these
when I'm going on vacation or whatever
because they were all on the field too.
Like they're everywhere.
Now to answer your question,
corn earworm, tobacco budworm,
other of these helicoverpa sort of type moths
also in the noctuity,
those are also really incessantly problematic,
not just in cannabis, but also in other crops.
But they're primarily a problem in cannabis
because we want the flower.
And of course, like if a worm gets in your fruit,
that becomes kind of an unacceptable problem
for the produce.
I mean, you have to toss it usually.
But the flower material,
like the issue is that even if you treat the caterpillar,
even if you kill the caterpillar,
if it gets onto the flower or if it burrows into the bud,
or in the case of like the Eurasian hemp borer,
which I also made a video about recently,
if you kill it somehow, some way,
it dies and rots in the product or in the stems,
which will lead up to the product.
So that's the really major problem
is that even when you win, you still lose.
Yeah.
Even having spiders in your bud is a problem
because they weave webs and that traps moisture
and you get bud rot in there.
You think, oh, I got a spider in there.
It's taking care of the bugs.
Well, no, it's creating rot for you now.
So even if you think you got a good bug in there,
it can create problems.
And bug shit, like you're talking about those worms,
it's all of their little poop pellets.
That's bacteria here and there.
So yeah, there's a reason why this was grown indoors
for so long.
It's like they kind of gave us a blessing
by pushing us indoors for a little bit.
Now that people are outdoors again, it's like, okay,
now we're dealing with actual farming and it kind of sucks.
Kind of, right?
I feel like it's like Normandy over here.
I don't know if you guys can hear that.
I can't tell if it's your planes
because I've got planes cross here, but not this often.
So I was wondering.
Yeah, no, it's definitely here too.
But you're totally right.
That like the sort of controlled environment agriculture
has its benefits there.
And it's why I'm a big advocate
for what are called physical controls and IPM.
I tell a lot of people that my favorite way
to defend against the moth, various moths,
is that you don't want to concentrate on the larvae
because when the larvae are on your plant,
you've kind of already lost a bit.
What you really want to do is you want to sequester
your plants from the moths and keep them
from being able to overposs it.
Because except for like the army worms I talked about,
and that's how they get their name,
because they can travel between plants.
They're also called cutworms because they sometimes
will just shear through the stems of plants,
especially like kind of younger, suppler plants.
So they just cut right through your plants,
which is a problem.
But these other plants, these other larvae,
they're not going to do that.
So if you keep the moth from being able to lay eggs
on the plant directly, you've kind of already won.
You've pretty much already won.
The problem is that mesh screen can have its own problems
and difficulties depending on your environment.
One of them is that airflow through sufficiently
small netting will sort of restrict not only the airflow
and raise humidity potentially, but also there might be
a little bit of like a light shading effect
depending on how you apply it.
So those are things to be keeping in mind.
But I feel like I would take those detriments way over
the potential crop loss of some of these
really destructive moths.
Yeah, that one that you described that gets inside the stem
and just rots in there even after you've killed
the damn thing, you didn't really win, as you said.
Not really.
So that's, well, you've been a bearer of bad news so far.
Do you got any good news for us?
Is there any wins on the horizon?
I know, right?
I appreciate it.
At least it's honest.
It's like you're not shitting rainbows on me.
So is there any positive?
I'm not even saying buy my product.
You know what I mean?
Everything's a problem except for the people
who use this XYZ.
It is without bias that I say these things
or at least with empirical bias, I suppose.
As much as I can.
But-
Well, to me, your product would be consulting.
Like that's how I would-
I suppose that's true.
A service, right?
Definitely a service.
That's actually a really excellent point.
And that way, I guess you could call it a bias.
Maybe some, I have been accused sometimes
of being a bit of a fear monger.
And I guess that could be a reason why.
Well, no.
I mean, I'm not trying to mom the fear,
but it's definitely there.
The threats at least.
And I think that, but the endearing thing,
to give you a more endearing perspective,
I do feel like the acceptance of cannabis
generally by the public has of course facilitated
like its representation in political spheres
and its acknowledgement and maybe even some
of the attenuation of, at least in some cases,
certainly not in the cases that I like to see,
but punishing that sort of like really harsh,
prohibitive nature, at least in certain areas.
And that's the first step towards people being able
to do research, people being able to like actually make
products and services and defenses against
the various pests that we're talking about.
Not just the viruses, but also like these moths
and things like this that are really quite lethal.
And as a community, we have to come together
and share the information, share our experiences.
Many people know that I'm a big advocate
of kind of holding off and looking for sort
of empirical information when possible,
but that's not acceptable for people who kind
of make it or break it on their crops,
like many farmers do.
And many farmers are also quite old.
And in various places, they are not well supported,
including the United States.
So, the average farmer is like in their 60s,
mid 60s, I think, last time I looked at the census.
And that's a major importance.
And so if we're able to support each other,
if this information stimulates that sort of like
camaraderie, both in the research sectors,
in the private sector, but also in the residential sector,
all of us kind of as people,
then I think that's a powerful force
that we can harness kind of collectively.
Yeah, I agree with that.
And it is nice that it's becoming more accepted.
I can talk to it, I can talk to my mother-in-law
about it now, and that wasn't the case a few years ago.
So, for me personally, that's a positive direction,
but just the general acceptance
and universities studying it now,
like I was taking my dog to the vet a few weeks back,
like on a daily basis, basically,
or every other day sometimes.
But as I was, one of the most pleasant things about it
is that I was passing acres and acres of research hemp
on the way there and back and just smelling it in the air
and seeing it waving in the wind
and just as how it should be, it's just the plant.
And so it's really ridiculous what this
just really harmless thing has been put through
and all of the hoops that everyone has had to jump through
to that has loved it over the years.
So I'm very happy that the current generation
is passionate about it,
even if they're just passionate about cookies,
smoke what you want, man.
But just having that same passion that all of us have had,
like I mentioned earlier, I'm probably in the second wave,
but I'm glad that some of the original guys
like Greg and Sam and Rob Clark,
and it's like, they're still kicking
and they're still teaching.
And it's really a beautiful thing.
So it's like the new generation is really making me happy
with the passion that they have for it.
And so it's like, they're arguing over stupid stuff,
like what kind of nutrients you use to grow.
And I think that all of that's gonna go by the wayside
once we form that collectiveness
that you were talking about,
when we have a collective purpose.
And it's like, look, we're all oppressed in our own ways,
whether even if you've grown up
in the so-called legal environment now,
there's as you know,
there's still all of that oppression still there.
And it's like in California, there's raids still happening.
And it's like, it's kind of,
thanks Bamboo for keeping the alert up for people.
It's just sad to see some of it,
but it's also like I was saying,
seeing the younger generation sharing the passion
that we've all had for it over the years.
And it's just, it's a beautiful thing.
It's got, I'm getting kind of emotional thinking about it.
So this is, I really, I dug what you were saying there, man.
I appreciate that sentiment.
I appreciate that too.
I'm, you know, that's why I,
that's why Cheddar Bob is familiar with who I am
or how you are familiar with who I am.
It's because I make that outreach.
And it's very important for me to be available
kind of as much as possible.
I have my limits, everyone does, and I'm just one person.
So I guess the thing that I'm really excited about
is that there will be many other people,
hopefully more people, sort of like to take that,
you know, that baton, you know, and continue on,
like kind of like what you're sort of alluding to.
And hopefully that we'll be able to stem the tide
of problems that we talked about with rare as a pest.
There are still major hurdles to undertake,
but I do feel confident that there are solutions
in the future.
We just have to rely on people to kind of find
those solutions.
And some of them are going to be found in,
well, they're going to be found in sort of,
sort of empirical experimentation.
And some of them are going to be using techniques
that we've used for millennia already.
Okay.
Did you hear that younger people out there
that are thinking about going to school for botany?
Maybe become an entomologist
and give this guy some help out there, you know?
There's not many of them out there.
So maybe give that a consideration.
I think I remember reading a report a while ago
that was looking at like the various like biological,
like disciplines, like botany or like ornithology,
like birds and bugs and all the other things.
And they were looking at like how many of those animals
exist or organism exists and how many researchers
are there to study them, like virologists and other things.
Like, and because of like the statistic I already told you,
but you know, the ratio between people who study insects
and the amount of insects there are is of course,
you know, massively underrepresented.
Same with virologists for obvious reasons
and other microbiologists.
But I think the most overrepresented group
I think was actually ornithology.
I think it was like birds.
Really?
Yeah.
They are beautiful.
That's true.
That's true.
Somebody was asking about the birds behind me
and it was hummingbirds buzzing around most likely.
Yeah, I see you have a hummingbird feeder.
Yeah, they're all over the place.
Just quickly, cause we're talking entomology.
Next Friday, we got, if I can cue this up.
Oh, awesome.
From Kansas State University Department of Entomology,
Raymond Cloyd.
I know him, nice.
So he'll be giving a presentation around,
I think 9 a.m. Pacific time next Friday.
All right, I'll be there.
People should ask him about the crazy sex lives
of parasitoid wasps.
He will get a kick out of that.
That's awesome.
People can remember that cause I will probably forget.
It's funny though, cause as we were talking
about caterpillar, I went out to cut a bunch
of the flowers off the mint
because literally every time I do it, I find caterpillars.
And of course the one time I wanna show the caterpillar,
I cannot find them.
But I have all the little heads,
the mint flower heads in this little tray.
Sorry, nobody can see that.
I can see it a little bit.
In that tree right there.
Gonna roll up a mint spliff.
Yes.
Yeah.
I use the mint when my stomach's upset.
I'll eat a little bit of that mint.
And it really just is like, it's amazing.
I learned that from my aunt.
She'd always send me out there.
It's here, go pick some of that mint
and you'll be all right in about 10 minutes.
And it works.
I used to cultivate a lot of mint just like personally.
I'm a big lemon balm fan myself.
I like lemon balm.
Yeah, I've got some of that back here too.
It works for keeping the bugs away sort of,
but not really.
You gotta get it ruffled up
and then the bugs don't like it.
But if it's the plants just sitting there,
it doesn't really release much of that citronella
that it's got in it.
The variety that I have is pretty pungent though.
I love it when it's like super pungent like that though.
So yeah, mine smells like pledge.
Yeah, right?
So I mean, moving forward.
Go ahead.
I was just gonna say I could either,
I could take questions from the chat potentially.
If you want me to do that.
We had a bunch.
Elka, do you have more?
I think that we covered pretty much everything
that I've got in these notes.
I'm on the last page.
So I think that we went through it.
Yeah, so yeah, he negated a lot of these questions
by saying that using the viroid structure against it
really isn't the best method forward.
So that like got rid of about five of my questions.
So that's it.
But it's a really cool question that you asked.
I really liked that you asked that question
because it's the sort of thing that,
I'm not a virologist,
but it's those kinds of questions that really lead
to like novel and clever treatments and solutions.
So it was a good question.
All right, hey.
All right, so what were you about to say, Peter?
Well, the first one is actually from me.
So this, do we think that that's leaf miners?
I kind of see in the, like on the right,
that like large leaf and like the bottom left of that leaf.
Maybe I see something that resembles like,
oh, you know, I think these are leaf mines.
Yeah, yeah, definitely.
And I'm looking at it more.
And what would be,
what would be prevention mitigation strategies
with leaf miners?
I was talking to Tyler from Family Tree Seeds,
who's actually going to pick up some traps for leaf miners.
And I told him to pick me up some,
I guess they're what pheromone traps or something.
Oh, really?
But theoretically, if you had leaf,
because I think in,
I had some visuals queued up from the IPM discord.
And I think there was a cannabis leaf miner one.
If you, do you remember that one?
I do actually.
I think I definitely replied to that.
Let's see if I can.
I'll tell you what, while I'm looking up this stuff.
So from the chat earlier,
C Web asked, what does everybody think about dunking plants?
I read my grow of,
I read my grow of HR mites by cutting clones of everything
and then dipping those clones in a solution,
throwing away the host infected plants.
That's definitely one way to go about it.
I've never dunked a plant.
My thing with mites that has always worked for me,
and I'm helping a guy out in Cali right now with it,
is ice water, like really cold water.
It doesn't damage the leaves and cold water, of course,
isn't going to wash your resin away.
It might take some of the smell away for a little bit,
but it comes back.
But really cold water with mites seems to,
I don't know about that russet mite
you all are dealing with out there.
Cold water may not,
you may have to go sulfur or something with that.
But cold water works pretty well up in the flower.
You don't want to take it too far
to where you might cause some rot.
But really cold water has always done me good,
inside and out.
Just don't get it in the roots, just get it on the leaves.
Yeah, I mean, honestly,
like that's kind of what I say
when I talk about like a holistic strategy
or like a multifaceted approach.
There's a lot of like lethal
and even sublethal effects you can apply
to various pests preventatively, but also curatively
to sort of disrupt, like I said, to disrupt pests.
So even just spraying, like you said,
like cold water or some sort of a water
to disrupt things like mites or aphids
or things like that,
when you use in tandem with other things,
or if you only have like a sort of a nascent population,
that can be enough to disrupt them, to hurt them,
to disrupt their colonization.
So I'm an advocate of like low tech methods for sure.
Okay, so I think I found, let me,
does that look like leaf miner?
Kind of, it's not super clear.
You know, maybe not.
It's a little bit, it's kind of a little bit too,
like pockmarked almost.
It's, I mean, I kind of see what looked like trails,
but it's hard to really tell.
I'm not sure.
I will say that leaf miner tends to not be
like a really major problem in cannabis in my experience.
It tends to be a much more bigger problem
in things like leafy vegetables,
like you're saying, Peter,
like what you're experiencing.
And I actually cut my teeth on leaf miners
and their treatments, actually.
They were a major pest in one of the first places
they started to help and work with.
And what they use were Doglyphos wasps, Doglyphos azalea.
And that works really well for people,
but it's in a commercial setting
because they're still going to get some level of loss.
And this was actually with growers
who were not vegetable growers.
This was with ornamental Gerbera daisies.
And so the leaves weren't super important,
but what would happen is that the leaf miners
would parasitize the leaves.
The larvae would live in the margins of the leaves.
Obviously that causes problems for the, you know,
the vigor of the plant and its growth.
And there were times where it got so bad,
they practically skeletonized the leaves.
It was quite severe.
But I helped them with their bio-control situation.
We used Doglyphos and for other pests,
other kinds of bio-controls,
and they were able to achieve quite a bit of control.
And weekly they would apply these out.
And the adults, when they were unchallenged by the wasp,
which parasitizes the larvae,
the adults would get so desperate for leaf material
that they would start to, they call it stinging,
but it's not a stinger.
But what they would do is they would literally like,
put like a, penetrate the petals of the flowers,
which is of course a major cosmetic problem.
And even though they couldn't lay their eggs
appropriately in them,
they would still cause damage to the petals.
So that's just one of a few really good examples
that like insects sometimes get desperate, just like we do.
They don't always do things in a way
that would be intuitive to us.
And certainly they can cause damage without feeding
or without even being successful,
because none of those eggs even were viable.
So interesting things like that.
So if you only have like a few,
the problem is that if you only have like a few leafy greens,
the cost of certain biocontrols and other treatments
might not be very useful because they'll still probably
damage the leaves to some small extent.
You know what I mean?
So it's really a question about pressure
and cost and value of the crop.
And you, I'm just looking through the discord,
but you had actually answered this one, ragamuffins.
Can't go image, you guys can see this, right?
And then I think you had said it was.
I think it looked like a barklice, yeah.
Yeah, barklice. Or a cecopteran.
Actually I get, I guess cecoptera and celoidea
mixed up all the time.
So I believe that cecoptera is barklice,
now that I think about it.
But yeah, it didn't look like an aphid
or anything like that.
They have kind of like a really specific
sort of morphology.
The first couple of pictures actually made me think,
oh, is that like an aphid?
But no, it wasn't bulbous enough.
And it didn't have the cornicoles
and it had like a way too different head.
Can you show that picture again, Peter?
Like if I saw that,
I would not imagine that a bug had done that.
I thought I would think that the nutrient
propped up or something.
No, no, this is someone different.
This is a completely separate photo.
Yeah, I would have been like, how did I burn it?
Okay, nevermind.
Has nothing to do with that bug, sorry.
Oh yeah, this was some sort of a fly.
I don't know if I or somebody else actually
answered the question as to what this was.
Someone said Western flower thrip early in its life cycle.
No, that was a reply to somebody else.
I know, yeah, sorry, GBMoose.
Okay, yep, yep.
All right, sorry, this is,
yeah, unfortunately these,
let's see if I can open the original.
Whoa, oh, cool.
Well, that's not very helpful.
So that's what he said is a Western,
a thrip early in the life cycle.
Yeah.
I'm sorry, you can't see that, hold on.
I can kind of see it.
I've gotten very good at looking at small,
sort of nondescript morphologies
and trying to figure out what I think from them.
But it does kind of look like a,
sort of a fusiform cigar-shaped bug a little bit.
And the yellow coloration kind of reminds me,
but there's like over,
there's like, I think over 6,000 documented species
of thrips at this point.
And only a small fraction of them
are actually really paciferous.
In cannabis, I've seen Western flower thrips.
There are perhaps other thrips that feed on cannabis,
but can't always easily distinguish
one species from another.
And the only reason why people say
Western flower thrips like myself
is because it's the main one that I see.
And it's also pretty much the most common thrips.
I think like almost,
I was reading a report that like practically
half of the research that comes out about thrips
is about specifically this species of Western flower thrips.
So they're really, really a major focus.
They're very prolific.
But I also see bean thrips,
which actually I think are in that Discord channel.
I think there was somebody who posted
some black and white thrips,
and those are, I think it's Calia or Calio thrips.
I made a video about them too,
a short observational video about them.
But there's a few different species of thrips
that have that black white banding,
but bean thrips are really common pests.
So it is perhaps what they are.
Sour Diesel asked, actually speaking of thrips,
asked what about nematodes against thrips?
Tried them but didn't have great results.
Yeah, so I'm familiar with ways
that people use nematodes for thrips in general.
You can in some cases actually apply them as a foliar spray,
but I feel like this isn't a super useful way,
and it comes with some caveats.
If it's too hot, that can be problematic, of course.
They'll dry out too quickly and things like this.
So there are some niche examples of foliar application,
but by and large, people are using it for terrestrial
and mildly subterrestrial pupae.
So when the larva has fed enough and pupates,
a lot of times it'll fall into the soil.
And this has the function of kind of hiding it
from potential pests on the plant,
but it also introduces it to risks that are near the soil.
So I don't know how truly beneficial it is in aggregate,
but when you apply the nematodes,
then they go and they search out for a host,
and they can sort of colonize the thrips pupae,
and then you have less thrips.
So you're disrupting the life cycle of those thrips.
The problem is that you have to do that a lot,
because if you only disrupt from one node,
one part of the life cycle,
I don't feel like that's a very strong sort of treatment.
You should be looking to affect, ideally,
as many aspects of the life cycle as possible,
and utilizing multiple avenues to that end.
So you might apply a botanical insecticide
that will affect all of the different life stages
or most of them.
You might also use the nematode,
so that you have some sort of a residual control
that's existing in the soil
for however long it does without a host,
and that kind of a thing.
And maybe even like Boobaryobastion,
it could be like that too,
another sort of pathogen that you can apply to the soil
or to the foliage.
So Chris Guerrero sent this of,
is that a corn earworm coming out of?
It's a little hard to see, but I feel like it might be,
because I actually have video, again,
not to shamelessly plug so much,
but Helicoverpa larvae are notoriously difficult
to identify, visually anyways, species to species.
And in some cases, different species in that genus
can interbreed, which makes this, of course,
even more difficult.
But it does have that kind of like morphology.
I'm not sure how to describe it,
like the kind of like the coloration matches,
but they can, caterpillars also change colors quite a bit,
and they can have very great phenotypic plasticity.
I would be willing to bet that that is,
at the very least, something in Helicoverpa.
And then also from Chris Guerrero,
he was very enthusiastic to share his Amazon purchase.
Very nice.
Yeah, because like, oh, sorry.
Yeah, go ahead.
I was just gonna say, for my personal recommendation,
I like that people try to use what's called thripscreen,
which is a very, very tightly wound,
mesh screen that doesn't even allow thrips,
which are very, very small to get through, generally,
which will also sort of limit the passage of other pests too
that you don't like.
Of course, moths are way larger than this,
but if you can get rid of multiple insects at once,
instead of just one, like I would go for it.
The only thing to consider is, like I said before,
if the holes are really small,
like in the case of thripscreen,
then you do get a shading perhaps issue
for those that matters for it.
And you can also have issues with air passage
and the humidity increases.
Sometimes people will apply them concavexly.
So like, they like bow out or something like this.
And so that allows you to have more surface area
for the air to like move through
and get a little bit more passage.
You can kind of compensate for it.
But if you're not worried about any of those things,
then you can have less of that problem
with like a larger pore ice cream.
So I definitely think that this is not the only option.
Are people having problems with thrips outdoors?
Or is this, I only had thrip problems indoors
and I haven't had them since I started painting my floors.
I paint my floors in every grow room that I build now,
I paint my floors with this epoxy paint
and no mites, no thrips, nothing.
And I'm very careful about what I wear in and out of there
and all of that, obviously, in the shower
and stuff like that.
But that painted floor has seemed to really help.
I don't know if it was just that I got really vigilant
when I started doing that, or if the epoxy floor itself,
because stuff like said,
like even after it's been dry for years,
it's still kind of sticky.
So it's really hard for anything to crawl
from even the other part of the house in there
and cause problems.
And so my original question is,
I've never seen thrips outdoors.
Is this a problem people are having?
Outdoors thrips?
All the time.
Thrips are, you mean in cannabis?
Like, I mean, generally thrips are,
they're super prolific and they're really good
at invading new environments, essentially.
Humans are really good at helping them along with this.
So we have some part to play here,
but by and large, thrips are really small and winged
and they get around really easily
and they cause a lot of massive crop damage in general.
The species that are considered really pacifers anyways,
other ones are basically,
they might do a little bit of feeding,
but they don't cause a whole lot of problems
for the host, for the plant host.
And in cannabis, I've seen different places
have different issues.
Actually right now, where I am at in Southern California,
we just had a really great rain.
We had a really cool lightning storm
that kind of came out of nowhere last night.
And thrips are, they have a historical name in English
called thunder bug.
And they're called thunder bugs
because that change in atmospheric pressure
really facilitates them, that wind travel and movement.
And a lot of insects rely on wind to do that.
So yeah, look at this.
I literally saw clouds of thrips
around the outdoor sunflowers this year.
Yes, exactly.
I must live in a lucky environment
because we don't have that.
They're around obviously,
because I used to bring them inside,
but it's that they're not an issue here.
We have other issues.
So that's really sad to hear clouds of thrips.
Yuck.
One thing about it is there's this concept
in ecology called diffusion.
And basically this idea that like,
like I see this sea of different plants in your background
and it's kind of like that where basically
because there's essentially a lot of other things
going around or like existing,
thrips are super generalist.
So maybe it's less of a problem for them,
but if a pest can't find the host,
then that's a huge problem for it.
And so if you're a plant that's existing
with a bunch of other plants,
that can kind of help you sort of blend in
and not be as much of a target.
And maybe that's helping you a little bit,
plus all the other organisms and things
that might be predating on them or catching them
or making life difficult for them.
But that's one reason why when I hear people say
that they've never had like thrips before,
they never had a certain pest that are,
I just know that gets undocumented,
that they're incredibly egregiously prolific.
Perhaps it's because of their location
and location plays a massive role in cultivation.
Even in nature, you can have a pathogen
ravage through like various plants or one species
and it might kill 99%,
but maybe there's some that exist in like a relic
or like some sort of refuge, we call refugia.
And then that population can build back up
from that like practical, you know, extirpation.
And throughout millions of years,
this has happened to many lineages of plants
that might've like hung on by a thread,
but they're still around.
Yeah, that's kind of like earlier,
you were talking about the common ancestor
between hops and cannabis.
So it's like somewhere along the line,
it was pressured out.
And now we just have what we have now.
As you ever seen the movie,
Caveman with Ringo Starr in it,
they have a cannabis plant in there
that's got berries on it.
I wonder if that's the,
they had some insight into that.
Is that was the,
because the hop is kind of like a berry, you know,
and the cannabis flower is that,
we all know what that looks like,
but I've always found that interesting
that they decided to put little red berries
on the cannabis plants in the movie, Caveman.
That's just a little stoner side note,
but yeah, you kind of mentioned that earlier
with the common ancestor of cannabis and hops
being pressured out.
So that's anyway.
Sorry.
Yeah, well, no, no, no, I like that.
I honestly think that it kind of reminds me
of something that I've said before,
which is that I'm sure I'm not unique in this.
And I think I've heard of people
trying to do something like this before,
but it would be kind of cool
if the flower material wasn't,
like if we could make,
if we could breed for plants that were so resinous
and some of these cultivars I've been seeing
pretty much fits this description,
that the leaves are practically as trichomous as the flower.
And if that was indeed possible
where the trichomes could have like cannabinoids
and other terpenes and be practically as potent,
would it be like kind of amazing
that you could just, you could roll up a,
you could roll up a leaf instead of a flower,
like, and get like, maybe not the exact same effects
or maybe not the exact same volume.
So I kind of almost, it's like a hibiscus plant
or a hibiscus flower.
Very nice.
That's a hilarious movie.
They don't speak in it.
There's like, there's no words to that movie.
It's really, it's kind of genius the way they put it.
They really committed to it.
Yeah.
They really committed to it.
I like that.
I like that a lot.
Yeah, so I think that was made in the 80s.
My dad really liked that movie
and he liked the Gods Must Be Crazy.
You ever seen that one?
I have not seen that one, but I've heard of it.
Yeah, it all starts with a Coke bottle
being thrown out of a plane
and all of a sudden there's a new God in town.
Yeah, hilarious stuff.
But those old 80s comedy movies,
they had some interesting things,
like that cannabis plant.
They really didn't show the berries so much in that picture,
but you kind of get the idea.
I see like a green,
like kind of like what looks like a berry-like structure.
I see what you're saying.
Yeah.
So just quickly, this is Chris Guerrero's updated closeup.
Oh man.
I'm glad I've never seen anything like that.
Yeah, come to Southern California.
Yeah.
Or come to California in general.
Yeah, right?
You know, the hairs don't match.
I don't think that is Helicoverpa.
I'm not sure.
I really love to see like a head capsule.
That can be really useful.
Right now we're seeing like a,
sort of like the back of it,
but all those small little,
like it's almost like bristling with hairs.
And I feel like,
although other Helicoverpa larvae can be like this,
I feel like they're not quite as pubescent.
You know, they're not quite as hairy as this larva is here.
So it might be something different.
Where is this located?
Was this also in California?
The corn worms I've seen are always brown and smooth.
I've never seen a green one.
They're always either light or dark brown,
depending on how old they are.
And their size matters on how much corn
they've been eating, little bastards.
Right.
Well, and like in some cases,
like there's some pests,
I think even some like these larvae,
where they'll eat like a few kernels of the corn
or whatever,
and then they'll just leave it for something else.
Like they don't even finish it.
You know, like-
Just enough to ruin it.
Just enough to, yeah.
Just enough to ruin it, create a wound,
and then cause other problems.
Like it's-
Pooping there a little bit.
Yeah, you know.
Yeah.
This was mine.
And then just go away.
Yeah.
As corn has so many problems anyway,
it's just getting it pollinated in itself is an issue.
Cause you get those spotty corn,
Peter knows what I'm talking about.
He just had this issue with corn too.
And Hardy did it.
So you know that he was breeding for large kernels,
but it's just the pollination,
getting it pollinated right.
Especially the way that Peter's set up is,
is he doesn't have a lot of space.
So it's not like rows of corn,
where the tassels are really getting in there
and doing the job they're supposed to be doing.
But I kind of feel for the corn farmers,
at least the sweet corn farmers.
If you're growing dent corn and soybeans,
you're not really doing much for the world.
So move on.
But around here, there's a lot of sweet corn farmers.
They grow a lot of that Stoll's evergreen.
That stuff is kind of resistant to the earworm,
just not really, but they can knock it back
and still have enough of the harvest
where they can make some money on the crop
and sell a lot of wonderful white sweet corn.
Is that, if you never had an ear of Stoll's evergreen,
you're missing out.
I think I have actually, I had a family friend
who like that's, she loved, like growing up,
she loved squash as she would always pronounce it.
And corn, big corn fan.
I'm almost positive that it probably has something
like that, but maybe not.
Maybe I have, you know, even more delicious fruits
of agriculture to snack on, you know.
That Stoll's evergreen.
Living in California is nice though
for that kind of thing.
Yeah, you all are feeding the world in a lot of ways,
not just America.
There's some weird stuff going on there though.
It's like you grow bananas and, or not bananas, I'm sorry.
Oranges, Florida grows oranges.
You all send oranges back and forth to each other.
It's like, it really doesn't make much sense.
It's like how some of this works,
but I imagine it's a supply thing,
supply chain thing that's above my level.
So I'm sure there's a reason for it,
but it just doesn't make much sense.
If you, why ship oranges to Florida?
Florida's got oranges and vice versa.
You know, it's under the reason I was thinking bananas
is because it makes sense for bananas to be grown
in the tropics and shipped everywhere.
It's really the only place that you're going to get
your banana from, other than like the niche banana growers,
like Family Tree is like, you know,
those aren't available to everybody.
Guys like me, I'm lucky to get a Chiquita, you know?
Wow. So denigrating.
A lowly Chiquita.
Yeah, well.
There's a lot that went into the production of bananas.
Not all of it really nice, but I mean,
I also don't claim to understand all of the market dynamics
and, you know, it probably does have its own little weird
idiosyncrasies that maybe disallow it from being intuitive.
But I think there's a lot of research that happens
between various like orange breeders
and cultivators and researchers.
So California is a pretty,
pretty big international force for that.
And I think Florida is too.
So I think they just kind of work together
and they just happen to have a political, social,
and geographical climate that's conducive.
And I guess if there's money to be made for it,
then they're going to do that.
Yeah.
Have you had one of those Sumo mandarins yet?
Like the real big man.
I'd love those things.
Whoever bred that, thumbs up, man.
You did a great job on that tree.
That's wow.
While we're talking about that,
I'm just going to say that my favorite,
I forget if they're tangerines
or if they're oranges actually on the top,
but a gold nugget cultivar.
I think they're oranges.
Or maybe tangerines.
Gosh, I don't remember.
But they're like-
Are they a mandarin?
Are they a mandarin?
They're kind of tart, but they're also sweet.
And they kind of got this like zing
that I'm a big proponent of.
I really like them.
If all of my citrus tasted that wonderful,
I would eat a lot more citrus than they already do.
And then of course with the citrus greening disease
being a problem for so long,
I was really sad and kind of like worried
that I might not have my citrus for a while.
But we've actually found that,
I'm just going to go on a small attention here
for those who are familiar,
which I think some of the people in the chat are
because I recognize some of the names.
Citrus greening disease is caused by a bacteria
called a phytoplasma.
And there are actually phytoplasmas that infect
and are lethal to cannabis in particular.
But phytoplasmas are poorly understood
and they're very hard to research
because you can't like,
they're parasites, they're obligate parasites of plants
and they're only affected by insects.
So it's very hard to culture them and study them.
Apparently it's not even a pathogen.
Apparently.
And what I mean by this is that it doesn't,
I guess you could say it's kind of like a pathogen,
it generates a pathology.
But what I mean to say is that it's not a parasite
in ecological terms.
It's not a parasite of citrus.
What it does is it colonizes the plant
and it doesn't actually like siphon resources
or cause dysfunction in physiology
in order to sustain itself.
Simply just by being in the citrus,
it causes a hyper-intensive immune response
in some cultivars over others,
but most plants or most of those citrus.
And so when the researchers,
I'm trying to remember the research,
but basically the researchers were able
to alleviate the stress response of the plant
by regulating the redox reactions in the physiology.
And also I have a post on my Instagram
that talks about it in more detail
because it was so fascinating.
But basically they're able to using like,
I think hormones and also a few other compounds
to alleviate the physiological response to the organism.
All the symptoms went away and the organism,
the bacteria still stayed in the plant.
There's other research earlier
about using oak leaf extract
and that the various chemicals in it
were able to eradicate, I think the bacteria
or possibly in this case, combined with the new research,
possibly sort of modulate the stress response.
And I think that stuff is really fascinating.
Apparently it's the first example
of like this kind of like non-pathogenic dysfunction
in plants.
Apparently it has happened in other cases,
like in some animals, like even humans,
but it's pretty uncommon that the dysfunction
is not caused from like true blue parasitism,
if that makes sense.
Like actually like taking resources from the host.
So cool stuff.
Yeah, that reminds me of something
that I read about snake bites
is some of the snake bites that work neurologically,
that the venom doesn't kill the human that it bites.
It's the human freaking out and having an anxiety reaction
and just like pumping the stuff through them even faster
because they, oh, I got bit by a cobra.
I'm gonna die.
They actually kill themselves with that.
The response, like you were saying with this,
they die from the response to it,
not the actual amount of venom that they were,
it's just the way that they reacted to it
that causes the problem.
So that's interesting.
Like the person or like the body's reaction?
They were saying that it doesn't happen
with the necrotic snake bites.
It only happens with the neurological venom.
So it's kind of a combination of two.
It's if the person, like say somebody
that's already like susceptible to having an anxiety attack
and all of the blood pumping and all of that.
Oh, sure.
Yeah, yeah.
That is what will kill them.
The shock of the, oh, I got bit by whatever,
as opposed to the amount of venom that actually got in them.
It was just something that, you know,
one of those things you read on like National Geographic
or something, but it was fascinating to me
as I read that as a kid.
Isn't that cool?
Like the, like the venomics is a really fascinating subject
and I'm not gonna get like in the weeds on this,
but you know, long story short,
a lot of like at least reptilian,
but also like arthropod venom
from what I've been able to see is,
it's basically like saliva that got really good at its job.
Essentially, you know, to really oversimplify it,
you know, a lot of the like,
cause people like ask the question,
well, where did the venom come from?
What was it before venom, if anything?
And I guess like saliva glands in various organisms,
and you know, you get a couple of neat, you know,
mutations and, you know, repeats of like certain compounds
and you get a really good venom.
And then of course it gets even better from there.
So that stuff is pretty fascinating,
but I guess it's because you're really just exploiting
the way that your body
deals with certain compounds like hormones and stuff.
So like, you know, if you get that,
if you get those compounds in certain doses
in certain other areas, everything's fine,
just like certain kinds of medicine,
but the dose makes the poison, essentially.
Speaking of hormones, in that paper,
on those papers that you sent me,
they were, you were talking about,
they were talking about how the plants use their hormones
to like, essentially, once they get under attack from,
like, I think it was the aphids,
it was the aphid paper that you sent,
is once they start getting chewed on,
they start releasing these combinations of hormones
to put an end to it, basically,
is make the, make it unpalatable
for whatever is chewing on them.
Is that like a way forward where you can like alter
the hormone in the plant or like breed for something
that has a little bit more gibberellin in it,
but isn't a, isn't gonna go full male on you,
or a herm, and you know, you know what I'm saying.
But it's a-
Yeah, no, absolutely.
That's kind of the basic, like when people,
you're totally right.
It's like the fundamental,
or I guess you could say like one of the fundamental aspects
of like resistance breedings in plants.
So, so like gene-based resistance,
you can also have environmental factors,
like what we do to like keep the moths off of your plants.
It's like an environmental, you know,
control or environmental factor of resistance, right?
In nature, it might be because it's in a cave or something
and it's away from its pests or whatever, as a,
as an example.
But gene-based resistance is typically mediated
by something like a hormone or a toxic compound of some kind,
some sort of a toxin that is going to negatively affect,
like in this case, like the herbivore.
And then the herbivore is gonna have ways
of attenuating those reactions in the plant.
So the plant has its immune response.
It has like a, basically a passive kind of immune response
or a passive immune system.
So like the literal, like, you know,
outer layer of the leaves and the stem, you know,
its rigidity, the cuticle, the wax cuticle layer on it.
Those are all factors, the trichomes, of course,
and things like this.
But then like if like an aphid,
which I've been doing a lot more reading about lately,
you know, if that aphid sticks its stylet into the plant,
as soon as it penetrates the tissue, you know,
all of those, all of that damage causes things
called damage-associated molecular patterns,
or DAMPs.
And basically various plants have various ways
of responding to those signal compounds.
And then they produce an immune response
and the insect will also have its own ways
of like neutralizing those responses.
Part of that is by just feeding in a specific way
to like keep it from happening in the first place,
like causing a lot of wounds.
That's why aphids are really good at transmitting viruses,
because they tend to not do a whole lot of cellular damage,
minimal cellular damage,
because they're feeding on the phloem sap.
And so it's really kind of easy for a virus
to get put into the phloem channel
and then get taken up by the plant, if that makes sense.
So you're totally right.
Gene-based resistance aims to basically make the plant
stimulate maybe like you could say,
like the right compounds at the right time,
at the right dosage.
Because like you say, if you do it too much,
or if you get it wrong,
or if you focus on the wrong compounds,
or the wrong, yeah, usually, you know, compounds, plural,
then the insect or whatever will be more easily,
adapted to that, you know.
People were putting, they're creating plants,
I think soybeans, that had the cryoproteins
that we see in like Bacillus thuringiensis,
and that sort of a thing,
will affect like a moths.
What happened was that the diamondback moth,
it became, it's selected for that resistance,
and it basically has no problem
with those cryoproteins now.
And that obviation of the resistance,
that probably costs like,
probably millions of dollars to produce,
and then like, not only create,
but then also distribute and all that stuff, right?
All the logistics, you know,
it was obviated in like a few years,
possibly even that selection had already taken place,
because we use biocontrols,
and even chemical controls already,
that make use of those various like compounds.
So I'm, you know,
I think it's really important to not get complacent,
just because you use a biocontrol,
or, you know, a botanical chemical,
or some sort of natural pesticide or whatever,
it doesn't mean that the laws of evolution or whatever,
you know, those selection pressures
are still gonna have an effect.
And oftentimes with insects,
it's about not concentrating those traits to some degree.
I think one of the things that I learned from you today
is that your profession keeps you humble.
Like as smart as you are, you can't outsmart these bugs.
So it's, that would definitely keep intellectual humble.
Yeah.
I appreciate both the compliment of being intellectual,
and also the compliment of being humble.
I'm gonna tell you right here, right now,
that sometimes I can be a little pretentious,
and a little bit biased even,
even with my empirical research,
and you're, but you're right.
I'll be asserting that something's the case,
and somebody will come along,
and when I ask for that research,
people will be like, well, here's the research.
Then I go, oh, there's the research.
Okay.
You know, like, that's why I'm always asking
for a site of sources and things like that,
because either I'm gonna be right,
or I'm gonna be wrong, and I'm gonna learn something.
And that is a great, that's a great thing to do, I think.
Absolutely.
When people assert things without that research though,
I kind of, you know, I have to like, I have to guess,
you know, I have to like assert,
or assume that they might be right, or might be wrong.
And I don't think that's helpful
for trying to figure out the solutions to things usually.
But sometimes we don't have an explanation
for certain effects, and we don't for years.
And so empiricism isn't everything, but it does help.
It does help a lot.
Yeah, and stuff like that, you file it away,
and then you hear somebody else a year or so down the line,
and they say the same thing, and you say,
okay, there's two, and then maybe you keep hearing it.
It's like, you know, well, other people are seeing this,
and somebody like you,
you're talking to people around the country,
so you're getting a lot of input from different places.
So am I correct about that, that you've got clients,
like you're not just Southern California, right?
That's correct, yes.
And even for people who aren't necessarily clients,
that's one reason why it's really important
for me to contact as many people as possible
and be available for those people,
not only because we just got through talking about
how and why cannabis is unsupported, essentially,
or poorly supported now.
So to me, as a person who's part of the community,
if I can call myself that,
I think it's really important to support
as many people as possible, specifically because of that,
but also because I learn stuff, too,
and then I can disseminate that information to other people,
especially when we're dealing with new threats,
because maybe the treatments don't exist yet,
or they're very minimal.
Even for pests that we already know
are very well-established,
there aren't always great treatments for.
So yeah, I think that's just a really important thing to do,
and I really appreciate the support that I get
from yourself and from Peter and from the people in the chat.
Yeah, chat's awesome.
There's a lot of information spread in these chat rooms.
You just gotta pay attention.
Listen to the right people, I guess.
So speaking of the chat, Loyal Tai,
who's in the Nevada area, sent that picture.
She looks like a hairy caterpillar.
Oh yeah, actually I had somebody send me
a similar kind of caterpillar recently on Cannabis,
and I think it was a,
I wasn't able to identify it to species.
It just was a little bit too ambiguous from the pictures.
But I don't think it's a tussock moth,
but I think it's some sort of a ribbid, or a ribbidy.
That's just totally speculation,
but a lot of tiger moths or ribbidy have this kind of,
have a lot of hairs like this is,
and there's some that have sort of coloration,
but I can't be sure.
And a while ago, just going through the questions,
Caleb asked, what do you guys think about IPM-O,
KNF-IMO with pest insect corpses
in the initial collection,
raised to collect local entomopathogens?
So, one of the ways that people,
one of the ways that people, or researchers,
have kind of tested things like alarm pheromones
and other sort of signaling compounds in insects
is in a very sort of horrific and crude way,
they'll literally blend up things like aphids
and caterpillars, and I think that's where
some of this advice or some of these concepts
kind of originate from, because people would do this too,
but also researchers would find this to be the case,
that if you spray blended up aphids
or blended up caterpillars or stink bugs or something,
especially like communal feeding organisms,
that they would actually react in a negative way,
they would evacuate.
And so that kind of is like a crude way of being like,
well, there must be something there that's doing that,
now we have to find out what the chemical is,
what causes it, and other sorts of factors like that.
So maybe that could be useful in some context,
but I feel like it wouldn't,
it probably wouldn't be the only thing
you could rely on necessarily.
And it really is insect specific.
Well, should we wrap it on that?
Sure, I'm fine with that.
No, I learned a lot today.
Thank you so much for coming on here, Matt.
I really appreciate it.
And so again, thank you for identifying
that stink bug army for me.
Like I said, my wife is very happy about that.
So again, there's just, thank you.
I really appreciate you doing this
and I hope that the audience learned something from it,
or at least was entertained in some way.
Well, at the very least, right?
I really appreciate that Peter allows me to
and seeks me out to have these conversations and insight.
I'm humbled by it, like you were just describing.
And I'm just excited to be able to give that information
to as many people as possible.
And Future Canvas Project has been a great way
for that to be a conduit.
And I look forward to our mutual successes, everyone.
I'm trying to think if there's any housekeeping.
There's no Chad tomorrow, right, Chad?
There may be a James Loud on Sunday.
Next Friday, we have Raymond Cloyd.
It's gonna be stuff before then,
but relevant to this conversation.
And what were we asking him about?
The sex lives of aphids?
Yeah, hold on, let me get a few guys
because I just wanna make sure.
That is on sex life, right?
No, no, no.
I mean, you could ask that question,
but I don't think it'd be appropriate.
That's it, end of interview.
Yep.
I think the paper is like humorously called
something to the effect of like the kinky sex lives
of a certain kind of parasitoid.
And I'm blanking on it.
The wasps, yeah, not aphids.
Yeah, no, not aphids.
But because the wasp will,
the females get tangled up in a spider web
and then the males come in and then they mate,
if I'm remembering correctly.
And so that's how that happens for that species,
which is kind of interesting.
Fun fact, Kinsley, who is known for the Kinsley scale,
was an entomologist before he was doing
any of that research.
So maybe there's something to that, I don't know.
All right, so the kinky sex lives of parasitic wasps.
Yes.
He gave a presentation about it a while ago
and I really enjoyed it.
It was very, very humorous.
Yeah, I had leaf septorum as a note.
Like you were talking about earlier, Matt,
that the mainstreamization,
I can't find a good word for it,
but the cannabis becoming mainstream
is how Peter can get these awesome professors on,
like the guy from Purdue that was on about a month ago.
That's actually how I found this channel
or started participating in it.
Somebody told me about a Bob Hemphill video
that was on here, so I watched that.
And while I was watching that, a live started
and it was a professor, I think it was,
I don't remember where he was from,
but it was amazing listening to somebody
with tenure at a college talking to Peter about cannabis.
I was just blown away.
And it's very cool that Peter provides this platform
and can get people like yourself
and these professors on there.
And he even gives me a little bit of time.
This is a little nobody guy like myself
can get on here every once in a while.
So he really, I'm kissing a little ass, I guess,
but he really provides a large range of topics on here
and not everybody appreciates it.
It's like, oh, this isn't about cannabis.
Yeah, a lot of times it is in a roundabout way
because a plant's a plant's a plant.
I certainly like to agree with that.
Oh, Peter, you were muted.
You were gonna say something?
So someone reminded me about Bonnie Bassler
who's at Princeton who does quorum sensing research.
And she just responded to me saying,
many thanks for the nice invitation.
I'm going to decline.
I do not work on plants at all.
So I'm not an appropriate speaker for your audience.
And in my stick-to-itiveness,
I'm gonna let her know that we don't really care
if she doesn't talk about plants.
It would be an interesting topic.
Oh, definitely.
Absolutely.
Yeah, Peter, you're a real populist, you know that?
You're really helping.
I mean, I definitely want to echo that last part
that Elka says about how you bring people on,
various people on, and I understand the idea
that you want people to speak what they're saying.
And if it is bro science or wrong or right,
hopefully somebody will come in
and it'll start a discussion.
And I think that's as much, you know me,
I love to talk about how empirical study this,
empirical research that,
and how I like to couch a lot of my,
pretty much all of my observations in that way
in my treatments and things like this.
But it's not everything.
And some real good information can come from that.
And it's all about distributing it.
And I really appreciate that drive.
I appreciate that.
Yeah, no, I mean, it's also like,
you know, this woman's reply,
and I feel like everybody watching
doesn't really care if it's not about,
if it's like some interesting topic,
like that's where my mind goes is,
you know, when I used to,
when I was living in New York and I DJed a lot,
you play some clubs and it was like,
kind of had to be all house,
or you play other places
and it had to be all kind of hip hop.
And like, I'll do it,
but I'd much rather just be able to do
what I feel like doing,
which is to like wander all over the place.
So like topically,
I don't really feel like doing one thing all the time.
Yeah, I see the Dr. Christine Jones.
I may have reached out to her too,
but I'm gonna queue that up.
So anyway, that's why I don't really care
if it's not plant related.
Yeah, I liked the idea that you mentioned before
about cannabis culture too,
like Chad Westport and the skateboarding
and then the surfers.
And I know you're not supposed to talk about the surfers
and surfers don't like to talk,
but if you can get a few surfers to talk,
that would be amazing,
especially older ones.
Well, that's funny,
cause this morning I was gonna get back in touch
with Peter McGuire and Mike Ritter
to kind of set that in motion.
But again, I'm like pulled in so many different directions
and I'm like, I'd like to do that.
I'd like to actually make it happen.
But I think if you and Chad wanted
to get a skateboarding conversation going,
I don't know if Chad's still in the chat,
but I think that'd be fun.
For example, there was a guy, pre COVID,
I used to do these events.
Actually, it was in a space across from Gemma's preschool
where we just smoke like LA hipsters out with good weed
and have bands playing.
And one of the guys who came was,
he's probably like 21 and he had just moved to LA from Ohio.
And he wanted to chase his dream
of becoming a professional skateboarder.
And obviously that's more likely to happen
if you're skating in like the Venice skate parks
versus Ohio.
And I was like, I'd love to just like smoke this guy out
and let him talk.
Like I wanna catch up with him and like revisit,
like when we last met,
you had just moved to LA to chase your dream.
And let's just talk skateboarding and the Venice scene
and kind of, yes.
Greg McAllister, people have been asking for you.
Yes, please do it, Greg.
Please, please, please.
Some of us idolize you.
He talks retirement,
but I think Don Huber is retired and he came on.
And you're like a spring chicken compared to him.
I think he's like 90.
If you're taking suggestions,
Whitney Crenshaw in Colorado
would be an excellent entomologist to ask about.
And they're doing specifically a lot of hemp pests
and really great sources.
And I think a lot of cool research
about their pest abatement will come from Colorado State
or Colorado, yes, a university, I believe.
Or University of Colorado, one of the two.
Maybe he could make a surprise cameo
when Raymond Cloyde's wrapping up.
Yeah.
Could be a date.
Like I did that worm thing.
And I think a day of entomology.
That would be great.
A day of worms.
I would love to be a part of that.
A day of...
I think I was gonna,
I queued up an email to a guy who I think,
since Bruce Bugbee never responds to me,
I was gonna reach out to another guy in his,
at I think it's Utah State.
Bugbee's how you get Greg on here, man.
He wouldn't be able to resist if you got Bugbee on.
Yeah, Greg, what if you interviewed Bruce Bugbee?
You know you got some questions, old man.
So anyway, with that, let's all get on with our Fridays.
I appreciate it, Peter.
What's it like being responsible
for three human brains now?
It's like my brain's speed bagged.
Oh man.
All right, Chad is here.
Chad's still lurking.
Chad, how about a skateboarding conversation?
Because also like for example,
Peter Maguire just wrote a book on the Gracies.
And then James Loud is super into MLK.
So I'm gonna ask him to do a book on MLK.
And then James Loud is super into MMA.
And my friend Kenny Florian is retired,
but he was a fighter.
So I was like, that'd be a cool conversation.
So Chad looks like he's in agreement on the skate or die.
All right, I dig it.
As I had a curve, you were mentioning earlier
that some places just aren't conducive for it.
As he grew up in a skate paradise out there out West,
I had to wax all my own curves, man.
So the guys that I skated with
were really hardcore about it.
And so really the only reason I stopped
is because it was a kind of a punk scene
and I got smacked in the back
with the skateboard trucks out at a concert once.
So I was like, okay,
I think that's about enough of the skateboarding for me.
So it was just, it wasn't, of course it was on purpose,
but it was like, it was just a crazy mosh pit thing.
Teenagers full of adrenaline and testosterone,
they make bad choices.
So yeah, I would love to have a skateboarding conversation
with Chad, even though I didn't grow up
in a skateboarding paradise.
We were hardcore though.
I feel like, it's like a lot of things
where like if you come from skiing in New England,
you can kind of ski anything.
Whereas like, if you only grew up in fluffy powder
with, you know, it snowed 12 inches last night
and it's 50 and sunny today, every day.
It's like the ski version of an indoor plant.
Like I can't really survive in the wild.
And that's the way of calling about lunch.
So.
I guess that's a wrap.
All right.
Well, I really appreciate you guys having me on.
Yeah, it was a lot of fun, Matt.
I'll be talking to you in the future.
I'll try not to bug you too much.
If I have too many questions about bugs,
I'll just pay a consulting fee.
How about that?
How about it?
Well, I like to be as available as possible,
but I am open for business too.
I understand that.
Chad flexing his emoji skills.
I don't know how he did that.
I don't know if it came through on this side.
Oh, like the buffering emoji?
That's very funny.
Above the L-O-F.
No, no, no, no.
Well, yeah.
But in, you can't see it here, but in YouTube,
it's, anyway, nevermind.
Because this is what we see.
Buffering, buffering, buffering.
No, no, no.
That's the, I see it on the chat.
It's like the, like when you're a video.
Yeah.
Oh my God.
So evidently everybody knows how to do that one.
It's one of the YouTube emojis.
Oh yeah, I see.
Yeah, yeah, okay, yep.
Now I see it.
And the YouTube specific emojis.
We could do a show on emojis,
but where we only talk with emojis.
It's like the Ringo Starr movie.
It would be silence.
Just throw emojis up on screen.
Yeah, for a movie with no words,
Caveman is actually kind of funny.
You think about it, they have to act everything out.
So it just makes it different.
Anyway.
Chad, you're always special.
Yeah, thanks to the chat room.
I appreciate you guys showing up
and it's always fun hanging out with you all.
I can't bring it up on here because I get distracted.
I wouldn't, it would not, it wouldn't be good
if I was able to look at the chat
and do the show at the same time, so.
And every time Chad does a show,
I'm now gonna cue up my Heideli Hoag Chatterino's.
Oh, I like this.
Yeah, that's good.
So that's the Chad posse is Chatterino's.
Nice.
All right.
All right, with that, should we wrap it?
Sounds good, enjoy your lunch, Pete.
All right, thanks everyone.
All right, man.
Have a good one.
