Humboldt time, huh?
Humboldt does a funny thing with time, I tell you what.
You're up.
Everybody's up.
Can you hear me all right?
I think when I put my phone in my pocket,
my butt blocks the signal.
I think that's what's, I gotta put it in my vest,
my chest pocket here.
Running around sorting seed.
We're talking about breeding.
It's always fun.
I always seem to be doing that
right when we're doing this.
Yeah, let's see, who is there?
Let me go in order.
There was Soul Spirit Farms.
Walter and Judy are great.
They have a great regenerative.
And I think maybe one other certification.
And they do, they like work with, it's really cool.
There are not many farms up here
that actually work with animal husbandry, but they do.
And then, oh God, let's see how many there were.
There was Jill from Golden Gardens, who's cool.
They also have goats and posted a photo of that,
the goats eating weed.
That's always fun, I think.
And Humboldt Seed Company was there.
They weren't farmers, but they do breeding
and they're Humboldts.
And then there was Aloha Humboldt.
Lindsey and Ryan are great.
And Emerald Queen Farms, they were great.
I know I'm forgetting a few people.
And Emerald Queen.
Yeah, Emerald Queen.
I need to do a better job of slowing down.
I tend to speak really fast
and just assume people know what I'm talking.
I know you got, I watch you guys.
You guys do a better job of keeping this
a little bit slower.
So I'm taking notes here.
Just to include people into what we're talking about,
Russell was hanging out with the Willow Creek
Cannabis Alliance members,
which are mostly, I believe, in Trinity.
Maybe some are in Humboldt, right?
Just across the board.
Yeah, no, I would say most are in Humboldt
and Soul Spirit is,
I don't know about Golden Gardens, actually,
but most are in Humboldt
and only a small percentage are in Trinity.
Even though we're right on the eastern border,
I mean, literally some of the farms are a mile
from the Humboldt-Trinity border.
We're on the very, very eastern edge
of northeastern Humboldt County
out here in the middle of nowhere.
But it was really nice.
It was a good time and got a lot of interesting information
from the farms and got to smell and test their product.
So I was pretty excited about it.
I'm trying to, I don't want to leave anyone out here.
I'm just, I'm going 800 miles an hour sometimes
and my memory is not always the best.
I often joke that I'm like a computer program.
Like my hard drive space is filled up.
My RAM is, the processing is very fast,
but the hard drive space sometimes gets,
when I continuously learn new things,
I have a hard time retaining some old ones.
It's kind of an ongoing joke within my own sphere here.
I know that's silly, but I'm just trying to waste time
while I look for the other farms here.
So again, I'm right there with you on the,
forgetting things much more than I did when I was younger.
Yeah. Okay. All right, here we go.
So yeah, I was, like I said, Soul Spirit Farms.
And then I left out Sunrise Mountain Farms,
Dave and Lord Lee, they're great.
They have a small little farm up like 2,600 feet.
And Dave gave me some, they made some really nice CBD product.
They had a strain called Strawberry G.
It was like two to one CBD, I think, or three to one.
And he made some really nice MCT oil tincture
infusion with that.
And then he gave me that,
and I've been taking that at night lately.
And that's been helping me sleep.
I don't have very solid sleep at night sometimes.
And that CBD, heavy CBD tincture,
it really helps with sleep, for me at least.
Yeah, Emerald Queen Farms crushed it.
They have some really high grade flour there.
Riley and Hannah always have,
they're always usually staying on the cutting edge
of the exotic genetics and what's hot, hot.
Because they work with Papa and Barkley and everyone.
And they had some really nice GMO, or garlic cookies.
Everyone calls it garlic cookies.
Now no one wants to call it the GMO,
which is understandable.
They had the Slurdy 3, which is like Sluricane Gelato 33.
That was pretty amazing.
Yeah, and then Hallie, Humboldt Seed.
Oh yeah, and of course Craig from Talking Trees.
Who, Craig is an interesting character,
because he's quite a businessman.
Because he owns Satori Clothing.
And then he also owns Talking Trees, the farm.
And then he has a dispensary up there too.
So he's definitely a mover and shaker in the industry.
And he has enough money to where he's invested
in some sustainable elements,
where he's building biodegradable packaging
for like pre-rolls.
And he just, in the interview, he showcased his first,
it's like a fully compostable eight bags.
All those little Mylar bags or plastic bags,
you get your eights in.
It'll all be, his will all be fully compostable,
which I thought was really cool.
So that should be showcased in the interview
whenever you put that up, Peter.
Yeah, no, that's awesome.
And just to give everybody a little more context,
I mean, these are just all kind of the small farms
who grow great weed, who you would hope
in every market would survive.
Yes, exactly.
Right.
And use all the help they can get.
Yeah, precisely.
Yes, they're the ones who are doing, making the, yes.
They're the ones that can use all our help and support.
Because they're the families
that represent these communities.
And they're the ones who really do it
for the passion and craft of it, not just the money.
In contrast to Trevor, what's the current mega grow
that's in your crosshairs?
That was Boca del Rio, I think.
Every time I hear that, I think of,
what's George Gistan's father's name?
Del Boca Grande or something.
And then just real quick, the last person
who I don't want to leave out is the Newcomb Family Farms.
And Jacques and Amy, they're actually really interesting
because Jacques has been farming for 28 years.
And he was like a traditional farmer that grew vegetables.
And he has like, he's, they're well-renowned
for their peaches out here in this area.
And he has like this amazing peach orchard.
And then only in the last like three or four years
did they get in cannabis farming.
So it's really interesting to watch Jacques farm
because he's just applying his like
organic agricultural practices to farming
where they're like completely in the native soil,
you know, in the like nice riverbed terrace
that they're on, you know, and they're just doing,
they're growing weed like they would a vegetable,
you know, there's no potting soil or any of that.
So he's, and then, you know,
they're using all beneficial insects
to attract for pest management.
So, you know, he's a really cool example of that.
That's it, that was everyone.
Cool, that's awesome.
Thanks for the quick update.
And then we'll have hopefully a whole bunch
of video interviews conducted by Russell
with all those farmers showing off
the amazing cannabis they grew this season.
And so why don't, why don't we transition Trevor
or Mr. Toad, you guys want to queue up today's topic?
Sure, yeah, so today's topic is just building off
of a lot of Instagram talk lately.
There's been a lot of discussion about roadkill skunk
in different skunk varieties,
lots of trolling on Instagram on the subject.
And yeah, it's something that there's a lot of stories
and a lot of like, it's one of the things
that's like sure as shit to start a fight
in the cannabis world is claim that you've got skunk.
So that's, yeah, it's an ongoing, never ending controversy
in the famunity and it's been going lately.
And there's also been some interesting papers recently
that were published, I believe at the end of last year
and Ryan just jumped on.
He was the first person I saw to share that paper.
But a recent paper discussed the presence of volatile VSCs
is what they call them as the acronym.
And these VSCs include things like thials
and are the source for the skunky aroma in cannabis.
And that's kind of when we delve down
into the more scientific realm
and actually start to look at what it is
that's causing or producing these smell profiles
that we associate with cannabis
or that often get associated with cannabis
from skunk to rubber to acrid or carrion
sort of meat smells.
Thials are definitely one of the primary contributors there.
There are other things,
Ryan can speak to these more specifically,
things like esters and alcohols and things like this
that are also potential contributors.
And it's one of those things
where smell is an incredibly complex sensory cacophony
that's going on in cannabis is really unique
in terms of how many different secondary metabolites
it produces to produce incredible smells,
thials being one of them.
So yeah, we can delve down both the provenance discussion
of where the term skunk,
what the different lines and varieties
that have had that name associated with it,
where the traits and the lines associated
with the traits come from
and have been distributed over time.
And we can delve down into the science a bit more.
And just quickly in terms of acronyms,
so we have volatile organic compounds
and then you were talking about volatile sulfur compounds,
right, BSC?
Yeah, I'm pulling the paper up right now.
Yeah, it might even be good,
like a good thing just to say for the room
and the audience to kind of set the table.
I heard this cannabis researcher,
this whole hemp researcher,
really brilliant phytochemist named Giovanni Ependino,
he's an Italian guy
and I saw him speaking at a conference in Europe,
I don't know, seven years ago,
but he talked about the stinginess of nature
and or the stinginess of mother nature.
And really what he was saying is that like,
you know, when we start looking at this new compound
in the plant called thiols,
this is not like some hugely different molecule
from all the other stuff that we're looking at, right?
So, because if you think of how much like kind
of bioengineering from a plant perspective
that would have to come from,
what's way more likely to happen in nature
is that you have chemicals that are already in the plant
doing something, you know,
a lot of this stuff we call secondary metabolites,
which really means that they're like,
they're not the key chemicals that the plant needs
to reproduce and grow in life,
but like scents, for example, you know,
that might be a way of communicating
with other biotic factors like pollinators
or like, you know, like summoning plants
or pests to pests that are attacking the plant, right?
So that's all like a secondary use.
And so we call those plants that are not crucial
to be present for the plant to live secondary metabolites.
And so when we think of thiols,
I think like really the important thing
to remember about a thiol is it's just an organic molecule,
could be any background and any backbone,
but rather than having a hydrogen group
coming off the side of it,
that's replaced by a sulfur hydrogen group
or a sulfur and a group that is a salt
that's made up with one sulfur and one hydrogen molecule.
And so otherwise the molecule is exactly the same as,
you know, these other molecules that exist in the plant.
And so I think what happened, you know,
meant when he was talking about the stem geniuses of nature
is that mother nature's way more likely to come along
genetically and chemically tweak an existing molecule
that had already existed in the plant
rather than build a whole new molecule from scratch.
You have to invent like a biochemical pathway
to produce that plant or that molecule, right?
So, you know, we think of that in the context
of like this skunk discussion
and I was kind of skimming through that thread
or one of the threads, I'm not sure if it was the same one
that you were talking about Trevor,
but somebody was still just like fucking adamant
that skunk is gone and ain't ever coming back, right?
And it's such a crazy thing to say
because it's like all of these genes exist
in all the plants.
They're just, they're either turned up or turned down.
Sometimes they're destroyed,
but if you go looking in a population,
like you're gonna find these things, right?
And so for someone to just come in and say emphatically,
like full period stop, all skunk is gone,
to me is just kind of fucking crazy, right?
I think that like a lot of the conversation
that happens on these boards and on IG
about like topics like this are like,
they're just not even really based in reality.
And a good way to like not have to deal
with the idiot saying dumb stuff
is just to bring it back to the science,
teach people what a thiol is, right?
And I think probably like a lot of people
don't even have like a really good example,
really good handle on what a terpene is, for example, right?
Like the difference between monoterpenes
and sesquiterpenes and the rearrangements.
Most of these monoterpes
and a lot of the sesquiterpes as well,
they have the same number of hydrogens
and carbons in the molecule.
It's just that the way that they're arranged
is very slightly different between molecules.
So again, that kind of like goes back to that thing
about the stinginess of nature, right?
Like mother nature has found a way
to vary on that chemical shape
to create a new molecule that either has a different smell
and potentially plays a role in its secondary defense.
So anyway, I'm gonna step back.
Just real quick, I just wanted to mention,
it's funny that this is coming up all at once,
I guess it's like a Jungian synchronistic moment,
but I was listening to podcasts today
and Mean Gene was talking about the skunk
and his lime one grape soda skunk.
And he was just mentioning that whole concept
of like, where is the skunk?
Can the skunk be exhumed from just its old genetics?
And he was saying that, yes, like large enough population,
you can probably hunt the same chemical profile
or at least something close enough
that the skunk once was through some of these genetics.
So anyways.
Yeah, it'd be easy to recreate it
with the knowledge of the genetics
that are part of what we know as skunk.
With folks doing enough research and enough breeding,
it's easy to bring it back.
That's just not what's happening.
We got cats just slapping names on packs
because someone told them the genetics
contained the word skunk.
And they don't understand the amount of breeding
that's went into putting skunk into the marketplace
that we now have it as.
So you get so many different versions of it.
People are just buying whatever has it
and they wanna offer it to everybody
to try to be the next guy that has it.
And most of these cats,
the ones that are out here arguing everybody
on the other side of it,
they don't even understand what a thiol is
or what an ester is or the fact that the plant
could be producing it
from multiple different genetic lines.
Because most of these cats out there
pushing the skunk on everyone
that has the name on their pack
don't have any experience with the plant at all to start with
or the line that made the name famous.
That's one of the largest problems.
That are all banding together to try to push an opinion
and not the science that backs what the plant says.
And the plant's not gonna lie.
You get the right genetics
and you do enough crosses and enough sifting.
You can produce what people believe is skunk.
And then that's the next trouble is
everyone has a different version
of what they believe skunk is
because of how we interpret smell.
So 10 guys might smell it and 10 guys might not.
So it comes down to we need to all educate ourselves
to what genetics are, what this plant is
and what we're actually after.
What I believe.
Listen, there's even some other stuff
that has to do with things we've talked about
in the last couple of weeks in the show.
Like for example,
say you're talking about limonene or terpeneline.
Say it takes a hundred molecules of those compounds
to activate your receptor and come off as like,
quote unquote, loud to your nose.
Well, the thiols are like much more,
they're much more active at like a lower concentration.
So you say you have like one molecule
can create the illicit that same response
or that same level of response, right?
Compared to a hundred molecules of another molecule.
You know, I used to,
I have this really skunky plant in my collection.
I remember I used to grow it for commercial purposes
I had some problems with my car and I locked it all up
and I just harvested and locked it up
and it's like a smell resistant container, call it.
And I got on a bus to go across town.
And I remember like I walked from the front of the bus
to like the rear doors.
And by the time I got to the rear doors,
like everybody on the bus was like,
what the fuck is there skunk?
Like who just got sprayed by a skunk, right?
But if you took that same flower
and you held it up close to your nose,
it didn't really smell like that, right?
That's when the terpeneline would take way over.
And you'd get that piney kick, right?
But when it's in a small concentration,
and I think that's probably why like we hear people saying,
oh no, that stuff would reek through the bag, right?
Or go through like two or three bags
in the corner of a room.
And you'd smell it as soon as you'd walk in the room.
It's because there'd be like these very little amounts
that would seep out of the bag
and you'd have that huge effect.
Yeah, that's also another funny Jungian synchronistic moment
because Soul Spirit today commented
when I posted that thing on Thai Alls
and they were saying up close,
you smell like that skunky
but is just making a triple, quadruple package
and put it away.
That's when the skunk smell comes out.
It was like a joke,
but it's kind of funny that you're mentioning that.
Yeah, I think that's actually also one
of the interesting points if you look at the recent paper.
And the full title is Identification of a New Family
of Prennulated Volatile Sulfur Compounds in Cannabis
Related to Comprehensive Two-Dimensional Gas Chromatography.
There were many authors.
The main lead author was, I believe, Ian Oswald.
But they were looking at, they looked at ChemDog91.
They had a number of OG samples
and a number of gelato samples.
And they were able to identify these compounds
in pretty significant quantities
in a number of the different samples that they tested.
They didn't detect it in two samples.
I think it was Blackjack and Gouda Berry.
Neither of those had any VSC3 identified.
But all the other things that are basically related
to some gelato cookies, OG chem sort of fam stuff,
all of those had measurable quantities.
And the Chem91 and one of the gelatos
were the two highest testing.
And I just think that that's something that,
with the mass polyhybridization of cannabis
and the mixing of different gene pools,
we've been selecting for more and more
of these secondary volatile compounds.
And a lot of what we've done to a certain extent
is masked or layered additional flavors
on top of skunky sort of aromas.
And so while something may not come off
as roadkill skunk now,
it has a relatively large quantity
of these underlying thiols in the overall composition.
And that seems to be indicative of the fact
that we've just added more aroma on top of these
than necessarily lost it altogether.
Well, again, what's our breeding strategy been
for the last 30 years?
Right, out cross it to the next cannabis cup winner.
So it doesn't matter what you have,
you out cross it, right?
And again, going back,
if you go back and listen to previous shows,
I mean, we talked about salping versus out crossing.
Out crossing is how you destroy pure gene pools, right?
It's how you like take genes that might be recessive
and they get buried and then long forgotten about,
hidden in a recessive state, right?
All that stuff only comes out through salping.
And so I think like, you know, it's collectively
like the way that we've been breeding
for the last 30 years is really,
it's not that skunk is gone.
It's that we have literally buried it, right?
Anyway, I said, I don't know if Peter's listening
or if he's cooking dinner or what he's doing this evening,
but I sent Peter a bunch of links
on some different chemical formulas for compounds,
including thiols and monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes,
you know, with the hopes that you might be able
to put some of these things up on the YouTube link
and we can kind of walk through them and talk through them.
That might give a good foundation
for people to think about these things.
I'll get them over onto the, get them over to London
and I think he'll be able to get them up for us.
Yeah, I was just about to hop on and say that
if you shoot those over to me, Ryan, real quick,
I'll get them up as soon as possible
and I'll shoot you a message in the background.
Awesome, thanks.
No, I-
See you in a minute, Ryan, don't worry.
Did you email them?
Let me check my email.
No, I sent an SMS, like a message.
So for those, I'm sure you guys are gonna cover it
eventually, but for those listening,
everyone knows about cannabinoids and terpenoids usually.
Can you guys tell, someone explain to listeners
what the difference between a thiol is
and a cannabinoid or terpenoid?
Or how do we break that down?
I don't know, Trevor, do you wanna jump in?
If not, I will jump in on that.
How do we differentiate them?
I think a good way to look at it
is to like think of like the word Android, right?
Android is like, like man, that's what the word means.
And so terpenoid is actually a good example.
It was one of the ones I sent the repeater was linalool.
Linalool is not a terpene, it's a terpenoid
if you wanna be chemically specific about it.
And terpenes, I mean, the way to do this,
have this discussion is to start
what a terpene is from the bottom up.
So we have monoterpenes and we have sescaterpenes, okay?
Monoterpenes have a chemical formula of C10H16.
So there's 10 carbons and 16 hydrogens in the molecule.
Sescaterpenes have 15 carbons and 24 hydrogens.
And so a sescaterpene is really like
one and a half monoterpenes,
or it's one and a half times the size
and the molecular weight of a monoterpene.
One way to remember that is like,
the sesquicentennial, like 150 year anniversary of a country
is called the sesquicentennial.
And that's like the same kind of thing.
Sesquicentennial means one and a half, right?
And so that's a good way to remember
like the difference between monoterps and sesquiterps.
Monoterps are like, they're smaller, so they're lighter,
they're more volatile.
And once you get to know them,
you realize they have kind of the sweet
and the floral and the piney and the kind of vibrant smells.
Sesquiterps to me at least come off as a little more roasty
or like savory in quality.
But again, I don't wanna get too far ahead of ourselves.
So if you look at any terpene like limonene or terpeneline,
for example, and you look at like the chemical structure
of those two molecules,
they're almost identical, right?
Like there's like a difference of a double bond
in one location to another location.
And that's enough to make it
into a totally different smelling plant,
totally different smelling compound.
I mean, limonene smells really like orange peels,
but terpeneline has this really sharp piney kind of smell.
You might think of it like some people
have probably seen like Mr. Clean piney,
like Mr. Clean pine cleaner, pine salt cleaner.
They really like have a very similar smell to that.
So just changing the location of a double bond,
totally changes the chemical characteristics of a plant,
more or less, at least in terms of smell, right?
They both still act as solvents to oils,
which is one of the reasons they're in cleaners.
But so those are terpene specifically, okay?
Linalool is a terpenoid
because its chemical formula is C, what is it?
It's a monoterp.
So it's C10H16O1,
O1, yeah, or O, right?
There's one oxygen added to the molecule.
And that is enough that it's no longer a terpene
because we can classify terpenes as C10H16, right?
Or at least monoterps is that chemical ratio.
So if they have one more molecule,
it's no longer a terpenoid.
It's a terpene.
You also hear these things referred to as like,
or linalool referred to as a terpene alcohol
because technically it's an alcohol, right?
So I don't know if that explains,
like, I mean, that doesn't really get into the differences
between cannabinoids and anything else,
but all of these chemical classes,
they each have their own unique set of properties.
So for example, cannabinoids,
they have oxygens in the molecule, they're much bigger,
but like THC and CBD, again,
they have the same number of carbons,
hydrogens and oxygens.
They have the same molecular weight.
It's just the way that they're arranged
is very slightly different.
I guess what I'm wondering is,
you know, it's like, I guess the root of the terpenes
and the cannabinoids, I guess,
right at the isoprene structure,
the carbon and the hydrogen,
the isoprene form into isoprenoids,
and then like they create more complex molecules
as far as I remember learning about.
But is that what, is a thiol just carbon and hydrogen?
What is it?
Sorry, I'm trying to coordinate the graphics
here in the back.
London's just pulling them up.
London, it may be opening the one with the thiol
is the best to do right away.
I'm gonna pull up the YouTube link as well.
A thiol is an organic molecule, okay?
So it could be essentially any chemical background,
but rather than having a hydrogen group
come off of a chemical, there's a sulfur hydrogen,
a sulfur and a hydrogen molecule, okay?
And that's what makes a molecule a thiol.
So, you kind of have to forgive me
because I don't know the chemistry well enough
in terms of building these molecules.
Like I don't know what 1, 2, 3 MBT is.
We really need someone like Mark Sheldon here
to be explaining that.
But essentially what we've done or what chemists have done
is they've grouped molecules together
based on the types of additions
that they have to the molecule.
So these little modifications
that are made to a molecule,
this is chemistry, right?
Like chemical molecules,
you can break off little pieces
and put on other pieces like other atoms,
like it was molecular Lego kind of thing, right?
And the plant does that through biochemistry.
What we can solve, what chemists have labeled as thiols
have like a chemical addition of a sulfur
and a hydrogen group, and that's what makes it a thiol.
Got it.
London, do you have the link up on the YouTube?
I'm sorry, I'm kind of run between answering questions
here and trying to get you the data, the info.
Yes, I do.
I have that link up as well as the others available
but just opening up on the Google search
with the main top heading there that I can see.
Awesome.
Yes, I do.
I have the...
Sorry, he said to meet the YouTube.
Yeah, great.
Okay, so yeah.
So what you're showing there is essentially,
can you go back to just the one slide
or the page that you're on before?
It was the one that said file.
It doesn't matter what the order we go through them.
We can go through them all.
So there, that's the basic formula there, RSH.
R could be like any organic molecule.
It's like a, it just means like
it's a different radical, right?
Where R represents an alcohol
or other organic substituent.
You can see right there, it says in the definition.
So terpenes can be modified into files, right?
Or other alcohols can be modified into files.
And so that's kind of like what I was talking about before
about the plant and mother nature being stingy
and like building on.
It's like if you got a house
and you wanna change your house,
you're gonna put like a new addition on
and make a kitchen, right?
You're not gonna tear down the whole house
and rebuild the house so that you have a kitchen, right?
And so mother nature is kind of the same way.
It's more energy efficient for a plant
to use the chemicals that it already has
in its chemical inventory and modify those chemicals
rather than build them complete from scratch, right?
And so what happens is a plant evolves,
like it starts adding in genes for the traits that it needs
or for things that it finds useful, right?
And as those new chemicals are like
included in the chemical inventory in the plant,
mother nature can like try to modify them in different ways
and maybe those modified chemicals
confer some type of advantage, right?
And this seems to dovetail with that paper
that you posted recently
that's generated quite a few headlines.
The study showing that genetic mutations
are not necessarily completely random
but instead centralized and located in particular regions
and those particular regions being ones
that are less important for developmental reasons
and so when we're talking about secondary metabolites,
the secondary metabolites aren't necessary for reproduction,
they're not necessary for development
and create like life longevity of the plants themselves.
They're instead defense mechanisms
that the plant develops that are not necessarily
like directly oriented towards development
of the biological cell structure
or the reproduction of the species or the plant
or what have you, organism.
And so it makes sense that you would see
a lot of these kinds of variations
in these types of secondary metabolites
given the findings on that recent paper.
Yeah, and again, also to keep in mind too,
like we've moved away from natural selection
to we're full on doing artificial selection
and we're selecting pretty heavily on scent these days
or at least the past 20 years.
And so anytime like some stoner grower somewhere
smells a plant and says,
oh, hey, this one smells like banana or whatever,
whatever it's smelling like, we like to add that, right?
Like it's like, we like to collect them
and add a new flavor to the cannabis scent portfolio, right?
So we're really like anytime a plant makes a new chemical
or a plant makes a chemical and we notice,
that gives us reason to like chase down that chemical
and try to breed it up into the higher levels, right?
So it's a pretty strong selective force.
I'd say that humans as a whole
are putting on cannabis right now, right?
So, you know, that I would say that that whole area
of the genome is definitely under intense selection.
Yeah, London, since you went home to all that work,
I wonder if we should just pop up those terpene slides on.
I saw that you had them in your,
you had them clicked on your email there.
Yep, I got everything ready to go.
If you go through it,
just there's a little latency between the YouTube
from what you'll see and how fast it'll go through.
So if I hear you on here, the second you say,
I'm gonna move on to that terpene.
Okay, so here's, these are monoterpene.
So monoterpene again are C10H16.
And I'm talking like, you know,
I hate to make London our search monkey.
If you can search, like for example,
erase monoterpene in the search queue there
and type in limonene, right?
And so everybody remember that it's C10H16.
We're gonna do a little bit of a deep dive here
into the monoterpene groups.
And when limonene comes up,
you'll be able to see that it has a specific formula.
It has the same formula, okay?
It's again, C10H16.
But if you can zoom in on the chemical structure there
a little bit, if people can see that,
it's kind of like this benzene, like six sided circle,
not circle, but it's like a hexagon
with these little sticks coming out of it.
Those, the points on the hexagon are carbons, okay?
So anywhere there's a point or the end of a line,
there's a carbon there.
And if you go through, you'll count them.
There's actually 10 or sorry, 16, 10 carbons.
16, 10 carbons.
So if London now goes and searches
terpeneline chemical profile,
we'll see that the double bond here
on the kind of the, one of the little feet,
we can see that there's two lines on one of the feet
or one of the legs of that molecule.
If you search terpeneline chemical formula,
you'll notice that that little double bond
moves to a different place on the molecule.
So here we have it again.
So you can kind of see from this one now,
each one of the legs has only one line
and the double bond now is in between the ring structure
and the kind of the legs.
So call it the torso.
And so if we go through like all the rest
of the monoterpenes, for example, pyrene,
you'll see that it's always C10H16.
It's always 10 carbons and 16 hydrogens,
but it's just the way that those things are arranged
is slightly different.
And that's really how mother nature
like varies on these chemicals.
She finds different ways to put the same pieces together
in a slightly different way.
Remember mother nature doesn't really care about the,
when mutations happen or mutations happen
that create these chemical changes,
that's a random event more or less.
Like that's not a directed event.
It's just like, that's kind of one of the things
that life does as it goes about its day to day of living
is it finds new ways,
it tries to find new ways of doing things.
And maybe that new way of doing things
is not very efficient or it doesn't lead to any advantage,
but say one every thousand times
when mother nature tries something new,
it finds something that's actually really efficient
and gives the organism an advantage.
That's really where evolution happens.
Sorry, I feel like I'm rambling here,
but I'm just gonna, while we're going through it,
let's go from monoterpenes.
Can you click on the sesquiterpene link now London, please?
And we'll see that that C10H16 number is gonna change.
Yep, you're.
So yeah, it changes to C15H24.
So, 15 is five more than 10,
24 is eight more than 16.
As you can see, it's just one and a half times as big.
So it's a bigger molecule.
And again, these sesquiterpenes
are also gonna have sesquiterpenoids.
So you might have like an oxygen that gets attached
into the chemical structure in some way.
That would be a sesquiterpenoid.
So it would fall into the category of terpenoids.
But again, so it's like we have these two
kind of chemical classes within the terpenes
that are the smaller molecules and the bigger molecules.
These terms are like,
when people go out in the community
and you hear people talking about terps,
it's like, oh, stick your nose in this jar
and smell the terps.
You're not really smelling the terps.
You're smelling all of the volatile,
all of the volatile compounds that the plants produces.
Like everything that is being released by the plant
into the air and it's finding its way into your nose.
That's what you're smelling.
So it's not just terps.
It's like, it's kind of a misnomer
for us to call them all terps.
Really what you're smelling is the whole volatile fingerprint
of the plant, including thiols, including esters,
including the mono and sesquiterpenoids.
There's a big whole bunch of chemistry going on in the plant
in terms of smell.
Is that clear with any questions on that?
I don't want to be sowing a bunch of confusion
and I know I'm throwing out a bunch of pretty random stuff.
I think everyone's loving what you're driving.
Yeah, it's excellent.
Brian, Peter, London, thank you so much.
I have like some question here.
Like biologically, I know that the genes
have different terpenes on it,
but I mean, if I, with my inputs, try to add more,
you explained that the plant is harder
to process other DNA than,
but can I add flavors with different kind of fruits?
And, you know, trying to imitate like the forest in a pot?
Yeah, that's a really good question.
And I like the way that you put it at the end,
the forest in the pot, right?
That's the answer.
Okay, that is the real answer.
And I think the important thing to understand
is that like plants typically don't take up
hugely complex molecules through the roots
and move them all the way through the floam of the plant
and through the stems and through the branches
and through the leaves or into the flowers, right?
Like that's a big, long transportation process.
Typically what they do is they break things down
in a smaller, or they pick things up in smaller components
and then they put them together on site
where they're needed, right?
And so I'm not really much of a believer
in the whole plant moving these large chemicals involved
in smell through the plant.
It's more like you're creating a bacterial
and fungal community in the dirt, in that pot.
Like you said, forest in the pot, right?
Like really when you say forest in the pot,
what you're saying is there's a whole ecosystem
that is going into the pot.
And that is what everybody gets on about organic practices
and organic gardening, right?
Is like recreating a food web ecosystem
where everything works together in the roots.
That has been shown to increase like overall volatiles
and even terps, like for example,
even looking at just terpenes,
like in measuring terpenes specifically, right?
But I don't think that like you're,
I don't really believe in the concept of like,
feeding pineapple juice to a given plant
then it's gonna start smelling like pineapple, right?
Like I know that that's something
that you hear passed around in the community.
And I personally don't believe that.
Because again, those scent molecules are kind of tender
and for it to go into a bacterial community like a soil,
you know, the bacteria are gonna start eating this stuff up
as well as it gets brought into the plant.
So I just don't really believe
that that's the way that it operates.
Excellent, excellent, yeah.
But I'm trying to understand the different terpenes
of that specific strain
and feed that strain with that terpenes?
Yeah, so typically like a given set of terpenes
is present in any given individual cannabis plant, right?
And that is as a result of the genes
related to terpene synthase production
that that specific plant has inherited from its ancestors.
So I don't know if that was the question or not.
I think he was saying that if you feed terpenes to the plant
like the plant's dominant in one terpene,
if you feed it terpenes, it's gonna uptake the terpenes.
Maybe I misunderstood that, but that's what I heard.
Yeah, excellent reason.
Yeah, like, I mean, when you look at the chart of,
well, here is legal, but in your stores,
there's charts on iPads that shows the different terpenes
on per strain.
So if I try to feed one strain
with the same amount of the terpenes of that,
probably I can potentiate it, but I don't know.
I would have to agree with where, I don't,
I haven't seen any data,
and that's not to say it's not out there,
but I don't think plants normally, they're not,
I haven't seen any data that shows
plants are uptaking terpene, plants are uptaking nutrients.
I know there's a lot of crosstalk
with other plant root systems.
You know, so I've like researched a lot
of this dynamic accumulator stuff
where plants like chamomile or nettle or yarrow
have phenolic compounds in the roots,
and if those phenolic compounds are like overlapping
with the cannabis roots,
there is potentially some type of crosstalk occurring
that might stimulate the cannabis plant
to produce more secondary metabolites,
but I don't know, shooting from the hip,
I would say that plants do not really uptake terpene.
I could be wrong, I could be totally wrong,
but I would say that the plants are uptaking the nutrients
and then through their secondary metabolite process
are producing the terpenes in the plants.
That's my guess.
But, well, I see a study that is different,
consortia or I don't know,
well, bacterias and yeast together,
eating different calories.
So they try to understand if the plant can get that
from that bacterias eating.
So it's a study that I have to search,
but I find it in a group of WhatsApp
that there's a Colombian guy studying
that he shows the study.
So in there, there was like bacterias eating different colors
from that point of view,
I tried to understand what happened with terpenes
probably can happen the same
because the bacteria will process that color
and give it to the plant.
So the plant can potency, some genes can potency that.
Well, because of that study,
but I don't know if happened the same with terpenes.
That's why I ask.
Yeah, it's interesting.
Honestly, I don't know.
I wouldn't be surprised if they do it,
but I haven't seen any research that shows it.
Yeah, I think like with what Ryan and Russell have said
and also how you've kind of described that crazy,
it sounds like there's a,
biological organisms are breaking down the material
and then it's being reuptake,
reuptaken after this process of decomposition has gone on
through biological bacteria or fungi.
Exactly.
And so I think like in that context,
yeah, but it requires that breaking down process.
I don't think that essentially how Ryan was saying,
the terpene as the whole unit itself.
So a full complete terpene being absorbed by a plant
and then like reuptaken and then adding
to the overall terpene level in the plant is unlikely,
but instead of process of providing the bait,
like if you look at the metabolic pathway
and the different precursors that are required,
if you're producing and providing the precursor material
that's needed for the synthase to happen,
then you're going to increase the overall amount.
Whereas if you decrease the amount of available precursors,
then you're going to reduce your overall quantity
or yield of a particular terpene.
And so they can be modulated through environmental influences
and by producing an environment
that provides a lot of these readily accessible molecules
to the plant that it can then take
into the secondary metabolite metabolic pathways
that produce them.
But it still requires that solubility
as opposed to just, you know.
There was definitely within the community
a lot of talk about, you know,
essentially making a puree with blackberries
or watering with some sort of fruit.
And then once you take like your fruit juice concoction
and water with that,
that that will increase your overall content.
And that was a misunderstanding, I think,
within a lot of the community.
And now when people look at, you know, natural farming
or Korean natural farming techniques
or modern farming techniques
that as people are dubbing them,
like it makes a lot more sense
because you have that biological activity
breaking down those components.
Excellent.
That's the thing.
In Korean natural farming, creating some inputs.
I started looking at vials and well,
vial is not from Korean natural farming,
but the rest of different inputs of Korean natural farming,
I start mixing it with different microorganisms in bottles.
So I start looking at that microorganisms
solubilizing different stuff.
That matter that you are saying
that they solubilize real in the root
because I feed the microbes with sugar and that fruit too.
So looking in the bottle, what happened?
I start thinking, okay,
if the microbes in there are processing that material
and that color is liberating,
what will happen in the root inside the plant?
Well, probably the same,
but I understand that the metabolism of the plant
and all that move that that material needs to,
that hold the path to the flower is a long way,
a long journey, I understand.
And probably not all the molecules
will arrive to that flower,
but probably someone's,
cause I'm doing some tests and I'm looking different.
Well, it potentiated a little,
but I don't understand biologically
what it's like in a microscope just in that study.
Well, and just quickly, crazy,
it seemed like you mentioned two different things
cause first you mentioned terpene,
then it's kind of like the question of
if you put mangoes in your soil,
are you going to get more myrcene?
But then you mentioned color, which is different.
So I'm thinking like anthocyanins,
and I guess your question there would be,
if you feed it, blueberries to the microbes in the soil,
are you going to get more purple weed?
Is that kind of what you're also asking?
Yeah, it's probably the same when the micro process,
the flavor and the color,
cause that is more difficult to create a test
for smells and colors, for smells than colors.
Cause you will not see the smell on any test,
probably just proving error and prove, you know.
But yeah, if the proof with colors,
the metabolism of the microprocess it,
probably if I add some mangoes,
the myrcene will potentiate it in a gene
that have that myrcene obviously.
Yeah, but listen, there's a huge misconception
about myrcene in mangoes and cannabis.
Cannabis produces like an order of a thousand times
more myrcene than mango does, right?
Like this whole idea that you can eat mangoes
and get higher because you're eating myrcene
is fucking stupid.
You'd have to have like kilos, kilos of mango, right?
For that to even have any potential effect.
I think it's in the order of like, you know,
cannabis is in like, what is it in milligrams?
It's gotta be like 10, upwards 10 to say 40 milligrams
per gram.
Whereas I think mango has like five milligrams per kilogram.
Right, like it's way, way, way more present in mango.
So I just always feel like I need to mention that
when I hear people talking about mangoes and cannabis
and cause it's just.
Yeah, you know, it's funny you mentioned that.
I've been thinking about that too
with the mangoes thing.
And it's like almost, I think, I don't know, you know,
it's like maybe there's all these other phytochemicals
in mangoes that are helping potentiate the body's,
you know, it's a stimulatory effect.
Like I don't know if you guys have ever taken psychedelics
like some, and then eaten a bunch of vitamin C,
but something wild happens when you eat a bunch of vitamin C
you know what I mean?
Like it really throws things into high gear.
And I don't know what's going on with that,
but maybe it's just a more complex phytochemistry
within fruits or something, who knows?
Yeah, maybe it's like expected, you know,
it's expectation, right?
You know, mango and kind of like Ayurvedic medicine
it's kind of unique,
is a pretty unique fruit kind of in itself.
It's one of the only ones that, you know,
balances all three of the constitutions.
And for one of them, it can,
I could be a little off here, but one of them,
you can actually give that constitution like too much,
you know, like vitality or energy.
So there might be something to that whole,
you know, like synergistic vibe, which is kind of unique.
And I don't know, like I've been listening,
one thing I just, I think it's kind of unique, like crazy.
I feel like, kind of like Peter said,
there's like two different kind of like
deep conversations going on here.
The difference between kind of, you know,
like feeding-
No, I know, I know.
Colors and flavors are not the same, I know.
Totally, but I mean, but there is like a weird,
like correlation in the long run, but I think-
That's the thing.
If I can expand here a little bit on kind of
what you've been talking about here, Krazy,
and what we've been getting into,
just to kind of ask you guys as well.
So I'm experimenting right now a lot
with making essential oils.
So HydroLite, I don't know if I'm saying it right,
Hydro something extract.
So you've got your double boiler distiller type of situation
and you extract out, and you're left with two things,
essence and essential oil.
So I'm taking fresh frozen product
and putting those two things together.
Now, this is essentially sequestering
and pulling out volatile molecules.
Now, I am a huge fan and a passionate studier
of volatile molecules because of my experience as a chef.
It's like, it's our whole world is volatile molecules,
manipulating, controlling, and harvesting,
using them to appease people in pleasuring environments.
So I love this area.
Now, recently I had some Chernobyl the dank,
very kind of like, almost interesting,
but it had a must to it.
Now we pulled out and we didn't do it properly.
We're gonna do another run, but I got a reasonable amount.
And now this stuff is strong.
It's the essence of everything else.
So I almost wonder, you would,
not throwing in mango or blueberry,
these things we know are not maybe
at the right concentration to get the natural,
noticeable outcome that we're looking for,
but could potentially using these things,
I mean, they're all natural from the plant.
I was gonna smoke them anyways.
So like, would it be, you know,
adverse to use them in some way to burst those terpenes?
Would it be others?
Could I use it as it through the soil
and it'd be taken up through the roots?
Or would I have to like, you know,
dip the plant before I hang it to dry?
Well, that, I guess that's what,
like I was gonna kind of just actually like,
kind of like ping on was,
he's kind of like leading us into like a,
like a fun, like two-sided topic.
And like Peter kind of like touched on it.
You know, the difference between, I think feeding,
like, you know, say like a mango to the soil
is a little bit different than feeding, like,
say like a pure, like essential like oil
and, or like a more like concentrated form.
When you're doing like the mango,
you're like hitting, you know,
the whole form of like, or the,
there's like four different sections of bio-like stimulants.
It's like acids, microbials, and then extracts.
And then there's a kind of like a,
I think it's like unknown or called like other group,
which is all like random stuff.
But when you put the mango on top, you know,
you're kind of getting all of those in a maybe chaotic form.
But then when you're using, like,
just like you're using or like, you know,
like kind of like talking about,
that's when you're really starting to kind of like target,
like just the botanicals, the like polyphenols
and all of those like kind of random things.
So I think they're like two different,
two different tools, if you will.
So if I create, I extract and I feed with my extract,
my microbes, it will pass the therapy?
Well, that's where like, I mean,
I can't say enough on like bio-stimulants in that way.
Cause like the, I mean, I don't, I just can't,
but someone else might be able to,
but you know, like bio-stimulants are being, you know,
like studied pretty often.
Russell, I did see you open mic there for a second.
Did you have an opinion or experience
on like the essential oil type?
Okay, what I said is that I create one input
with a lot of flowers and I start selling it.
Well, three people tell me,
I don't get my strength with smell or anything with flower,
but when I taste it, it tastes like flowers.
And I'm like, oh, probably it's because
of the fermented produce that I sell you.
And he's like, hmm, that's strange.
And he bring me one flower and I smoke
and it tastes a little bit of flower.
So that's why I start asking them.
But I mean, it was a lot of roses, a lot.
I do know that there are products
like there's a green plant product that's out
that's pretty much some sort of isolated terpene
that is used in the last stages of plant development.
But I did, like I mentioned,
I think while Chris was speaking is Russell.
You did open up your mic there for a second.
Did you have something to say
about the essential oil process
and pulling out that type of product?
Have you experimented with that at all?
I'm sorry, I got a bad signal out here.
I might end up leaving early just
because it's hard to hear full sentences.
But did you ask me a question
about using terpene products?
Yeah, more or less.
I saw you open up your mic there while I was speaking.
I was wondering if you had an opinion on that.
Yeah, I mean, I was just thinking about all this.
And I mean, I guess in some degree,
we're just early in this whole phase of discovery
with this plant science
and how roots uptake different things.
I think there's an interesting,
and I didn't catch everything that Krazy said,
but it sounded to me like he fermented
a bunch of rose petals, rose flowers,
and then the rose smell came up.
I don't know if I heard that correctly.
Yeah, exactly.
Okay.
I mean, yeah, I don't know.
It's an interesting concept.
It's like, I think all this interrelated dependency
on how the roots are able,
what the roots are able to uptake.
And I mean, I wouldn't, I just, for me, I don't know.
I want to believe that it's like, that makes sense.
Like there's probably a degree of,
if there's enough of any concentrate in the soil
and the roots are actively uptaking water.
It's like that old experiment I did
in like what we did in third grade
with the celery and the dye.
Remember, did you guys remember that?
Where you put the blue and red dye in the glass of water
and cut a celery stalk and then it just sucks it up
and the celery turns the color.
You guys remember that?
So anyways, you know, I don't know.
I mean, if like you had to run an experiment out,
it would be a fascinating,
that would be like a great research project.
Like I would find that fascinating.
You know, it's like put a bunch of terpenes in the soil
and you know, I don't know, monoram, but I don't know.
I do know that the plant's hormones are pretty important
in producing secondary metabolites, you know?
So if you were to add something like jasmonic acid,
you know, in very micro doses,
like that would probably help the plants
produce more terpenes than adding a terpene to the soil would
like if you fermented jasmine flowers,
I think that's where it's at.
And I'd like to see people do that.
No, no, that topic is big because I mean,
with the flavors you need to add different, well,
bacterias that helps you with that, like you said,
and with colors is the same.
Cause I mean, if you don't use jardine
or you don't use the correct stuff in the correct moment,
it's the same dude.
You don't have a cold environment,
the colors will not appear.
And it's the same, you need the genetics
because if you don't have in genetics,
anything is impossible.
But I mean, the strange thing is that my dude,
my body don't have any strength with rose flavor
and pops up a little flavor of that.
So that's the strange thing.
Yeah, I mean, it's interesting.
I think we're just at the cutting edge of this now.
So I can't wait to see where we go
with learning about all of this.
Yeah, that's like guys, you're making pretty big stretches
with absolutely no evidence.
I mean, that's the expression of science.
You don't measure it, you can't manage it, right?
So it's like to be seeing if there's changes
in these kinds of compounds, you have to be measuring it.
Not just saying, oh, I did this.
We don't have all the rose.
Here, I mean, here is illegal.
I want that, but I don't have.
Yeah, the one thing I would say that I was saying earlier
is with the hormones or that I was thinking actually
was some of this stuff is like,
if you add it to the soil, like fermented fruit juice,
do you think maybe the fruits are getting up in there
or do you think it's like the actual metabolism
in the soil going on with a consortium of bacteria
and the consortium of bacteria
that are producing all of these enzymes and chemicals
that are cross-talking with the roots
that are then activating the plant's
secondary metabolite system
to produce set other secondary metabolites.
Like maybe it's just the complexity of the microbiology
in the soil that's changing the plant's chemical composition
unless that it's a direct uptake from the product
that you're adding.
Yeah, there's science across a whole bunch
of different species that show that if you feed the rhizome
a healthy, like especially even just like molasses,
you're providing like a sugar medium, right?
You're feeding the bacterial and fungal community
that's in the soil.
It's the whole community, like we said,
it's like connected, right?
So there definitely is an effect from that.
I just, I don't know.
When we know stuff like that,
I don't know why it has to become,
oh, the plant's picking up the smell of blueberry and mangoes
and like to me, that's just not credible and believable.
Right, especially when we have evidence
that shows that it's just the bacteria
and the fungal healthy network
that leads to increase performance.
Yeah, for sure.
It is funny though.
Crazy made me, he jogged a memory though.
It was like a, from third grade.
I mean, you're talking 35 years ago,
a memory of doing that celery experiment
where you just add the dye into the cup of water
and then whoop, it goes right up.
Obviously it's different because you're, it's like a root.
There's no root system involved, but I mean, I don't know.
You know, it just reminds, it makes me think about,
you know, the process.
I remember that test with roses
that they use chemicals in the roses
and change the color, but using chemicals.
So that's my start point for my hypothesis
that if a consortia in the roots
can do something with that.
It's a good hypothesis.
You should research it.
Look for some research papers
and then send them to me and I'll check them out.
Okay, excellent, Bruce.
We got any audience questions either on YouTube or,
oh, Taylor, hold on.
Taylor, come on up.
You can hear me?
Yep.
All right, cool.
Yeah, I just got a quick question
I think would be helpful for a lot of people.
So all these stink compounds that we're all trying to get,
which ones last the longest?
How do they break down?
Yeah, just that.
Caryophyllene, it's impossible to get rid of it.
Fucking shit survives in black pepper forever.
That's a joke, but just as an anecdote,
first time I ever had access to CO2 extraction,
I sent a bunch of really, really old material
and the got COAs back on it.
And the only turf that was present in it was caryophyllene.
Which is a sesquiterpen.
The rabbit hole, you know, again,
just I guess like herbal medicine in general
on like six birth volatile oils,
it's kind of a mind, excuse the French,
like my neighbor, she's a huge herbalist
and the amount of like differences
and the different oils and the way that she dries
and like cures everything is incredible.
And I keep trying to like get her
and a bunch of her kind of like older,
like witchy herbalist friends
to kind of like get into the cannabis industry.
Like you guys know a lot about like oils
and the cannabis industry would like,
you know, really use that, but they just don't.
But yeah, like looking up fixed verse,
you know, like volatile oils is kind of a rabbit hole.
And like some of them do just,
you know, like dissipate super fast.
Like myrcene's got an incredible half
or like super fast half-life, like gone super fast.
But some don't, like Trevor was saying,
caryophyllene just like sticks
because it's a thicker kind of an oil.
No, it's heavier.
It's got a heavier molecular weight.
So it's not as volatile.
It's not that complex.
That's one of the reasons I was trying to get people
to go through and figure out which ones are which, right?
Which terpenes are monotropes and which are sesquitropes
because like Trevor said, you know,
he came back to the sample that was months old
or whatever or aged.
And what was left was beta-caryophyllene.
Why?
Because beta-caryophyllene is fucking heavy
and it's present in a lot of plants, right?
It's got a big old sesquiturps.
So it's got a much higher molecular weight
than the monotropes.
So in a given temperature and heat condition,
the monotropes are gonna start volatilizing
a lot more quickly.
And inevitably what you end up with
is something that's left over
with just the heavier, less volatile shit
that didn't blow away, right?
Just one more little thing.
Beta-caryophyllene oxidizes into beta-caryophyllene oxide.
And so you'll see that on like SC Labs reports
and a few other labs do it as well.
But that beta-caryophyllene oxide is essentially a marker
for how degraded the cannabis is.
Ryan, you brought up a little like fun fact
I learned a while back.
It's like, this is exactly why drug dogs around the country,
they're not trained, you know,
because like cannabis itself doesn't have a smell.
They're not trained for like anything but caryophyllene.
And I'm not sure which version it is,
but it's kind of a little fun one.
Yeah, that gets repeated often.
And I've actually even said that in the past too.
I'm not actually sure how true that is,
having met a few dog trainers.
So, and there's also,
you can make like beta-caryophyllene knockout lines, right?
Like you can make cannabis
that doesn't produce beta-caryophyllene.
So that would be pretty easy,
like little dogs on that way, that was the case.
But they do use actual product in that.
I just wanna say, I think,
I don't know if I missed you guys discussing the,
you know, just the importance of like,
this is why when you're drying and curing
and like what Ryan was just explaining,
and I believe it was Taylor's question.
You know, it's like,
that's why some of the plants just smell absolutely amazing
and super floral and all those light notes.
And, you know, people who have cured,
especially like large quantities over time,
it's like, there's all the stages
and you can kind of smell from the fresh plant.
The differences versus like the first day
is super incredible.
And then you can,
all of that lighter stuff is just dissipating
and it's kind of heartbreaking sometimes.
Like when you fall so in love with how specific,
like I always look forward
to when certain things get harvested
because they smell so incredible.
And then it just observing how it changes
through the post-production process
is always really fascinating to me.
And I think that that's a huge part of the conversation
is I think half the battle is how tenderly and lovingly
that you, you know, that you're dealing with the product
because it's kind of,
I've noticed even a couple of degrees difference
in your post-production space can make a massive impact
on how the terpenes are preserved.
And I know that for us with the, you know,
our regenerative organic practices over the years,
but at some point, like the lab called us and was like,
hey, just so you guys are aware, you know,
your product is like on average about two points higher
than the rest of our clients.
And we're curious what you're doing differently.
And so that was a really interesting, you know,
it was an interesting moment because in my head,
I just thought like, oh,
our terpene tests are always pretty good,
but the reality was it's different.
And it's because we have different practices
and I have really wondered over the years
if partially it has something to do
beyond growing practices with the fact
that we really do a lot of work with cover crops
and that we have also,
we have like a very aggressive chamomile
and this is obviously not backed up by science,
but they do show like what I believe it was Russell
was pointing to earlier.
Yeah, Russell, that you pointed out that,
I mean, there's the science is,
when we first started realizing that
and I first started researching it,
it wasn't as documented, but I do find that, you know,
we've added a lot of other plants in that,
like with humble kind of structure over the years.
And I wonder, you know, there's,
I don't have a side by side or any like hard proof of that,
but it is something that I have been curious
about over the years.
And as a background in herbalism,
I know that it's one of the main things they do teach
is it's a lot about how you treat plants
and then also how quickly plants break down.
And then also I was wondering if you guys had talked about
the other thing that I've noticed is that, you know,
when there is aggressive stressors or pest pressure,
that that is another thing that can definitely like,
obviously that's the plant's natural defense.
So I find that kind of fascinating
and I've stopped growing things.
Like I don't know if any of you guys have ever grown
like the black lime,
but like I started to really hate that cultivar
because it degrades so quickly.
And I think a lot of it is because it has
this really high tripping content
and it just starts to degrade really quickly
and kind of looks ugly.
And I joke, it's like when you get limes
and they turn black,
that they start to turn that kind of thing.
It's like certain genetics I don't like
because even if it has a really high tripping content,
I don't like what it does
no matter how gentle you are with it.
So I don't know, just some thoughts,
but that's kind of been my experience
and it's fascinating to me.
I love tripping.
I will say that I don't believe also that, you know,
like what Ryan's been saying, it's not,
I had fed thing plants, all sorts of weird,
I fed cannabis, like other psychedelic plants
and just like experimented,
especially like over time, because I'm curious,
but I don't see that that is really something
that has impact.
And I'd be very curious
because like what you're saying about the roses,
I mean, roses have like rose essential oil
has a very wide range of things that make it up.
It's not just like one terpene,
but it's the rose terpene.
And it's like drenal and like other things.
So I would just be curious.
I mean, obviously I think there is like a sensitive energy
with plants, but I don't personally think that,
but I think it's more on the tip that Ryan's saying
and maybe a cover crop,
like increasing the network maybe helps.
Those are my two takeaways.
You don't eat hair to get more hair, right?
I try everything dude, it just doesn't work.
Word.
I thought this was a good conversation to have
because I mean, it's once you're at the end,
you have to protect all those things.
So what kind of things should you look for?
I guess is a question you should ask yourself.
Like if you're somebody who is doing processing,
if you're making a rosin,
you're obviously gonna wanna look for things
that they have these compounds that last longer,
that are gonna last you that process.
Maybe not like a monotropine, something like that.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's one way to look at it for sure.
The other way to look at it is like you use the plants
like the one that Evian was talking about
that loses these volatiles rather quickly.
Maybe that's just flash frozen and straight to extract.
Right, so that's one thing this industry
really hasn't done very well,
is pair production with specialty products, right?
And that's bound to come over the next couple of years.
So.
That's exactly what we did, Ryan,
just so you know, that's pretty much the only,
we love that, that specific cultivar
is called Cosmic Temple.
And it just, it smells like out of this world.
And we started sending it to fresh frozen
and it just really, it's incredible
because it really holds that frequency still.
And you just open a jar of it and you're like,
wow, it's amazing.
So it's true.
I think that over the past few years,
that's kind of been a goal is to pair,
we grow different things now for different purposes.
So it's across the board, that's gonna be the solution
to hold on to some of those more magical, lighter.
I'm a huge fan of the lighter terpenes,
on a personal note, I feel like it's part of why
I love essential oils also.
It's all like that really amazing floral lighter notes
that don't really last.
We had a cultivar at one point
that actually smelled like violets
and I've still been like, what?
What causes a plant to smell like violets?
You know, what cannabis plants?
It's kind of, it's not very popular though,
a lot of those things.
You know, one thing you mentioned about the chamomile,
intercropping chamomile.
I did this PowerPoint a few years ago
for Terpenes and Testing Magazine,
just on like terpene biosynthesis, some basic stuff.
And it was just one of the, you know,
one of the questions people were asking
was about this idea of certain companion plants
boosting terpenes.
And I'll find, I have some data, some really loose,
it's a very loose data,
but I think it was a science paper on Yarrow.
Basically what it said was,
is that there was this possibility
that the phenolic compounds of the companion plants
were, that they were releasing into the soil
nearby the cannabis roots,
were somehow stimulating the cannabis plants ability
to increase their own production of secondary metabolites.
That's the loose science I have on that.
I did a presentation similar
and I had like a compiled loose science
because they've studied it in other plants and other herbs.
And it was, that's, I think it's like
all of the humble plants like coriander, dill,
yarrow, chamomile,
there's like a whole collection of things
that have that similar plant structure.
And they, there are, there's more science,
but it's not based with cannabis.
So it's a really interesting conversation.
Yeah, that's, now that I remember,
it was like regarding like production
for other types of herbal, herbs, you know.
Yeah, I remember.
Yeah, yeah, it's cool.
It's interesting.
Plant, it's a plant like signaling
and then another like sub like categories,
plant bio like stim, or not plant,
just bio like stimulants.
And that's kind of where I was like talking about earlier
was right now we're,
and I sent Ryan and a couple other people,
this like graph of kind of like where,
like kind of what I'm understanding of like where we're at
and like bio stimulants, which I'm nobody,
but which is, you know, that whole like broken up like acids
and such and, you know, the big one that it seems
like everyone, you know, is targeting
and it's like unique, like Russell, that you said,
this was polyphenols, like out of all of them
in like the research and other plants
that like I've been like tracking,
it seems like it's all about the polyphenols.
So you might really be onto something there.
I wanna say too that another thing that's come up for me
over the past few years is I've noticed across the board
and this is like Oregon, Northern California area,
that since we've been dealing with these kind of more intense
issues with aphids to the point where the, you know,
the Department of Agriculture has been releasing,
you know, like emergency kind of like,
you gotta look out for these certain things.
I mean, and it's really bad.
I had never, I mean, I've been touching cannabis plants
for a super long time and I've never seen aphids
until about like four years ago.
And then every year I noticed it's progressed worse.
And then every year I've noticed an increase
in the terpene, the farnesine seems to be increasing.
And I've brought this up to other scientists
and just kind of, you know, because that is the natural,
it's the same, I forget, maybe Ryan or somebody else here,
it's the same pheromone that aphids release
as like an emergency kind of like there's an issue.
So the aphids will release a very similar plant
or bug hormone and it matches to farnesine.
So I thought that's really interesting.
I would love to see if there's actual science
or across the board.
And what I was told by the other scientists was like,
oh, it's just because we've started to test
for more of these terpenes more recently.
And that's why you're seeing an increase in it.
And I'm like, well, it kind of doesn't make sense,
especially with like, you know,
outdoor larger scale agricultural crop situations.
So I would just be curious if other people have experienced
those like elevated levels of terpenes
or distinct terpenes that are not as common
coming through more.
Are you talking about within a cultivar?
Like within a cultivar, you're starting to see farnesine?
Yes.
It's interesting.
Farnesine was just one of the ones that was disclosed
as like one of the key terps and distinguishing
between, you know, air quote sativa and air quote indica.
Was farnesine is found in the equatorials, right?
So I thought maybe that was one way.
So you think that the predation by aphid
is what's leading to more farnesine in these samples?
Is this all grown outdoors?
Correct.
This is, well, we have multiple cultivation.
I mean, I work with a lot of different
beyond just the normal facility,
but we do have a lot of historical, like, you know,
we have like six years of data and COAs
on certain cultivars and you can see
and then you can see that problem is less of an issue
with like a greenhouse cultivation, obviously,
or indoor cultivation.
But I have saved a bunch of white papers.
I kind of went down like a really deep rabbit hole
at one point and wanted to have a deeper conversation
around it because it's like a notch.
It's like the repellent that they emit
and there were white papers that were written
with the same kind of concept in peas.
Because I wondered too, you know,
it's like we use a lot of, in different IPM programs,
there's a lot of essential oils that you can use.
And so I'm like, just find it fascinating
that like, if that's naturally a repellent,
it's just kind of been something I've been researching
for the past year because it's more just like weird,
personal, like, I want to figure it out.
You know, I want to know what's going on here
and why there's a connection between those things.
And there's a lot written about it.
So obviously there's some sort of connection there.
Just quickly, can one of you guys spell out the terpene
you were just talking about?
The paracene or faracene?
F-A-R-N-E-S-E-N-E.
It didn't seem like the white papers had like actually,
you know, it's like they did a bunch of studies
to try and see if it could help to curb,
but it doesn't seem like, in peas at least,
it wasn't seeming like it was really super, you know,
like the efficacy wasn't completely there
to repel the aphids,
but they naturally emit that same thing.
It's interesting.
Yeah, I'm finding a paper here, a couple right off,
just by looking that it says
that it actually is attractive to thrips.
But I did find one about it acting as a pheromone,
or not a pheromone, an alarm pheromone, beta-farnesine.
I see something that says the aphid alarm pheromone,
I guess, or beta-farnesine is believed to be such a cue
because several aphid enemies are able to perceive EBF
and show attractant behavior.
Yeah, I'll see if I can find it.
In one of my Google Drives,
I saved like a couple dozen of papers related to this,
and maybe I could share it with you guys,
and we could kind of discuss deeper at some point
and read and see what we think.
I think it's fascinating because it's,
because we do use essential oils already.
And so I'm curious, you know,
and I know that the aphid issue,
I mean, I don't know, well, I mean, it's just a major issue.
I get like more calls about that from people
in the kind of consulting space
than pretty much anything else at this point.
Yeah, you know, in the development,
I think I mentioned this last week,
but in the development of sweet corn,
in the tight breeding scheme for sugar,
they accidentally took a beta-caryophyllene production
in the roots of corn,
and that led to all sorts of issues with pests,
just because, again, they're like bitter,
kind of think of them as like bitter
anti-feeding compounds, right?
And so when you're doing that kind of agriculture
or selection breeding, which this is what we're doing,
when you're not looking for something,
like when you're not looking at a given trait,
you can easily lose things.
And I think most people are pretty much ignoring
the root system of cannabis in their breeding.
Yeah, you can have all sorts of stuff going on,
but at least we could be breeding them
to optimize them for performance
right against pests, food soil pests.
That was my biggest concern with the farm bill
and this kind of race to have this like non-detect
total THC or just, you know, breeding out the THCA
to create a plant that was compliant.
My biggest concern was like the downstream effects
of what would happen.
And that obviously it's there for a reason
and that we don't wanna create more issues
by breeding something out.
But then I'm not sure if that's like
was an accurate hypothesis because of the CBGA
and that there are, that is pretty much non-detect for THCA.
So it'd be curious to see, you know,
I do have concerns about the breeding
and the long-term effects that we're creating
more of this issues with monocropping
and breeding for certain things and not for others
and just the lack of stability.
And that's part of why I'm excited
in the rise of molecular breeding,
because I think that hopefully we can, you know,
be smarter and not creating more problems
as we're trying to like, just, I don't know.
I see stability, we're monocropping something.
So we're creating more issues across the board
by breeding for certain things
and then not looking at other things.
So I think the more we can use science
to help make sure we're not creating more problems
downstream is really important.
Yeah, that's a great point.
And it's interesting,
you brought up a lot of interesting thoughts.
It's like, if you're cutting out the biodiversity
of the plant, you know, by breeding out certain things,
you know, you might have to increase the biodiversity
of the external operating system to compensate for that.
You know, so like this example,
small scale example would be in here in Eastern Humboldt,
we have had bad aphid problems too, you know,
coming down from Oregon and just being around.
And, you know, in a few thousand square feet,
having a row of like, let's say there's, you know,
a hundred foot row, you would intercrop carrots,
you know, a foot, it'd be like a foot wide
of carrots down the entire row.
And I've seen this insane lady beetle bank occur
where there's like hundreds of ladybugs
that are crawling all over the carrot leaves.
And then they'll jump to the cannabis plant,
at least they did in this case, to the row
and just lay their eggs all over the cannabis plants,
which are just starting to get aphids, you know,
cause you have to plant the carrots prior
to the planting the cannabis, so they're growing, you know.
And then the ladybugs would breed all over
the cannabis plants and all the ladybug larvae
would just eat the aphids and there wasn't
an aphid problem anymore.
Well, that requires managing two crops, you know,
it's like managing biodiversity on that end
is the trade off.
So that's just my thoughts on it.
You know, it's kind of, oh, sorry.
This is, I mean, this is a rabbit hole
cause like I've been a huge nut on like Neuralidol
because it has like, it's created in the roots
and you know, like in the flower and it has it,
well, and also like multiple, you know, other parts,
but it has like some specific, you know, like traits.
But what's really unique about it is in like my Maze,
or my Maze, M-I-Z-E, when they start getting,
getting like getting random like herbivore attacks,
it naturally creates a good amount of Neuralidol,
but when they get like attack, it switches to Parsnol,
which is like super, super like interesting.
I've been like listening this whole time,
kind of like mindfucked cause that's what I've seen
from Maze or M-I-Z-E, however you say it.
But so there is like obviously something
to this like attack thing, you know.
If only we had a chemist on stage
to answer some of the questions we had.
Hey, I'm a chemist.
Oh my God.
I was gonna say.
Wow.
Somebody have a chemistry question?
Ryan, what was the question that you said
would be a better left to mark earlier?
I think we were talking about like,
how are thiols made, you know,
given existing chemical structures.
So like, you know, can a kind of sulfohydryl group
be added anywhere that there's a hydrogen group
or like an OH group or what?
How does that all happen?
What are the possible frames that exist
in the cannabis plant that can be used
for thiolization, if you will?
Well, there's cysteine and methionine, right?
Those are the two naturally occurring amino acids, right?
That are have sulfur inside chain.
And yeah, they get there through,
through I think mostly H2S.
I don't actually know like what the biological origin
because obviously H2S is completely inorganic, right?
That's just the sulfur version of H2O,
which is water, the oxygen version, right?
So, but H2S smells like rotten eggs.
So that could, gee, biological sulfur in terpenes,
is that where, is that the question you're asking, Ryan?
Where does that sulfur come from?
Yeah, I guess, like, you know, we were putting,
we put up the kind of the general chemical formula
for a thiol.
Yeah.
There's allicin, right?
So that the thiols that are in garlic and onion, right?
Are allylic thiols.
And I think there's a pair of them
because they exist as both the monothiols
and they're more stable disulfide.
And so there's those compounds
and those are allylic sulfides,
which are similar to the sulfur containing terpenes
that were recently identified.
So, yeah.
Is that where this question was stemming from?
Was those sulfur containing compounds
that are in hops and whatnot?
The skunky compounds.
Yeah, we were talking about the context
of how scent is like, you know,
it's not just the terps, right?
There's a whole bunch of other stuff going on in the plant.
Oh, yeah.
That's not just the terps,
even though we kind of refer to it all as,
collectively as, you know, quote unquote terps, right?
Well, yeah, it fits into a larger class of terpenoids.
You know, a lot of people like terpenes to a chemist
are oligomers of isoprene.
And a monoterpene is basically two moles of isoprene,
which is a C10 now because isoprene is C5.
So as soon as you introduce oxygen, like with linalool,
you no longer have just a straight terpene,
you have terpenoid,
or some people call them terpene alcohols,
but the oxygenated terpenes are the ones
that are more prevalent, you know, after cure,
because there's some chemistry
that actually happens during the cure
where some of these terpenes are transformed
to their oxidized forms.
And like caryophyllene oxide
isn't naturally made by cannabis, but caryophyllene is,
but its exposure to air
will eventually convert it over to the oxide.
And so some of these oxygenated terpenes
definitely have a different flavor and aroma
as their non-oxygenated counterparts.
Hey, Mark, curious, I was,
a while back I was talking to Nick,
which we all know Nick, he talks to,
you know, with Jason all the time,
and he was kind of going over some of this.
And when I was looking at linalool,
and I saw that when you add like an H2O molecule,
or you know, like a water molecule,
it turns into myrcene.
When would that essentially happen,
or like what would be the case that does that?
Yeah, so the biosynthetic precursor
to a lot of the terpenes is geranule pyrophosphate.
And what can happen is that that actually ionizes
and makes what's called a terpenyl cation.
And that, there's many different fates
of that terpenyl cation.
It could just lose a proton, it becomes myrcene,
or it could get trapped by water,
and that's when it becomes linalool.
I think it could be trapped by water
in an isomeric reaction to make geranule.
But it could also cyclize to make limonene.
It could cyclize to make the sabonene type class,
and also the thujine, beta-thujine
is another class of terpenes.
So that cation basically can undergo
a series of different reactions
to make structurally very different.
The pinenes are made in a very same way
through rearrangement of that terpenyl cation.
So yeah, these are all just 10 carbon frameworks
that basically just rearrange based on
what is thermodynamically accessible to them at the time,
sometimes assisted by enzymes, sometimes not.
And that also explains how a lot of the different genes
that encode for particular terpenes can,
or terpenoids can, they don't just upregulate
one particular secondary metabolite.
They can upregulate for lots of different variants
or multiple different variants.
And it sounds like the chemistry that's involved here
is very, each one of these steps
has a different sort of path it can take,
allowing for this wide range of variation.
That's right, there's a certain atom economy
that nature uses to best utilize a single precursor
to make a very structurally diverse set of compounds
that have very, very different properties, absolutely.
Speaking of...
Yes, so Nick, I feel like bringing this back
to like biostimulants, I guess like,
cause Nick's down there and I know he enjoys this topic.
Maybe he'll come up and like talk on it too,
but like, do you know Mark, like,
or like earlier we were talking the difference
between using, say like an extract
versus like using like a full plant.
Like, do you know maybe the difference about,
or I guess I'm like, which would be better
or like which would, or what the reason is,
is like why these might be helping us
create more like terpenes.
It's obviously not just like the plant is,
you know, like getting mercine and it's like,
oh, I'm gonna make mercine,
but is there like any sort of like understanding
like chemistry, like why?
Well, I don't know if this answers your question,
but this is a part of when I first joined the room tonight
and you guys were talking about attractants
and how sometimes some of these compounds
have this again, biphasic functionality
that they can act as either a repellent or an attractant.
So another molecule that fits into that story
is nipedolactone, which is the principal monoterpenoid
that's in the essential oil of the nipedicateria,
which is catnip or catnip, more known as catnip, right?
Weed for kitties, right?
So the compound that they respond to there
is a bicyclic monoterpenoid called nipedolactone.
And it turns out to be a pretty good insect repellent,
but it's also a lacewing attractant.
So it attracts lacewings, but repels most insects.
It's an iridoid monoterpenoid.
And those fall into a class of molecules
that are found in the secretions of beetles and whatnot.
And so they use, there's this whole chemical language
of chemical ecology that they use these attractants
and repellents to basically steer the beetles
that come behind them, I guess.
You can think of it that way.
So found in the anal secretions of beetles
are these kinds of compounds.
So yeah, they are most definitely repellents,
but for some insects like lacewings, they attract them.
So it's interesting to think about the evolutionary
pressures that created such a plant.
It makes cats stoned.
It repels most insects, but it attracts lacewings, right?
That is the coolest thing I've heard all week.
I'm telling you, it's like someone who loves plants
and studies companion plants and beneficial insects.
I didn't know that, and I'm going to create a post
about that, that's awesome.
Everyone's got cats.
Yeah, that's amazing.
It's about time I did something useful.
The lacewings are a tremendous predator against aphids.
So, and other insects and predators as well,
but are pests as well, but the lacewings,
especially the lacewing larva, they love aphids
and you can just sit there and watch them mow.
So really, really interesting.
Well, you may want to plant some catmint in and around
where you have your plants that you're looking
to extract that characteristic, right?
Yeah, it's so funny because this year I had a ton
of catnip, we have cats and I planted it
and then it seeded and it spread everywhere last season.
And there was a quite a bit of catnip
on the one acre property I have.
And we had a lot of lacewings.
It's just really interesting to me.
Do you have a lot of cats?
No, no, we just have one cat.
Yeah, no, but he always is hanging out in it though.
He's definitely loves it.
So as it turns out biologically, I mean,
that's not just for your small domestic and feral cat
that goes throughout the feline kingdom,
even to the big guys.
So, I mean, they want to listen to jazz
and eat Twinkies and hang out.
So it's, if you have big cat problems,
yeah, maybe catnip's the answer.
I'm sorry, go ahead.
Dr. Mark, is it,
cause I heard you say catnip and catnip
cause they're very close.
You're talking catnip specifically?
Yeah, so Nipeta cataria, I think is mostly
what's called catnip, right?
That's the white flower one.
And then there's the purple flower one,
the really pretty one, which is Nipeta massini,
which is another variety, right?
I'm certainly not the catnip expert.
I have the one with the white flowers.
I would basically prefer, Mark.
Yeah, I think that's Nipeta cataria.
And yeah, the essential oil is enriched
with this thing called Nipeta lactone.
And if you hydrogenate Nipeta lactone,
it makes dihydro Nipeta lactone,
which is a EPA approved insect repellent active ingredient
that a company that I worked with many years ago
first developed and now another company
is looking to commercialize.
So hydrogenated catnip, remember that.
And to be clear,
would you want the one with the white?
I think both are fine.
I don't know that there's a difference.
As it turns out, there's two isomers.
There's cis-trans and trans-cis-Nipeta lactone.
And they're both very effective at insect repellent
and also in the cat end of the activity spectrum as well.
Now I want to make an FPJ out of it too
and use that as part of the foliar spray.
I was thinking the same, Jason.
I was thinking the same thing.
That's so funny.
I can tell you that anecdotally it works.
It certainly, there's a lot of products like that
that are actually quite effective.
Another thing that I'll let you know
that this is always an interesting one
is just aqueous tobacco extract
is a wonderful insecticide.
The water extract from just regular chewing tobacco
like Red Man, you just throw a little chunk of that
inside a gallon of water and let that sort of percolate
to make a light yellow colored solution.
That is a contact insecticide.
Insects do not like aqueous tobacco extract.
That's another thing, tuck away there, natural.
Do something useful with that plant for Christ's sakes.
Dr. Mark, is that the same thing as what like jasmine does?
Like the nicotine and jasmine?
Well, nicotine itself is a pretty decent insecticide.
In fact, nicotine itself, the purified form of nicotine
is actually a contact poison.
You could actually dermologically die from exposure to it.
I think orally, the LD50, the lethal dose
in a population of 50 people,
I wanna say it's something on the order
of like only 60 milligrams.
So with a very, very low dose,
you can actually kill someone with nicotine.
So nicotine is not something to mess around with.
But I think when you do aqueous tobacco extract,
it's only in there in a very fleeting,
few fraction of a percent.
But whatever that you can extract from extract,
it makes good for like controlling flies around dumpsters.
And if you need to control flies around the barnyard,
aqueous tobacco extract's pretty good insect control product.
Yeah, I've heard this quite a bit.
Beware you're not using tobacco mosaic
virus contaminated tobacco.
No, I mean, this is low tech, Brian, really low tech.
These guys used to actually make it with cigarette butts.
That's how they first found out that it actually worked.
They're like, holy shit, there's something in tobacco
that keeps insects away from, they were having problems.
This was an animal rearing operation.
You can imagine things in the summertime,
the insects get pretty bad.
And you could definitely see that the shit works.
Hey, can I pipe in?
Please.
All right, got me going.
Okay, in the tobacco family,
something that's not as toxic as tobacco,
first of all, let's talk about tobacco mosaic virus.
That tobacco mosaic virus primarily comes from cigarettes
that are contaminated with formaldehyde
and all the other shit.
So rest assured that it doesn't come through
that tobacco plant as much.
However, you wanna step down just a little bit,
the nocotiana family.
You get the nocotiana seeds anywhere.
They come blue, white, pink.
They're very beautiful.
And insects absolutely hate nocotiana
because it is a cousin to the tobacco plant.
Do not ever, ever plant marigolds.
Oh my God, do not plant marigolds.
Everybody says, oh, they don't like the scent.
Well, a foraging deer might not like the scent,
but they are the favorite for outdoor spider mites.
No marigolds.
I did have one other thing I wanted to pipe in on.
Oh, catnip, catnip, catnip.
Usually the catnip, it's extremely aggressive.
Well, how to contain that is like, well, what I would do.
I found an old tire.
I plant that in the ground, fill in some good dirt inside.
I also do my potatoes like that
and then put it on the inside.
And then that way the root structure,
kind of like the bottom of the solo cup,
it'll hit that tire and go around.
You can contain it that way.
So it doesn't invade in your garden.
It's a very invasive root structure.
And another plant that insects really don't like
is comfrey.
Comfrey, you can just let that grow in your wild
and eat comfrey and be careful.
This is what I'm always saying in the fall.
Everybody says, oh, allergies.
I'm like, hell to the no, protect the crop
because ragweed will change the flavor of your cannabis.
It will also take it down.
It'll suffocate the stoma.
So be careful when your neighbors don't care,
take care of their weeds.
Actually in Pueblo, back in the day when Pueblo
up in first extract, one of the first extract companies
came in there and they put their shit,
they didn't take care of the weeds next door.
And it literally took down a whole month's run
because the flavor was just horrendous.
Now I didn't test for that and testing.
So it ran through, but the flavor completely changed.
So you're in my world, petunias, flowers, annuals,
perennials, tree shrubs, thank you for letting me share
a stage, I'm complete.
Yeah, make sure you put comfrey definitely.
When you putting comfrey down,
make sure you putting it down someplace you want it to be
because it's almost impossible to get out of there
once it gets going.
Some of the cultivars of comfrey actually can put down
like an eight foot taproot.
So yeah, you definitely need to be sure
where you're putting comfrey before you put it down,
but it's awesome.
Really, really great bioaccumulator too for making FPJs.
The room is awesome tonight, thank you so much.
There's a, I got this version of comfrey,
I shouldn't say version, but I don't know, variety.
It's called Bocking 14.
These lovely witchy ladies from Flying Blue Dog Nursery
out here gifted me some.
It's Bocking number 14 and it's a clumping comfrey.
And I've had it in this one spot for a bunch of years
and it doesn't spread at all, it just clumps.
It's like a clumping bamboo, it's the same idea.
And it's actually a really, really cool comfrey
because it just stays, it'll grow a little bit wider
every year, but not very much.
And it just stay, it's Bocking 14, it's a great comfrey.
All of the legume families, they will put nitrogen off
in the soil from their root system.
Dr. Mark, I was curious on those tobacco extracts
or I guess anyone, but like, is it possible
for the radionuclides to like come through,
like, what was it, clononium, clononium 210
and some of the other, like, I guess like radioactive
like materials that are in tobacco?
I have no idea.
Damn.
That's the thing, if anybody wants paper on that,
I've got a bunch of stuff on that.
I just don't know, like, could extract it
if it would come out,
because I know that it's in the actual leaf.
This happened in the 40s from some nutrient fertilizer
that we use broad spectrum.
I guess you have to grow your own tobacco then,
just plant some seeds.
This was just anecdotal from people who were trying
to control insects in the middle of summer
in a hog farm in Pennsylvania.
You know, and anything that works, you use.
And the fact that they could actually, I think they,
again, I wanna say if they first figured this out,
just using like cigarette butts, like somehow.
No, they did, that's true.
They did cigarette books.
And it developed in the whole class of,
it's the whole class of neonicotinoids,
the like larger class of the synthetic version of that,
of the nicotine.
And the neonicotinoids are really powerful insecticides.
Are just mimics of that, right?
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, exactly.
You just have to be careful around,
you don't wanna spray around bees.
It's like they're dangerous to bees
and probably amphibians too.
But just be careful when you spray it,
but they'll kill all the pests you have.
It's not just that you can't spray it around bees,
it's that it gets into the environment
and even just super tiny, tiny, tiny amounts
are damaging to bees.
That's the problem.
It's not that people are careless when they spray it,
it's that it gets in the ecosystem.
Would you know if there's a,
you know how there's a difference between synthetic?
Yeah, it's like the same thing.
It'd be interesting, I don't know this,
maybe someone can tell me, but it's like peritheroids.
There's peritherum derived from the chrysanthemum flower
that's an oil that's very, it's a neurotoxin,
but it photo degrades within three days.
So you can spray the organic peritherum
and it'll be gone in three days
versus like the synthetic peritheroids
that are synthetically derived.
And those things last for months.
So I'm wondering if the natural tobacco dry version
has a much lower half-life
than the synthetic neonicotinoid.
Yes, bingo.
Yeah, you gotta remember,
like nicotine was the original compound
and then they developed a whole class of chemicals
called nicotinoids, which were like terpenoids.
They were like nicotine, but not nicotine, right?
They were modified chemicals.
And then-
I think, Ryan, like you said,
I think they were more persistent
and they showed better activity in the field
where you have to, you know,
you're under assault or, you know,
sunlight and rain and there's a whole lot of things
that makes a insecticide commercial,
but your example are of peritherum and peritheroids
is absolutely spot on because peritherum
only has a very minimal half-life,
which is why it's allowed in use in certain applications
where the peritheroids, yeah,
could be environmentally, you know, persistent.
Absolutely.
Anyway, the neonics, all I was saying was that neonics,
it's built into the word, like neonics means,
or neonicotinoid means they're the new ones.
They're the new nicotinoids that are like more powerful
and supposed to be less prevalent,
but they are prevalent.
Right, so wouldn't you think
that tobacco-containing compounds, though,
themselves wouldn't be toxic just because they're to bees?
It was the structural mimics, it was these neonics
that were really causing the issues,
not nicotine itself.
Well, we don't know that.
I mean, that would be pure speculation.
I mean, one thing that we probably do know
is that the stuff produced in tobacco
is less in the environment than what we were spraying
with the nicotinoids and the neonics, right?
Like, I mean, fuck, dude, the amount of shit
that we put into the environment over the last 15 years,
it's probably like, you know,
way up there with the amount of tobacco grown, I would say.
So I would say that the negative effects
are probably the amount that's used,
not just in the origin of the chemical.
I mean, one thing that's interesting
is watching bees feed on tobacco flowers, you know?
So it's like you have tobacco plants that are covered,
that are like really greasy, they're just oily,
and then there are bees all over the flowers, you know?
So I wonder about that.
That's what I was gonna say, Russell.
I was gonna say the same thing,
because I've grown a lot of tobacco over,
I mean, I'm a big proponent of like,
I think we should all grow more than just cannabis
because I think it makes us better growers just in general.
And I think that it's a really, you know,
I will say also that tobacco seeds
are one of the hardest seeds to germinate.
They are teeny, teeny, tiny, and very difficult to germinate.
And it's just a really magical plant.
I mean, obviously all the plants are magical,
but there are certain plants that just have like a vibration
that's kind of intense,
and tobacco is one of those plants that has like a vibe,
like a real vibe, has like a prominence in the garden,
and it has a very, you know, but I've seen bees,
and I've also grown nicotiana,
which smells really incredible.
And I think there's a few other plants
that are in that same plant family.
But yeah, same thing.
Bees just seem to really love them.
And so it's interesting to consider the toxicity of that.
And I remember back when I was more of like a hippie gardener
when I was younger,
I would definitely like mix up all the things,
like the plant, like mix up the tobacco leaf,
and you know, cayenne, and the garlic, and do the things.
And you know, I think it definitely works.
I still do that sometimes in like my home garden,
but I don't use tobacco as much.
And I will say that trying to do the curing process
with tobacco, actually, I felt like humbled,
because it's, you know,
it's like you can get like reviews at a competition
that, you know, we cure our cannabis perfectly,
but then trying to like actually cure tobacco,
I was like, okay, actually, this is hard.
So just-
Yeah, that's funny.
It is, it's way harder than curing weed.
Way harder.
One thing I would say just as a caveat
for our thoughts on that,
it's like, if you look at elderberry, you know,
the berries are safe and the flowers are pretty safe,
but then there's like these crazy chemicals in the leaves
or stalks and roots or something.
There's other parts of the-
I appreciate the leaves.
In the seeds, in the seeds as well.
Or whatever it is, yeah.
And so it's like, if you boil those or ate them,
you could get very, you know, it could be like,
anyways, all I'm saying is we could probably just hop,
a quick hop on the internet could probably quickly solve,
is there any nicotine-
I was just looking that up right now.
Yeah, the immature berries-
It's a lot-
That's supposed to eat.
It's a lot lower in the actual tissue
of the plant and the flower.
And then actually they're finding,
there's a report that I'm trying to pull up right now
on bumblebees that alter their behavior
once exposed to nicotine-laced nectar.
They become, they start to go after plants
even more than they would normally.
It's an attractive form.
I'm trying to find where it's at here.
And they're actually finding,
it's helping them with colony collapse also.
Somehow, I'm trying to pull up both these papers.
What if in some way-
I'll put them on, I'll put them on YouTube.
What if in some way that vibe you're seeing is,
you know, the radioactivity though?
I'll just say, it's pretty, that's a rabbit hole.
Like, definitely should look into that.
Especially when we're using on things that we're smoking.
Because like we can see in just like the farmers
that are harvesting it, they have mass amounts of,
I think it's measured in like radon.
Dr. Mark, you might be able to correct me.
But like, their bodies are not the best
when it comes to radioactivity levels.
Talk about in tobacco fields?
Yeah, I can send you guys some research papers on this.
That sticky stuff that you're feeling under it,
you know, it's making, you know, like trichomes
and it's making nicotine, but-
Think, I think what you're referring to
in the tobacco fields is the level
of crazy synthetic chemical fertilizers
that are made at-
No, it's Pannonium 210,
which is a radioactive chemical found-
Is that found in organic grown tobaccos too?
Like, you know, or is it just,
are you talking about like large scale
commercial agriculture?
From my understanding, it's tobacco in general.
Well, I think it's important to remember-
Just making this up, I promise.
I think it's very important to remember
that there is very, the reasons
there are very strict guidelines
around what we're allowed to spray on cannabis plants
because of the, you know,
the downstream effects of people smoking.
So I'm a big believer in following guidelines
of what we're allowed to spray on plants.
So I just be, I would say use caution with anything
that's like, you know, just like when you're doing things
just to kind of off the cuff and on the home small scale,
just use extreme caution
because there's a reason why a lot of things are banned.
I don't want to totally shift the gears of the conversation,
but I got kind of sideswiped by a couple of phone calls
and I just wanted to say two quick things
since I did hear what Kanna Pam said about the marigolds.
And I have personally never had that issue.
I have had, you know, I have actually tried to do
like a lot of trap plants and other things.
And I have had, you know,
number of years where we specifically planted beans to,
you know, there's a lot of different things,
but with marigolds, I've never actually had an issue.
And we definitely plant a lot of marigolds at our farm.
So I'd be curious to like do some sort of side by side
or see as far as them attracting spider mites.
I don't generally have,
spider mites are more of an issue in the greenhouses
or indoors and less outdoors.
So I'd be curious to kind of look into that more.
But the other thing I wanted to bring up
just because the conversation was specifically targeted
around the dials and terpenes.
And there was a paper a couple of years ago
and I think there might be a couple other ones.
And I think the paper I'm referring to
was by Reggie Gaudino and Kevin McKernan.
And I think a few other people
related to the specific breeding for targeted terpenes.
And I was curious if Ryan had some thoughts around,
I mean, I had some discussions with both of them
about that specific paper and like what the takeaways were.
Can you actually, you know,
utilize the information from that paper
to specifically do targeted breeding for different terpenes?
And the answer was kind of a no.
That there was still more work to be done.
And I haven't really done my own research
to see if there are more papers in between now and then.
But I do think it's an interesting conversation.
I know we've had it a couple of times on this round table,
but it's a really interesting how when you start
to get more into the molecular breeding or understanding,
you know, what does that look like
if we're actually trying to breed for targeted terpenes?
Because I know that at this point,
the way the market is,
it's like, I'm a big fan of the freaks and the unique things.
And there's only so much you can do within that
as far as like what's commercially viable.
But I just think it's a very interesting topic
of conversation of like,
how do we utilize the science and the information we have
to start targeting the things that we're really interested
in bringing back into the market
and having, you know, showcasing something
that is unique and individual,
because my biggest beef with what's the hype,
the latest type of the leek cultivars
and these different things is that it's all just kind
of regurgitation of the same terpene profiles
in a bunch of different forms.
And I like those things, but I also kind of,
I personally think it's to the consumer's detriment
because I think that we really should have
that whole taste the rainbow.
And I tried to, over the past few years,
curate our menu and what we grow
and what we keep in our genetic library.
I know we have a very big focus on trying to, you know,
go with the taste the rainbow.
And I want to try all the different things
and have something dominant in all the different places,
but how do we breed for that specifically?
And how do we kind of move the needle forward,
I guess, would be my question.
Brute force screening of plants, right, through a lab.
That's really how you find those.
I mean, you can use your nose,
but I think when we use our noses, we miss things.
You got to have a lab.
You got to have a lab ability to be able to look for,
probably GCMS is probably best, but GCFID will work
as long as you're, well, it depends.
I mean, with FID, you're only going to find the things
that you're already looking for, right?
Anything that's a blip that's not on the graph,
you're going to kind of get a mess.
So, yeah, I think it's just brute force.
Analyze a lot of plants.
I'm looking for the needle in the haystack.
I don't really know if you could do it another way.
Yeah, that's kind of been the tactic.
It's just a lot of work.
I know that we've come up with some unique things
that I just feel like I'm waiting for, like,
the market to tip in that different direction.
I joke we have one that's like,
it smells like a charcuterie board.
And that's kind of like at this point more
what I'm interested in is like all the earthy notes,
like Pinot Noir and like bringing out rare,
unusual profiles is kind of my goal.
Hey, can I pipe back in?
This is Canapam.
This is my new profile, Pamela Sativa.
I did get a hack and I completely took my identity.
So this is Pamela Sativa,
but I had to stop working in the grow to run
to tell you guys.
In Colorado, I do know for a fact,
Cannabis Connection, it's a dispensary,
it was in Colorado Springs.
He had a worker there that made a concoction
out of tobacco and it made cyanide.
He never could grow in that building again.
So I do know that for a fact,
and I do still have some of those contacts.
So I can find him down and find out
what tobacco recipe she made that made the cyanide.
But I do have to give a warning on that.
Okay, thank you.
And I'm complete.
Evian, if you want to taste the rainbow,
then are you growing Skittles?
I am definitely, yeah.
That's their slogan.
Well, I mean, isn't it like,
it's also like a certain flavor, it's kind of like,
I mean, I've grown Skittles.
I actually like the lemon Skittles to be 100% honest.
Yeah, I mean, my other big goal,
and I'm hoping that we kind of can start to steer it,
is that we start to get away from all of these like candy
and cookie and like naming things after things,
but there's all these trademark issues and like that is.
Yeah, for sure.
I'm so disappointed in the cannabis industry, honestly.
I know, it's kind of funny.
We've written a whole thing about it.
Have you heard of, it just popped in my,
I was just, I mean, I'm always learning stuff,
but I just learned about one called,
was it, someone correct me if I'm wrong,
guiol, G-U-I-O-L, is that right, terpene?
Yeah, guiol.
No, G-U-A-I-O-L.
Yeah, and it was in, I was shown this,
given this sample of papaya concentrate,
and it was like just so wildly loud terpene,
and they were telling me that papaya is special
because it's like, guiol is the third most prominent terpene
in this one plant, and it's like very rare,
it's rare in the cannabis to have guiol
at that high of a percentage.
So I don't know, I found that really interesting.
It's some sort of tree, right?
Like isn't there like trying to,
Yeah.
Like facing, why is my brain saying,
Yeah, guiol, it's, it's,
or it's a bush or something.
It's like a,
It's the same as cypress or something like that.
I'm gonna look it up right now, it's a guayascom.
The plant's name is very similar to the,
to the actual terpene.
It's a Caribbean plant.
Thank you.
Yeah, I have quite a large,
Guayacom, guayacom, plant native to South American Caribbean,
Caribbean discovered, discovered by the Spanish.
I love it.
It was discovered by the Spanish.
It wasn't there before, but it was discovered by the Spanish.
If I'm not mistaken, I think that,
because when I was trying to say like,
that rose is not just like one,
it's not just one terpene, it has multiple,
but I'm pretty sure that's another one that's in rose.
Don't quote me on that, but I, I would be,
I'm fairly certain that's also in roses.
Hey, just real quick, I got,
my phone's about to die and the kids are wiling
and I got to go, but I love you guys.
It's been real.
Thanks.
I always appreciate this conversation.
So have a good evening.
Hey Russell, before, if you do get charged up again at seven,
we are doing the area 51, sorry, area 101 frame.
It's not working.
I've been actually fighting off COVID always,
just for the record.
Okay.
Good times.
But at seven, for anybody that wants to jump,
we are going to be doing a area,
area 101 room about the regenerative cannabis conference.
That's happening.
Fun.
Okay.
Thanks for the tip.
I'll check in.
I'll see if I can check in then.
Okay.
Bye.
Ryan, is there something specific that you've been like,
I'm just be curious the same for all like for Anthony
and Trevor and just anybody that is breeding for like
specific, like do people have targets?
Do people have goals as far as the terpenes
or breeding for certain things?
Cause I find that fascinating because I know we all have
individual tastes and what we're kind of seeking.
I take the super greedy approach and I just want it all.
So that's why I find the lab the most useful
because again, something might be not pleasing to my nose
or for whatever reason, but it might have some purpose.
Right?
So that's why I find the lab is so like,
so useful is you just get little blip signals on a machine
that say, hey, there's a new compound that you're,
you're not looking at, or, you know,
a new peak shows up that you're not looking at.
And all of a sudden that corresponds to a chemical
in a plant that you can take and self and see if you can
bring that, that those numbers up again.
Right?
So whether it's beneficial or tasty or accurate or terrible,
I don't really care.
I mean, I do for what I like to consume, right?
But my approach for cannabis is kind of just to find
everything that's different and unique or rare
and to breed those chemicals up.
That's awesome perspective.
And that's actually a really good point.
Cause for the past few years, I've been pretty fascinated.
I'm still trying to hunt down.
I'm like, what is the terpene that makes things smell
like moth balls?
And then there's like the dog shit, cheetah pit,
like all of that sort of stuff.
I'm like always curious.
I'm like, what is the like really just,
cause there was a few and I'm like, oh my God,
this weed just smells like moth balls.
And it's so strong.
So it's curious to me cause it does not smell good
to me at all.
Moth balls, yum.
Yeah. I mean, I used to feel the same way
way back when all the, excuse me,
when all the research being done on cannabis
was being done by like government sponsored
and university agencies, right?
They were, it was all about how can we turn down THC?
How can we make it into not a drug crop?
Right.
And so I always found that research really interesting
because it's like, you just do the opposite
of what they're saying.
They were like, hey, we do this.
Then the THC content goes away.
Well, let's do the opposite of that then.
Right.
But yeah, like there's even with, you know,
with cannabinoids, rare cannabinoids,
weird cannabinoids, CBDV or CBC or even CBG.
Like I might not necessarily want that stuff,
but it has a use for someone, right.
Or there is a potential use for someone.
So again, like that's just kind of my approach with weed
is to take everything and breed anything different
and, you know, find those weird, rare hits, right.
I hate the idea of people tell me all the time
and I've done it before.
You know, you have some special plant
that is unique in some way and then it's gone
and like you never see anything like it again.
That's a total fucking tragedy, right.
Totally.
I'd be curious, Dr. Mark, do you know what the mothball
is?
Canford.
Canford.
Canford.
Okay.
Yeah.
Canford.
It's well, actually if it's the bad mothballs
or like naphthalene, that's really, really bad.
That's petrochemical derived and that's really nasty,
but they tried to replace naphthalene mothballs
like your grandmother's closet mothballs
with Canford based mothballs,
which I think have a more piney essence.
You know, Canford itself is pretty prevalent
in pine oil and other plants as well.
So it's kind of like the Vicks vapor rub terpene.
Would that repel corneal worms?
I have no idea.
I don't know what a corneal worm is.
Well, it's a caterpillar, but it turns into a moth
and basically they burrow into corneas,
but they also burrow into cannabis flower,
like just while they're flowering.
Yeah, you're talking about the corn borer,
I believe, the European corn borer.
There's another one in California too
that just munches, it's a fuckable,
is it that white moth, Peter?
That's the one we have in California.
Yeah, that one sucks.
It's a pain in the ass.
You see them like flying around the green alley
and it just disappears on the canopy
and you're like, fucking little bastards.
I used to think those were cute
when I was younger, I'd be like,
oh, look at the cute,
because there's always two of them
and they're like dancing together.
And now I like hate them.
I'm like, oh my God, they're there.
They're so evil.
A bad mitten racket.
A bad mitten racket.
When you're mentioning tobacco farming,
most of the hemp growers,
I'm in Southeastern Pennsylvania
and most of the hemp growers around here
are also tobacco growers.
And they're mostly Amish
and practice Amish type farming.
And they grow tobacco to the capacity
to which they can dry it.
So they have the barns that they hang the tobacco up in
to basically cure it.
And the one thing I can tell you
is that when you're walking up on one of those barns
that's chock full of that tobacco curing,
it is intoxicating just to be there.
It's kind of like this curtain of,
I guess it's terpenes.
I have no idea what it is,
but it's very, very intoxicating
when that stuff is curing.
And it's something that you probably wouldn't wanna
commingle with hemp or cannabis curing
just because it's so,
it's apparently, I would think it's toxic to it.
I thought that was part of the bedding floor
when you dry your tobacco,
what you have in your floor and your humidity level,
that decomposing process.
When I was a kid and they dried tobacco
and I can remember them doing the floor of the barn
and they have specific haze and grasses
and alfalfa that they put in there
and a specific amount of manure
and then a vaporization process through a solar gang.
And the smell is unbelievable.
And the way the tobacco cured,
it was just beautiful.
So tobacco by itself is a very nice plant.
The Indians smoked it as sacred sacrament,
but those barns,
there is a concoction on those floors
if they still do them the same old way.
Thank you.
For the record,
I don't remember seeing any crazy concoction on the floor,
but if you're driving through the Amish country
of Pennsylvania, so outside of Lancaster,
you'll see the barns that have what look like
sides that open up and that so it could vent
and bring air inside these barns where tobacco is curing.
So that's one way of identifying a tobacco curing barn
from just driving down the road.
Dr. Mark, I'm curious,
much like we were talking earlier, I guess,
if something like,
mineral can change into like myrcene,
what are there,
are there like examples, I guess, of diols changing?
It would-
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Diols can oxidize up to
sulfates and sulfoxides and other oxidized forms.
So yes, absolutely.
Diols are reactive,
but diols are those compounds
that our human olfactory sense
has developed probably through evolution,
by some voluntary pressure somehow or for some reason,
to distinguish rotten meat from non-rotten meat
or something, I have no idea.
But our nose can basically smell diols down to,
I wanna say it's part per trillion
because natural gas, which is methane,
has no odor whatsoever and they actually odorize it.
I wanna say with butane diol,
which is a low molecular weight diol
and it's a natural gas,
so it's got the smell that it does.
And it's in there at very, very low concentrations,
but enough that our noses can smell
like when there's a natural gas leak.
So that's kind of cool.
Guys, if I'm not mistaken,
this room may be ending shortly.
There's another Area 101 thing that's coming up.
So just if people have any kind of closing argument,
or not arguments, but points or questions.
That was awesome.
Chime in.
I disagree.
I too disagree.
The room will not be closing.
Not until we figure out exactly
what the dog piss or dog cat piss area situation is.
Trevor, I'm curious, you've been so quiet.
Is there anything that you're like hunting for
in your, in like just your seeking breeding reality?
Different times, it's been different things.
When I had access to labs,
I really liked finding individual plants
that had just one particular terpene.
Is like the majority, like I had a random sour diesel cross
from Mendocino that came to me,
and it only expressed myricine.
Every other terpene in the CW analytics test was minuscule.
I had some others that were really high terpinaline.
I liked that just as a tool for being able to understand
at least the expression in that like particular plant.
Like, oh, that's what incredibly high myricine
actually tastes like.
That was fun.
It was a nice thing to be able to play around
and kind of like get a feel for these things.
I wish I had more access these days to testing
just because the range of different volatiles
that are being analyzed is so much greater.
So I wish I had more testing,
but mostly these days I'm just going for trying
to take the things that I enjoy.
And that's typically the gases, the garlics,
the more of these things that at least from the recent,
paper tend to express thiols and breeding with those.
But that's really just because like a lot of us,
I'm seeking kind of, you know, everybody likes the music
that like of their teenage years
and the cannabis of their teenage years.
So I'm still stuck in the nineties
trying to live that dream.
I miss a lot of that stuff from the nineties.
So I feel you.
Yeah, but I think we're going to have to shut that.
Your nickelback is.
No, sir.
No, sir.
I don't yet.
Hard no.
But yeah, so we're going to have to close down this show,
but I think a lot of us are going to migrate
over to the next room.
A lot of the same people are going to be in the next room.
A lot of the same people are going to be on
and Evian will be over there.
I'll probably come on and at least be in the audience.
And yeah, so if you are able to join us over
on the next clubhouse room and in the next sesh
talking regenerative farming
and the conference that's coming up.
Yeah, and then if you're on YouTube,
it'll be on channel one.
And if you're here, if you look at the top of the page
I did put the link for that show up there.
So you can go straight there
without having to work very hard for it.
So it's ready to go and you can just stay with us.
I'd be curious one last thing
while we have a couple more minutes is like,
I don't know, maybe at the beginning we missed.
Did we talk about more, you know,
like the testing that's required?
Because I know that testing for vials is not like as easy
as I know that a lot of the labs I've worked with
over the past few years aren't testing for that.
So I would just be curious
if I missed that part of the conversation
or if you guys could just say anything that way.
No, they're not routinely tested for.
I mean, they can be.
And it's not like the type of test
that you would normally carry out.
It would be a specialized test
specifically looking for those compounds.
You could add those compounds as part of
most labs are now doing a terpene profile
of both flour and concentrate material.
So you can get a profile of all the terpenes
that are in the sample that you submit for testing.
I only think that that paper came out so recently
that there hasn't been enough time
for the testing labs to catch up,
which means that now they have to source
the analytical standards
and develop a calibration curve
specifically for those compounds.
So they're able to quantify those in a sample.
And that's not trivial work to do.
And that takes investment and time.
And it takes a really good dedicated lab
to basically commit to developing the analytical SOPs
that hopefully will be standardized throughout the industry
so you can actually get an accurate measurement
on those kinds of compounds.
Boo.
Sorry about that.
No, that was more like a thank you, Knowledge Bomb.
I appreciate it.
I know I've had a hard time seeking out
certain other tests in the past couple of years
because even before things start to get trendy sometimes
or become more part of the conversation,
it's like if you're paying attention,
you're trying to find testing for things.
And every single time it's been like,
there's basically no lab unless you're gonna,
unless you're just working with hemp
and you're able to send it out.
But when you're working with type one plants
or type two plants, it becomes really difficult.
Yeah, I mean, I look at that as an unmet opportunity
and the right lab will step up to the plate
and say, be able to measure those compounds.
And that'll be a value add for that lab.
And somebody who's interested in testing for that compound
will send their samples to that lab.
If it's hemp, it could cross state lines,
but with cannabis, yeah, unfortunately,
it has to stay within that state.
But hopefully these tests will be things
that'll be developed by people who seek these unmet needs
and the opportunities that are in the marketplace
as opportunities.
All right, well, with that, should we close it up?
Thanks for bringing me up guys.
I learned a ton like always.
So many smart minds in this room.
And Mark, thanks for jumping in.
Yeah, thanks Peter.
Thanks for reaching out.
Yeah, thanks for talking to me.
Feel free to do so in the future.
Yep, yep.
Good to see some of my friends here like Ryan.
Nice to see you Mark.
Okay, take care of everybody.
Take care all.
Bye.
Thanks for joining us over in the Area 101 room.
Don't go anywhere, but go somewhere.
Hey, can you hear me now?
Yes, you can.
Cause we have another show starting right away.
So go over to channel one.
So if you're doing anything, go do it quick.
You have moments to go.
Hurry up, go quickly.
I know there's purple lights.
I know you can't see my garden.
I'm sorry.
It was a hubbub tonight.
I was running around doing all these things.
So get over there.
Don't go anywhere.
Stay right here.
I mean, don't even get up to pee.
I don't care.
Just stick around and tune in to the next show,
which is happening right now.
Channel one though.
