Hello everyone and welcome once again to Royal Grown Radio.
We're so honored and psyched to be out here today with some very, very dear friends.
Beyond friends, we're here with family today in Southern Oregon in the Applegate Valley
at Phoenix Rising Farm with a very dear friend, Casey Branham.
Thanks for joining us, Casey.
Thanks for having me, brother.
We're also here with folks from the Cannabis Conservancy.
We got Jeremy Lord here.
Good day.
We're going to walk through the greenhouses, kind of get the low down on this truly sustainable,
regenerative farm right along the river in the Applegate Valley.
We're going to try and bring you, the listener, here with us with the birds chirping, the
river rumbling behind us, and the most amazing scents and sounds of cannabis and beneficial
insects and the soil food web beneath the canopy.
So bear with us on a new journey, but welcome.
Come along.
One of the coolest things about this farm, Casey, is these animals.
Tell us a little bit about what's going on with some of the animals.
Okay, so here on the farm we have eight alpacas, one llama, and three goats.
Animal husbandry isn't necessarily my bag.
I really appreciate these guys, though.
They're so fun and they bring a tremendous component to the farm, which is their poop.
Their manure gives us mulch, tea components for our compost tea, and a great layer in
our fall sheet mulch.
This is one of our three non-assisted light-depth greenhouses.
In here, plants are grown just right here in the native soil.
This is a sandy loam from an alluvial deposit from the Little Applegate River.
One of the things about our farm that we find important is to grow a polyculture garden,
which means just a lot of diversity, plant diversity, mixed in, grown in companionship
with the cannabis.
So we've got potatoes, sunflowers, comfrey.
Pretty much everywhere on the farm you'll see a lot of comfrey.
This particular plant is so amazing.
So many different uses.
Typically, we'll cut the leaves and put them in a barrel and ferment them.
We'll add sugar and make a fermented plant juice, which we then feed the soil.
Other than that, this stuff just keeps growing as we water it.
So we'll chop the leaves, drop them, and they'll just kind of disintegrate and dissolve and
do their thing, nourishing the soil.
We got some ice cream cake right here, just about ready, but looking great.
So beautiful.
Those purples on the tips of the calyxes just really have so much personality.
Yeah, it's one of my favorite characteristics of the ice cream cake.
Definitely.
Another real important part of this grow here in these native soil beds is having a really
developed soil ecosystem.
So typically in a lot of these you'll find mushrooms.
We've got King's triforia growing up under the canopy, and along the drip lines you can
find some mushrooms.
Every fall we'll lay a mulch down of deciduous leaves collected from the property and from
the greater Rogue Valley.
We'll go and we'll grab a U-Haul truck and go around and pick up people's bags of leaves.
In doing so, we get a really great variety of deciduous leaves.
So stuff that you wouldn't see out here, you know, sugar maples, all sorts of different
ornamentals that grow in people's yards in town, we can get all those leaves, bring them
here, let them do their thing and nourish the soil.
So we'll lay down leaves, we'll lay down alfalfa hay, which is a high nitrogen dominant hay,
which is grown all over the valley here.
And then we'll do manure from our alpacas, goats, and llama.
And we'll do, we've also got a dairy farm just right down here like I was mentioning
before and we'll get some of their dairy manure as well.
And then we'll kind of cover that with a layer of rice straw and just let it do its thing.
Every year we keep adding to it and every year we get better and better results from the soil.
Oh yeah, wood chips.
We'll either, doing fire remediation around the property, being in this southern Oregon
area, it's hot, it's dry, fire is a big problem.
So we'll cut trees to give ourselves some space and we'll chip those trees up and lay
down the oak, madrone, alder, ash, whatever else is growing out here, typically hardwoods,
we'll lay them down too and just keep building.
And it really makes it, you know, produce this kind of stuff.
It's so amazing the combination of the like ultra hyper local off of the property inputs
and then the, you know, just a little footprint further out and out for some of the other
inputs that you don't have, but to bring all this diversity to your soil food web.
So you're able to have a wider variety of breakdown times, a wider variety of species.
So you're encouraging different fungal and micro bacterial microorganisms to really develop
because there's more food sources.
So more organisms find their own niche.
I think that's absolutely amazing.
Jeremy, this is kind of your bread and butter.
You're here for an inspection, right?
Absolutely.
I mean, that's what we're doing here.
And the reason I was so reluctant to jump on your radio show is because it's about the
farmer.
It's not just about third party certification, but that's absolutely what certification is
about.
It's about rewarding this work.
You know, it's about acknowledging it and helping to push it further in the conversation.
I love that.
It's so important, I think, to really give people that are doing this extra work a vehicle
to highlight it.
Third party certifications are that vehicle at this time.
And, you know, that's a big part of what Rick and I really vibe with on Royal Grown Radio
is being able to help share that story so more people can see it and hear it.
And it's just so near and dear to our heart.
So I love this.
This is amazing.
What do you think, Crasher?
Crasher's right here.
Just gorgeous.
I love the upright structure.
I mean, it's trellised out nicely to spread it, but it doesn't look like it's really relying
on it at all.
It's not a flopper.
It's not standing tall and it's just it's chunked and just gorgeous, man.
Yeah, you can.
That structure is just amazing.
Tight, solid flower.
Really, really beautiful.
Not super leafy.
That's a quick, easy trim job.
Exactly.
But the extract out of there is mouthwatering.
Yeah.
You know, I love listening to you break down your methods as far as the layering and, you
know, sourcing everything from your local environment and your neighbors.
You were the first person I remember really, you know, turning me on to incorporating,
you know, clover, planting clover.
Yeah.
Remember 10 years ago I came up.
And learning that part of, you know, not only just stabilizing the temperature of the soil,
but also just bringing that food back into that cycle.
Absolutely.
I mean, living mulch and cover cropping.
I mean, that's such a huge part of it, of adding nutrients to the soil and prolonging
the soil's life.
I mean, up here it's so hot and dry, you know, and the sun just beats down.
Having some protective covering is fantastic.
And then you can just chop it, drop it, push it right into the next round.
And they love it.
Yeah, it acts as a green manure as much as it kind of creates a home for all the beneficial
bugs that are here.
And you're getting that nitrogen fixation as well with plants like clover and peas and
all the other legume type stuff.
Right.
On top of the aeration aspect of like, you know, the daikon and some of those, whatever
bulldozer of cover crops where they're actually breaking up some of the bigger chunks and
creating good airspace.
So when you layer it in, you know, it breaks down, refills and just keeps feeding itself.
What we like about the comfrey too, and some of the other plants that we mix in here is
they're biodynamic accumulators, which means their roots go really deep and they pull up
nutrients from deep down in the soil.
And then as you chop and drop their foliage, you're getting those nutrients back up on
the top of the soil.
So you're getting all that stuff.
It's just pulling from the bottom and bringing it up to the surface.
And then you can, then these plants can access it closer where they wouldn't be so deep rooted.
You know, make sense.
This is a chem cookies.
Oh man, I love that you get the chem gas, but you got that cookie structure.
So beautiful.
Yeah, that's a nice one.
And that looks like it's got a few weeks left.
Yeah, we got some time on this one.
So beautiful.
That white against those light orange hairs.
Always working.
Well, there we go.
Farmers are the ultimate multitaskers.
