All right, and we are live. Welcome everyone to episode two of Seed to Social, where we
travel the globe virtually. And the next stop on our tour is España. And here is the, whoops,
there's the crew. And I'm going to throw it off to Lance to give a quick intro and take
it away.
Yeah, thank you. I definitely appreciate that, Peter. So welcome everyone to Seed to Social.
This is episode two. If you joined us last time, we were in South Africa talking about
the southern countries of legalization in Africa. But we're taking a shift in the globe
and actually moving over to beautiful Barcelona in Spain. And we have a few friends on the
line that we'll do around the horn. And I got to tell you guys, this is kind of like
if you haven't watched it, go on YouTube and watch Reunited Apart, because I feel like
this is a Reunited Apart episode, where it's not just catching up with an old crew, but
this is catching up with friends. And I'm stoked. Just to give a little bit of background
on my relationship to these guys. Most know that I've been in the industry for about six
years now, with different companies like Weedmaps, Boveda, The Cannabis. These guys have just
as good a track record as it pertains to success in this field as well. And going around the
horn, and I love how, before we go on, Ciarán actually pointed out, because we reference
to each other often as the Irishman or the Dutchman or the Englishman. But we'll start
off with Ciarán, if you could go ahead and give yourself an introduction. And we'll go
from there.
Yeah. Well, thank you for the kind introduction, Lance. Gentleman, as always. Good to catch
up with you, whether it be virtually or not. Yeah, my name is Ciarán, or Ciarán in Irish.
I'm an Irishman. Emigrated to Holland about eight years ago to get into the cannabis industry.
And started in a bulldog in Amsterdam, where I actually began as a chef, became a barman,
became a bartender, did a few things I can't talk about, especially online. And yeah, eventually
made my way into the marketing scene. So basically, I'm essentially mostly involved in cannabis
marketing. I think of myself a little bit more as a bit of a brand builder as well,
considering after moving to Greenlane just under two years ago. And yeah, helping to
introduce a lot of big, big cannabis brands into Europe. And with a great team behind
me and some great friends as well that helped me get there, you know.
Very well put. And going around the horn, another individual I'd love to, speaking of
Amsterdam, this individual, I've always been impressed by his story, and we don't have
enough time to get into all the history. But my gosh, Jack, man, love for you to share
just a brief on your upbringing, but what you're into these days as well.
Yeah, I can tell you a lot of stories about where I come from, but let's keep it short.
Born and raised in the red light in Amsterdam. Seen a lot, seen a lot of the pleasures in
life, of course, in the red light. Started at the Bulldog Amsterdam when I was 18 years
old. Started working in the warehouse. After working in the bar and in the office, I started
doing international sales. The last five years in my Bulldog career, I traveled the world,
visited a lot of countries, a lot of expos where I met all the guys on this call. It
was a great experience. After all these years, my buddy, Kieran, joined Greenlane. Also sparked
my interest, and I joined him six months after. And we're now at Greenlane for almost two
years. I'm doing team lead and head of sales in Europe. So it's a nice challenge, but it's
nice to represent such big brands in an upcoming market.
And you guys both, I remember that. I mean, I literally, it feels like it was just yesterday. And I think, you know, COVID probably did that to all of us. But I remember when you guys were getting ready to take the leap and having friends over at Greenlane and having conversations with them. I told them like they could not find a couple of better guys. I mean, again, not to go over the top here. But I mean, Jack, your background as it pertains to the industry, and again, not just in what has historically been recognized as the epicenter that is Amsterdam, but also
Europe at large. But Kieran, my gosh, to say he's a brand builder, and I'm a fellow brand builder as well. This guy always had the who's who that was coming through the shop online, front and center, and was always impressed by that as well. So I mean, again, major asset to you guys, to the Greenlane team. They're super fortunate to have you.
We had some good times in our past lives. I think myself and Jack have a book coming up in the next 10 years that I would love to read. It'll go to the Red Light District to fight Mayweather within two pages.
So exactly.
Cool, cool. Well, thank you again, you guys for joining us. We move on to the next box and in a few really good friends as well. We have Matt, who will start off with you and just get a little bit of your backstory and then Nico will let you take it from there.
Sure. My name is Matt, originally from New Jersey. I moved over to Barcelona about two years ago. But prior to that, I was in China for about 13 years. I was in China, mainly for the outdoor industry, manufacturing products for camping brands.
If you're in the US or familiar with REI, a lot of brands, about 38 brands that you find in REI were brands that we'd make products for. And then one day, my business partner had the good idea of combining silicone, the material, which we've been working with forever in the outdoor industry, and combining it with the cannabis industry, making pipes, which are either, which are traditionally either glass or acrylic.
He decided to make it silicone. So it's portable and it also still translates into the outdoor industries too. So I kind of went from the outdoor industry and kind of transferred over to the cannabis industry. And now I'm the sales and marketing director of Peacemaker. And like I said, about two years ago, we started about five years ago. And two years ago, we opened the office in Barcelona and needed a right man hand here. So I'll segue over to Nico here.
Nico. Yes, I'm Nico. I'm Tillyan. I'm part of the Peacemaker team, especially here in Europe, helping to promote the word of Peacemaker, show the brand. Nothing. Yes.
You are the man. It is Nico. And you guys have done some crazy stuff too. I mean, I know just it's probably been a few years now as well. It's all a blur. But I remember you guys doing a tour through Europe for a few months, which was insane. You guys went to all these countries, not just Western Bloc, which everyone's familiar with, but you guys actually looped up through the Eastern Bloc over to the West side, which is so impressive for the individual, especially not native to that specific area.
And that's a good segue into explanation why again, an Irishman, a Dutchman, Chilean. We always joke around about that's the joke when we walk into a bar on tour.
We walk into bars on tours and they were probably making that joke at us, to be honest with you.
They probably were.
I think they made that joke at us.
Where are these guys from? The reason why we want to get you guys together, and of course, three out of four do live in Barcelona, do live in Spain, so technically are currently residents of Spain.
But we really want to talk about not just again, the industry as it pertains to the southern end of Europe, but how it compares to where you guys are coming from.
Because it's a much different scene comparing Santiago, Chile to the Guangdong region of China to Dublin, Ireland.
So, you know, getting a little bit of perspective again from where you're coming from to where you are, I think will definitely benefit the conversation.
So how about we jump right into it?
Yeah, so that probably has the biggest extreme out of all of us with China.
So yeah, I mean, everybody somewhere where it was extremely, extremely illegal.
And I had to be careful.
I was in China and you could find good stuff.
We were, you know, we could find stuff from Seattle, but you pay through the nose.
I think it was, I think it was like 200 bucks a gram or something crazy like that.
So you had to stretch it.
So I actually, I mix from my China days.
I mix tobacco with cannabis usually.
But if I'm buying a new strain, I'll usually just have the cannabis by itself.
But I mix and it's just a habit.
Tobacco mix.
Make it stretch because it was just so expensive and hard to get.
And like I said, you had to be really careful.
So yeah, it was night and day when I finally moved to Barcelona.
I mean, it's not legal per se.
It is legal in the sense that you can grow and consume in your own private setting within your own four walls.
But saying that, that kind of opens up a gray area.
So as you, I mean, as we all know here, but your fans may or may not know,
but that opens up the opportunity for these clubs, local clubs, cannabis clubs,
which are different than the Dutch smoke shops, coffee shops.
In that, you know, you can just as a tourist go to, go to the, go to Amsterdam and just walk in and buy,
buy flour.
Whereas in Barcelona, it's a little bit different.
For the most part, you have to be a resident, prove it.
Usually an existing member has to recommend you in.
So it's a process.
And then where the gray area comes in is that when you pay membership money or you,
you have an account, when you put money into the account, you're not purchasing the flour.
You're purchasing, or what you're doing is you're donating to a club that you're part of.
And that's the capital that uses to be able to cultivate and grow.
And it's like a community that you all chip in and that's how you kind of go.
And it's in a private setting.
You have to be a member.
So it's a little bit different than Dutch coffee shops, where it's a little more open,
you know, of tourists can come in.
Whereas in Barcelona, there are clubs where, you know, if you know people you can get in,
or if you come during Spanbis, you can get in.
But for the most part, you have to live here and you pay your dues.
And yeah, it's, it's, it leads to a better environment, I think, to be honest with you, buddy.
Yeah.
The guy who worked in a coffee shop for like six years,
and did it and now kind of helping with a club over here, being the cooking club.
It's, it's a far better system.
I think as a consumer as well, I think as a client, whatever way you want to put it,
as a member, or as a customer in Amsterdam, I think the experience for the member or the
client is far superior in Barcelona.
It's a lot more of a cleaner, private environment, where you can really feel at home and embrace
your cannabis experience, you know, and really enjoy the effects of that cannabis in the
correct setting for you, because you chose to be there, not because there was a seat available.
You know what I mean?
We lost all that in Amsterdam.
That's a big, that's a huge point we're making here.
You know, it's a discussion I had with a friend a couple of days ago.
The level of customer service in a social club in Barcelona is so much better.
The knowledge of the people behind the bar is so much higher.
It's a huge difference.
There are ideas to close coffee shop chains in Amsterdam now at the moment.
And, you know, I'm totally against stopping selling cannabis to tourists, but I can understand
the feeling of a coffee shop chain with so many tourists coming by.
The customer service is totally gone.
You know, it's...
A Dutch should be a coffee shop, right, buddy?
Like, I mean, because they're so busy.
I mean, they smoke a home, in my opinion.
Like, I mean, it's gone for the Dutch person.
I don't know.
I'm not Dutch.
You're the Dutch person.
Social club is a perfect example of what we should have in Amsterdam, you know.
You want to go to a coffee shop in Amsterdam, it's a real difficulty, you know, any day
of the week, at any time, because of tourism, over tourism in general, you know.
So it's, yeah, you want to patch the Dutchie to the left-hand side, and for someone to
actually be there, I mean, you need space.
And I think, yeah, the member situation, you know, they don't over, they don't get too
many members.
They control all of that.
They control the stock accordingly.
They know what their members like.
They know what they don't like.
They know what works.
They know what doesn't work.
You know what the music's going to be like.
It's all part of the experience, in my opinion.
And that's why a lot of people like to consume at home.
That's their experience.
That's their setting.
I agree.
That's one thing you guys make a good observation, because, you know, I did a Google this morning,
as most people do, right?
There's a lot of people who are wanderlusters.
They love to travel, like all of us, but they do center their holidays around places where
they can consume.
I mean, myself, even doing a cruise, an Alaskan cruise, I chose Alaska because every port we
landed in, there were dispensaries I could visit and catch up with and see what the local
cultivars were.
So a lot of people Google, like I did, and it's interesting, because one of the first
responses on, is cannabis legal in Spain, the headline was, it's complicated.
So exactly to Matt.
And Matt, you summarized it excellently, right?
Because it's not just it's legal.
It's more of community over capitalism, which is exactly what you're getting into, Kieran,
and what Amsterdam originally was.
It's for the community.
And to give an example, I think all of us are members of HQ and love that as a home
base.
When I come out there, I think I still have 40 quid on account there, to be honest.
I'm wearing a hoodie right now.
Yeah.
There you go.
And it's cool, because like you said, we can go in and it's such a novel concept, right?
But they literally have not just alcohol in front for those that choose to drink, but
they have the consumption in the back with actual bud tenders and some pretty good product.
But you can also order food.
I mean, that's one of the quickest places I can get a meal at downtown Barcelona.
I joke, because everyone's like, what do you do?
You really, at 10 o'clock at night?
I'm like, yeah, everyone eats at 10 o'clock and it takes two hours to get a dinner.
So literally, I go to the social club if I want to eat within 20, 30 minutes, not within
two hours.
But it is that kind of environment, like you guys said.
If I took a picture and threw it up on Instagram, everyone would think I'm in some cool lounge
or somebody's bonus room versus being in a coffee shop in Amsterdam or even a social
club here in LA.
So I think you guys really nailed it as far as how it is.
Unfortunately, then as an operator, they make it impossible for them.
They're also any social club that involves alcohol and food is also in another gray area,
which is yet another complicating factor to being able to give the experience to the member
and to the consumer that they so want and desire.
Whereas in Holland, they can do that openly.
They can have a kitchen.
They can do drinks in some capacities, like at the Bulldog, they have a bar next door
and in multiple chains, they have that for the customers.
So it just shows what the people want.
I'm not agreeing with mixing alcohol and cannabis.
I think they're two separate things.
And I think I've seen the side effects of that.
I think Jack probably has too.
And Nico, I think you may have felt them once or twice in Amsterdam as well.
But mixing is no joke.
But it has its pros and cons.
But you give the people what they want to make their own educated decision.
And when you're a member at the end of the day, you don't want to make a fool of yourself
three days a week because you'll see those same faces.
But that's a good point.
You're right.
I mean, we never saw people getting fights or arguments when we were at the social clubs.
You know, right, Nico?
Never. Tranquilo.
Oh, I think you're on mute.
Can you hear me?
Yeah.
No, no.
I was saying before that you still have a lot of different cannabis clubs for any kind of people.
Like you could find places where you can bring, where you can eat, where you can drink.
Blah, blah, blah.
And you have like the theory of what Matt said before, like you have to have
like to be a Spanish citizen to blah, blah, blah.
But you still have another even greater part of the cannabis club life, which is in some way,
you also have people that is encouraging people, tourist people to become members,
to get money from the, I don't know, from the membership and make a business about that,
which I kind of get it.
But thinking how it should be the private club or how it sell like a private intimate place
where you can grow your weed or someone can grow your weed and get that weed,
then to smoke it in the club.
It sometimes is like kind of contradictory.
Or just, yeah, it's just kind of the original intention was this,
but now that so many people are getting more and more involved,
it kind of like gets off the reservation.
And then like two years ago, was it three years ago now, right before Spanibus,
the police came in and just caught wind that there's a few clubs that got together
and decided to put together a tour for all these people,
this influx of cannabis tourists for Spanibus.
And the police are like, nah, all right, we're going to round up.
We're going to come in and visit all these clubs.
Give you a warning.
And then some of these clubs still got too greedy and still went through with part of it.
Police caught wind of that and they shut them down.
And there is constant control here of these clubs.
I mean, there's obviously, there are strict guidelines there
and they're not being adhered to.
And the reason they're not being adhered to is because they're not the correct guidelines.
I think we've all seen that in every legal or semi-legal state, country, wherever it may be.
I think Lance, you've probably experienced this in the States more than anybody.
These feeding problems are what Barcelona are probably going through
for the last five or six years.
And with the scene here evolving to the level it's at,
because it's a high level scene here, that scene is growing every single year.
And the rules are not adjusting with the scene or with the influx.
So, I mean, like technically speaking, the members aren't even meant to leave the club
with any product.
It's meant to be consumed inside.
But then I'm also allowed to grow in my home.
I'm consuming my home with no problem.
So, I mean, they're contradictory, as Nico said himself.
Like it's going to lead to issues.
I mean, you can't light up on the beach here, that's for sure.
Whereas in Holland, I mean, Jack knows the only way I did my groceries was with a joint.
And you couldn't do it without me.
One on the way back and one on the way to the grocery store.
You know, so, but you can't do that here.
And that was a big adjustment for me.
Like I moved from Ireland where I couldn't do anything ever.
And everything cost me a fortune.
Not as bad as Matt.
That blew my mind.
Your Chinese prices is absurd.
But I grew up paying like 25 to 30 euros a gram for semi-sprayed weed.
That was, we didn't know what it was.
I actually grew up on hash because there was no weed.
Then there was Thai stick.
To go from that to go to Holland where I can smoke going down the road,
where I can carry five grams openly, where I can stink of weed
and no one's going to even judge me.
To moving to Spain where there's a higher level scene
with more clubs than there is coffee shops in Amsterdam.
With more options available to me, whether it be concentrates or edibles or tinctures.
Or that's all illegal in Holland.
You can only get flour and hashish.
So, but then I can't go down the road with a joint.
I can't even be smelling of it.
And I can be stopped and searched and get in trouble in two seconds.
So, and I've got to say, I got it from a street dealer if I left the club.
So, I mean, as a European to answer the topic of your whole conversation,
I think that's a really weird scenario for a cannabis tourist.
And that can only lead to problems.
And if you're a cannasaur and if you're, God forbid, in need of medication
and you're seeking help, that's very difficult.
That's an impossible scenario.
It's going to lead to fines, trouble, travel bans, whatever it may be.
Yeah. And that's, and you guys bring up a good point because just like Matt mentioned,
there's different variations of clubs in Niko too.
There's anything you want.
You know, we've gone on a bit of a tour when I've been out there because truth be told,
before Matt got it, got all established, you were out there a lot, visiting a lot.
I know most of the guys, we would always go out there for Spanibus
and we'll get into that just now.
But you're right.
I mean, there's still a medical scene and then there's still more of the recreational.
And then the clubs have different vibes.
We went to some clubs that were, I mean, if you want to play billiards and hang out
and watch some footy on the TV, that's perfect.
And then others where it was more of a music vibe, where they had all the good tunes
and it's more very much a lounge and just community, almost like fire chat type scenario.
It's a choice as well.
Exactly.
And same token, you're right.
I mean, that's, you know, being able to walk with five rams and then you guys can come
visit me here in LA and I can greet you with an ounce of flour openly at the airport.
You can legally possess an ounce, no matter what your residency is, once you're here
in the state of California.
So it is very interesting how there's these variables and they're hard to keep track of.
And getting into the clubs.
So I want to, because again, we have two individuals on the call that have a history
with clubs, one of the largest and oldest clubs in Amsterdam.
And so talking about just how the scenes are, looking at the numbers, it looks like you're
pretty much spot on, Kieron.
It's over 700 social clubs in Spain right now.
And you're right at about 350, a little bit less of coffee shops in Amsterdam where that
number used to be double.
So with that shift, as I understand it, you know, last parliament started really trying
to cut the tail versus the head, so to speak.
And we're really starting to restrict the grow.
Because just, I know we're talking more about Spain, but history on Amsterdam, it's not
legal till it crosses the threshold, right?
So the courier isn't legal, the growers aren't legal, the transporter, et cetera, everything
on the back end versus the front end.
So that's become more of a challenge.
But from conversations I've had over recent years, as I understand it, when that started
happening, a lot of the products started getting brought up from Spain, started being brought
up from Southern Europe, right?
So Spain and Portugal started really being the flower that was supplying the historical
coffee shops in Amsterdam.
What did you guys, I mean, and what you can speak of, of course, but did you start seeing
that influx and did you start seeing that difference in quality and types of cannabis
that were available?
You know what it is with the Amsterdam scene?
You see it more and more and more and it's becoming a theme park, of course.
So also the quality of the cannabis, what's getting sold in Amsterdam and mostly in the
coffee shops where the customer doesn't really know what they're smoking because it's their
first time or one of the, we know the only time in the year they smoke.
Those coffee shops, they, you know, most local guys don't even go to the coffee shops anymore,
you know, because it's overpriced and it's not the coffee shops fault.
Let's not blame the coffee shops only on the coffee shops.
Of course, it's a government problem, you know, you can go to 10 different coffee shops
and buy 10 times White Widow and it's different in all the shops.
Some come from Amsterdam, some come from the South of Holland and some come from Spain.
Nobody knows, nobody can check it.
And it's even illegal for the coffee shops to test the weed, you know what I mean?
It's, you can test the gas of the weed, but then it doesn't get, you can't use it anymore.
But at the moment, it's so hard for a coffee shop to get an official license for what they're
growing.
So a coffee shop is forced to lie to the customers.
It's very hard to stay creditable as a coffee shop in that way.
You know, of course, the local smokers, guys like me who smoke for 10, 15 years,
they see this changing, you know what I mean?
I used to go to my local coffee shop and buy a good gram of weed for 8 euros a gram.
Nowadays, it's 16 euros and they make it look super special, but it's coming from Spain.
You know what I mean?
It's fair to say, we saw the Cali influx as well, Jack, like, what was it, like 3, 4 years
ago?
The whole Cali scene just popped out of nowhere in Holland.
Yeah.
Your old school coffee shop, they want 4 euros a gram for something and there's a US flag on
the menu and everyone's like, what's happening here?
And that's just all game on his head again.
Still 90% of the people in the cannabis industry who buy their product don't know what they're
buying and don't even care what they're buying.
You know what I mean?
They're used to, you know, it's a brick weed at home or shit weed for 30 euros a gram.
So 12 is fine.
They believe they can get Cali for 12 here.
You know, come on.
It's people believe everything.
It's what they say.
You know, it's sprayed, it's cured in ice boxes.
I heard so many stories just to make it smell like whatever, you know, it's a joke.
The hash has also changed there recently as far as I mean.
Hash is hard to get.
Yeah.
They're curating their own hash in Holland.
They've got this new type of like block hash is what they call it.
They're making their own hash in Holland now using like superior genetics and better quality
flowers.
So the price of hash has also gone up as has the quality.
It's a different type of hash if you're not into it, but it's, it's, it's flavorful.
I mean, it's an ever changing scenario, I think in Holland, but at the end of the day,
Jack's right.
I mean, it's, it's amnesia, Hayes, white widow and a basic Moroccan hash for 10 to 12 euros
a gram, you know.
Definitely amnesia is a popular one.
And I remember we're probably going back three or four years, you know, after for a lot of
us that make the trip over to Barcelona for Spanibus.
I remember we went up to Amsterdam after flew up and we did a little tour with you, Kieran,
and you took me to, we keep referencing this term, but it's actually also
one of my favorite clubs in Amsterdam, the gray area, which is one of the few places
I can tell that's where the locals went, because it was one of the few places where I actually
consumed something that tasted like home, you know, whereas a lot of the others, to
your point, we're hitting miss.
You got that niche, or niche as you'd say in America, that's a very rare exception.
And they really curated their menu based on that Cali scene.
And their owners, one of those rare owners who didn't, fair enough, they charge a lot
of money, but for him, it wasn't all about the money.
He would have a smaller menu and only have good products there.
And yes, he charged a premium for them, but it's bang for your buck with most of these
coffee shops in Holland, at least for 80% of their menu.
And it's, you know, a yield over quality and over flavor.
And it's just, it leads to a mess.
And some, it's not even done off cure.
That's the interesting thing, but.
That was driving you crazy.
I remember that.
Yes, very much so.
But going back to you guys.
So that is one thing that connects all of us.
And a few of you have been out, I know for sure Matt has, but I think a few of you have
been out here to MJ Biz, which everyone always thinks of MJ Biz as the Super Bowl, which
I don't disagree for the US market.
Definitely from a professional standpoint, from a white collar side of things, MJ Biz
is definitely that business.
Now we had 50,000 participants pre-COVID that attended the last one.
But if that's the Super Bowl, then I think we need to talk FIFA because in my opinion,
the World Cup is Spanavis.
And that's one show that all of us make a point to attend.
And we even have friends.
I know we have some mutual friends, Matt, that come up from Australia.
Nico, our friends, and voila, Simon and his crew come up from Chile.
We have friends from Colombia.
My gosh, pretty much every continent.
And so that is the big show.
I'm curious to see if you guys noticed what I did as far as the genetics evolving.
One thing that I really noticed with the last, obviously, unfortunately, last year's was
canceled because of COVID hitting Europe.
But the one prior really started seeing a lot of the geneticists from Spain and the
Western United States coming together.
These guys from Oregon, these guys from Washington, like one of our good friends, James Loud of
Loud Seeds.
He's working with a lot of genetics guys in Spain.
Are you guys starting to see more of an evolution of collaboration in the industry from that
side of the pond in that regard?
For sure.
I mean, the genetics have gone through the roof here in Spain.
I can't say the same for Holland.
But I mean, getting a gelato or a sherbet or something exotic in an average social club
in Barcelona is a very common occurrence.
It's very easy to get good genetics in Spain.
I think that works both ways.
A good friend of ours, the lads from Exotics, I mean, they just released a batch of Critical,
which is probably Spain's number one weed for growing outdoors.
So I think it's working both ways, which is really, really cool to see.
But yeah, a lot of the big brands are moving over here.
You saw Cookies opened a store here and they have a club here as well.
And I think we're going to see more of that for sure as the future goes on, whether it
be preemptively for a legal market here or whether it be for brand building exercises
for lifestyle brand they may be pursuing.
You're going to see a lot of collaboration from the US and Europe, I think.
I think that's what me and Jack are trying to do for Greenlane as well with these brands,
whether it be vaporizers or papers or grinders or any high-end accessories, because that
market is a lot higher up in the US.
I think that's the way it's going to be going in the future for sure.
Once these shows continue, once we can all meet up, people like us and those other groups,
I mean, our group sometimes will be 20, 25 people strong.
And that's where the business gets done.
That's where the collaboration gets done.
It's behind the scenes at the shows.
It's in the VIP areas.
It's in the business B2B parties.
It's at these events.
So the more we can do these, the more I think hopefully the scene is going to grow.
Yeah, and I think you're spot on.
That's something, Ciarán, is that in fairness to your point, Spanibus brought in about 50,000
attendees.
It'd be labeled more so a protestable versus a convention, like over here.
But to your point, so much more business gets done, at least for the companies that I represented.
We get so much more business done on the international level by attending Spanibus versus
MJBiz.
And that's the irony is you have everyone casual and comfortable and catching up as
friends.
And to your point, when we all get together, we typically have between 20 and 30 in our
group, at least a dozen on the regular.
And we would take over clubs and come in and meet.
It would be catching up and comparing flour and stories and such.
But look at how much business we got done.
I mean, that's a good part of Peacemaker's strategy, which has been hugely successful
in expanding their brand.
It's just networking and feet on the street type approach, as we say.
So it's definitely good stuff.
Now, as far as legalization in Europe, and we do have a few viewers out of Spain and
out of Europe, which is awesome.
But for those from the US that might not know, nearly every legal market here, rather it
be adult use or medical, it was done by voter.
So it was by the individuals or, of course, the residents of those respective states.
Again, picking on California, we voted on Prop 215 back in 1996.
I was still a teenager, but obviously you know how I voted.
And we were able to pass it as the first US market to have a legal medical cannabis
program.
Not the same in Europe, right?
I mean, you can have referendums, but traditionally as a resident in Europe, you can't vote.
You can only really influence on these kinds of changes.
But yet we're seeing Ireland just announced a medical program within the last few years.
France did.
England did.
How soon are those versus markets like Germany or, you know, they're already legal to come
into fruition?
As far as I know, Lance, just from the word on the street, these licenses, yes, they have
a medical cannabis scheme or program just put into place in some certain countries.
They're handing out a handful of licenses.
Nobody is getting access to this medicine.
So whether they're doing it or not is more than likely to receive either grants funding
for future projects.
I don't see this benefiting anybody other than in Germany.
I do know a lot of German patients who are able to get access to cannabis in their pharmacies
and receive a doctor's permit pretty easily in comparison to other countries.
But I mean, I don't know anyone who's a medical patient in any of these other countries.
We smoke joints with a lot of people.
But I know if you're in a Schengen country and you're from a Schengen, like Jack said,
Schengen resident being Dutch, you could travel then with a medical.
If you had a medical license from a Schengen country, you could travel to another Schengen
European country with your medical cannabis, which is incredible.
It's just going to get that medical cannabis first.
That's the problem, you know.
Yeah, good point, because you're right.
Out of all of our friends, I think we have a mutual friend, Misha, out of Germany.
Great writer.
He used to work for me at Weedmaps.
And I remember him telling the story the last time we were all at Spanavis.
We were in a club, and he actually, I believe, had to hire a lawyer to fight for the government
to pay for his medical cannabis because it was less expensive to do that than for him
to be on unemployment because of his medical condition.
So you're right.
Like Germany's taking it very serious, which we know they're kind of a more serious bunch
in general, not to stereotype Germany, but they are a bit more strict versus some of
the Norwegian countries or other countries within EU mainland.
So interesting to see.
And going back to Spain, again, it's complicated.
And I know certain groups have tried to move it forward.
What have you guys heard on the streets there as far as any plausibility for taking it to
this next level?
Because like you explained, it's kind of been evolving, right?
And it's been evolving in this weird direction.
It's a bit of push and pull, not just by politics and law enforcement, but by popularity.
Because again, when people ask me, is Amsterdam the epicenter?
I'm like, I still love it.
I would move to Holland in a heartbeat.
It's my favorite place to go in Europe personally.
But I explained to him that really the scene, again, from genetics and flowering consumption
and ancillary goods like you guys specialize in, Spain really seems to be the hot spot.
But to your point, it sounds like the government just really isn't picking up on that, rather
be it a financial opportunity or otherwise, right?
Yeah, I don't know why they're on mute, I think.
I was going to say these guys are there the longest.
They know better.
Can you guys hear me now?
Yeah, buddy.
Okay, cool.
No, I was just going to say, I think with the COVID situation, I think it's on a holding
pattern, but just personal, humble opinion, personal hypothesis.
I think countries like, speaking as legality in Spain or EU in general or anywhere, Australia,
is countries like Canada and US need to lead the way and show it can be done.
But not only show it can be done, but show that you can tax the heck out of it and the
government can fix a lot of budget problems with cannabis tax.
And as more governments here, Australia, anywhere, New Zealand, see that, I think the
tide will shift.
But then again, like I said, that's a personal opinion.
And with COVID right now, they got bigger fish to fry probably.
But I think that's the key is to, you know, in a perfect world to be like, okay, it's
the right thing to do.
But with governments and the way the world works right now, I think you just got to prove
that, hey, it's going to make money.
It's going to fix a lot of problems in your budget.
And yeah, people are ready for it.
And I think once you're an EU member state, I think your hands are pretty tied there with
regards to what you can do regarding drugs and a lot of other things.
So you most likely we're going to see it, in my opinion, in the UK first, because they've
just left Europe.
They have a high consumption of cannabis already.
A lot of, I suppose, boroughs in the UK, their local constables or head of police have already
turned a blind eye policy towards cannabis consumption in their local area.
And we've all met and hung around with people from cannabis societies who get together and
have a lot of groups.
They've issued their own medical certificates.
The genetics are firing into, I got to say, me and Jack smoked.
That's where we first smoked Skittles.
It's where we've smoked a lot of high-end genetics, Jaffa Cake cookies.
A lot of these people are curating it in the UK.
They're really passionate for the flower.
And that's coming from an Irishman.
It's very hard for me to throw out that many.
A true Irishman.
That was difficult, but all credit where credit is due.
It's a bomb scene there.
I mean, I've been to coffee shops in London.
Like, you know, I've walked, you know, what's the term you use in the States?
Like a speakeasy.
And I, you know, through the door up the stairs and there's a menu and a buttender.
There was an expose done on them by the Daily Mail.
That's very insightful.
They actually took behind-the-scenes pictures and everything.
So, I mean, there's a scene there.
And at this point, just like it was in Holland at a certain point,
when Jack's dad was growing up, it became more of a handful for the police
than it was to just regulate it, you know?
And it seems like they have enough going on.
Yeah, not to pick on England specifically, but my gosh, you guys, we all caught up.
I think the last time, I know at least for sure, Ciarán.
But, you know, one of the last times we caught up was during
Product Earth Expo and Autopop Summer Social out there.
Yeah, and that's right, Jack.
And you can, yeah.
And so we were all hanging out up there a few summers ago.
And you're right, the underground scene, which literally, metaphorically, right?
I mean, there's guys that I was talking to that are growing in bunkers.
They're literally growing underground.
So they can't get spotted.
But the same token, you know, gosh, there's one closed-circuit television
or TV monitor to every 20 population in London.
And yet you would see people smoking and consuming.
And it's like the bodies are just like they got bigger things to worry about,
knifings or terrorism or whatever.
I thought it was kind of an interesting perspective on how it shifted,
you know, just in recent years.
I think today or yesterday, there was a news article in the British media
about a huge, huge grow found right next to the Bank of England in the centre of London.
So even with all those cameras, someone didn't see all that fertilizer,
all those pots going into business right next to the Bank of England.
So, yeah, it's absurd.
There is very common occurrence, I believe, to find like fires above a Chinese takeaway
or a random unit that someone doesn't want to live in.
And they're just growing everywhere.
You know, there's granny grows, I think is another term in the UK.
I've heard recently a lot as well.
Yeah, ladies are growing from behalf of people.
I mean, they're not going to start locking up all ladies every week.
I hope not.
I mean, if you don't like the cannabis, then...
Let's not forget people like the excitement and the passion and the risks still.
I mean, the best weed is grown with people who do it with passion.
This is one of the biggest reasons why the weed went industrial in Holland.
You know, all the small growers with love for the plant got caught.
And the criminals, as the government would like to call us, took over the growth.
But eventually, it has to do with love for the plant and not only the growing, but also
the consuming.
And I think with people with real love for the plant don't want to register for any medical
license or government thing to get their marijuana.
You know what I mean?
They had a huge...
They had a weed pass experiment in the south of Holland a couple years ago.
You know, they wanted to introduce a weed pass.
It was for residents only.
And residents could buy weed in all coffee shops with the weed pass, but tourists couldn't.
But the problem is nobody got a weed pass because nobody wanted to register for the
coffee shop.
Nobody needs to know that I go to the coffee shop every day and buy 20 euros of weed because
maybe in 10 years, my health insurance is going up because I'm a daily consumer.
You know, and these things are...
You know, same now with the cannabis experiment.
Coffee shops are not...
Nobody...
The coffee shops don't want to register their customers and the customer don't want to register
himself.
You know, you're a user.
You ever have to register to get alcohol or coffee?
You know, come on.
That's one of my biggest problems with data out of Europe, actually.
I'm not sure who else has that problem with it, but like whenever I see analytical data
or statistics coming from Europe about consumption or who smokes what and what the price is,
you can't rely on any of this data because it's done in an illegal marketplace.
No one's going to answer your survey honestly, as Jack said.
Like, I mean, I'm not going to say that I smoke X amount to a random person on a forum
that's going to be given to God knows who and it will affect me in what capacity down
the road.
And so, yeah, it's not healthy for anybody.
Yeah, we haven't seen success with that state side as well.
One of the states that did actually tie their medical cannabis program to the state's program
or the Department of Motor Vehicles, which everyone gets their, obviously, their
right identifications through a driving ID card or a driver's license.
And a lot of people, to your point, didn't register to that local medical program in
Nevada for that exact reason.
They said, well, wait a minute, the cop who pulls me over for going five miles above the
speed limit or a few kilometers over the speed limit, you know, they're going to subsequently
see that I'm a cannabis consumer, then that's going to give them probable cause to pursue
me for other things beyond just pulling me over for a minor infraction.
So it definitely makes sense.
And even more personally, I know with Bovido, we had a little thing called the Bovido Butler,
it's a little digital and it has an app and everything and you can track relative
humidity and the ambient temperature and it even has a shock sensor in case someone breaks
into your stash.
And we had talked about making that specific to the cannabis industry, but it was actually
friends, spot on your point, Kieran, it was friends in the UK that said, if you make this
a cannabis only product, people will actually pull back from using it because they're not
going to download an app that the government might figure out is associated with cannabis
consumers.
They'd rather it technically be a program that was originally created by a company that
made products for the tobacco industry, then it's less likely for them to be able to track.
So I think you're right, no matter where it's at, if it's something that's going to be tied
to a government or state program, as far as tracking and analytics, a lot of people just
don't want to.
And Jack, that's spot on.
How many people register that they drink two, three, four beers or wines or spirits a night?
You know, there's a lot of people that medicate with alcohol and I think they'd be embarrassed
if they showed just how much they consumed on a regular basis, right?
Imagine if they all have to play open cards, right?
I think one of the cool things about Peacemaker is the fact that they've been in Europe.
You can scrunch it up, put it in your pocket for discretionary purposes.
And it's one of those things that we see a fight back on in certain colorways or certain
products in our portfolio.
Green Lane is too obvious.
If the police see it, we're screwed.
But it's just something you can scrunch up and put away in your pocket.
It doesn't look exactly like a cannabis product.
That's a key selling point for a lot of products in a lot of countries and on amenity.
Definitely true.
Yeah, I've been through security with Matt in his luggage.
And it's surprising what some people at airports think that he's traveling with.
It's silicon based.
But we definitely digress.
So awesome, man.
We'll definitely want to next conversation kind of moving on.
How do you guys feel in this again?
I think this is a good perspective for our listeners, especially those in other parts
of the world, say the Pan Pacific or in the Americas.
We've actually seen a bit of an influx here in consumption.
I'll give an example.
For the first time ever, the state of Oregon, which is about 4.2 million populace.
So it's definitely on the low end of population versus 42 million residents in California.
To give you a perspective, they actually passed $1 billion in cannabis sales last year for 4.2
million population, which is just unheard of in any market.
So obviously, with that, a major factor was that during the pandemic, as much as us were
annoyed that they deemed alcohol liquor stores deemed essential, which I still I know some
people medicate with it, but it doesn't have much benefits from a medical standpoint.
But they did deem most markets that are legal in cannabis consumption as an essential,
which helped us.
How has that affected though?
Because again, we've talked about and we've brought Amsterdam into the conversation just
because that's the one comparable market to the social club scene in Spain.
What have you guys seen?
Because now to your point, Kieron, by the existing rules, and I remember these being
a member of a few clubs that I'm not supposed to leave.
Of course, a lot of times we did because we wanted something to have later that night
or the next morning.
But if you're not supposed to leave with the product and social clubs, I'm guessing were
probably shut down or restricted during the pandemic.
Where's everything at as it pertains to the industry right now?
I think Matt and Nico can also agree with me.
It's been really crazy to try and get your product during Corona in Spain, in Barcelona
anyway.
It's an ever changing scenario with the social clubs there.
There is no specific set of guidelines that adhere to them.
They are just interpreting the law of bars and restaurants and adjusting on what they're
being directed to do.
Now, for a significant part of the first lockdown period, they were completely closed.
The black market flourished.
It thrived.
The Pacboys on Instagram made a killing.
Wicker was going crazy for people.
Glovo delivery Uber Eats guys were coming to the door with no food.
And it was an interesting time for the market.
And I've spoken to a lot of club owners who felt that pinch upon reopening.
Obviously, the clubs and the businesses have to pay rent, insurance, wages, utilities.
That adds to a couple of euros on every gram.
It's just the way it goes.
And the plug don't have to pay those bills.
He's got to put 10 euros in his scooter and he can drive around Barcelona for two days.
And, you know, it's unfortunate the way it is.
Whereas in Amsterdam, I think they were closed for what was it, Jack?
24 hours?
24 hours during the first lockdown until the government found out that weed is essential.
And it went viral all over the internet for the long queues, right?
Yeah, I think they announced at six o'clock that at eight o'clock the coffee shops would
be closed for who knows how long.
There were lines in front of the coffee shops and there were dealers handing out
business cards to everybody in line.
If you need some weed tomorrow, call me.
They opened all the coffee shops again.
Prices rose, of course, but when the coffee shops opened again, it's all normal since.
I must say some coffee shops have lines in front.
People are really queuing up because they have to close at eight.
Like no alcohol and weed after eight o'clock.
People are queuing up, but some coffee shops do better.
Some do worse during the corona.
You can see it like this.
Normally you would go for a walk in the city and you will just pass by one of your favorite
coffee shops.
Nowadays, you just stay in your neighborhood.
So the neighborhood coffee shops, the local coffee shops who are focused mainly on locals,
they are doing great.
Now, great is a big word, of course, without the tourists, but they're doing good.
But the big coffee shops who are focused on tourists, on the other hand, are having a
really hard time.
It makes sense.
It used to be tourists where they sell their product to.
They're not here anymore.
But on the other side, some coffee shops have promotions.
There have been lockdown hazes.
There have been discounts.
I've seen, what was it?
Corona Cush, something like that for six euros a gram.
Yeah, five grams of indica for 35 quid.
I think we were doing, wasn't it?
Yeah, yeah.
People are getting creative, you know, but on the other side, I had some talks with coffee
shop owners and they say, you know, we should allow the customer now to buy more than five
grams because, you know, let them come to the coffee shop once a week instead of every day
or every two days.
Let them buy 20 or 30 grams and let the coffee shop stock two kilos instead of 500 grams.
Of course, this is not something the government is thinking about.
Why would they help the smoker nowadays?
It's been a mess, but it's what Kieran says.
The dealer doesn't have to pay these bills.
So the most local guys, you know, we know how to find our wheat for a reasonable price.
It's a shame for the coffee shops, but yeah, no, if I see, I don't, you know, if I see
sometimes that some coffee shops with a lockdown, they can't have anybody inside and they used
to make millions for years.
And now during the lockdown, they've decided to buy one little paper and write with a pen,
only take away and put it in the window.
If that's your creativity to get people in your shop nowadays, that's five euros you
just spend on promotion.
It's tainting the herd, Jack.
It's just, we're getting rid of these coffee shops.
I think that we're just there for as a tourist trap to just take that money and, and had
no passion for the plant and no interest in genetics and no interest in curing or, or
doing things the best way for the consumer.
I think those are the places that are really suffering now.
Obviously, there's some other people who are still suffering and, you know, fall between
those gaps.
But I think in general, we're just as horrible as it sounds, you're tainting the herd of
those businesses that, you know, maybe shouldn't have been around for the last 35 years, making
so much money.
It could have been done by somebody else because these are limited places.
Maybe, I don't know, maybe the bright side of this could be that some of these locations
will get sold to people who actually have interest and will actually help with the legalization,
will help with genetics, will increase the customer experience, will get involved in
the debate.
And because, I mean, there's a coffee shop union.
I mean, what you say, 350 coffee shops, I think only like 40 of them are recognized
in it.
Most of these guys don't care.
They care now that they're talking about banning tourists and they'll all put their hand up.
But they don't care, man.
What they're talking about now, you touched on a good thing.
I don't know if many of our viewers, we have some shout outs really quick too.
Magnus says, shout out to Connoisseur Genetics.
We have a shout out to UK420.
For sure, those guys rock.
Truly a shit.
Some good comments here.
Obviously, some people talking about how things are a bit different.
How things are a bit tough in the coronavirus times and some places are allowing consumption,
some aren't, some are to go.
But going to education, I think that's one thing that's really come up here.
That was just in the news that they're talking about doing away with the tourists.
And that's insane.
And no matter, again, the restrictions that currently exist in Spain or talking about
them restricting the tourism in Amsterdam, I am surprised to your point that these governments
don't step back and just recognize and wake up.
I thought there's a lot of blue hair, 75 plus in our parliament, in our state and senate,
Congress.
My gosh, it's crazy that they don't wake up and see how much of a cash crop we're dealing
with, how it can save them.
I think the politician said, we want to stop all the drunk English tourists.
So we're going to ban them from the coffee shops.
You're also going to ban them from the bars or you're still going to let them in the bar
and just ban them?
You should ban them from the airport and don't leave Schiphol at all.
It's people from the red light district, right, Jack?
I mean, they've woken up to an actual neighborhood in front of their...
They never had a neighborhood.
They never had an empty street.
They never had a quiet night's sleep.
I worked in that street for like eight years.
I mean, there's noise there.
Like that's a hustle and bustle.
Anyone who's been to Amsterdam can only imagine what it's like living in that area.
Now, you can also say you choose to live there.
Fair to say, but I mean, some people live there generations.
It's not like Jack's family is there a long time.
And from the neighborhood, there's a lot of people, you know?
I walked into an old neighbor last week in the red light.
And she was, I think, the only one who enjoyed the whole lockdown because she never saw the
neighborhood like this.
You could just walk around, you know, walk with the dog without any tourists kicking
the dog or making some fun.
So there's a good side, but no, it's crazy.
It's crazy.
It's their second time trying to ban the tourists from the coffee shops.
They tried it just before I arrived in Holland.
So Jack can definitely speak better than I can, but they refer to it as the weed pass,
which did take effect in the outer regions of Holland.
So I mean, it's kind of a weird dynamic.
As a registered Dutch citizen in the city of Amsterdam, I couldn't buy weed in Maastricht
or Groningen or any of these border towns that were close to Germany or any other surrounding
countries because I wasn't registered in that municipality.
So that was to stop weed tourism.
So it's actually in effect already.
They're just talking about including Amsterdam.
But in the same respect, they just passed a weed test where they're going to give 10
licenses to 10 manufacturers to cultivate for the south of Holland, which doesn't include
Amsterdam.
My Dutch geography is terrible, so we won't go there, Jack.
But essentially what it means is that these border towns I was just referring to will
have the best quality product in theory, cultivated by professionals, kind of similar to what
you get in the States and hopefully closer to Cali than Montana, but with regards to
quality.
But yeah, I mean, it's a weird dynamic.
There's kind of a fight back, but there's also a push.
But they're in different towns, I think, because of what Jack was touching on, which
is the drug tourist factor and what's being associated to cannabis in Amsterdam.
But I think that's a whole package.
I don't think cannabis needs to be blamed for that.
I think you can ban other things before you ban the cannabis if you want to clean up the
red light district.
I think you guys are right.
That's the...
You hate to pick on the Englishmen or those from the UK, but...
Well, you're doing a good job there too.
I'm not prejudiced.
I picked up everything after growing in a bulldog in the red light district throughout
the years.
You know, but like most of the individuals that I saw that were rowdy and obnoxious got
a little too cross-faded and definitely had more alcohol in their system than a spliff.
Weren't Germans, they weren't Americans, they weren't even the Aussies, which we all know
can drink more than anyone.
It was more so, to your point, those coming over from the other side of the channel and
kind of treating Amsterdam like Vegas.
People do here, people do shit in Vegas that you would never do back home.
You would never do, period.
But they seem to go and just kind of have a free for all.
But going back to Spain on that, it's a little bit of a different scene in and out of the
city as well, right?
Because I remember we went up, we had a company we were working with about a half hour north
of downtown Barca.
And we actually took the train up the coast.
It was really nice.
And it was a local club, but it was a club in a local neighborhood.
It was a way different vibe than Circulo or some of the more notorious clubs that are
down by the La Rambla in downtown Barca.
How are those?
Have any of you guys visited those or checked them out lately and seen what the scene is?
Oh, you're on mute.
Either, I've just been here two years now.
So I got friends in the black market that grow natural stuff.
So I don't have to worry about any additives.
But and I've been other than that, I've been sticking to my two local neighborhood clubs.
I haven't been really.
I mean, I've been to Cookies, I think, a month ago to work.
We work out of there every once in a while.
But yeah, for me personally, it's either been friends in the black market or I've just been
going to the two local clubs in my little neighborhood here in Barcelona.
Yeah, I think that for me is the same.
The only difference that I have been to many local clubs, which I always get something,
but they are not like my mainly like supplier or I don't get from there.
They are the one mainly.
Yeah.
But speaking with the rules after lockdown, it's just even with all the different clubs
I've been visiting, even for work or the two local clubs, it's just all the rules are totally
inconsistent.
Like I said, mentioned earlier, you're supposed to not just walk in, buy and leave.
Even if you're good, just go in there and buy.
Usually you do the obligatory sit down, roll a joint, smoke it, be in the club for like
10 minutes.
Don't just walk right out.
But nowadays it's just like, yeah, you buy it.
And if you leave, they don't even bat an eye because of the situation.
Actually, they probably prefer it.
Yeah.
And that was different, right?
I mean, I remember you guys, we have a few friends that were out from Australia.
One of them's a phenomenal grower.
He's got some property on the border of Queensland and New South Wales.
And we kind of lost him and his wife.
And lo and behold, we found out that they were hanging out in the back of HQ watching.
I mean, they had everything they needed.
They're literally there for 11 hours because the games were on and they had the food and
they had the drink and they had the flour.
But it is different again, going back to Amsterdam, where it almost seemed like they wanted you
on a 10 minute turn to your point.
They want you to come in, have your split an espresso and move on so they could get
more tourists in.
So such a different mentality.
One, obviously more community, one obviously a bit more commercial or commercialized.
But definitely excited to see any predictions you guys have just kind of a last around the
horn where you see Europe as a whole market again, with Spain being a major influence
and respectfully so still Holland being quite an influence as well.
Any predictions on where legalization in the EU will be in the next, say, five years?
And we'll just go around really quick and wrap with that.
Start with you.
I think I touched on it earlier.
I think the UK will be first.
We're talking wreck, right?
I mean, not medicinal, just like fully wrecked.
Like, yeah, we know Luxembourg.
I know a lot of people back in Luxembourg.
It's a phenomenal country to do business in, but it is a keystone country.
It's small as shit.
I was going to say, if you know a lot of people in Luxembourg, that's everyone in Luxembourg.
You're doing a really good job.
2020 is a good year.
But correct.
Yeah, Luxembourg beat everyone to it and good for them.
And they may see some kind of tourism.
I hope they do.
But they're a rich ass state anyway.
They'll be fine.
But I think the UK, if we're talking geographically in Europe, I think we're talking as part of
the EU.
I don't think we're seeing anything until we see an overall EU policy change.
I think you'd be kicked out of the European Union for it straight up.
And but who knows?
I mean, there's talks about Holland possibly leaving the EU.
There's talks about other countries.
You might see Holland go fully wrecked if this experiment goes really well in Holland.
Who knows?
Flip a coin, I think.
I think you guys, I think Matt said earlier on, once the US and the Canadians lead by
example and show us we can all make a truckload of money, the decision should be made a lot
easier, especially with post-corona recovery.
You make a good point, Kieran, because that's one thing I talk to friends over in Europe
that are more so tied to the government side.
And they're like, we've been waiting on the US because the US is the one that started
a lot of this prohibition and war on drugs bullshit, to be quite honest, way back in
the turn of time.
And so Canada has kind of done it.
But then again, Canada's population is smaller than the population of New York.
Do you have an example?
While it is a first world country and they are, you know, what NATO, there's seven, you
know, so I mean, there's still a factor as far as being a big country, but not.
This experiment is based on Canada.
This Dutch weed experiment, this is fully based on the Canadian model.
So I think we can see the direct relation there of leading by example.
Maybe not the best example.
I would have preferred something else, but it's something that will take it.
But I think, yeah, I think that's the way to go.
I think federally, federally legalize it in the US, please.
And I'm bank that money and build all those schools, build all those roads, build all
those hospitals and show us it can be done, you know?
Yeah.
And we've shown that in Colorado.
That's what's crazy.
So you guys know Colorado has been a pretty good model.
It was a little bit of a social experiment, as the governor at the time called it.
But, you know, Pueblo High School is an example.
Every person that graduated was given, I believe, a $4000 scholarship towards higher ed if they
wanted to accept it.
But that was all money from cannabis taxation, which they're in the hundreds of millions
now that they've collected.
So definitely, I agree.
I hope to see this vertical integration experiment in Amsterdam prove that it's plausible to
be legitimate and recognized.
And to your point, recoup some of the money from every country in the world has been affected
by Corona and the cost associated with freaking hand sanitizers for their public employees,
never mind everything else.
You know, it's it adds up.
So you guys feel the same, Matt and Nico, as far as you think that now, especially Democrats
running the House, the Senate, Congress, you know, in the US, that things will maybe move
forward and influence what's going on in Europe?
Yeah, the reason I was mentioning US and then Canada specifically was like, for example,
a peacemaker.
We have distributors in both territories, but there's a major once Canada went legal,
there was a it was a whole like we had to put a team together of how to make our products
compliant for new Canadian regulations once they went once they went legal.
So like packaging was a whole project.
So that's why I was including Canada because they did it.
So the US were first, you know, we're leading the way, but we're state by state.
You know, there's a lot of overlap in between the states with the rules and regulations,
but it is different state by state.
Whereas Canada, it's like these are the rules and they're actually fairly, like I said,
we had to put a team together to be compliant.
So I think Europe is looking at that.
You know, they look at US.
OK, great.
You can do it.
You can make money.
But they look to Canada.
OK, how do you actually do it?
So, but as far as legalization in Europe, I agree with everything Kieron said.
The only contribution I have is we've mentioned a lot of key players here,
but there's a couple that are up and coming or two that we haven't mentioned.
Switzerland is one, but they're more on the CBD side, but they're in it.
I mean, they're got farms as far as the eye can see in some places.
And then another country that we haven't mentioned yet, but is really up and coming is Italy.
We've just a lot of growers.
The government's kind of like here where they're like, OK, it's not legal, but,
you know, we got bigger fish to fry.
So, yeah, there's a real good culture there in Italy.
And yeah, right before COVID, we were seeing that because I think three shows opened up in Italy
and back in last year, 2019.
So you're seeing that momentum for Italy growing.
But then COVID hit.
And I think the last major show in Europe that we had before COVID hit,
we thought was going to be cannabis.
It was actually cannabis.
Yeah, it was a good show.
Yeah.
So, yeah, Italy.
So, you know, like Kieran said, it's, you know, unfortunately, it's kind of like the
US where it's like we have state by state, but in EU we have country by country.
And, you know, even Germany, it's like the north and south is like the south is
super conservative.
And then but whereas around Berlin, it's very liberal.
You can carry, I think it was like six grams on you in Berlin.
But once you leave Berlin, it's super conservative.
So it's a little tricky in Europe because not only have different, you know, you have
different states, but overall, we're, you know, pretty much united.
But Europe, you know, you're united economically, but culturally, it's not, you know, it's not
as it's not matched as much as the US.
So it's a little bit trickier where, you know, in the EU, you got to get everyone to agree
on these rules.
So it's going to take time.
But more and more countries are contributing and growing the industry.
That's a fair shout out to Italy, bro.
It got to be said, I think one in one in five people in this industry is Italian, whether
it be in Amsterdam or Spain, like they rep hard and they have passion.
And I think that goes back to Franco from Greenhouse and obviously, the plant.
But I think the Italians rep super hard.
I think you're right.
Those guys, I don't know if it's the influence from from being a dominant wine region or
what, but the growers that I met, or at least the ones we worked with when I was at Boveda,
those guys take the craft wholeheartedly.
It's interesting.
So many people put all this focus from seed to take down those guys.
I was talking to one, he drops his cure like one degree every week for four months.
I mean, like it's this gradual progression of cure and essentially almost kind of aging
of the flower.
I mean, those guys get so enthralled in everything from start to finish, which I think to your
point says a lot about their passion, because you said it earlier, Jack.
I mean, people that grow the best cannabis are passionate about it.
And I have to say that's true everywhere around the world.
The people I've met, the places that from the cannabis consumed in Australia and South
America to over there in Europe, like the best stuff has been the passionate and totally
right on Switzerland.
We shouldn't forget them at all.
To your point, Matt, I mean, they saw, gosh, they started selling hemp cigarettes and all
these and such up there.
They saw an 18% decrease in tobacco cigarette sales because people are looking for that
healthy alternative that still gives a little bit of buzz.
I think another one's the Czech Republic.
I, if I remember a few of us caught up as well for a Cannafest, right?
At a dispensary, right?
We were at a legal dispensary.
Yeah, we were at, I can't remember what growth shop that was.
But man, we shouldn't say.
No, we shouldn't.
We shouldn't.
But that was sick.
It was very much a scene and you would not expect something that was under communist rule
at one point and still very recluse because of that.
But as many Europeans call it, it was a city that wasn't bombed.
So they're very proud of how they've survived and made it through in our trying to get more
into their rights.
But I was surprised by the scene down there.
And even at the show, they had a makeshift daycare for people that were professionals
in the industry that had children that still needed to work.
I'm like, what a novel concept.
And respectfully so, Nico, I saw that in Santiago too at Expo Weed, which I thought was really
They have the same.
We did a little grow training for the kids.
It's insane.
It's so different everywhere you go in the world.
Well, I think that's a good note to end on.
I really want to thank you guys.
It's definitely been too long.
We have way too many stories.
We'll have to do a behind the scenes powwow at one point and tell some of those great
stories because I know I could go on for hours.
But I want to thank you, Kieron, Jack, Nico, Matt.
I'm not sure if Peter has any questions from the audience for us, but I want to thank you
guys again.
Well, we do.
We got comments and questions.
All right.
So the one comment that I share.
Let me just give me one second.
So this is something like I lived in France for two years and kind of the export of American
culture into Europe always made me sad.
Sorry, I just ran upstairs to bring water upstairs.
But cookies dominating the world and all that.
You guys mentioned exotic and I hear dessert strains coming from the US.
But what about the local stuff?
Genetically, are the dessert things taking over or are you guys taking pride in the local?
I think the crossing is what's going on there.
I think the genetics in Spain were quite stagnant is probably the best way to put it.
I think you were seeing a lot of semi-outdoor genetics that weren't really suitable for
the indoor grow.
I think you're seeing this cross now, which is then helping with the overall product.
I'm no farmer, not in any shape or form, but I have noticed that those flavors are definitely
coming across.
And I think that's because they're switching from semi-outdoor greenhouse grows or fully
outdoor grows to indoor proper full-on cultivations.
Yeah, and also don't forget about because still being illegal is really hard for people.
I think most people who grow are growers and not breeders.
And there's a really big difference in those two things, of course.
For example, here in Amsterdam, one of the real breeders is like an Afrogenetics.
That's a breeder.
I know many growers, but a real breeder will come up with their own local strain, a nice
mix of an American strain together with a European strain.
Those things are nice.
But I heard some comments also from Dutch growers like, hey, why are we selling American
strains in local coffee shops, man?
Why are you not representing our breeds as a local breeder?
I'm breeding for 20 years in this city and now you're putting cookies on them.
Of course, there's friction between these things, but there's also cooperation.
I'm aware of some corporations between Dutch and American growers who are working on a
strain together.
DNA genetics.
DNA genetics, for example.
DNA, I'll hold another one.
Even Loud, our friend James Loud, working with some Spanish.
It's got to be said as well.
For here in Spain, these guys love hash, hashish.
And this concentrate steam here has blown through the roof.
If we're talking about cultivation, whether that be manipulation of the plant or whatever,
they've exploded.
That European steam belongs to them.
They're not bad down to a tee compared to the rest of Europe.
The rosins came here, the live rosin.
In the last five years, it's gone from smoking Moroccan hash to real exotic live resin to
the point where you have masses of rosin at HQ, which is an international competition.
I think when it comes to the flower game and the concentrate slash hash game, I think we
need to differentiate those when discussing Spain for sure, because they own one and are
doing really well in the other.
And just a quick plug for Spanish breeders.
I actually just put some Califa genetics up on the Dagadat Love website and the
Aladdin skunk has already sold out.
So there's a demand for stuff that's not American and hype and exotic.
To your point, Peter, the coin I termed, they're the trendy triangle strains.
And you guys are right.
These guys have seen it.
I've seen it with them on tour.
To their point, we were smoking Skittles in the countryside of England and wedding cake
and all the rest of it.
There's something to be said about a Dutch treat or Dutch passion or super silver haze
or amnesia haze, which is a quintessential strain of Europe.
A lot of those, I think that's what I expect to consume.
It's a novelty to smoke the dessert strains when coming over there, but I love the stuff
that's historically been dominant and grown the best, to your guys' point.
If you're growing based on your environment, which is a big influence on your phenotype,
then that's what matters.
Trying to keep up with the Joneses and the McDonald's is always the best path.
We see it in every industry, too.
We see it in food, we see it in fashion, we see it in alcohol, we see it in everything.
I'd go to France and drink a Jack and Coke.
Don't forget the power of marketing, of course.
The American strains can put themselves way better in the market because of the marketing.
There's hardly any coffee shop in Amsterdam who's putting himself on the market with a
Bulldog haze, for example.
They cannot promote Bulldog haze, they cannot do it.
I know Greenhouse used to do it a couple of times with their logos and their strains on
there, but it's really hard to get a constant stock quality.
With things being illegal, it's really hard for keeping a constant quality.
To come back on the reason why in whole Europe we're not going to see legalization in a positive
way soon is also not being one.
In America, people are one.
It's one country.
But try to fight cannabis laws in Europe with a French political, with a party from France
or with some guys from Denmark.
There's no unity in the community in Europe.
We try to, but it's hard to do.
Unlike America, which is just all kumbaya right now.
No, still.
Yeah, but still, it's different.
You know what I mean?
They see the business of it.
They did a study in over 70% of the populace of just speaking of the Netherlands, 70% plus
of the populace are totally pro cannabis, whereas here we're hedging on that.
Unfortunately, there are some states that are holding out to the bitter end and other
states that are getting me on board yesterday.
But you're right.
We're also dealing with an influx.
There's over 300 million people in the US, but there's 753 million people in Europe.
That's a big, you know, to convert, to become advocates.
I see someone here in your comment section is talking about bag appeal and things like
that.
We're just discovering what bag appeal is here in Europe.
They're just getting baggies.
They're just getting jars.
They're just branding things on the black market.
This is a whole new thing.
So I think glance 20 years ago in the Cali scene was probably the same as where maybe
we're at now.
And I think maybe you're helping with that for sure.
It's assisting the fact that the US and we're collaborating as we've discussed for the last
while and it is just interchanging communities.
But if we do a jacked and unite as one and come together as a European entity and try
and legalize this on the European Union or whatever it may be, I mean, that's where we're
going to see what Europe's potential really is when it comes to cannabis, what we can
actually do and what these Italian growers can do, what the Swiss people can do, what
the Spanish can do with the concentrates, what the Dutch can do with an open and free
market where it's not associated to drunken tourists anymore.
I think that's where we're going to see the actual potential of Europe.
Europe does things pretty good.
I mean, when we do things, we do them, we do nice cars, we do nice food, we do nice
clothing.
We do good at what we do.
If we're allowed to do cannabis, I think we can do really good.
And you do everything in moderation.
That's one thing for, again, more so for our US watchers right now versus Europe.
You guys do everything in moderation.
That's one thing I've been impressed with.
People think, oh, these guys, this country, they drink so much.
And this country...
I was going to say I'm Irish.
I'm not going to say anything on this.
No, I thought the Irish, you know, the stereotype in the US is that the Irish are the biggest
drinkers in the international space.
And hands down, it's the Australians.
I'm telling you right now, I've never seen anyone drink like an Aussie versus an Irishman.
Irishman, it's in moderation.
But you guys, to your point, you're getting in the right direction.
You know, with the WHO, the World Health Organization, now being pro-cannabis, at least being in
support of it from a medicinal standpoint.
UNODC, unfortunately, is not there.
I think to your point, you know, the United Nations needs to kind of step up.
And again, maybe COVID.
I think it could be a silver lining because it could be a saving grace.
And those of us that are medical advocates, we don't want cannabis to be an excuse to
be a money grab.
But if that's a way to legalize for more people to consume this versus opioids or other things,
then I think we all agree that it's a win in the big picture if that's what gets it
legalized.
This is the community that wants to build hospitals and, you know, give back.
I think this cannabis community is the one community that is certainly open about that.
So I think we're the right people to do that, I think, in a post-COVID world.
And we have Riley Quinn.
That was so, you know, Riley's a friend here.
It's so funny you put her comment up there.
I'm Aussie and I bow to the Irish.
I'm not an example.
I don't think I represent that too well.
Green is in my blood.
I smoke enough.
Riley asked a while ago for an update on the raids.
I was speaking to someone about it this morning.
We're talking about the Spanish cultivation for seeds, right?
Yeah, I believe they're, as you say in America, up shit creek without a paddle.
And I believe they were caught with everything that they had regarding cultivation,
analysis, laboratories at the highest extent, far more than anyone actually expected in this
industry.
And I think it's a knock-on effect of the fact that the UK have now left Europe.
And with the importation of seeds, you require a certificate of origin that this is now becoming
a bigger issue.
So I think we may actually see a big problem when it comes to seed cultivation in Europe
because of these raids and because of Brexit and such and such.
So I think there was a couple of raids.
It wasn't just down to them.
I believe there was three or four.
So I think the scene here is taking a really, really big hit.
Yeah, I actually had some seeds seized by the US Department of Agriculture that were
sent from the UK to here.
Yeah, it's a tricky game, I believe.
Jack sold enough seeds for all of us, I think, over the years in this time of bulldog.
And I believe it's true all over the world in all kind of ways.
No, but it's a shady business.
I don't know.
Seeds, we have the same problem in the Netherlands.
We can only sell five seeds a person now to stop the big roads.
We just stopped shipping seeds to Belgium.
Eventually, it's a seed.
We're not selling anything strange.
It used to be the product which we always could sell all over the world.
But yeah, crazy gray area.
Love it.
Do you guys know the answer to that question on the screen?
There is no legal.
There's no laws for seed production, to my knowledge.
I mean, you're producing a souvenir using a cannabis plant.
Yeah.
That's my basic understanding of this whole law.
You're selling it as a souvenir.
So you can't use cannabis as a souvenir.
You can't use cannabis to create souvenirs, unfortunately.
You can only create it to create cannabis.
Unfortunately, as your magma sees, probably well knows, it's in the gray area.
Yeah, that seems common.
Like Canada, our friends to the north have a friend who's sitting on, I think,
a few million dollars in seed up there in his bank.
And to your point, he has to sell them as souvenirs.
So he can't guarantee germination or else it wouldn't be a souvenir.
So he sends it off.
And if it doesn't germinate, then it's just a guarantee that, oh, well,
if you didn't get seeds that were to what you wanted from a novelty standpoint,
we'll send you more.
But there are these weird stipulations, especially in commonwealth countries,
as it pertains to seeds.
But you make a good point, Peter, because you don't mess around the Ag department.
It's interesting here, at least with USDA and the Ag department of our government.
You know, when you have outside genetics that are coming into a country or into a market,
I mean, that could be detrimental for the native plants and the native production of
whatever you're talking about, as it's lettuce or artichokes or cannabis.
So it's kind of an interesting space when it comes to seeds.
But I will say there's some of the easiest things to happen to have fall in your bag
when you travel, because I would not have nearly the collection I do,
if not going around the world and visiting places in Australia and South America and
Europe and having friends like these guys that may or may not happen to have a few seeds on them
that I could bring home for my bank.
But it is an interesting space as far as getting them, that's for sure.
Yeah, we got to give the tourist a souvenir when he goes home, you know that.
Cool.
Yeah, I have my mail intercept notice from the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
What was seized?
Cannabis sativus propagative material, 0.2 grams.
That's what they seized.
Well, at least it was just a letter, not a...
Yeah, it could have been worse.
Not a benchmark.
That was the upside as the doorbell rings and I look outside.
But Lance, you'll be happy to know I just popped a whole lot of haze.
So...
There's something about it.
I just...
That was my last season.
So you guys know I did...
I think it was...
Jack, look at Jack smiling when you say the haze.
Jack loves the haze.
It's heady.
Man, hazes are heady, at least for me anyway.
It's more heady than the gas, that's for sure.
But there's some good stuff out there.
Even Jack Herrera is a popular.
That's another one that's popular out there on your guys' side.
Much, much respect to that.
You don't see it much anymore.
Amsterdam is all haze.
Yeah.
And OG is not OG Kush.
Yeah, it's crazy.
It's crazy.
But yeah, it makes me happy, so...
And Riley, we will be stopping into Australia soon.
Will we?
Definitely Australia.
So you can tell the sad, sad story of how not legal it is to smoke and grow weed in Australia.
Yeah.
But...
I think most of us have been there too.
That's a market to play it safe in, for sure.
And what's next week?
So next week, we're actually heading to South America.
And we're going to visit some more friends of this crew,
our extended friends down in Santiago, Chile, the Espinoza brothers.
So they'll be joining us along with a few friends to talk about what's going on,
not only in Chile, but also in Colombia, Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay.
So really what's going on in the legal scene as it pertains to South America.
Because like Africa, another market that isn't really kept track of too much
compared to what we're doing here in North America and what you guys are doing in Europe.
If I smoke some good weed, it's in Uruguay and Chile for sure.
It was really...
Yeah, yeah.
It's very underestimated, I think.
Really good.
Agreed.
Agreed.
Definitely.
Well, perfect.
With that, I thank you guys again.
Yes, I know it's dinner time.
Sorry to interrupt, chefing it with Jack.
That was very good to see you.
Corona took me.
Jack is already done and I finished my food.
So thank you.
Awesome.
Awesome.
Cool, guys.
Well, I very much look forward to seeing all of you like we were talking, Kieron.
I do hope that the circuit picks back up in fall.
I know for some of the folks I'm working with,
I definitely need to get back out to Europe, but also just to catch up with all of you.
So I thank you guys for your time.
And I'm sure we'll be revisiting soon.
And definitely be safe out there.
All righty.
Thanks, guys.
Appreciate it.
Yeah.
And for everyone watching, we got, if you give me one second to queue it up.
This is at, I believe, I want to say one o'clock this afternoon,
although I may be totally wrong.
Just give me one second to look it up.
In three, two.
Good God.
Yes, 1 p.m. Pacific time.
So all you Spaniards will probably be asleep by then.
But anyway, thanks for joining us.
That's right.
You guys go late.
So appreciate it.
And next week, we got Uruguay, right?
Chile.
Chile.
All right.
Sorry.
Can go to Las Lenas.
And that's in Argentina.
But and then we got, I promised Steve at some point we'd hit Zimbabwe.
So we got to head back to Southern Africa.
So anyway, thank you, everyone.
And I think Lance and I are both going to go see what's going on with the bright sun
outside as soon as we end.
Yep.
All right.
Enjoy.
Enjoy.
See you later, guys.
Bye.
