Back in our lives. Future Cannabis Project FCP02. Thanks everybody in chat for joining us and everybody on the replay who's going to rewatch this one, myself included.
That's kind of weird saying thank you to yourself, but hey, I just did. So we're rolling with it. It's Friday night and we're back with Sun Grown Mids talking some genomics and cannabis plant breeding.
Thank you for joining us again, Trevor. I appreciate that.
Of course, Jed. Thanks for having me on, man. I appreciate the invite.
Yeah, no problem. My pleasure. I wish, you know, it's kind of funny. We're having a great conversation beforehand. This is going to be an excellent addition to where we were going.
It's funny. You always have some great conversations before the cameras start, don't you?
So tonight we're going to be talking about a few things that from the breeder perspective, the cannabis breeder perspective, are going to be important.
These are usually traits or characteristics such as like yields or secondary metabolites, things that are important to a person looking to breed the next best cannabis cultivar.
And so this one is definitely going to have, you know, a very close application to what a lot of people are doing.
And it was funny that we were talking earlier beforehand about like cannabis breeding books.
And, you know, I've got a few of them and I've read them and they're great. There's a lot of information in there.
But there tends to be not a complete knowledge set and it's not for, you know, lack of effort or anything.
It was just kind of the information that we had at the time of when you're doing these things almost anecdotally, just kind of based off perception.
You get a certain rule set and a lot of this rule set, like I said, is it's kind of like cannabis breeding.
This is how you breed cannabis. But then there's also the whole plant breeding world.
And I love that you help bridge the gap between the two because it's really picking up where that cannabis knowledge has kind of left off.
And this information is actually what's going to get us a lot further down the road.
So thank you once again for coming back and dropping some of this knowledge on us, man.
Of course. Yeah, no, thank you. And I think, yeah, that's a good lead in.
I feel like to a certain extent, some of this stuff.
There's been a hesitancy in the cannabis publishing world to dive into this level of information,
just because when you start getting into quantitative inheritance and heritability and these sorts of things,
you actually read all the literature. It's incredibly complicated math and very hard to understand.
We're going to break down some of it and go into some of the different statistics and stuff.
I tried to keep it as light as I could. I'm certainly no statistician myself.
Thank you.
Yeah, light on the math. But like that's it's something that Tony said a couple of weeks ago.
I think it was during the seed collectors discussion in chat.
He mentioned that the breeding is math.
And that's really that's when you get down to it.
You're dealing with frequencies and statistics and a lot of variance that you're trying to figure out without necessarily knowing exactly what you're doing.
And we came up with these mathematical systems or theories for approximating what was going on.
And I hope tonight we get to kind of go through the theoretical mathematics,
but then bridge that gap to some of the genomics and how this stuff's being applied today.
And like really kind of the difference that, you know, we talked about the calculator and the pen and paper sort of technique.
We're going to do that heavy on the first half and then on the back half,
we're going to talk about how, you know, you send it to a lab and the lab tells you whether or not something's there or those sorts of marker based analysis.
And it's good to know their methods. It's good to, you know, almost be able to, you know,
you don't have the same equipment, so you can't necessarily double check their work per se,
but you can tell if what they're giving you is kind of making sense, at least by having a foundation.
And then one of the things I kind of actually had written down from the last time we talked, speaking of math, I love math.
Music is math as well. Music has been my life. So, yes.
But I had a question here. It's like, how close to an algorithm for awesome weed are we with all that we know already just by doing the math?
Like, is there a algorithm for typing the fruity awesomeness? Are we getting there?
We're getting closer. Like, there's definitely, I wasn't able to pull it up just this evening, but you can see kind of the older maps,
like we talked about linkage maps before and linkage maps are kind of, if you were to have an algorithm,
you'd need a linkage map to know like this genes on this chromosome here, et cetera, et cetera,
and like build out the whole linkage map. And they've done this with like fruit flies and mice and model organisms.
They've mapped the entire genome of these things, not just through sequencing, but through traditional linkage map assemblies.
And yeah, and like it took decades of work to do this, but they did it.
And essentially you can see the early rudimentary steps that were happening about 20 years ago in the linkage maps.
And it was very sparse. And then you can see what's going on now.
And even some of the stuff now is pretty sparse, but it's getting more and more, you know,
they're filling out the chromosomes and finding where the different genes are and what their associations are.
So that a lot of the stuff that we're going to talk about in terms of quantitative inheritance and traits have been figured out through more advanced genomics.
And that's really, it's going to save decades in terms of the actual time and labor to figure this stuff out.
Okay. And that kind of makes me wonder because, you know, science does rapidly advance.
And sometimes where, you know, we're building models off of something this big and all of a sudden we understand the thing that's this big and it changes our perspective.
Does that come into play at all with plant genomics or do we pretty much have a good idea of what the actual building blocks are?
Yes and no. So epigenomics are still very much understudied and poorly understood in pretty much everything, but in cannabis in particular.
That's an area that a lot of people will point to, but really the bigger issues and what's coming online now are the transcriptome.
So you've got the genome and then you've got the transcriptome.
So the transcriptome is what essentially translates the genes into the different proteins that they end up becoming.
So this is like RNA and stuff like this.
I understand that.
Yeah. And like when we get into like terpene synthase genes, they will have a particular process that they do, but they share that same metabolic pathway and process with cannabinoids.
And so there's a lot of crossover here.
And on top of that, these same gene families are shared by almost every species.
So all the other plants that have terpenes have these families of genes called terpene synthase genes.
And so we're going to be able to go through and look at some of those, how they interact with each other and then how also they interact with cannabinoids.
It's one of those things where we understand that the transcriptome will make the cells do particular things.
And so it'll be like, hey, you're going to do CBD or you're going to do THC.
And both of those rely on the precursor, CBG.
So like every one of these is kind of like a molecular chain or link in a chain, so to speak.
And so the transcriptomes like complicates things.
Then there's metabolics, basically looking at all the ways that plants metabolize things.
There's proteomics.
Like there's a whole list of omics that are on top of genomics that are complicating the picture of things.
And we'll get to that at the very end.
In particular, there's a paper that I just read that talks about cannabinoid inheritance.
And it's wild.
Like it's so much more complicated than just genes or dominant recessive.
It's mitochondrial DNA, chloroplast DNA, all sorts of stuff going on.
That's nature being nature saying you might get close, but you're not going to figure us out.
But one thing you did mention, especially with the terpene synthase, and we did have a question on that on my Instagram.
And we get to that later.
You'll probably actually cover it by the looks of things.
But the big thing there I heard is other plants do create terpenes.
It's a universal almost location mode of action to create these.
So we don't have to wait for cannabis to be widely studied to fully understand this.
We can actually already get there just by using other plants at least.
Or get closer to an understanding.
Because again, there's always probably going to be some variable that might be different in there.
Yeah, no, totally.
That's something that if you read the papers, a lot of times when they're looking at and doing like early research into quantitative traits.
They'll rely on the same trait structure or the same trait in a different plant.
And so for terpene synthase genes, they were able to identify and locate a lot of them.
Because of their similarity and their shared structure with these other terpene synthase genes that are going on in other plants.
There's also a paper that's about the genetic mechanisms controlling flowering time.
And same thing where there's a set of genes that are associated with those traits.
And they've already completely mapped them out and know what they are in cotton, maize, rice, a whole bunch of other crops.
And so they've been able to find the same set of subfamily of genes in cannabis.
And it's helping them to elucidate the flowering time mechanisms.
Wow, and that's huge too.
And that has a big commercial application.
So that's something that I imagine is going to be looked into a lot further with R&D dollars from a lot of these big companies.
The faster they can bring in a harvest, the better they're doing.
So that is, you know, follow the money.
That's of interest.
So I'm sure that'll pop up at some point.
Totally.
And that's, it's really interesting.
And this is something that Kamara, he brought it up.
And if you look at the early research into cannabis, so much of it is determined by the research agendas of the different agencies or entities that are funding the research.
And all of them in the United States had to have DEA approval.
You've got the University of Mississippi and all the research.
And pretty much most chemotype information, the early studies establishing standardized protocols for doing GC and all the different chromatography, as well as a lot of the early genomic studies were really oriented towards a forensics end goal.
So it was all about fingerprinting strains, varieties, and identifying and disrupting drug trafficking networks.
Like that was the whole rationale for the research for probably the first 30, 40 years from like the 70s.
69 is when University of Mississippi started operating.
So from like 69 to the present.
And they grow some pretty bad cannabis down there in Mississippi.
But to your point to the fingerprinting, the kind of the practical application of that was, you know, let's say Joe Bob is just growing, you know, he's the original.
This is completely fictitious story.
People get sensitive sometimes.
But let's just say Joe Bob in the hills of, you know, Minnesota is even wilder, came up with the original sour D.
If he has the original cut, it has the original profile to it.
Now, if he were to be busted and they were to fingerprint his cannabis.
Well, when somebody gets busted with 20 pounds down in California and it has this exact same fingerprint, that was kind of the practical application of why they were interested.
So they did a little bit of our work for us, but it was for kind of jerky reasons, essentially.
Totally, totally. And because that research had already been done, a lot of that was some of the early commercial applications that you were seeing.
Like steep hill was like strain fingerprinting sort of thing where you could bring your your strain or your variety and they do the testing and then say, OK, it's got this chemical profile, which is its fingerprint sort of thing.
Which wasn't particularly successful, mostly because.
Like, you know, they were dealing with much different populations and sets of variables.
So, yeah, comparing like geographical land races that have diverged over many, many years and creating your data sets off of these and saying, like, because this is what Carlton Tucker did.
He was the drug czar under Reagan.
Yeah. He's doing research into him.
It's incredible how successful and dumb people can be sometimes.
The things he said were just mind boggling.
He claimed that smoking marijuana increased your propensity for homosexuality.
And that's kind of been characterized for why he lost his job.
OK, yeah.
I totally remember quotes like that and people like that.
Another one that comes to my mind was it was after Washington and Colorado went.
But Utah was thinking of medical and there was a sheriff.
They were doing this bust out in the woods and they were talking about these stoned rabbits.
And these rabbits had lost fear of humans because they were still trying to come around and eat the leaves while they were destroying it.
And it was going to be an ecological disaster.
And it's still like searchable and findable on the YouTube on YouTube.
But yeah, it's how can it's like how can you say these things with a straight face?
Don't you have like didn't you go to college, man?
But yeah, yeah, I get your point.
But Reagan really was when the drug war kicked in for a lot of people.
So this person was highly effective at their job.
Oh, fully. And like he saw himself as like.
He was an evangelist for the drug war.
And yeah, so it's interesting going through that history.
You know, because he was like he was one of the people who advocated spraying paraquat on cannabis in Mexico and argued that the health effects, the known health effects of paraquat consumption were less harmful than the scaremongering he was doing about the health effects for cannabis.
So he's a wild, wild figure.
And there's a whole host of other folks that continue.
There's like New Haven, Connecticut has a whole research department dedicated to it.
There's a very interesting story.
The history of academic research in cannabis.
And I feel like it was a really shitty story until about like the last 10 years.
And in the last 10 years, it's been really it's not just people who were doing it because they had government jobs and were being paid to essentially like perform a task, which was usually in furtherance of prohibition.
It's people who actually care about the plant and are interested in doing the research and developing it for our sort of uses.
And growing it proper to, you know, again, you mentioned Mississippi University there.
And what they're growing isn't even like street level cannabis, you know, consumer level cannabis.
It's, you know, you can't it's like comparing apples and oranges almost from what I've seen there.
And how I've originally understood it, too, is, you know, a lot of these studies were done by NIDA, the National Institute of Drug Agency or something to that effect.
But NIDA was really only interesting in funding things that were looking for a negative.
They weren't going after any positives.
They didn't want to hear the positive.
So a lot of the research, kind of like you're saying, is skewed into the genomics kind of breeder level, probably not undertaken in a serious like cultivation manner.
More, as you said, in a law enforcement manner.
I find it I find it completely fascinating.
Well, all this stuff's fascinating.
But you mentioned that, you know, like flower time, flowering time was located.
And that's kind of universal. Terpene synthase is kind of universal.
And we're able to study those in other plants.
And I'm not into, you know, the GMO aspect of things, although I know we're going to see it and I know it's going to create better cannabis.
But there's things, you know, like we put salmon genes into fruits to preserve color.
The one thing I always say about like cannabis and the benefit of studying it like this is we might find something, even if you're completely against cannabis, we might learn something through studying cannabis that is going to affect you.
And you can go derive your pill form of that.
And that's fine. And a good example is the endocannabinoid system.
We didn't know about this a long time ago and we really kind of found it through cannabis research.
But it seems to control a lot of things in the body.
So even if somebody is anti cannabis, I still think they need to support the study of it.
And that's, I don't know, a long way of kind of agreeing with you.
But, you know, we never know what we're going to find and we need to we need to dive deeper.
So I appreciate you indulging me on that little rant there.
But that's let's see here. GMO will improve. How do I think GMO will improve cannabis?
I see that one pop up and I'll just touch that real quick.
The IPM being able to grow it in certain areas, there's there's a lot of things you can do to a plant.
And I just I'm not rooting for it, but I see where it makes sense for certain applications.
And I'm probably just digging myself a hole here.
But I saw that pop up in chat and I just wanted to address it because I put it out there.
Yes, you know, we probably will see it. And yes, it probably will make some awesome stuff.
But I'm going to go for SunGrowth mids, packs and continue to grow that stuff.
Because I know, you know, your business.
Thanks. Yeah, no, I I'm not like, yeah, I've been very anti GMO.
I've been very anti CRISPR. I think those things are inevitably going to happen.
The money, it has to.
Sorry, sorry to interrupt, but it's, you know, again, I hate to be that that devil's advocate,
but it is going to be an industry. It is going to be business and it is going to be about money.
Doesn't mean it has to be for us. And that doesn't mean it has to be for everybody.
We have a good community. I think we're going to be fine.
I think we're going to be better because of it.
But to deny that something like that's coming.
Sorry, sorry to interrupt you there.
I get emotional.
I fully agree that it's going to happen.
And there are going to be people who will argue and debate over whether or not it's a good, like, specific application.
And then there's just going to be people who are like.
Flat out, no.
Immediately. No.
So I understand.
I understand exactly. I get I fully understand that.
I think that there's a lot of cautionary tales there.
There's a lot of reasons for hesitancy and skepticism.
It's a market strategy that will be deployed by people who are operating in the cannabis space in a way that gives zero fucks about what we care.
So, you know, it's going to happen.
I think that it remains to be seen whether or not like just because I remain skeptical just because of the roundup ready sort of scenario where like.
By and large.
I mean, OK, I grew up as a kid in like the 90s and the alternative globalization or anti globalization movement like the WTO and had all these posters from there of like that rally that were anti GMO.
Like that was one of the main talking points that was going on in that time period.
And.
We were told how it was going to revolutionize things and it was going to make these great results.
We haven't really seen that.
We've seen roundup ready crops adopted and that's, you know, increased pesticide applications.
But that hasn't really done all that much in terms of overall yield improvement.
It's certainly not like butane and like traditional breeding or bullying.
Sorry.
With his with the breeding of the dwarf wheat varieties that then basically created the Green Revolution.
Like those definitely had some negative consequences and side effects in terms of intensive agricultural sort of processes being exported all over the world.
It also had massive yield increases that have helped feed millions of people around the world.
So like both of those two things are true.
That isn't you know, we haven't seen those similar trend lines with GMOs relative to yields and trade inheritance gains necessarily.
But the one area it has been applicable and we can get off the GMO topic.
When when I went to UC Davis, like they start the discussion when you talk about resistance breeding at GMOs at this point, because in so many crops there have been just, you know, massive.
Like.
Complete wipeout of crops is been either predicted or imminent from different pathogens, and then they've done some sort of like papayas, an example, bananas are an example.
Yeah, oranges are an example.
So like these are instances where essentially to address catastrophic crop failure, they introduced GMO crops supposedly to like address that issue specifically.
And there just wasn't another solution.
And so they would literally pose the question.
And like these guys were true believers on GMO.
They were like, you know, like talking evangelically about how like, well, this is going to get people to buy into the shit.
So no, that that level.
Yeah, yeah.
And but the thing was, was like, do you want your morning to start with orange juice or not?
Was like essentially how they felt GMO technology was going to be normalized because Americans want bananas, they want orange juice, they want things like staple foods.
And if crop failure or GMO is kind of the dichotomy they're presented with, they'll choose that.
But we're not at a point where we bottleneck the germ plasm so much.
And we haven't even really even scratched the surface or begun to investigate this specific area of resistance traits.
Like there's there's a little bit, but not much.
Yeah, like we're not there yet.
And so we're like having these discussions with them.
And we're like, yeah, but what do you do before you get there?
Right.
It'll be interesting to see if they come back to kind of revisit that issue, just kind of like banana collapse.
That was one that I was kind of a little familiar with.
But instead of just, you know, banding, banding it with this with a GMO fix, if you could actually go back and breed for it.
And, you know, it's a long route.
Again, it's almost kind of like a cannabis breeder stabilizing a line versus making an F1 and putting it on Instagram.
So, yeah, exactly.
That's I think, you know, somebody mentioned hearing professors talking about the same approach in the same way.
And I think like a lot of it has to do with like it's in fashion.
It's high tech.
It's it's something that's cutting edge in the field that makes you relevant.
Whereas like going back and just like hunkering down and trying to improve resistance through traditional breeding methods is like it's not only labor and time consuming.
It's just not like it's not sexy.
Yeah. Yeah.
And I didn't fully appreciate that fact until I was in the in the in my school program with WSU.
They were it's it's at market now.
But the Cosmic Crisp apples were finishing up field trials for that.
And talking with one of the professors, Gary Molden, you know, we had all the seeds.
I'm like, so, you know, I try to approach him like, you know, you ever like plant seeds and like, what do you get?
Look for like different phenotypes.
And he just looked at me like, that's not how we do it.
And I understand now.
But, yeah, I understand why to kind of to your point.
It takes a long time.
It takes a long time to do that.
That project was really impressive.
And that's something that is a really good model.
Now, granted, apple breeding is a whole different beast than cannabis breeding.
But that was like a farmer driven sort of operation where it was a.
I read a little bit about it being like a participatory breeding program where the farmers and the professors work together to develop an agronomically superior apple.
And supposedly it's called this.
But I haven't had it.
It's it's it's good.
It's in the market.
I think it was exclusive to like Washington for a year.
But also the back end of that entire experiment, how they licensed the apple and they control the distribution is a study in itself.
So that's that's fascinating.
And again, that can relate back to cannabis in a way if you if you want it to.
But that's off off of our beaten path for this evening.
So, yeah, Cosmos Crisp, though.
So, yeah, I know we got I know I'll keep my eye on chat.
So chat, if you guys have some questions, definitely get them in and I'll try to get some up towards the end of the presentation here.
But if you caught our first round, you know that we've got some awesome information.
And I just want to thank Trevor ahead of time again for putting time into building these presentations.
I'm sure you guys all know I can appreciate it.
But, you know, making making these things do take time.
You got to compile.
And I assume you're like me.
It's like accuracy is important to the point to where you beat yourself up to make sure like every line and every sentence is as accurate as you can possibly verify.
So I do appreciate the time you've put into them.
And I'm looking forward to what we've got for this evening as well.
Yeah, this one's a lot more copying and paste.
So hopefully hopefully my professors and all my sources are on their game.
You got to hang out with a good crowd.
Yeah, don't don't.
Yeah, you got to know who to copy paste.
Yeah, exactly.
So, yeah, I will click into the presentation.
And like I said, feel free to interrupt me.
And if you know, Jack, I can't really see you when I'm doing this.
But like, yeah.
Yeah, I got you.
I got you.
And I guess one question before while you are launching this that kind of came up is a lot of these.
So a lot of these models that we're looking at.
How how true does it hold to like the polyhybrid and then like the inbred line are the rules or the is the math kind of the same?
Or is there an assumption with this that we're starting with a true breeding or an inbred line?
I'll try to where that's relevant.
I'll try to talk about that.
I actually left out the little subsection on covariance and really see Walright's ideas about being breeding coefficient.
Mostly because.
It's theoretically, it's incredible.
It's a very awesome idea.
It's not necessarily like it's a theoretical abstraction.
It's not necessarily a.
An accurate depiction of a population.
So there's that.
And the other reason I left it out is just because we cover a lot of math.
But beyond that, I will say, yes, there's a difference.
It creates a totally different dynamic than if you have an inbred population.
I think.
Yeah, I'm not to the extent that, like I said.
If I if it comes up in the discussion, I will.
I'll get into it specifically, but I will say that the main thing with an inbred.
And this is something that I forgot to mention last time is that a.
The reason for inbreeding and Allard.
It was in the slide where I talked about some of the ideas that Robert Allard talks about.
And he talks about pre potency and pre potency is when you increase homozygous.
Do you have a particular allele for whatever trait?
So essentially, when you're inbreeding, what you're doing is you're increasing the rate of homozygosity by 50 percent every generation.
So so half of you're going to get half of them to be a homozygous.
Quote unquote dominant or a homozygous quote unquote recessive.
And then 50 percent of the population will still be.
Excuse me. It's twenty five, twenty five.
That's how it breaks down. So it's a one to one breakdown.
Each time you sell and you do this, you're going to increase the overall inbreeding coefficient by 50 percent.
So it goes from 50 percent in the first generation when you have a hybrid to then being a 75 percent in the next generation, 80 something in the next 90 something in the next.
So on and so forth. That's the basic principle on the inbreeding coefficient.
Once you reach homozygosity, what you've done is you've reduced the amount of variation that you're going to transmit from one generation to the next, because at that particular allele, the plant can only pass on one possible.
Yeah. One possible allele or zygote.
So does that answer the inbreeding question?
Yes. Yeah, it does. And just the reason why I asked and brought that up is just, again, for some more of just like practical application.
I know a lot of people today when they're, you know, putting two of their favorite cultivars together, they might not be starting with something that's been inbred to the point to where it's getting multiple pure lines out of it.
There's still still kind of the variety. So I always like to ask where that fits into the relationship.
And, you know, I appreciate, like you said, you'll kind of mention it when it applies. But I'm always always trying to get that find that practical application aspect.
Yeah. And like, I mean, we have a really interesting. So the population's been skewed intensely because we bred it for particular traits over time.
So it's out of equilibrium, but it's also incredibly heterozygous because it's such a poly it's one and out crossing species. So it starts with a high level of heterozygosity.
But then when we just poly hybridized things for 30, 40 years, all we're doing is increasing that heterozygosity within the population by adding something into the mix instead of breeding down.
And the few people that have kind of done that that work breeding down. DJ Short gets mentioned.
David Watson or Skunkman Sam, different people who have done other folks more recently, like Tony, Tony Greens. He's done a lot of back cross work going pretty deep.
But most people are just doing a combination of different assorted breeding. And it's all based off of phenotypic selection. And what's the new the new thing that gets introduced every year?
Right. Right. Okay. Awesome. Thank you for that.
Um, so yeah. And again, I can't really see things. I don't know if you guys can see things is the presentation.
We don't have the presentation yet. No. So if you go to let's see if you go to share screen, I believe.
Oh, right. And then while we're doing that, I'm just gonna put up a super fun flyer for tonight. Boom.
It's like we're hanging out with Charlie Sheen. So Charlie, how you doing? I love your breakdown. Very public. Very epic.
Winning. Still using that word. Sure. The kids know what that one means. I mean, what was she doing with a shrimp fork in her purse anyways? I don't know.
Something about tiger's blood and Adonis DNA in there. But let's see here. Okay. So you've got your presentation there.
And if you go full screen, I will add it to the stream here and get rid of our awesome flyer for the night.
And then there we go. We got you up and I will make that a full screen. So you're good to go, sir. Thank you.
Yes. And I have also a second. So I can see that. Cool. So quick review. This is what we went over last time.
We talked about Mendel's simple inheritance. We talked about Wilhelm Johansson's pure line theory, genotypes, phenotypes.
He's also the person who came up with the idea of the genotype environment interaction.
We talked about quantitative traits and the individuals who confirmed that, that should say confirmed, not conformed,
confirmed that Mendelian inheritance.
Quantitative traits conform to Mendelian inheritance.
Nielsen L did it looking at wheat, the color in wheat and E.M. East looked at the length of tobacco flowers.
Then we looked at heterosis and transgressive segregation. We talked about chromosome theory and linkage maps.
Then population genetics and the different theoretical mathematics that really kind of are going to be the focus of a lot of what we talked about today.
Then we talked about plant reproduction and different breeding methods. So that was last time. You missed it. You can go back and watch it. There's also
You can hit me up for a folder. I have the presentation and all the different source material that I used last time.
This is a slide from last time's presentation. It talks about qualitative versus quantitative traits and this kind of demonstrates the difference between simple inheritance that Mendel looked at on the left side over here.
Versus what we're going to be looking at over here, quantitative traits. So quantitative traits are controlled by the interaction of multiple genes, each with a small effect on the overall trade expression.
The quantitative trait exhibits continuous variation within a population. So if you look at height and people or
terpene
content in cannabis or cannabinoid content in cannabis. Those are all they show continuous variation throughout the population.
This is associated with the idea of additive and non additive variants. So additive variants, instead of thinking about things in terms of dominant recessive, even though there can be a dominance effect at the allelic level.
When you're dealing with quantitative traits, you have a whole bunch of genes and each one of those genes can be either homozygous or heterozygous or whatever particular allele.
Each of those is inherited individually and all of them combined to then demonstrate to create the expression of the trait and all of those genes then have interactions that with their environment. So each one of those interactions creates the possibility of added variants.
They also create the possibility for additional genetic variants. This can be through the dominance effect or through just an additional allele for a trait or in cannabis. There's this thing called copy number variants.
There are a lot of copy number variants for cannabinoid synthase in cannabis. So the genes that control the expression of particular cannabinoids, particularly THC, have a lot of different copy number variants, which means there's just duplications of these genes.
So that's additive variants. Non additive variants within a population is this idea of epistasis. And epistasis is the idea that different alleles, even though they may be the same, can have an effect just through their interaction with each other.
It's a complicated subset of quantitative inheritance.
I'm playing around here with the screens. I'm sorry. By chance, sorry to interrupt you. Do you have headphones or anything that you can plug in there? I'm starting to get a little bit of a feedback. It's not your cell phone. The cell phone's muted.
Let me go just a minute.
Sorry to interrupt you there.
Let me go find a set of headphones.
Cool. Yeah, no problem. Well, gosh, that's horrible. Okay, there we go. As you can see, I'm moving my room around, guys. I'm getting some new tents. I'm getting some new gear. So I have one of those grower problems of where do I put things now? And I'm playing that shift around the room. But nobody cares. I'm sorry, guys. I just went off on that.
This is fun. I've had the pleasure of looking over what we're going to be going through tonight, and I've taken my own notes. So definitely a lot of note taking is going to be going on. I did see some questions in here. Elka, I saw you throw one up there. Thanks for joining us. And we're going to get to that one a little bit later. Also, there was right below it. Oh, gosh, a question about fem seeds. Where did we go? Okay, there's your bottlenecking.
Gary Garten, is it possible for a fem seed grown plant to throw out bananas and flour if excessive nitrogen is fed? I will say absolutely yes. Feeding can be a stressor. And that is something that can just push a plant over the edge. So as far as stress, yes, we definitely can. And Jeff, my man, thank you for caring. I see that there. I appreciate you.
All right, sun grown mids is coming back to save me because I can talk about some of this stuff. But no, we've got Trevor here to do that tonight.
So let's see here. Almost coming back. There we go. I'll put this up. I feel less self-conscious there. Getting back to the quantitative genetics.
My lady is not down with another tent. I'm sorry, Jeremy. Yep, I hear you. I'm, you know, it's one of those things as long as it stays in here, then it's not her problem. But when everything starts spilling in the hallway, it will be. Okay, we've got we've got you back with us here. So cool. I will throw up the presentation.
Can you hear me? All right. Is everything sounding good to you?
I can. Can you mute my computer?
Let's see. I just tried to. Yep. Okay. You're muted now. So I muted the computer. And you're going for that. So let's see to not get a big feedback loop. I'm going to do that. And let's see here. Heather Wright says what's in your tent right now.
I am finishing up. I've got one of the Westport's grape juices in there. I've got a couple of freak shows in there. Got Burmese Kush, which is the first time running it. Strawberry banana smoothie. First time running it. And a diesel glue. First time running that one as well. So that is what's in the tent right now. I'm getting excited. Those are about to come down.
Burmese Kush made the cut. I cloned that one. It's looking great. And it looks like it has some potential. So that one got cloned. Westport grape juice. Obviously, that's where we're running that one hard. So that's sticking up too. But the other ones, I have more seeds. I'm just kind of burning through seeds right now to find something that I might want to work with later.
Alright, we've got you back. You've got your phone unmuted there. So yeah, you should be good to go now.
Let's see here. Not hearing you yet. It looks like it's unmuted from that end.
Let's see. This is a future cannabis project. We do it live. Every time. Let's see here. I can't hear you over the phone one, even though it looks like the icon's unmuted, which is kind of interesting.
Let's see. The computer's muted. That one should be picking it up.
T. Barrington asking, is he on Bluetooth? I don't know.
Yes, Ian, you are just in time for the tech difficulties. I remember a conversation a long time ago when I first started doing some of these shows. I remember a comment. Somebody just typed in chat. It's like, I don't tune in for the information. I just tune in to watch you guys go. Can you hear me now? Can you hear me now? Can you hear me now? And we've gotten a lot better since then. That's just in general. We've got the Savior himself.
Give me a second.
How about if I just kill the phone?
Yeah.
What are you guys trying to do?
We were just having a very small feedback issue. It wasn't having two microphones on. It was just I felt like I was getting a little feedback from his microphone. We were just trying to work around that.
I think I just killed the mic on the other one. We're good?
Yeah, we're good now. We're good.
I'm in screen share, I think.
Yep, you're back in screen. You're in full mood. Okay, I put you up. We've got the full presentation on the screen now.
Okay, cool. Yeah, I can't see anything. If anything comes up, Chad, interrupt me, feel free.
Yeah, all that good stuff.
As opposed to qualitative traits, which are typically determined by a present absence sort of breakdown or dichotomy.
So selection. Basic goal is to develop elite genotypes with an outcross population. That'd be cannabis, typically speaking.
This is done by increasing the frequency of a favorable alleles, which is selecting on additive.
This is oftentimes represented by an A in a lot of the different sort of mathematic representations that they do, because a lot of times they'll talk about A plus like, very additive variance plus interaction would be like additive A plus B.
And like their equations for determining or estimating those effects.
In a large population, continual improvement or response to selection is expected over a number of generations.
With inbred populations. Now, this also can apply to cannabis, but this doesn't apply to most of what we're talking about in terms of cannabis.
Very few inbred populations exist in the types of cannabis that people are breeding with.
So if you were to, however, start with an inbreeding population, you would be looking to generate inbred lines to cross these to develop elite lines for breeding purposes.
This is what was done for like heterosis or corn breeding.
Here you're selecting on the genotypic values. And this is more of the additive and the interaction.
So you've already established that there's an inbred genotype.
There's very little variation within the population.
So when you're making your cross, you're looking at both the interactions and the additive variance that you're bringing to it.
So epistasis is more important when dealing with inbred lines.
Further progress depends upon generating new variation through additional crosses.
So this is why in a lot of traditional breeding, they've already inbred their lines or in traditional crops.
I mean to say they've already bred a lot of their lines to inbred lines.
And now they're just looking for new variations that they can add or introgress into their population to increase some sort of agronomic or economically valuable trade.
We're not really typically at that stage in cannabis.
So outcross populations.
Improvement in an outcross population is, this is why animal breeding is a good source of information.
Neville was a big proponent of looking at pedigree charts and looking at the different methods that animal breeders have used.
Chimera has brought up the point that with cannabis, we're dealing with an obligate outcrossing species.
And so when you're dealing with that type of breeding structure, it's much more akin to what's going on for animals.
And we talked about a little bit about this last week.
So recurrent selection is typically the method that's been used.
And in cannabis, we've used recurrent selection for traits like shortened flowering time, increased yield.
And THC, particularly, but also CBD.
Other breeding programs have been more oriented towards CBD or limiting THC.
But by and large, in the quote unquote drug market or drug cannabis, we've been breeding for high THC.
And we'll look at some of those numbers later.
So within generation change, the increase in trait mean among the selected individuals.
So this has to do with the breeders equation.
We'll get into the specifics and there's some good charts and diagrams that kind of break this down.
But essentially, the selected individuals are the portion of the population that you're choosing to breed with and have reproduce.
They're going to ideally have a higher mean than the general population as a whole for whatever the trait is.
So if we're constantly selecting for a subset of a population that are high THC individuals and their mean is in the upper percentile, up in the, you know, was the 10s, the teens, the 20s, the 30s.
That process was a process of continually selecting up in that upper gradient threshold and not selecting just in the overall population.
And within generation change refers to that mean difference.
This is, well, this can be translated into generational change.
And I just kind of explained that in terms of the gains that have been demonstrated over the decades in THC numbers.
Individuals are chosen on the basis of their phenotypic value.
So mass selection.
This is largely what we've done.
Performance of their offspring.
So this is progeny testing.
If you go and you read Neville's work on or read Neville's post about his work on, well, I've posted almost all of them in my stories.
But I'd encourage people to go on to the Mr. Nice forum and read all of Neville's old posts.
He goes in depth about progeny testing and how you can use pedigree charts and things like this as a way of really doing your selection and improving your traits.
Another way of evaluating this is sibs or family based selection.
So you can grow out a population and grow out multiple different half sibs or related plants and see the variance within them.
And through that, you can do regressions and kind of approximate.
This is a lower salience way of determining the heritability and trait performance in a population.
But it is a way that is used.
And the idea is to use information to obtain estimates for the breeding values of individuals.
So this is just explained the breeders equation and we'll get into that.
So here's the basic model.
You've got your phenotypic value and a lot of the equations it's represented as the.
And so phenotype equals genotypic value plus the environment.
So a genotype interacts with its environment for a qualitative or quantitative trait.
There's far much more of this interaction going on because there are more of these genes controlling these phenotypes.
This is why in terms of traits when doing analysis for and estimating heritability for quantitative traits, you really have to try and control for the amount of alternate variability.
So there's variability from the environment.
That variability, by and large, the vast majority of it, aside from some poorly understood epigenetic portions, is not inherited.
This is what's inherited.
And you have to discern this portion of the equation to be able to select and breed and improve your breeders equation for the particular traits that you're selecting.
So this slide gives us a good demonstration of this idea.
You've got variance in your phenotype,
which is the result of variance in your environment and variance in your genotype,
plus the variance in the genotype environment interactions, which is explained down here.
Variance in genotype environment is a genotype by environment interaction, reflecting the fact that genotypes may respond in different ways to changes in environment.
So this is why it's important to grow out your varieties in multiple different environments.
There's a paper later on that we'll look at.
And we've talked a little bit about by Anne-Michelle Faux.
And she talks about growing out minocious cannabis in different environments and scoring the male flower trade expression from, I think, like a one to six.
And the point being is that in the different trials that she ran, the expression was different.
And that difference was very much a result of this genotype environment interaction that was going on.
The goals of quantitative genetics are to partition the total trait variation into the genetic portion.
So this is the heritable portion.
Versus environmental components. Environmental components, largely speaking, are not heritable.
Part of it's about predicting resemblance between relatives.
We're not going to address a lot of that. That's more of the inbreeding covariance.
Seawall rights work is really where you want to look if you're interested in this.
This will give you your inbreeding coefficient and theoretical odds of particular breeding programs.
The other goals are to find the underlying loci contributing to genetic variation or quantitative trait loci.
This is really where we're at now and where a lot of the sciences will be looking at a bunch of different papers that have looked at different quantitative trait loci for flowering time, for sex determination and different secondary metabolites.
Deduce the molecular basis for genetic trait variation. That's where a lot of the genetic marker work is going on right now.
And then figure out the expression loci. So this right here is a lot of this stuff is looking at the transcriptome and things like that right now.
And the different ways that the transcriptome can modulate these traits.
This is really just a representation. The main point of this slide is to show here's how three genes distribute in a continuous variation.
Here's how four genes can distribute into continuous variation. And this is how it would plot.
Here we have a bell curve. This bell curve, I think it's typically called the Gaussian distribution.
Each one of these bars represents a standard deviation from the mean. So here's your mean of the population.
And each one of these out in each direction represents a standard one single standard deviation from the mean.
This is also known as a single Haldane. We talked about JVS Haldane last week.
This was one of his ideas or he helped develop the math for it. So he gets the naming credit.
So that's a introduction to quantitative traits. We've gone over the basic intro there.
Now the Breeders' Equation and Chad, feel free to chime in.
Oh yeah. I'm here still.
We're just listening. And one thing you know too on the last one on the last slide, you're talking about Loki.
And Loki is basically, this is within the DNA. It's in the genome.
Do the alleles sit in the Loki? Or how does that? I'm just trying to paint pictures for people.
When we're talking about this Loki, where is that in the plant or in the DNA type? What are we looking at there?
So these two A's would be there, so to speak. And then this would be another Loki right here, the two B's.
So each Loki has two alleles. And that's, so yeah, the Loki have multiple alleles.
And the alleles represent the different Loki that would then be inherited independently.
And the alleles are going to be the things that are controlling different traits, such as whether you're going to be purple or whether you're going to be CBD dominant or whether you're going to be, that's kind of where that happens is the allele level?
Yes.
Okay. So the alleles, which are turning on or turning off certain traits, granted, that's a glossing over of everything.
But those are sitting on the Loki and the Loki are what we're looking at here. And then the numbers across the bottom are the distribution.
You said the top one has three different traits or three gene pairs and the bottom has four. Is the number along the bottom, just the combinations?
Yeah. This is the phenotypic distribution that you get as a result of this genetic pairing.
So this right here corresponds to Nielsen-Ellsworth with wheat color distribution.
So when he crossed wheat, he found that three genes were controlling the expression of the color of the kernels of the grain.
And this was the phenotypic distribution that he saw in the population.
And so when you see a phenotype breakdown like this, you're dealing with continuous variation throughout the population that's controlled by three genes in this instance.
When you've got four genes controlling an individual trait, then you would see a distribution more like this in the population.
And again, it's continuous, but you're dealing with more genes in a larger subset to give a full representation of the accurate distribution.
Okay. And that's good too. It expands on, you know, last time I kind of learned a little bit more about phenotype.
It's more than just genotype expressions. It's really as on the last slide, you said it's genotype plus the environment.
And the environment doesn't necessarily add things or subtract things, but it turns up or turns down that genotype expression to get the phenotypical expression.
And then you just added another layer onto that with environmental interactions.
You know, how does it handle? Okay. All of a sudden it fell to 30 degrees.
Well, what is that genotype going to do with that environmental input and express as a phenotype?
And I'm hopefully learning as we go along here.
Yeah, no, totally. And the difference between what will happen for some sort of like Siberian auto flower or Alaskan auto flower,
something that's been acclimatized to a cold environment and has adapted to it to compared to what will happen to something that's just been in the tropics.
But in those environments, you know, like that sort of genotype environment interaction is going to be drastically different between those two different genotypes put into those two different environments.
And then if you take either one of them out of their adapted environment, you're going to see a wide range of interactions that are not just genetic interactions or genetic expressions, but are instead the way that those genes express in the environment.
Cool. Right on. All right. Thanks for clarifying that one for me.
Yeah. So, yeah, the Breeder's Equation. This is really, you know, I like to joke. Are you really a breeder if you don't have the Breeder's Equation?
Don't ask that.
Yeah, that's taboo.
But, uh, so, yeah, in the Breeder's Equation, this is the most simple representation of it.
It gets way more complicated and it's intense. But simply put, what we're dealing with is response equals heritability times selection.
So this represents roughly what's going on here in the Breeder's Equation. So you've got your population mean. That's represented by this U.
Like I said, I didn't take statistics. I don't know the math name for the U.
But you've got your mean here.
In your bell curve population.
Then you've got over here. This is the mean on your threshold for your selection. So this is the subset of the population that you're selecting for over here.
You're not selecting all of this portion of the population. You're selecting 5 to 10% of the population. There are higher, lower thresholds, depending on the trait.
Then,
In addition to that, it helps to go well.
Here I'll go to this really, this is the better slide for showing the full thing. So in the last slide we had, here's your
In this case, random mating population. So here we've got a random mating population that's not inbred. You've got a continuous distribution of your trait.
This is your mean. Your selection threshold is here.
In the next generation, what you're going to do is you're going to do the same analysis to try and analyze your phenotypic distribution in the population.
And you're going to figure out the mean of this population.
The amount at which it's increased for the trait that you're selecting is the response to selection.
So, and that is an effect of heritability and the intensity of your selection. So your
intensity of selection and the heritability of your trait will determine the rate of the gain that you get from one generation to the next in terms of mean population phenotype expression. Does that all make sense?
Yeah, it's funny. You should see me right now. I'm holding up like fingers. I'm like, okay, so
intense selection, meaning I've got a whole bunch out there and I'm going through there and picking it. And then the variability or heritability is the ones that I want. So I'm thinking those. Okay, so if things will be better, if I do a tight selection only for the things that I'm wanting, because in the future offspring, it's more likely to pass the test.
Yeah, a little caveat there is that the selection is the amount of the population. So if you're going to select a population, you're going to have to have a population that's going to be a little bit more than the population that you're going to select.
Okay. So it's...
Okay.
Okay.
Okay. And so yeah, being super selective.
Yeah. And so the increase that you have in the population in the next generation is the heritability of the trait.
And the increase meaning more 30% or above THC in the next population?
It wouldn't because of regression. It wouldn't be by choosing these extreme phenotypes, we're not necessarily going to exceed the extreme threshold we've already established. There will most likely be a regression to the mean. And, but as long as there's an increase relative to the mean to the previous generation, you've experienced some gain.
Okay, so that makes sense. Like we might not get all 30%, but if the previous generation, the mean was 15, and now all of a sudden, this new generation after the intense selection of only 30%, if the new mean jumps to 17%, well, that's a 2% increase from the previous generation.
Totally. Totally. Exactly. That's...
Oh, yeah. Awesome.
If we were to say like, this is 10%, or like 30% THC, and like, maybe this is down 20 or something, or high teens. This distribution here, when you look at this, like you're getting pretty close, you're up in the high 20s for your mean in the next generation.
So in theoretically, just looking at this, it would have been, your response to selection would have been very good for the particular trait, which means you have a highly heritable trait.
So the concept of heritability is really, there are ways of estimating it. It's a little bit complicated, but it's the fraction of phenotypic variance due to additive genetic value.
This is, heritability is additive variance divided by phenotypic variance. That's narrow sense heritability. This is what we're dealing with, typically, without crossing species.
Then, so phenotypes can be measured directly, breeding values can't. So this is kind of what we're talking about there. In theory, if we had the ability to select the one plant here with the absolute best breeding value, and transmit its genetics into the next generation, we would significantly increase this mean every generation.
Much more so than just using this method of selecting the mean amongst the best.
So broad sense heritability, this is what applies more to inbred or inbreeding crops and goes over narrow sense a second time.
But broad sense heritability applies when you're selecting among pure lines.
Here you're dealing with genotypic variance and divided by the variance in the phenotype.
You know your genotypic values much more in an inbred line. So this is a known quantity, much more so than it is over here where you're dealing with open pollination or random populations.
Here's how you would actually, this is how you calculate your heritability for a particular trait.
You calculate the average phenotype of two parents, calculate the average phenotype of their offspring, then you graph these points across a set of parents and their offspring.
So you're doing a regression analysis and looking for the correlation in between these.
This is zero heritability. If your plot ends up looking like this, the trait just simply is not heritable.
Here you've got a 0.5 heritability. Even though it's not great, we'll see that's actually a pretty good heritability and very
significant gains can be accomplished with a 0.5 heritability.
And then this is perfect heritability. It's a one to one and there is no real, the phenotype and the genotype match up.
And then the obvious correlation there that I see just, I mean, looking at the graphs, all the dots on the one with heritability, they're all right on the line.
Whereas the one at the top was zero, you know, that's the most spread out of the graphs there.
So can that almost be related back to like inbred line would be on the bottom chart because everything in that falls similar or close to each other.
Whereas like the polyhybrid cookies would be the top chart because there's so many possibilities as far as what comes out.
Or is that a fair relation, a loose relation?
It is. It's a little bit different just because we're dealing with individual dynamics within those.
Like that's true talking about the overall like the polymorphism or the heterozygosity in the population.
Heritability is a little bit different just because it's dealing with the transmission of the particular trait over a generation.
And one of the things that's like, you know, you can have a trait that like transmits 100% from one generation to the next, but the heritability is zero because it's a fixed trait.
It's an inbred line. Like you're not getting any gain. You're not changing anything. You're not. It's just it is what it is.
But it's totally here. Like that's one of the paradoxes because this is a regression analysis between generations as opposed to an analysis of a individual, so to speak.
Okay. Yeah. Population versus singular.
Yeah. Yeah.
So, I think there actually is a sorry, earlier we had somebody, let's see, shredder0911 was talking about statistics and being able to assign numeric values to each trait that everybody agrees upon, you know, again, kind of setting that standards.
And just kind of reference like stem rub, you know, his number may not match what our numbers is, but you do have kind of a few charts in here or something that at least looks to seek to establish some sort of framework for that.
Yeah, we'll get into some of that later. There was a really interesting paper that was recently published. The name of the author escapes me, but they did an analysis of morphological traits throughout vegetative growth and essentially created a predictive equation for, and obviously a standardized method of assessing the number of traits.
And a standardized method of evaluating these traits so that you could do this predictive method.
But essentially, this right here, fuck, I know what it is. It's this paper.
The characterization of key physiological traits of medicinal cannabis as a tool for precision breeding by Name, Feel, sorry if I butchered their name at all in 2021. So this paper is very interesting.
They actually were able to determine the heritability of particular traits. And obviously they had to do that by standard standardization. You can't just, you know,
I would not end up with the same results if I didn't use the same standardized methods of evaluating the traits that they used. And so that's why it is very important for us to
one, establish what these standards are and to normalize them across different research modalities. And, you know, to the extent that we who aren't necessarily in like academia or doing these research papers can adopt or develop these methods, or we as a community can at least come to our own shared version of them.
Yeah, that would be very helpful.
Fair enough.
Yeah. But yeah, I'm not sure if my stem rub numbers are the same.
Yeah.
But so this right here. This gives a demonstration of the heritability of particular traits, some of which are very important like dry bud weight is a hair has a heritability of point three three, which is actually a relatively high heritability.
This right here shows
different thresholds like in here, it's still
heritability is still high enough that you have a high probability of being able to select to accurately select for the trait that you're selecting for just the traditional methods.
And now is this like a 0.2 chance out of 100, you're going to get the same thing.
Oh, because that seems like that would seem like a really low number to me.
No, no, no, no. So that's not. Yeah, that's not how this is represented. No. So what's going on here is that this right here is so you've got a point 33% like the fractions here are one is the total. So heritability of
here
is one. So if this was one, you would have bud weight 100% heritable just fucking wonkers.
Okay.
So having a heritability of 33 that's a third heritability, like that's a good fraction there.
That puts you in this range of heritability, which makes it so you can do selection without needing like if you're down in this range for heritability.
Well, I should say this range.
This is the range where you're doing populations that are fucking enormous.
And ideally, you're going to be using molecular genomics to identify the trait and screen the population for the traits so that you don't miss it.
Because you could there are definitely instances with very low frequency and very low heritability traits that if you're not doing, you know, if you're not increasing this accuracy threshold, you're really really you're not going to get significant heritability and capture the trait in the next generation.
So your trait improvements going to be shit unless you are able to improve your selection accuracy, which is done through the best way. I mean, there are ways of doing it. We're kind of going through ways of improving selection accuracy later on.
But it's
the trump card in that phrase.
The
it's the thing that's changed the game is genomics because that really improves this portion of the graph. Your ability to accurately select is vastly increased once you have
molecular genomics to improve your accuracy. Otherwise, like your accuracy in terms of selections. Great. If you're dealing with a highly heritable trait.
You know, it's not that hard, but your accuracy goes down significantly and not like it's not a linear, but it's like
they say here.
It's a square root standard deviation.
So wonky. It's not linear.
Yeah.
So this is heritability. Heritability for these traits have all been figured out using standardized statistical methods and methods for analyzing phenotypes and then tracking those over generations.
So selection in the
in the breeding breeders equation is
demonstrated here. So selection is this portion of the population that is allowed to reproduce.
Selection differential is this difference. Your mean population versus the mean of the subset that you allow to reproduce.
It's a function of phenotypic variance of the population and the selection intensity of the breeding program. So if you increase your selection threshold or reduce, excuse me, your selection threshold.
You're going to have a much different mean than if you have a much more selective threshold.
And then this shows how the whole equation works out.
This could be any trait. It can have whatever value. Here you have your trait. It's your mean in the population.
Here you have your selection intensity.
So consider a population that varies for a given trait with a mean of X1.
Suppose some with an extreme phenotype are selected for breeding and they have a mean of XB.
The selection differential is computed as XB minus X1. So if X1 equals 5, the population mean is 5. Let's just say 5% THC.
And XB equals 8, then the selection differential is 3. So this is how you would compute this portion of the breeder's equation to know that you're selecting. The differential in the group that you're selecting is 3 greater than the mean.
And that is going to give you kind of, gosh, I'm learning along here.
That's going to give you how far you come with your X and B, the wider the number in between XB, which is the mean of your selection, versus X1, which is the mean of the overall.
That's what's going to come right here in this next generation.
With the XB, what you've got is you've just said, in my population, this is the best subset and this is its mean phenotypic value.
So I only selected the best and this is its mean phenotypic value.
In the next generation, you're going to select that are only selected from here.
So all of this rest of the population is no longer allowed to reproduce and continue going on.
Only this group leads to this next generation.
And then subsequently, is your goal to get that differential smaller and smaller as you go on through the generations?
I'm just trying to figure out where the significance of the differential would fit in, other than it's part of the breeder's equation.
How do you track that?
The key here is that this is just telling you how much better the mean phenotype is for the thing that you like.
Here's my population, but I have only selected for this group.
Now, the reason, the main thing here is that it is assumed that this group is doing what it's doing and expressing its greater phenotypic expression for the trait because of additive variance.
So this is a rough approximation for additive variance. That's really all it is.
It's saying that this group over here expresses more or better for the trait of interest than the rest of the population.
And it becomes a proxy for additive variance, essentially.
Is that right?
Yes, I think I'm following it, but I know that on further review, it's going to make clearer and clearer sense to me.
Cool. Yeah. So this is, it's really just a way of guesstimating the best breeding value.
So we guess that this group has the best breeding value in the population, but we don't know for sure.
So we're going to select a group.
Then down here in the next generation, you're comparing the mean of the population to, of the previous generation to the mean of the subsequent offspring generation that's been selected from these breeding pairs.
So here, suppose the offspring from our breeding population has the following distribution with a mean of X2. The response to selection equals X2 minus X1.
If X2 equals 6.5, then the response to selection is 1.5 because the mean was 5. So we've got a 1.5% gain in the overall population.
In the mean expression for the trait. So if we were starting with a population that in this generation had a mean of 5% THC.
We then selected the subset of the population that had the highest expression for THC, which was 8%.
We then, with a differential of 3, we then looked at the offspring and compared it to the parent generation's mean.
And we got 6.5. Thus, we were able to calculate the response to selection and the overall genetic gain from one generation to the next for our trait.
Okay, I see the math there. I see where that adds up now. And because again, the mean from the first generation was 5, which is represented by X1 in the top graphic.
Yes. Okay.
So this is just a regression analysis. And because these right here, even though you're selecting, you know, up around 8% and only the 8% and even higher if 8% is the cutoff threshold. So it's 8 plus
Then in that situation, because of the regression that happens and because we're just selecting based off of phenotype as opposed to the actual known breeding value and genotypic value of the plant.
There's a regression and we're seeing that regression here in 6.5. So from 8% down to 6.5, even though this is where we were selecting and it was things that were only 8% or greater.
We then have, you know, a response that's a mean in the next generation with 6.5, which is a regression back from where we selected from, but an improvement upon where we were in the overall population.
So, um,
Yeah. One goal of selection is to choose those parents in a sample with the most favorable breeding values. The problem is that we cannot completely predict the breeding value of an individual from its phenotype alone. So this is, we just were talking about this.
Consider that heritability is the correlation of breeding value with phenotype. It relates how predictive the phenotype is to offspring value. Now this is the type of equations, you'll see
We haven't covered what all of these represent. It's not very important for our purposes. But point is, is that phenotype alone is not a very good predictor for breeding value.
It's all right. And we can get this type of improvement, but it would be much better to get if we're selecting the 8% or it would be great to get 8% in the next generation and not have that regression.
I.e. pick the best breeding value in the population. So the question posed here is, is there a better U than Z? Is there a better mean that we can use to look at than phenotype?
So there's the mean of progeny. This is progeny testing. We just did that right here. This is progeny testing.
So this right here is the mean of Z and it's helpful and useful information and progeny testing is better information.
But it requires growing up an entire generation to be able to determine the breeding value of the cross you've made. And doing that in a sizable enough population to get any statistically valid information from that.
It sounds like the stuff Breeder Steve is doing down in Uruguay or wherever.
Exactly. Yeah. And last week we had a pedigree chart from Robert Clark and David Watson talking about breeding skunk one. And it goes into, it at least lays out the process that you would be doing here with this type of progeny testing.
You can also do weighted mean values of other relatives. We talked about this earlier. You could do like half sibs or siblings and grow out all the different populations.
And then weight the values that you get from those to determine or to help inform your calculations on
The overall means that you would use to calculate the heritability of traits.
And then this one mean values of relatives grown in a variety of environments. So this is also another key factor. Multiple environment trials help inform your overall heritability or your understanding of heritability, because if you're able to grow out
Just as a for instance, this is individual plants, not populations, mind you, but, you know,
Every hype clone has been grown out in 1000 different environments at this point. And there are lots and lots of different COAs that kind of represent a range of the potential expression
Of these different phenotypes in these different environments or genotypes and different environments and the phenotypic expression that is
Demonstrated or exhibited by these different clone only. So you can take Cushman's and look at the range of
Variables that it has in different environments and determine the amount of environmental variables or influence that are impacting that particular variety.
Better than used in breeding. So this will help you reduce the overall noise in your evaluation or in your equations because you're controlling for some of that environmental variance. If you're able to say, okay.
Cushman's produces between like 27 to like 35%
THC or some shit I've seen and granted, I understand there's all the issues with the test splits just pretend this is accurate.
Yeah, just go with the numbers that they tell us for now.
Exactly.
So if that's the if you have a range of 27% to 35% and it's an individual cultivar. There's no genetic variance there. I granted I understand there's
There's viral issues and viral load and those different things. And there was one paper that I'm trying to search for in my archives that is very interesting on the subject of
Mutations within clonal lines.
But point being, you don't have any genetic variance there. You only have environmental variance and you can then
Determine the mean there and that mean at least lets you understand that across multiple different environments. Here's my mean for this particular cultivars that I'm breeding with
And you can do that for a lot of different cultivars that already exist. And the more that you have like
Networks of people who are sharing and growing and working on different cultivars and doing it in sort of a community way.
You can really start to see the range of expression of particular cultivars that are being passed around and that can help you account for the environmental variables that are going to impact or influence the phenotypic expression because again
Phenotypes are cool, but they're not genotypes.
They're the result of a lot of environmental variables and a lot of interactions between genes and environments and just looking at that phenotype alone isn't sufficient to actually determine its breeding value.
And that does put a lot of time and effort into true breeding or proper breeding practices to, you know, because you can't speed this plant up and you have to try and you mentioned COA is certification of authenticity.
Which, you know, again, we'll go back to Joe Bob in Minnesota with the official sour D the originator guy.
All hypothetical again guys. But yeah, if he's turning out, you know, COA is on his particular cut.
He does need to know how it handles the humidity in Florida and the dryness in Colorado and the moisture out here in Washington.
Because you would get different expressions. And if you don't know it. I mean, not not to throw a split in the tracks here, but that's a lot of the talk about OGs and Kush is just kind of like different variations in different areas of the country.
Exactly. Exactly. And like that's OG is a great one because it's one of those. It's a cultivar that people all across California have been growing for decades. And so we all have our own different experiences with it.
And, you know, it's great to hear people talk about OG who are like really been growing it in their area and are just adamant that it's different.
Like not necessarily that it's a different cup, but just like everybody loves their herb and, you know, growing it and talking about the expression of the traits.
And it's just it's one where when people talk about the environmental variables of these particular expressions of the cultivar that we've all grown for so long, it's really enjoyable to hear.
And it's something that like, you know, I'm only talking about the different micro climates from the Emerald Triangle to the Sierra foothills to the Central Coast down south.
Like every one of these different places is, you know, got its own little micro climates and they've all we've all rocked the OG really hard.
And yeah, there's some people who swear it just loves that coastal environment. Other people who are like, no, it needs that really dry arid.
You know, some cuts perform better, like, you know, the fire OG versus the Tahoe, etc.
It's definitely environmental variables are really unique for us to look at just because we operate off of a population that is so much based.
There's very limited genetic variety or variation going on when we're just passing cuts around.
So we get to see some of these environmental influences that you may not see in other plant species as much.
Cool. Cool. Thank you for elaborating on that one, because that is one that I do, you know, again, hear as environmental conditions coming into the conversation when you're talking origin stories.
Yeah, yeah.
So, okay, approaches to estimating heritability. So we've gone over a bunch of these and we've gone over the parent offspring regression and address measuring a population response to selection across generations.
It's similar business. We did not talk about covariance among relatives.
Mostly it's the inbreeding coefficient. It's Seawall Wright's work from 1921. Check it out. It's, it's very interesting theoretical work.
But so this is one of the reasons why we didn't actually get into it partially.
So actual relatedness versus expected values from pedigrees. So values for the coefficient of co-ancestry and the coefficient of paternity obtained from pedigrees are expected values. These are theoretical. They're not actual.
Due to random segregation genes from parents, the actual value or realization can be different.
So random segregation and another factor here is linkage. There's issues of linkage means that you don't have just like a purely
Not everything's moving around. According to the theoretical principles that Seawall Wright laid out in his 1921 paper. So
This gives theoretical like an example. So you would expect that a full sib to have a 0.5 inbreeding coefficient or yeah.
Of the full subs. Um, yeah. However, one pair of the sibs may actually be more similar 0.6 and another less say 0.3 so that 0.5 of full sib population in their inbreeding coefficient.
It's the middle point between these two, so to speak. It's, it's an average on average.
So, okay. Sorry. The best way of talking about this or thinking about this is the back cross example. So you cube it you back cross it four times. It's 99% the parent.
This is where this type of
Relatedness
Value just it falls apart and it's because of linkage and linkage drag and the connections of traits on Chrome or of the different alleles on the chromosomes.
So the way that you overcome the fact that this is just a theoretical way of determining relatedness or covariance.
And the way that you overcome some of the limitations and the labor intensiveness that we've been talking about in terms of having to do
The parent offspring regression and looking at the response to selection over multiple generations, which requires growing out hundreds of plants over multiple generations.
And phenotyping all of them and doing mean analysis and regression analysis for all of these and correlation between the parents and the offspring.
That's a lot of work. That's time intensive and it's also as we already looked, it's not perfect. It's doesn't tell you the breeding value.
Of the particular phenotype that you're selecting or the number you know if you're selecting everything over X percentage of THC you're the mean of that grouping.
That mean doesn't tell you the breeding value.
So genomic selection uses this extra information. And that's really where we're going to transition to with the rest of the discussion.
So yeah, we went through a lot of shit. I'm surprised that we got done with all the mathy stuff.
Yeah, definitely got through the mathy stuff. I'm still here. I'm still taking notes and we're making sense.
So and I know chat is following along to somebody had had brought up. It's like algebra all over again.
It totally is like algebra, but I'm more interested in it this time. So that makes a big difference.
Yeah, yeah. You know, they only brought the pop plants out.
I know. Well, I talked with Dr. MJ Coco Wednesday. He happens to be a professor as well.
So he gets to teach people and it's amazing how you can motivate students sometimes.
Yeah, yeah.
But yeah. So back to this. Back to you. You OK there? Don't don't choke live on camera, please. I feel real bad.
Yeah. No, just there is puffing tough while we go through.
So, yeah, these are some traits and some.
Authors who have written different papers on the quantitative trait inheritance and expression of sex determinism,
cannabinoid ratio and quantity, terpene ratio and quantity based maturity flowering.
And I think I left these ones out because they're related and I don't really care.
But their cousins.
Yeah. Yeah. You know, check it out.
I don't know if he still does, but this is information that he did in his dissertation.
And it's there's some cool stuff in it, even though it's still about phylos.
But yeah, I think it's really cool.
Yeah. And I think it's really cool.
Yeah. And I think it's really cool.
Yeah. And I think it's really cool.
Yeah. It wasn't all a loss.
Wasn't all a loss. And actually, we did get one question right here since you're lighting up.
They can't actually see it right now, but the culture rebel had asked what you token on this evening
There was a really heavy Afghan leaner on the PKM 10
Then there was a gasoline on the PKM 10
Definitely preferred the gas leaner
And then I did something that's kind of a mystery I don't know what it is
It's got some weird Jack turps that are
Fancy Jack as I like to call them. It's like for finally plus something that's got like I
Don't know. It's got like tropical fruit flavors that I really like. I'm pretty sure it's a Wilson cross
But yeah, it was
I liked it and
Now yeah, I don't know what this one is
I will live like five joints before we started
Always
Come through down. Yeah. All right, cool. Well, let's get back to it there
But hopefully that answers that for you culture rebel. I'm uh, what am I on? I'm about to reload up
I'm about to reload up. I think I'm going temple runs. But all right enough about me nice
Okay, so sex determination
There are some really cool papers and I'm gonna talk about some of them sight them
We can get down and talk on like really dive into some of this stuff
But
I'll also try and get it all together and like older length thing people can get me up for
So sex determination in 2014 and Michelle
She published a series of papers as part of her dissertation examining sexual trait expression
in minotious him
Key things that she found were
Confirmed that minotious hemp plants have XX chromosomes
so if you have a
hemp plant that produces both male and female parts
they
cytologically the chromosomes are
XX they don't show up with a Y chromosome. So essentially you have male
Flower expression on a plant that is
chromosomally
Completely female. It's only got an X and an X chromosome
Bo also identified an
autosomal
QTL
QTL is a quantitative trait loci. This is all of the discussion now is focused on these things
so this is a
Quantitative trait loci are the many different loci where there are alleles
controlling a particular trait there
distributed across the
chromosomes and all of these different genes at these different loci
Influence the expression of the trait and together they're a QTL
So
She identified an autosomal
So you have your sex chromosomes and then you have the other chromosomes all of the other chromosomes
Are the autosome?
so in cannabis, it's like diploid 2 and
X10 so I think they're like 10 chromosomes and
And but it's a diploid plant so there's like it's really 20 anyway point being is
That
I
Lost my train of thought
Yeah chromosomes are
Goofy as fuck
That's a good way good way to pull it back
Yeah, you're getting into diploids and the combinations of 10 and then now you've got 20 then all of a sudden compounds
Yeah
So there are we will get into that and that's not all that important
The point is is that what she found was that in the autosome?
I eat the parts that are not the sex-linked crown chromosomes, but are the rest of the genome
In those
Areas, she found a QTL that is associated with male flower expression in
minotious hemp plants, so
This is really something that's associated with her me and it's also tightly linked with genes
associated with photosensitivity
Which is an environmental factor that we all know
Contributes to
Perming light lakes things like this disrupting the photo period
These are things that can cause the plant to start throwing out some male flowers on an otherwise female plant
so
her work helped to
Kind of first establish this QTL first established that it was a QTL and that it existed on the autosome
This was a really important paper
It didn't have a lot of it was didn't have the most
Dense resolution in terms of genomic data
So there was questions about it after it first got published for a while
But it got confirmed in 2020 by a paper
published by Pettit et al and
they
They
confirmed and expanded on foes findings confirming both that sex expression is controlled in part by
QTLs and that these QTLs are linked by genes associated with photosensitivity
They specifically found I think they looked at
Six we'll look at it
They found some very interesting QTLs and really confirmed what she had found
Then this MTDNA research
Looked at the evolution of diocene and cannabis and reveals a very complex evolutionary history
the most simple hypothesis would be that
CMS or
cytoplasmic male sterility would be the
Explanation for how there was divergence in the in the sexes and how diocene evolved
however
doing the
MTDNA research they weren't able to
They can't completely rule it out there's a possibility that CMS still explains
the evolution of male-female
Divergence in cannabis, but it looks like it's a much more complicated story and
the much more complicated story seems to
Correspond to what we all know with the plant the plant has a number of different
Environmental variables that can cause it to start throwing out
male flowers on otherwise female plants and it's probably a
Result of this complex adaptive
evolution of
Diocene the plant it wasn't just something that was a
More simple and straightforward process, but was instead one that was a lot more complicated and also if they don't find
the ability to
like
if
Like if
cytoplasmic male sterility just isn't in the genome at all and doesn't operate in cannabis then
They won't be able to use that the way that they have in corn breeding
which is how part of how
they
controlled breeding or
It essentially facilitated the breeding process because they were able to no longer have to do very labor-intensive
Breeding experiments by using CMS in cannabis. It has pretty obvious
applications as well the commercial application
Then this paper
2020 at all at all
investigated the transcriptome
Data to identify genes associated with the expression of male flower cidal in cytologically female
XX plants
They identified multiple candidate genes, I think 15 overall
So here's the shit. I should have been doing this the whole time
This is the faux paper
This is the key findings that they had or that they made
Sex expression and minocious hemp varieties are quantitatively
very quantitatively
So
Essentially through this work and then through Pettit's work
we're now at least
we've identified different genes that are associated with
the
Susceptibility or the propensity for
female
otherwise
Homozyomal a female plants to produce male flowers by being able to identify these
We can select against them. We might also find that
selecting against them has
unintended consequences and part of that has to do with
The fact that it's tightly linked to
A
Perception and transduction of light and transcription factors well known to regulate flowering
Which were identified in QTLs for flowering time traits
these genes
Are involved in the regulation of different vital hormones
but
specifically oxygen gibberellic acid
Were identified in the QTLs for sex determination sex determination
QTLs were associated with the development of male flowers and female and thus female plants and thus with sex stability
Determination in minocious plants so this paper right here basically outlines the fact that there's links between
Light sensitivity and
The mechanisms that control sex determination in female plants and so
Again, we don't really know the degree to which we will be able to break those linkages
because those linkages exist and
Furthermore, we don't know the consequences of breaking those linkages
Necessarily there may be
Unintended
Consequences to selecting against
Which is one of those paradoxes
Right, and I could definitely see that, you know with a lot of just even like typical medicine for you know
Humans like uptake inhibitors things, you know what we're blocking something in our brain
And then it's years later. We find out how the the system really functions and
Works together. So yeah, you can stop this particular chemical from flowing in the brain, but little did you know it's responsible for some other
This necessary function of the plant or of the human in this case, but that that Pettit et al study
That would be interesting. I've got that one written down here
So, I mean they have identified the QTLs and the photosynthesis
Photosensitivity because that's been one question, you know
I get a lot and I don't expect you to have the answer here
But you know in the paper, I'm gonna see if they touch on it
But you know a lot of us, you know, you could say it's bro science, whatever but photosensitivity light leaks
We know that could cause Herm's
But then the other side will always come back cycle, bro
I grow under a streetlight or like there's outdoor plants that grow under a full moon
and so the last I heard was there was a study that was looking into the
intensity and the spectrum and duration of
Light to trigger that type of effect
But essentially what they would be looking at is are these QTLs is what it sounds like
And yeah, and they're looking at that gene inner environment interaction because there's all these different genes
That are interacting with those environmental variables and all those environmental variables are also
Variable, you know like the spectrum the intensity duration, etc
and so all of those variables then interact with the different
multiple variables that exist on the genetic level and these
These are like there's multiple genes and these genes are all linked together
and so that's why it's
Hypothesized by both Pettit and Faux that this is an explanation for
Why you're going why you see these environmental reactions or response or these responses to the environment?
in terms of Herm's
And also the Faux paper is very interesting and I believe
Pettit they both look at these variables over multiple environments. So you do get to
Like if you really dive into Faux's
dissertation you get it you get to see how all the different stuff that we talked about in the first half is
done by a scientist to look at a particular trait
evaluate that trait in relation to several other traits because you know, she was working in hemp, so
I believe the other traits she was looking at were
flowering time and yield in fiber, but her big like the breakthrough or the
The headline findings that she made were much more based on sex determinism
This is the MT DNA paper looking at trying to figure out how
How
Diocie evolved in cannabis essentially and
Yeah, as I had mentioned their results revealed no clear evidence that different reproductive patterns are due to easily
identifiable CMS mutations
Cytoplasmic male sterility our results refute the simplest hypothesis that there was a single
Recent origin of Diocie in minotious ancestor and
Instead the story of evolution of Diocie is likely much more complex
furthermore explanation of the nuclear and mitochondrial
Genomes and their interaction is required to fully understand the mating strategies of cannabis
So there's still a possibility that
Cytoplasmic male sterility genes could be found in cannabis and could explain how females are
female essentially and don't produce any male flowers or you know as
Relatively a few male flowers
If those genes are identified that will be something that is
exploited when we talk about GMO if
if no
Cytoplasmic male sterility genes are found in the interaction between the nuclear and mitochondrial genomes
The end result is that somebody's probably going to put it in there and
So this is this right here is a target for potential genetic modification in the future
Interesting, yeah bookmark that one. We'll see. We'll see what that happens
so
The doll paper is really cool because this paper actually
Look like they
Ex, I think they used STS or some sort of chemicals, but they basically
induced
male flowers on female plants and then did the testing of the
genomics on the actual
reverse
male flowers to try and see what the genes that were expressing were
Responsible for the expression of the male flowers, so
They found revealed
over
10,500 differentially expressed genes of which 200 potentially controlled
masculinization and female cannabis plants these genes include
transcription factors and other genes involved in male organ ie
Anthra and pollen development as well as genes involved in phyto hormone signaling and male biased phenotypes
The expression of 15 of these genes were further validated by qPCR
Assay confirming similar expression patterns to that of the RNA sequence data. These genes would be useful for understanding
predisposition to
so
This paper is very late granted it's limited to I believe an individual cultivar
It's not like looking at all
populations
large population and it's using
chemicals to induce
male flower expression
but by doing that you're able to see the different analyze the transcriptome the RNA sequencing data and
understand
What is essentially how are these genes expressing in a way that's producing a small flower in this female?
And yeah, and they found 15 target genes so that gives us 15 targets to either you know
Eventually someday select for against you know, because it like the crazy thing in hemp also the reason why
Bo was doing her analysis of the noxious like sexual expression in the noxious hemp was because
The point was to make her
Huh, that's interesting so to obviously to counteract
The potential of herm's these 15 genes are definitely of interest would these 15 genes also be of interest for people trying to build
sterile plants like sterile females
um
Maybe not really
Okay, not necessarily because these genes are more focused on the ones that cause the female to produce the male
expression, okay
These are the ones that are these transcripts in particular are the ones that tell the DNA
don't
Don't go female and produce, you know
All of the different trait architecture and plant architecture for a female flower
go in the direction of producing a male flower and
so these genes are
ones that are much more likely to do that and I mean the fact that they were able to find
200 genes that potentially not all of them but
intentionally control
masculinization of female cannabis plants like
If we're dealing with 15 genes, that's a fuck ton of genes and if you look at the number of like
when you start pulling out the
Robert Allard or your seawall, right and analyzing
What your selection intensities have to be when you're selecting for or against 15 genes. I mean, it's fucking crazy
and
200s like bonkers, so, you know, we're dealing with
pretty large
Quantitative traits here. There's a lot of genes that play into
both the
morphology aspects for this shit in particular the phytohormone
signaling all of the male bias phenotypic type expression
we were talking a lot about the stuff on the on the breeding roundtable this week and
specifically how
Some of these male bias phenotype or trait expression is things like stretch and like why
gibberellic acid is used is to try and induce that expression or that
Extension in the plant so that you actually get what you know male flowers are much more extended
They're not really
Nodules and so part of that is just trying to you know, chemically manipulate the plant
Using
Exogenous hormone
to induce a response in the plant, but these genes
once you start getting into
signaling for hormones you start involving a lot of different
metabolic pathways in different genes that are going to be involved and that's why these things are just
it's so much more complicated than
Talking about Mendel or you know
most of the breeding books that we look at because once we start getting it this level, you know,
it's either a lot of statistics or
PhDs and people with lab coats who you pay money to
basically run these qPCR essays
Right, right. Okay. Okay that yeah, that makes sense there
But it's still I mean it's knowledge and we get we can apply this stuff still and this gives us an idea like the fact that
We're honing in on
male
Genetic on the genetics that produce male trade expression in female plants
gives us way more saliency just on how this shit works because
That's so much like that's incredibly valuable and it gives us the ability to
Understand that if you have harms in your population
That doesn't mean that you can't use these methods that we've gone over
to select against that to move away from those traits and to
experience the gains, you know, like if we're talking about a
mean expression of
Five percent let's say of your populate of the
Population is expressing firms and
Then you select away from that constantly and you're able to look at those mean regressions
I
Hopefully you're able to and you know talking to people who have done long-term breeding
Programs to try and get away from firms and things like GG for
Gorilla glue for or different things like that
They've done exactly that they've intensively
selected done negative selection against firm trades and for
non-permanent expression and experience significant gains and moved away from her or
David Watson talks about it
For the Durban poison and leading that away from a very intersex population
To a much more stable
That's interesting I didn't know about that but Durban poisons rumored to be one
In the lineage of a few strains that I kind of I
Don't know I I make fun of cookies a lot and and
You know, there's many reasons for it
But I like to knock the herm factor of it and actually see flora nugs in in chat right now
He's a person who sends me
Lovely shots of cookie strains all the time like he's got the good ones, but to bring it back to the point
You know, I had finally after years of asking different people the same answer James loud on his show
Kind of got gave me the answer of like well, you know, it can be bred out
You know exactly like you're just saying here
but for me that was kind of the first time I heard it because
You know don't we'll edit this out at the end
Not that we can't really edit but you know cookies have some really fire and stable stuff
And it wasn't always that way and there's still a lot of it that sucks
but no, there are some that are totally stable whereas before it was like
You know a new strain every run because you got fresh seeds
but yeah, so the so knowing this is is the way to
Statistically or use data to breed away from those things
Which is exactly what he was saying
Happened probably happened with a few of the better breeders working that line. Okay
Yeah, and also I should point out that they found 15 target genes here that were associated with
male flowers and female plants
that
Doesn't mean that every one of these 15 genes is necessarily
the most
responsible or the best target for
addressing
Or breeding away some of these you're gonna have a much higher
Heritability in terms of your ability to breed away from them than others for instance
If
The heritability on
This subset is different than the heritability on this subset your selection here is going to be much more
effective than your selection here and you can go for this trait they talk about this in
cannabinoid inheritance that
It's possible that copy number variants the number of THC synthase genes that are in the overall
Plant that those could explain
the percentage of THC
It doesn't necessarily explain it and that one of the better
Explanations instead of the number of variants that synthase that synthesize THC
You need a lot of the precursor
the things in the upstream and
Upstream
Excuse me in the metabolic pathway
That make it so that the plant can produce THC in the first place because THC is
the end of the metabolic
System so to speak, you know, that's one metabolic pathway and it's kind of the conclusion it can go
THC or CBD and
Those are the end results of a lot of different metabolic
Exchanges that happen earlier and
Upregulating for those other genes may be more effective for increasing overall THC and same thing here
Yeah, okay, and it does it sounds like you know again, I don't
Understand all of this, but if it follows a similar pattern, you know those 15 genes
It could be a Rubik's Cube of combinations
That bring out the expression kind of like you're saying I think you're saying it may not just be one particular one
But there always seems to be variables with all of these so it's probably again a Rubik's Cube of combinations there
Yeah, okay, so that was
Mostly male trade expression in otherwise female plants is a quantitative trait that
Exists on the autosome and you know, ideally people are selecting against it, but there are
It's incredibly complicated and there are some serious linkages there to other traits that are key to you know
the overall
Function of the plant like flowering time and sensitivity to light
so
terpenes
Terpenes are like we said one of those genes or
subset of genes that exist in a whole lot of different variety or species of plants
Broadly speaking there are six sub families of what are known as TPS
Terpene synthase genes are abbreviated as TPS
These TPS is are
The sub families are listed a through F so it's TPS a B C D F G
or excuse me
There are over 35 TPS genes that have been identified in cannabis. This was there are
This is a really interesting fact
Individual TPS genes can produce more than one terpene expression
Oftentimes they produce a major product and then minor product
so it'll be a
it primarily
produces
marasine or
pinene or
Trapanoline, but then other terpenes will be minor products that are also created by these genes
so this is kind of
This is like a much more leaky
THC synthase sort of idea where
in
THC CBD ratios, it's understood that
even when you have
You know quote-unquote pure CBD varieties that only have non-effective
THC gene synthase for whatever reason there's still minute amounts of THC that end up in the pot in the
products or the end
and field results and those
Can sometimes trigger, you know hot batches and hemp
That's from the leaky synthase gene that's going on in terpenes as well
So terpenes and cannabinoids rely on similar metabolic pathways and precursors as well, so there's
Potentially I believe
Right
Chimera and NAPRO did some analysis and they saw like a 15% variance or correlation in the variance
Associated between these two so essentially the cannabinoids and the terpenes
are competing on some level that can express or that can
That
Can is represented by about 15% of the variance, but then the other
85% of the variance has nothing to do with the fact that these are essentially competing over the same
pathways and molecules
So then and space as well
So then linkage maps elucidate genetic architecture of the TPS genes at their location on chromosomes
So we'll see some of these at the end. So here's
Here's a bunch of the literature
Terpene expression and inheritance is part of a complex set of traits that are quantitatively and qualitatively expressed and transmitted across
Generations. Chimera was talking about this. You will still see discrete
segregation in terpene values, so they do kind of
Differentiate
Similar to your quote-unquote traditional Mendelian
dynamics and if you have there are some
There are some terpenes that aren't found in certain varieties
Because they haven't been bred into them theoretically they could be bred into them
but the
Non-existence of the terpene can make it so it's a discrete segregating population that doesn't necessarily
conform to a
true pure bell curve
But there are over 30 like I mentioned there are over 35
terpene
Synthase genes that have been identified in cannabis. This is the literature. We'll go over a bunch of it
This is a nice graph that was made by NAPRO and published in their
2016
It was a slideshow that they
Somehow I found it. I don't know where I found it. But anyway, this shows maximum terpenes was 2.4%
Minimum was 0.6% average 0.5 1.5
So shows different variations from the various lots
Terpene variability is greater than cannabinoid variability
Here's the Booth paper Booth
Ryan mentioned Judy Booth her work from
2017 to 2020 has really been I think she's done the majority of terpene synthase
Genomic work she's identified I believe 35 different terpenes or TPS's
So this was her early paper in 17
She looked at finola, which is a hemp variety and found nine cannabis terpene synthase genes
in just two sub families A and B
So, yeah, and these are the specific myrosine, osamine, limonene, pinene,
karyophyllene, and humulene
She expanded on this work and
Did an additional analysis on purple cush purple cush the genome was published by Van Backel in
2011 and it's been the subject of a lot of analysis because
That genome essentially has been
Available to people to then do the like we said these terpene genes. They're a
Family of genes that exist in a lot of different plants so you can look for the analogs and cannabis
And she's done that and she was able to identify
33 different cannabis terpene synthase genes in the purple cush
Genome
So
So yeah this paper this did a lot more work and really developed the overall number of
genes that had been identified then her dissertation is
Really worth reading. I would check this out if you will. I mean, I've got links for it. It's freely available
So I think it's a really good paper
So, and yeah, it just it goes further in depth and talks about more varieties and more terpenes
And I believe there's one chapter on cannabinoids
so
So I think it's a really good paper
So I hope you guys enjoyed it. I'll see you next time
Booth's work was like foundational to
terpene synthase genes
this is a
way out of focus picture, but this shows
The idea that different specific terpene synthase genes TPS is have both major and minor
Products that they produce so the major product of
Cannabis
CS is cannabis TPS is terpene synthase f1
FN is a reference to finola
so the major product of that gene was
Limonene minor products were pining and
Alpha pining and beta pining as well as miracing and
terpinaline
She
Goes on to demonstrate this with a number of different genes and as you can see each one of these genes
not only
Regulates or
produces
Limonene or these other terpenes
Or excuse me. It also produces these others. So when you have
You're not just inheriting a
Limonene
Gene when you inherit this gene you're inheriting
The production of as many as four to five other terpenes as well that will happen in minor amounts. So and then
you know, this is where you really get into a
very very complicated inheritance scheme and
a very complex additive
This is where you have to do variance analysis and that's where you're gonna need to look into RA Fisher's work and
analysis of variance is
an idea that he developed but there's a specific set of
Mathematical principles that actually help you break down the fractions so that you can calculate for
The major product that's produced by these different genes as well as their different constituents as
Well as the fact that they're different constituents are all different, you know here you've got a major
Producer of alpha pinene with minor amounts of these and then you've got this one producing a
A single detectable product. So this one only produced myricine
When exposed to GPP GPP is a precursor that's involved in the synthesis path or the metabolic pathway that's
synthesizes
terpenes so anyway, this really shows
Even though it's kind of worried the incredible complexity of the trade expression of terpenes
It would seem so because there isn't a consistent factor there, you know at first with the the TPS to
You know, it made a major and then some minors and in my head. I'm kind of like, okay
It's more of a factory than a mold, you know
It can put out a bunch of things versus one specific but then the TPS three
Specifically to myrcine so then that one would be kind of like the mold
so yeah, just just
Does go to share or show a lot of the variability in
these types of things and if we get to a good point have I have one a
Good question in chat about the masculine
masculinizing genes
masculine
Good chance to interject that one real quick
Okay, awesome. And you know, I just raised my head. It was a Micah Perry
Said if the community bred and you know, if we go in and we do
You know take a look and again, we're assuming that these 15 genes are the or well 200 genes
Actually, there were 200 genes in that study for the masculine
Masculinizing. Okay, I'll give up on saying that word
But the question was if we as a community bred out the masculinizing genes
Would that mean that reversing females for pollen wouldn't be possible anymore?
Or at least would it make it more difficult?
Yeah, yeah
Okay, perfect because I mean these are the genes that they found doing exactly that process
So if we selected against those genes and removed them from the population
We will potentially be eliminating the possibility to do reversals now, you know, it's a very this
This right here is a wild beast, you know once we start dealing with phytohormones
You know
Plants are I mean fuck I don't I haven't looked into it, but I just saw that condors a sexually reproduced
I don't know. Okay, but if that's fucking true, it's fucking crazy because
Supposedly there was males in the late mating population nearby
So like theoretically they at least could have made it but they chose or like, you know
Figured out somehow to a sexually reproduce which is the first time in
Birds, but it's ever fucking happened. Yeah, and if you've ever watched Jurassic Park, they will find a way
But that's interesting though, because again, I know they're they're looking at breeding plants with no
You know that can't get pollinated and then if they were to remove those particular
genes
Then somebody truly could put something to market that you couldn't reproduce or copy you had to buy fresh seeds every time
Yeah, okay in my grand conspiracy mindset there. Okay
That's I mean that's a really really great question and point to bring up that like theoretically if you were to select
Particularly against that subset of genes that made it possible for that expression to happen
Yeah, it would be eliminated
Yeah, it would be to reverse using I believe was I'm off the top of my head not having the full paper in front of me
I'm pretty sure it was silver, but they
Silver thiosulfate that they used for the reversal to then do the experiment
the transcriptome genes that were associated with it, so
Livingston Livingston basically
builds on
the same thing with
Both really looking at different specific terpene synthase genes ones that produce osemine
All of these are very similar honestly
Zanger or Zager in 2017 has also
Was able to identify and
Evaluate some other genes that hadn't been
Identified specifically this
The linalool and narrow little
yeah, and
These ones down here at the bottom
These are the genes that they specifically
identified in their study that were different from the genes that had been identified by
by booth and
so with all of these different genes taken together you've got a
oh, I believe we've got a composite of 30 different target terpene genes that have been
Identified and theoretically because they've been identified markers and
Assays could be created for these so essentially you could identify the presence of these genes in
Vegetative plant without having to grow it all the way out
completion granted
As we've said environment is a massive variable in the expression of these traits. It's
Like you know take that for what it's worth but at least knowing the presence or absence of the genes is possible
And that is interesting on the surface just for the simple fact that you you know
Or you could get a good picture of what the profile is going to be without having to grow it out
And if that's not something that is hot on the market or whatever then you know toss it or if it's common toss it
You might be able to find the outliers that way and you keep it and you keep running it because again
It's it's people with budgets that are gonna have information or this type of information at hand to make these type of decisions
It's not it's not me in my closet
True, but also as I was sitting here thinking about it. I was like, you know
Steephill back in the day, you know a decade ago
They were fucking using the mandolino and
Shoyama fucking papers on markers for male sex expression the
Male I think they're called mad or ma DC
Basically they found markers associated with male sex expression and that's what the first sex kits were based off of
And essentially fucking steep Hill yeah, they had some money but they didn't have crazy
2008
Whatever it was like they weren't fucking
No
million million millions and millions of dollars and startup funds like they had some rudimentary lab equipment and
And
They went and they did it and they did it using studies like this. So if you were able to
acquire the
different lab equipment that is needed to
run the PCRs or qPCRs you could do these assays in-house and
You could screen your own populations
Find these genes
Or you could also like a fucking like, you know a
Company and
sell your like so much I wanted to like mention this like so much of the
gene editing
Biotechnology
patents
90% of that's just a fucking shell game or like a pump-and-dump strategy where it's like look we've got value if
you build out a company and
You have you have the lab equipment and you build out the company and you provide early
terpene
Testing there's I mean perhaps medicinal genomics is doing it. I'm not entirely sure
There's a number of different people in the cannabis space quote-unquote that are offering sex kits, etc
There right now
They could take the same information and start developing these marker assays
And doing this for people and being able to tell you whether or not you're you've got the synthase for linalool
You know, that's not gonna tell you yes or no. You've got linalool
That's just gonna tell you whether or not you've got this specific terpene synthase
Well, that's cool. That sounds like it's a lot closer to
For us as a real possibility then to benefit
Totally
Yeah, I think you know check out medicinal
genomics because they had qPCR kits where like
Instead of sending your sex kit into phyllos or some other company
They would essentially send you like a test tube kit and you could do this like little lab
experiment at home and determine the sex of your plants and
There's ways and like my homie BAM
Bollywood BAM he he was somebody who I did a lot of this early studying with and has done
Actually done the lab side of things. I didn't do the lab side of the
courses, but he he has and he has experience with that stuff and he
Precinct like, you know, we talked about this stuff and I
For a long time been like, oh man, that's that's an extra next level shit. And he's like not dude. Like just fucking
Get your lab fucking protocols and your fucking cleanliness on point
Don't fucking contaminate your shit and you'll be fine
Well, yeah, and that's you know, I think kind of where steep
Came out running, you know without the super super millions of dollars is they had
passionate people who were really really curious and they didn't have some answers to things and
They kind of blazed blazed their trail. I don't know the full story to be completely honest, but just from an outsider perspective
You know, that's that's kind of it wasn't it wasn't the shell game
It wasn't like okay if we get this building we get all this equipment then we could sell it to an investor because we got
the license
They were actually trying to solve something. Yeah. No, it was like fuck we have to take investors
Well, this really sucks investors are the worst. Why can't we just do cool shit?
Yeah
You know Reggie he's and
I forget the older dudes name, but like they had cool cats there
but like you'd go in and you talk to him and you wouldn't just like
Talk like, you know now I'd be stoked to go in and talk like sciencey shit
But like you could talk weed shit with them and they were like heads like they knew just as much on
That side of things as they did on the science that side of things. So it was
like early steep hill days were really cool in terms of the scientific team that was there and like
you know a little over a decade ago and
Reggie was one of those people and bam, he did work there in terms of just like doing some lab experiments and
The holy banana work that really actually the
The freak show came out of a breeding population that BAM did that
Was run through some
Was run through some genetic testing through steep hill and it was part of an experiment that he had constructed of
trying to identify the
cannabinoid
cannabinoid
the THC synthase of the
The particular population they were working with
Which was holy banana
Wow, that's interesting because that that's something that I have in my my tent right now is a couple freak shows and while it was
slow to grow
It was just fun it's like it's like a guar concert everybody should do it at least once everybody should do it once
twice
Okay, there you go
Yeah, no guar greatest
Yeah, it's top five easy greatest shows
yeah, but uh
So no and we're hopefully working on bringing on canna research and gonna talk about freak show and
stuff like that because that's all part of that time period and that
those plants ended up at the
Farmers market like basically BAM did a huge population. He had leftovers
he wasn't gonna grow out all of them, but it done like some of the genetic sampling from them and
Then like hit people up on the gram it was like, you know, I got all these like get at me
I'm gonna be at the the farmers market and so canna research and can age to a one up there and
They met up with BAM. They got the plants. They then brought them back
They had some other stuff they were working with. I think it was pineapple Express
From
G 13 labs, I think but anyway, they made their cross the dad was involved and they all worked on it together
And it's like read that variety and like they brought that to the community. It's a unique thing
it's
Somebody asked about it earlier today and asked about you know
talking about it and was quick to point out like that they knew that it was a
Qualitative
Trait more so than a quantitative trait, but that's something that's really really interesting
And I'm glad that we figured out a way to work it in
Yeah, it's it's it that's a very good one a good visual example to use with distinguishing between those two
Because it's it's unique for sure
Yeah, yeah
Yeah, yeah and also we just grew out a bunch of the holy banana this year and there are just freaks in that line
Like this was an open pollination
It wasn't holy bananas like holy banana crossed to a whole bunch of other stuff from the homie just parrots, right?
but uh
it
Absolutely amazing females in there the
There was one though that had
It was trifoliate from the very beginning and it maintained its trifoliate
Structure at least until six feet. I stopped. Oh, wow
Yeah, it was like
Super branchy and one of the branches had a late intense
variegation like yellow just like
Albino branch basically there was a little strip of green on part of it, but it was like
Basically 60% or more maybe even like 75%
yellow branch
That's weird. I am NOT run into that yet. Yeah, I did it all the way through flower
and
So yeah, definitely. It's a line that has some unique it has the ability
To throw things out that are just really really unique I
Assume so I mean there has to be so many recessive things locked into that particular strain just to get it
The way it is again. I only put down two
I got two different morphological one looks a little bit more like the ABC. The other looks like the fern type freak show
The fern type freak show has more of a gassy profile the one that was more ABC is a lot more fruity
so I did get some differences, but
Fun and freaks either way. So yeah
So Kevin McKernan
Mentioned him just a minute ago and Reggie Godino. That's Reggie Godino is steep Hill
Kevin McKernan is medicinal genomics
McKernan et al. in
2019 they did a genomic characterization of a complete terpene synthase gene family, so
This is a good paper, it just adds more information
So they identified 55 terpene terpene synthases
They did not identify
55
55 TPS is just to be clear. These are the actual synthases
They analyzed the genomic
content so
The overall number to my to my knowledge that has been identified of TPS is is 35
but there are much more than
Just 35 terpenes if that makes sense
There's like hundreds of tokens, yeah, I think over over 200 was a number I saw last and that was a recent study
Yeah, yeah, so there's exactly there's like there are tons of terpenes, but they've identified
35 terpene genes and
Here they've identified 55 terpene synthases with genomic content
That's not the same as TPS as far as I I'm aware
Now this is a different type of paper so
Mudge in
2019 published her dissertation as well as a an interesting paper and this looks at chemometrics and
metabolomics so
Um
In it she basically the thing
If Booth doesn't know what she's talking about
If Booth doesn't find wasn't able to find genes for
terpenoline in some of her earlier work and
so terpenolines and
underrepresented terpene in Booth's work Mudge was able to find some
Terpenoline expression some unique
factors associated with terpenoline expression and I quoted part of her
Thesis because it talks specifically about it, but
There was a strong indication of a unique biosynthetic pathway for the synthesis of terpenoline
Nine additional mono terpenes and their identified cannabinoids isolation and characterization of the most prominent cannabinoid
Identified was THC a C4 with a butyl side chain
Another correlated cannabinoid was identified as THC BA
These two cannabinoid
are present in higher quantities in the presence of
terpenoline suggesting that breeding for increased terpenoline production switches on the biosynthesis of terpenoline and some traits so
this is
something that's very interesting in terms of
Identifying well one that this seems to be a trait that switches on and off in
Relation to a particular threshold of cannabinoid production and to that
Terpenoline expression is associated with this high THC production. That's
It's one of those things I have a friend
his name is Reggie weed man, he's
He took a bunch of classics down like all the great cuts
the Urkel's the OG's all the flavors took them down to
Maui and
Had seeds and stuff and a lot of good clone only varieties that he brought that he had sent to him
And he came back and he brought all this these different flavors and he would open all these jars of really incredible earth
And it's like I don't know man all roads lead to Jack
I've heard that. Yep. I've heard that before
Well, it'd be interesting if you know
We were talking earlier the temp terpane synthase genes if you found the one for terpenoline
And then you found that in the early tests of the vegging plant
Then you could almost assume that that plant might have increased
Cannabinoid production just because it sounds like from much the to go hand in hand
Yeah, and I think that it's like I think really what she was finding is this really extreme
Expression and that part of I would say that sort of the
Neville's hazes kind of represent this to a certain extent because I mean some of them are just like
Disgusting
Terpanoline intense herbs, but then you fucking smoke them and as much as you may not necessarily
like that turpentine it's
fucking
insanely potent like some of the most racy potent herb that you've ever smoked and
You can see where those like potency and terpanoline
Expressions seem to be
Associated on some level now, they don't necessarily
It's not necessarily a one-to-one nursing is by far the most it's the predominant terpene across all
cannabis
but
terpanoline is a beast and seems to
Seems to dominate a large subset of high potency cannabis and that the other subset of high potency
Cannabis is dominated by nursing
And that's interesting. We could be staring at the answer for that right now with that just that connection in the paper
Yeah
Okay, so this I mentioned this a little bit earlier
this really goes into the specifics of the
metabolic pathways that produce
terpenes and
cannabinoids, so this is the metabolic pathway that leads to sesquiterpenes
This leads to monoterpenes
And right here, you'll see that this is the same precursor
That is necessary for CVG, which is the precursor for
Essentially, you know all terpenes
Excuse me cannabinoids cannabinoids
So, yeah
This is just
to demonstrate that there's
Every one of these has genes
Regulating them every one of these has environmental variables that interact with those genes
all of this is an
incredibly
complicated set of
Genetic factors and environmental variables that produce the end result
the
One of the things that we'll get to
In one of the later papers here. I think it's GRASA or GRASA
That perhaps selecting for things that
increase these
different precursors and the amino acids that are produced
upstream from the actual cannabinoids
will
improve
overall THC or you know if you're trying to breed for
increased potency or increased numbers of a particular cannabinoid that
Increasing selection for these things and for these things that produce more of this and more of this
Will end up producing a higher percentage of this over selecting for more copy number variants of just this
if that makes sense
So then here this is an older version now granted I believe this is from Booth, but this shows a
Linkage map on the chromosomes. So you've got one two, three, four, five six seven eight nine ten chromosomes
these different
Colored numbers are you know
alphanumerics and their lines
Indicate different either terpene synthase or
isoprenoid biosynthase or cannabinoid biosynthase
Genes and where they map onto the chromosomes
This is a very early
Model, it's a little bit more refined than the type that you'll see in the early Dima hair papers
Here's a more recent one, I believe yeah, this was from Livingston in
2020
Again, you can see chromosome three here
chromosome six
chromosome seven
you'll there's
total cannabinoids
percentage of THC percentage of CBG percentage of CBD and percentage of CBC and
Where they map onto the chromosome
Here is a more in-depth
Terpene and
cannabinoid map. So again, these are
This is something that can now be done very quickly in a single
in a single experimental trial
Doing this type of linkage map is a
Assembly for a crop years ago would have taken a long long long time and so
We're able you know the fact that we're having our our crop of interest come online
At a time when we have advanced genomics
We're able to find these assembly or develop these assembly in maps much more quickly and
theoretically use these because each one of these is a different marker and
Each one of these markers is also part of a linkage group that you can then
evaluate their inheritance and their presence in a population, so
When you're saying if you're able to look for one trait
Does it give you some sort of indication of the presence of another trait?
Not a hundred percent, but this right here all of these genes are together and
the presence of this gene
Increases the likelihood of the presence of this gene
Because they're linked and they're part of a linkage group. So it's not a
100% like it's not like
You know
male-female sex kits aren't 100% either but like just assuming they were a simple binary yes
No, or male-female
It's not that simple, but it gives you some degree of indication of relation
There's a lot more
Work that's gone into
Cannabinoid expression and inheritance
Early work was primarily done by D. Mehar and
He proposed a single locus with a codominant allele
So this was the B locus with a BT and a BD allele
This explained the distribution of the one-to-one where you have one pure THC
Chemotype then you have two mixed chemotypes and then one pure CBD
Chemotype and an F2 population when you cross two inbred type one and type three cannabis lines
This was the first early experiment and
Explanation for inheritance and trait and
trait expression and
Trade expression and in cannabis, but
This was wrong, but D. Mehar I don't want to give the impression that like
There wasn't any reason for them to come away with this conclusion like the math. This is the simplest most
parsimonious sort of
explanation of what they were seeing in the data and they also
They maintained the possibility for an alternative explanation being a
quantitative inheritance as opposed to just a
traditional Mendelian with codominant alleles type system
Van Bakkel in 2011 published the pure purple push genome and transcriptome. This is
led to an early
Early hypothesis of to locust model for
Can have cannabinoid inheritance and they also were the first I believe to propose that there were
non-functional genes encoding for THC and CBD a same phase and that this was
determinative in the outcome of phenotype expression
And then we've learned at all confirmed and accepted
Cleveland et al confirmed and extended the findings of both authors, which can be kind of
Counterintuitive but they were able to extend the findings of Van Bakkel and the hypothesis of a multiple locus
non-functional functional allele and
they were also
able to confirm just the phenotype or
chemotypic segregation and distribution of D. Mehar's so it's one of those things where the
overall
phenotype data that people were looking at very much indicated a segregating population that was
operating on some level on a
qualitative
inheritance scheme
but and
You know, that was the early studies. They all kind of like
They're all operating and talking in that sort of universe
After the Weaveland paper in 2015 she got way fucking complicated and we'll get into that and
Way complicated that
Definitely where I think we're we're all in agreeance there
But sometimes you're only as good as the information you're working with and so as time goes on we learn new things
Able to test for new things and yeah that it progresses
progresses the knowledge
Yeah. Yeah. No, that's so true. Like I think the indica sativa thing is such a like product of the
1970s and
it's not that like
you know you had science minded people reading the science of the day and
You had the Schultz paper and you had the small paper
That was the available information, you know and Schultz was way cooler not gonna lie
That's awesome
He may not have been as like scientifically rigorous but like it was a head he was legit
So this shows this is again napro
Camaro worked with napro napro did some research a lot of research
They did really large massive testing of cannabis in the commercial independent testing on their own
They went and bought a bunch of samples
from all the different clubs during the
215 days they brought all these samples back and they tested all these samples to see, you know
THC the cannabinoid expression as well as the
Terpenes we saw the slide earlier that was from there and
They were able they used this and they did a lot of the work in terms of doing the genetic information
the environmental information and the phenotypic invite
expression and tracking that
Being able to really do the sort of regression analysis that's necessary to
track the breeding value or you know, the breeders equation that we talked about earlier and
So this was part of that process and this was really this data set right here comes from sort of their early
R&D where they were going through and just looking at the what was available on the commercial
Rec market and really they're also some of the people that found that
The rec market was highly skewed towards nursing dominant terpenes and that there was a significant
lack of
karyokalene particularly karyokalene type 2
varieties and
They ended up producing some varieties
They also got some patents
That were very controversial and they also won some cups of the Emerald Cup, which was also very controversial
But that was
The business biotech Inc. I believe that was a customer that worked with
NAPRO so they're separate entities just to be clear
But NAPRO did the scientific research?
That helped to facilitate the breeding program that ended up producing those results
Okay, so this right here is not a great data set but it's a data set it shows
These are potency trends from confiscated cannabis samples from
1995 to
2019
This right here marks
hemp legalization
Wow, okay. Yeah, that's interesting that there is a dip but hemp. Yeah
Okay, and and you would think though confiscated
Goods would actually be somewhat of an accurate reflection of what was going on in the market
It's not it's not the Mississippi University stuff
It is and it isn't I didn't include all of the
This one shows the clearest trend line. And so I cheated I
Could have picked there were two other
images that are much more complicated and I think part of it is that I
Can't be entirely sure I didn't really look at the
At the data said again, it's been a while since I really looked at this about a year ago or six months ago. But um
The data just looked fucking stupid it looked like for domestic samples the
trend line
For here was down like this like wait
like the reason this line technically is depressed the way that it is is
Because there was this trend line that basically stays stable and static at like below
5% and I was like, well, but like not
Who's smoking that and I think it goes to like here actually
Technically and the difference is that they stopped eradicating
Ditch weed at that point. So I think they were fucking up with data on domestic
cannabis by
Including ditch weed in their sample set. So you have like this
Here where you have a much higher rate of 3% or under
THC varieties, I think part of that is being skewed by ditch weed, but that said
This trend line when they stopped doing that still shows the same fucking thing, which is a fucking
Just astronomic curve like yeah, there's a dip but like here, you know what that dip is
this is
This kind of correlates pretty closely to the people really fucking figured out what CBD was
Okay
2010 to 2012 was like early project CBD time like maybe
2008 2009 the very first samples were tested in the California rec market, but like
Here you have some leveling off and then you have an enormous fucking takeoff which is
Correlated to but in
There, you know associated with the California rec market coming online
It looks like but basically the point is is that these this trend line shows?
Significant increase in THC. We all know that there was a significant pressure for
Selecting THC. We also know that nobody was doing regression analysis or you know
Very few people were doing regression analysis on large-scale populations, but we're instead doing recurrent selection
for
Really when you talked about what's XD and what's the importance of the X X B or whatever in the?
the selection differential in the breeders equation
just by constantly selecting in the higher upper threshold of
THC percentage as a phenotype usually through a bioassay of people, you know had smoke and shit
We were able to create this sort of gain in the trade expression
You know all things being equal and recognizing this is an in precise data set
You know, this is by no means a actual study where you can make a one-to-one causal claim
But you can see the trend line here and the intense increase in THC percentage
And if you break it down this data like the highest THC
Percentages were actually like there were some crazy 30 high 30s
In the mid 90s that happened. So like it doesn't just track to where it's like
You know, oh
Now now everything's over here like you can see where different
high THC varieties have been
Sampled in the population or out of these samples and very low as well. It's it's this all comes from
the
University of Mississippi's fucking program on tracking potency
Which is all again kind of what we talked about earlier today
at the start where we were talking about how a lot of this information has been tracked by
the cops and the information that we have is
You know
Kind of determined by their input
Yeah, not always fully invested in accurate as long as it gets a conviction but so serves as a guideline serves as a guide
Yeah
So this is Hillig and
Malberg they really just point out that there's a qualitative and quantitative
Dynamic to
Cannabinoid
Inheritance or expression and really the qualitative characterization involves determining a plant's
Ratio, so the chemotype that idea of like it's a one-to-one
Mixed chemotype that's a qualitative characterization
making a
characterization of a pure
THC or a pure CBD or a pure CBG variety
All of those are chemotypic distinctions that are qualitative there
They're isolating the different qualities of the traits that are discrete
Qualities that they either do or do not have or you know
They're either a mixture of the two in the terms of the mixed chemotype or they're divergent
He also addresses the qualitative nature of the trade I think it's been very
This whole idea that de Maher established
It's just it's kind of this was old old hat
Yeah
Van Bethel and Weavelin
updated it and
introduced the idea of more of a qualitative or quantitative inheritance
But now here we get to the more
The part two so
cannabinoid expression and inheritance has gotten much more complex as genomic research has developed and
What we've found is there's the work of McKernan and Bergara
Looking at copy number variants. I've mentioned this a couple of times, but basically this is
Different genes that are copied multiple times across the genome and
They've been shown in a number of different other species
Not talking about
cannabinoid genes specifically but in other species copy number variants have demonstrated an increase in
secondary metabolites
And so that's an area of emphasis
McKernan's looked at it Bergara's done some work there
Grosser has done some interesting work. There's a very
Very interesting findings in that paper that looks at a specific set of QTLs
They also challenged the copy number variant hypothesis. They think that
The variation is much more
potency is explained by
Like I had mentioned earlier some of those precursor upstream metabolic pathways
And then the Campbell paper is fucking crazy like this is where shit gets really complicated
This paper looks at
Yeah, I'll just wait until I get there it's wild
So
Bergara looks at copy number variants and like I said looks at how basically every
Species has these
It's a fast way of acquiring diversity
rapid adaptation strong selection pressures and a key component of genetic variation within species
so we have a very adaptive and
plastic species that we're dealing with cannabis is
Incredibly adaptive to all sorts of different environments and it's developed all sorts of different mechanisms for
Making it so it's adaptive in these different environments copy number variants are probably one of those things
It's not a big surprise that
cannabinoids, which it's the only plant that produces them particularly
At the numbers or the quantities that it produces them
It's probably got some sort of evolutionary adaptive function
and as
Selective pressure ie either
environmental pressures or human selective pressure
These number copy number variants have increased and there are some studies that indicate that it is a response to human selection
Two major cannabinoids THC CBD are products of three-step biochemical pathway. We saw that earlier
Using whole genome shotgun sequence data for 69 varieties
They found genes encoding for synthase in this pathway varying copy numbers
So that was an early study looking at it
this is really one of like McKernan's work with the Jamaican lion and their
genome sequence information and
reference genome
They've really done a lot of work at medicinal genomics and have published a number of really really cool papers
the findings in this one are
One confirmed the idea that copy number variants for
THC synthase are
Present in cannabis that there's quite a few of them and that this could explain increased potency or increased THC production
But what they also find which is very interesting is that there is a link between
there's a genetic linkage between
THC copy number variants and
So, yeah here this identified multiple copy number variants governing governing cannabinoid expression in 82 genes
associated with resistance to
Fuck I was wish Matthew was here. I have no idea what I wouldn't even know where to begin with that one
powdery mildew
Okay. Yeah, so this
aka
powdery mildew so
Results indicate the breeding for plants with low THC
concentrations may result in deletion of pathogen resistance genes a refined genetic map of
Variation in cannabis can guide more stable and directed breeding efforts for desired chemotypes and pathogen resistant cultivars
So this is really cool. And the thing I just skipped over is also cool
So low THC cultivars have a polymorphism every base
If every 51 bases while
dispensary grade THC cannabis
Exhibited variant every 73 bases. So what that means
If you have more variation in low THC ie hemp varieties
than you do in
high THC
Dispensary varieties so there is less variety here in the dispensary grade right
Varieties
Then there is in these low THC varieties and that's because selection pressure has been more
intense here
Reducing the number of overall base
polymorphisms
Okay, yeah that makes sense we you know
We went away from those low THC cultivars because they didn't do what the consumers wanted. So who needs them?
Yeah, and
Here for this there's been a lot of intensive breeding in selection
And so the people the stuff that you get at the dispensary has been put under a pretty intensive selection that's resulted in
You know
fewer polymorphisms
Then you see in varieties with lower THC. So lower THC is typically a sign of
less selection pressure and
High THC is a sign of high selection pressure. So these are the things we've been selecting for
These are not
Sorry jump on in oh
No, you're fine. I was
Yeah, you you said it the way that I meant to say it, but the words did not come out of my mouth
No, I actually after I said it I was like fuck. I just repeated what he just said
We're all good
So grasa et al had some very interesting findings. This is 2018. I think it's actually
2021 but this was from the pre-print same paper either way
This is them questioning the idea that copy number variants of
THC genes are the are responsible for the variation that's being seen so
What they found or what they say is none of the five separate QTLs that they identified for total cannabinoid
Content or potency were associated with cannabinoid synthase genes clusters
For example, the strongest QTL for potency accounting for 17% of variation in cannabinoid
Content was located on chromosome 3 rather than chromosome 9 this suggests that traits
or genes
Gene regulatory elements not linked to cannabinoid synthase gene clusters affect cannabinoid quantity
to a greater extent than synthases themselves
Then the next thing
They go on to explain we might expect gene expressing other metabolic enzymes
Upstream of THC and CBD in the cannabinoid
pathway to be associated with
Potency and they identify specific ones. So the hexane a pathway the methyl
thrive called
phosphate path the map map pathway and
the GPP pathway and
Yeah, and so all of these they've identified specific ones
and
They locate genes in our assemblies and verified their expression
We then compared their physical map position with our genetic map and found two candidate gene proximal
potency QTLs the gene coding for
Aae1 the last enzyme of the hexanate pathway is located at
39.7
Centimorgans, so this is you know, we talked about centimorgans and linkage maps
so on this chromosome on earth
at
39.7 centimorgans on chromosome 3
There is this gene and it's associated with
17% of the variance in potency, which is quite a bit
relatively speaking
then
Particularly anytime you're talking about the genetic factor controlling a trait like we saw those heritability
Numbers a lot of that is that
genetic control for that trait
So this right here controls
17% of the trait that you're seeing expressed phenotypically, which is
even though it's
Doesn't sound like a lot. We're not talking about it couldn't
There's a very low probability that it could ever reach 100 is what I'm trying to say
The gene coding for
this badass
HDR
The last enzyme in the meth pathway is located at 1.61
centimorgans from a QTL
On the X chromosome that is associated with 9% potency variance now this
Dope so X chromosome makes this a sex length trait
The fact that this is present on the X chromosome means that if this were on the Y chromosome
if they had found
the
this gene on
the Y chromosome
Then you would have a male sex length trait on the Y chromosome
That explain 9% of potency variance
Which would be a really really really good reason to breed with males
But it's on the female the X chromosome, which is a good reason to breed with females
Yeah, that's kind of what I was
Thinking here is does that is that some sort of indicator that?
Potency typically passes on from a female. I mean it's a
Gene that controls 9% of the potency is
Connected to the X chromosome. It's on the X. Okay, so
it's going to be present in a
In an XY like in an XY
It's not necessarily going to be present
It's not necessarily going to be present there is always the possibility because of the
The chromosomal system of the X and the Y so you're always going to have at least one X present even with males
however, if you're breeding with two females, you're increasing the propensity that you're going to have a gene that codes for
Potentially 9% of potency variance
So if you're combining two females
You're probably going to increase the probability that you're going to increase potency as
opposed to reduce potency because
this sex length trade now I can't get like
This is me guy reading the paper and being like I'm pretty sure logic
Allows me to deduce this right haven't tested this in any way
I can't say for certain but I can say that we have some
pretty good
like
You know anecdotal evidence to support this claim along with the other
anecdotal evidence that we have to support the claim regarding light sensitivity and
magnetic expression like I
Mean, I would I have a fucking really dumb fucking old, you know
Takashi 69 mean where he's testifying and
all your favorite seeds are bad seeds because like
OG chem
cookies like they're the vast majority of the gene pool right now and
Most they came out of that like the origin story is
You know
accidental mistake
fucking crosses and bag seeds
They are and that's interesting because people do like them for their potency, you know, it's nothing hits like the real cam dog
But again bag seed presumably was a herm on a female female the tippy Wow
That's that's an interesting argument again
There's always gonna be pluses and minuses but that's another kind of interesting argument for people going the selfing route
as
Far as maybe trying to increase potency in a particular line
Interesting. Okay
So we've learned else soy so also we've wins up in I believe
Minnesota
University of Minnesota, but he works with
Muhammad
But I don't want to put your dudes first name El Sol he I believe is his last name
He's the guy that runs the fucking
You miss and has ever since
Carlton Turner left to her Tucker took off to whatever his name is went and became Reagan's drugs are
Anyways, I digress
They published a paper. This paper was looking at
Predictable inheritance of
chemotype when crossing a
feral
industrial hemp and a
Like drug variety and
They found
They confirmed that there is a QTL that controls the trade
That there's at least five different chroma. It's on at least five different chromosomes
But that was just in reference to the gross of paper that we just looked at
and
that
Yeah, there was something that I thought had been interesting about this paper, but it's not it's just another one proof
Campbell this paper fucking is bananas, so
Unlike previous research we note non additive components. So that's epistasis of cannabinoid inheritance
Concentration of THC is a polygenic trait three or four genetic factors
Both additive and dominance
I
Can't remember what CGE but it's genetic
Something yeah, I can't remember what CGE stands for
But it best explains THC expression patterns in contrast
cytoplasmic genomes and additive genes may influence CBD concentration maternal additive and
effects and additive genetic effects apparently influence CBC expression conclusion
Cannabis inheritance is more complex than previously associated among other genetic effects cytogenetic and
maternal contributions may be undervalued influences on cannabinoid ratios and concentrations, so
this is a whole nother level of
variability that we're not just dealing with the
nuclear genome you're also dealing with these
solely maternal influence here of
Cytoplasmic genomes and
Yeah, so that this also
adds to the grosses
paper and
provides additional explanation for how the influence of additive maternal effects
Could influence at least CBC expression
but when you go into the paper if they go pretty deep and I gotta say like I
Read this I think yesterday
and it was kind of like a mind blower in terms of
Adding a whole nother level of complexity to
What I mean like I'll be honest like this part of I thought I understood
a
Lot of this stuff and like, you know as cool as this passage right here about
The presence of this gene on the X chromosome was right. I was like, okay
This is within like what I was expecting. I wasn't expecting to also consider
Okay, we also have to look at the cytogenetic effects. We have to look at
essentially, what is the CP the
chloroplast and the
mitochondrial DNA and the effect that that's adding and contributing to this trade expression and
you know, it's
It really is layers on layers on layers of complexity
And when you start like peeling the onion back and really looking at this stuff
it's so incredible that people were able to like the one people were able to like
Make food crops and like make them do what they did with those and that like we can eat
but then like with this plant like
The just that graph of like potency and cannabis. It's like how complex this shit is
Wow and like perhaps some of the stuff that we were doing all along that we didn't necessarily
You know, we didn't have all of the tools to discern what we were doing
We were just simply smoking it and saying yeah that works. Yeah, I like that
We were doing the things that these people are
now
Elucidating and like they're illuminating what we've done and the work that cannabis breeders have done for generations and
Are explaining to us?
shit that we did without necessarily having the scientific
Ability to characterize and articulate what we were doing
Yeah, we had the almost just had that third sense of doing it and it was you know
Is rapid or intense farming as well, you know
Sometimes it takes a while to develop the new corn variety or the new apple variety or whatnot
But this was pretty intensive farming, you know every run you're pulling that
You know what you perceived as the higher THC or you know
The better stone you're pulling that one out and getting rid of the you know
What maybe CBD and and I'm curious to on that last study. I'll have to look at that
I'd be curious if for the
Maternal contributions may be undervalued and the effects of cannabinoid ratios
I'm curious if they cited the previous paper to get that
Information in there or if they came to the conclusion through their own means. Yeah. No, it looked like it was on their own
they made a lot of references to
To D Maher and to other authors, but it seemed like they were
like a lot of this
The stuff about like
non additive and additive
Components seem to be really unique to their particular method of analyzing this this issue
and like
There's this paper in the mudge paper and a couple others that have looked at different
Omics that I think are some of the things that are really they're changing the way that we understand
And they're really like changing the level of analysis like they're taking individual
Like trichomes and
using that as the
Cell that they're then doing the genetic. They're like literally trying to isolate
just the
transcript information that's going on in the trichome cell and
Understanding what's going on as
the
RNA is
translating the DNA to make it so that the it produces the proteins and the enzymes that are
producing the end results that we know as
you know THC a or
different terpenes and the fact that they're getting that level of resolution and like
That we have a plant where you really have to do that level of analysis like looking at the leaf tissue isn't all that
informative if
You're really wanting to look at you know, the specificity of how and what?
Is going on at a genetic level inside the trichome and if that's really what the fuck you it's all about
which is so much of the ballgame in our plan not to say that the leaves aren't important, but like
You got to have that level of discernment and
also some of that terpene analysis
it's I
Guess the roots have some very unique and specific
terpene genes
or
Expression in root
cells
This is this picture is just a another indication or another
demonstration of the chromosomes and
How they're being the linkage maps are being drawn out on them and again I tried to
explain this earlier, you've got your autosome your sex chromosomes and
Yeah, and it's a diploid plant so each one of those is
Got a
Double chromatin
This one shows that right here. Sorry, you can jump in any time Chad
Yes, no, you're good, I'm sorry, I just unmuted there for a second but yeah, we're all we're all good keep going. Thanks
But so this right here this mate is another representation of kind of what we just saw
here you have a
Genetic map there is where is it in?
So basically this zone right here shows that
Genes responsible for
Chemotype on chromosome 9 are under selection in marijuana populations and have been the targets for introgression
vibrators, so
This is we've been doing heavy selection and when they do
These sort of genetic tests they can see okay
This area is under intensive selection and it's up regulating for the expression of those genes
because
Breeders are actually trying to select for these and part of the way they're able to do that is by looking at that
those base pairs, so the differential and base pairs is part of the analysis there and
Here it's very clear that on this particular chromosome so chromosome 9
They're able to see a particular segment of the chromosome
where
Particular where selection has been intensive or cannabinoid some days
So, yeah, we covered cannabinoids we've covered turps
Flowering time some interesting papers are coming out on that
Schilling really just says hey, it's possible to do this the pan 2021 papers very interesting this talks about
Constans like gene family. This is one of those gene families that's found in a lot of different crop species. It's been
Characterized in pretty much every other crop species and because of that they're able to find similar analogs in cannabis
And this paper does some of that work
and
Then the name feel at all
2021 we looked at this. This is the paper that did some of the work on
Specific
Broad sense heritability in cannabis for traits like yield and dry flower yield and
High even a number of different traits
Like I said Schilling said this shit's possible. Oh
But yeah, and they also explained like how to do it
So it remains to be seen how complex traits will be determined in cannabis, but taking inspiration from the success
Successful elucidation of complex traits and maize may motivate the formation of sophisticated
multi-parent mapping populations such as
nested associated mapping or
Multi-parent advanced generation
intercross
magic
populations, so
these are different breeding programs or
Populations that you can create through breeding that will elucidate
These traits and this is how we're going you would create these populations and then you would track the traits
in this instance flower time
over these different populations to be able to
infer
Well one to determine on this level
The actual markers associated with the trait
absent marker associate
Marker assisted breeding you can do it through inference using the methods that we talked about earlier
So pan et al 2021 did some of this work and
They were able to demonstrate the flowering period of plants as a complex quantitative trait
Lots of shit going on lots of environmental factors that also influence so there's a lot of variability here between genotypes and environments
Studies have shown that constant light
COL is an important regulator of plant response to photo periods and is a core element in the regulation and plant flowering
Unfortunately, I didn't cite the more relevant
Part to our interest, but I believe they found a specific number of genes that are associated with it and characterized those genes
and now we have the ability to start to build out much like the terpene synthase genes a whole
Architecture and there's really good images. I couldn't really fit any because they were too big on the turf
But I think it's a good idea to start with a specific number of genes
There's good images showing the phylogeny and how all of these different
genes are not just like
Associated and cannabis, but like with all other species that also have these same analog genes
So name feel this is the this
This is a very interesting paper, it's really worth going into and you know to the extent that you can apply some of these
Insights it's something that could actually improve
One standardization of data collection and
utilization of that data collection
and
One standardization of data collection and
utilization of that data collection
so a diverse population of 121 genotypes of high THC and balanced THC CBD ratio was cultivated under controlled environment and
13 parameters were measured
They found floral bud weight dry weight was
Positively associated with plant height and stem diameter, but not with days to maturation
So there's a negative correlation there the heritability of both plant height and days to maturation was relatively high
but plant height decreased during vegetative growth and
Basically you do this shit it could help improve. Oh, oh, yeah to advance breeding efficiency and prediction
Equations for forecasting floral blood, but
dry weight was generated given
Driven by parameters that can be detected during vegetative growth phase only so
Essentially, they're claiming that they created an equation and a prediction model that just using
vegetative growth information can help you predict your yield and different outcomes
Yeah, does that does that get into the chemotype as well or is that just
morphological aspects they really
Primarily look at morphological aspects there. They're basically looking at how to optimize yields
So this this is like a really good
Paper for
if that's your jam and you really want to like
Do data optimization to increase productivity and figure out ways of working on predictive
Equations that help you select genotypes that are going to be particularly productive
This is the paper you want to read like this shit. It's laps
and
Like I said, we've seen this already. This is the broad-sense heritability of
different traits and
Yeah, this is I this is the only time or the first paper
I've seen that actually does that in the cannabis and that's the end of our jam
Damn yeah
Well, yeah you tell this is this is pretty cool this is coming up this week
Are you gonna be one of the speakers for the virtual acroponics?
I'm not but my homies like so many homies on this list great people and
Ponics is a really great person
He's reached out to me. I hope to be on on the growing with fishes
podcast here soon and
Nice, just you know, it's it's one of those things where I am. I
Appreciate everything he's done
So many people on this this panel are just I can't
like
I cannot
Encourage people enough to like greater Steve. He was mentioned earlier. Yeah is
He's brilliant. He is
Incredibly nice human being which is also nice that like, you know
They're there are people who reach his level of accomplishment who aren't friendly to
Random folks and he is one of the nicest people around
That's awesome there he's a funny guy too I've never met him myself or had a one-on-one conversation
But I've seen him in a lot of interviews and he he's a pretty funny guy, too
So that's awesome. But yeah, this is it's an all-star lineup of
extremely knowledgeable people
it's free, which is huge and
You know if you thought our four hour five hour sometimes six hour show was a little bit too long
Strap on the diapers for this
Cuz you're not going anywhere. You you can be full for the entire weekend
So it's awesome thing that they've all come together and yeah put Ponix
Kind of a being the ringleader there. Yeah. Yeah, totally
So, you know, you know dragonfly shout out
Caleb coffee left cultivars great work is being done here
definitely
Definitely check out coffee left cultivars. They're doing work on IP with genetics and
Really trying to develop a framework that will help protect sort of a open source culture within the cannabis
genetics
Community so great can't wait to hear what he has to say
Chris Trump
You know a NF that's what's up
heavy days
Always great, you know the podcast listen to that shit
Wendy you know, she's paying that thing going hard doing big stuff. It's beautiful to see
Matthew Gates, he would have known how to pronounce every scientific term. I had trouble with tonight and
Just brilliant. I agree there one person. I would never want to play Scrabble with but I'd enjoy a cup of coffee
Dude it's done. And you know why it's because he knows all those small words, too
He's awesome, but yeah, and then you mentioned breeder Steve is kicking it off looks like Sunday morning
No, right early. So that's one like if you are still listening to this like 8 a.m
fucking
PST get on that shit
It's laughs
Judge blooms
Homie, he's good, dude
Kevin McKernan
Also, Dutch blooms like, you know, you catch him on on the roundtables
Yeah, he's a next Friday one week from today. We're gonna have Dutch blooms on here
We're gonna be talking about the regenerative conference
Conference is
Incredible like much props to everybody involved in because there's not a whole lot of spaces that still feel like they're
In and out of the community and I rolled up to the to the Mendo one
You know, I think it was 19 now 20, you know was before lockdown and
And we got down and you know good people and it was really good. Good to see everyone there. Mr. Bob Hemphill
All those folks who rolled through to the Mendo
and Kevin McKernan has been cited like
Dozens of times here tonight because his work with genomics is
incredible
Way back. There's a
YouTube video link check out that video. It's
Fucking it's really incredible his work
Clackamas food anybody. I haven't mentioned. I mean no disrespect. I just don't
Personally, but I'm sure they're incredible speakers given who they're speaking with
Clackamas coup is literally built like the fucking damn near every organic cannabis
Nutrient line
Industry is like riding on that guy's back
So
props to keep and
yeah, so I just wanted to give a shout out to my homies and
Everybody who's putting this on and making making it a thing Jordan River
Look, yeah
Moderating on the craft grower panel that's gonna be legit as well. So it's like literally like I just went through
24 48 hours or whatever. I think
But you know banging it's gonna be gonna be insane too and I see the the for the whoops wrong camera angle
But for the the home growers panel Scotty real Scotty real is one of the the personalities from the do grow show
He's a he's a freaking riot. I've been on their show a couple times and talked with him and that guy's a riot
So that'll be fun. That'll be interesting to catch too. I know that
The home grower panel there right before the craft panel
but yeah, that's man and the cool thing and the huge plus about that is
We're gonna have or it's gonna be
Available for replay on YouTube because there really are a lot of people I'd love to catch there
But I don't have that much time in the day. So I know I'm gonna catch a lot on the replay
Yeah
No, so that you know, check that out and thank you everyone for listening if there's any questions or anything
Yeah, toss toss them up toss them up here at the end if you guys have any
I know I want to send you know a big shout out and a big thank you to mr. Toad. Mr. Toad's been in chat
All night. He's been holding it down. He's been offering great information to everybody
So it's like we it's the third panelist on the show this evening. So shout out to you brother. Thank you
Thank you. No, I couldn't ask for anybody better to like
Anything I can't cover with the interface of chat like I know you hold it down
He's holding it down
Down here. So thanks for another epic show sun-grown
Definitely putting out some epic information man. And again, I'm glad it's available for replay, too
Because you know, I've got I got I've got my notes. I'm writing along. Whoo. There we go. I'm writing along as we go
And I'm picking stuff up each time this is awesome and I really appreciate it
I know there's other people out there that are getting the same benefit out of it and
You're you're an ace at what you do as far as being able to get a message across. It's not
Very easy sometimes when you're dealing with complex subjects
But I feel that you you you you put it across in a good way and you give the
References of where we can go explore more. So I always appreciate that too
Because you can't you can't cover it all and that's a hard thing as kind of an educator or a person
Talking about these things is sometimes you you want to qualify everything that you say, but if you do that
you
You spin your wheel sometimes I guess you know, so it is it is a skill
totally, it's a
You know, it's one of those things where?
statistics and footnotes
Pretty fraught, but I feel like
All this information is like the slideshow
Same thing as last time. I'll put it up in like the folder
All the source material I'll put all that to you
I mean, it's all in there, but like it's all over the fucking place
so like if you already have the file folder that I like reference and share with people like
You don't know what I'm talking about
I'm talking about a Google Drive with a lot of information that I used to make all of these presentations
And it makes it so I can do it quickly and to organize but
sometimes organization
Beats the purpose of organization and it becomes like I've created too many folders
You know, I can't find where like, yeah, there's one paper
I'm looking for one paper and I just fucking cannot find it because it explains the phenomenon that we talked about a genetic threat
You mentioned that earlier. Yes. Yeah, I don't know where it is. It's a great paper. I posted it on Instagram once
I can't find it. It's gone. But like
That that paper is a very interesting paper and it talks about that variation in
like genetic variation in clone plants and like also the difference between
taking the clone at the top of the plant the middle of the planet bottom and like the amount of
mutation that somatic
mutations that build up
Yeah, Wow
That would be interesting because you know a lot of times that conversation of top middle bottom for clones is framed around the
Hormones at them to make it root faster
that's a lot of times with the conversation or like the practical application is but
Mutations
Interesting. Yeah, I'd love to find that paper. I'd love to have a conversation even just specifically about that because genetic drift genetic mutation
Talked about for as long as I can remember
It used to be an absolute absolutely happens and then it turned into no, it doesn't really happen
But if your plant gets sick, it's gonna remember that and that's how things degrade
And this kind of sounds like it's adding a new plot twist to it. Yeah
So that would be interesting the best part of the plot twist is like
You know people people have talked about it for so long and we've used that as a
Tools we had I think a phenomena, you know, and like trying to be like well
God even genes are changing or some shit. So I understand why people said it people you sometimes would be shitty
But like
I
I
Turns out that the thing that a lot of times people have been
Cuckooed for mentioning the idea because in theory of clones the clones the clones the clone
actually, there is some genetic variance there and
Being able to discern that and talk about it and have the right term so that when we go to a scientist and say hey
I'm gonna make a clone
And
That's not a thing but if they're conversant in the subject
This is kind of what's going on in other
And so it's just, it was really,
it was one of those things where that paper in particular
was like, holy shit.
This thing we've been missing for fucking 30 years
of talking about this phenomena,
where there's actually a word for it.
I can't fucking, I'm like.
And it'll come to you hopefully tomorrow afternoon
and you'll be like, ah, all right, April this year,
gotta go back.
But yeah, as a person who goes clone to clone to clone
because I don't have the plant count or the room.
Yeah, totally fascinated.
I'd love to find that, love to read it, love to discuss it.
Maybe we could do a study group or something about that one.
Definitely, I think that would be awesome.
I really appreciate this and appreciate everyone
for taking it with us.
I managed to smoke basically all five.
Good job, it's a thorough, thorough job.
Congratulations, man.
And again, I truly appreciate your time
and your effort for putting this together
and coming and talking to us
and kind of educating us all, not only tonight,
but really throughout the week
on Future Cannabis Project and FCPO2.
So may big buds be bountiful for you, brother.
I had to throw another B in there.
Likewise, yeah, no.
Good times, thank you so much for everything you do
to hold me down on this.
Awesome, man, my pleasure.
And with that, actually,
this whole time I've been flashing,
I do have your Instagram kind of going up.
Is that the best place to find you
or is there anything else that you'd like to get out there,
shout out or anything like that?
Yeah, I mean, I am on IG.
I do write, it had been a weekly,
but that pace just wasn't,
I wasn't producing as well as I like for the Beard Bros
on the weekly pace, so I slowed it down.
I also write for Skunk Magazine,
so shout out to Beard Bros, Skunk Magazine.
Shout out to Peter and Gaga Gardens now,
Gaga.Garden.
Gaga.Gardens, what did you say before that?
I thought you said Bieber.
Oh, Peter.
Oh, Peter, okay, God, I thought you said Bieber.
I'm like, where's he going with his shout outs, man?
Shout out to Bieber.
Britney Spears, she's free today, shout out.
Yeah, shout outs to my peeps.
But no, Peter with Gaga.Gardens
and thank you for everything you're doing there, man.
Yeah, check out all the seeds
and all the products on there.
Genetics, Jay Toucan is on there.
I don't know if you all know him,
but if you don't, check his gear out.
Lots of very cool old school genetics coming from him.
He's been on some recent podcasts.
If you can listen to him talk, it's definitely worth it.
And I think it's Bird Seed Preservation
is the seed company, but he goes by Jay Toucan on the gram.
But yeah, and Jimmy Myers,
he's worked with the same ADAG13 hat plan as me.
We've done a lot of, we share a lot of genetics
and somebody who just, I mean,
if he ever had time to get on and do an IPM podcast
or episode, like.
Be a gig.
Yeah, like him and Matthew Gates are like
all-star team there.
But yeah, so there's so many cool people
that are involved in all this.
You know, Code, holding it down, like everything.
All y'all doing big shit and I appreciate you
and it's really good to see everybody,
like, you know, just all the breeders on there
and also all the different, like, you know,
people populating the space and bring home-growing networks
and different people together so that, you know,
we're figuring out ways to do sort of collaboratively
the shit that we talked about during the presentation.
Yeah, it's a good community.
It's a good collaborative effort too.
And you know, it doesn't really matter age,
but you know, it's like you're able to teach people
that are new coming into the space,
whether they're 45 or 25,
but teaching them this information
and kind of some of the, you know, the ways,
hopefully it's gonna lead to a better future
for the community that we want to see.
So, you know, you gotta lay out a map.
Yeah, yeah.
And also, you know, shout out to everybody
who did it before, you know, like all the people who have,
because some of this is reiterated.
We're going through another process
where there was like folks like old timer,
folks like, you know, cheap six turtles.
There was a, yeah, no, if you go back into old scentsy tips
and like old books, like the earlier magazines,
a lot of the breeding information was coming from him.
Like there were cats that were like,
that have laid all this foundation out before.
And, you know, every five, 10, 20 years,
it's like, we have to go through that cycle again,
because there's new people who haven't necessarily,
who weren't there, who didn't hear it from those folks,
but like, you know, so it's just,
I appreciate everyone who's been part of that process.
And I've learned so much from all of the different people
who've already like sort of fought in this path,
but it's definitely helps them.
Yep, yep.
The OGs, you know, the Frenchie cannolis of the world
who left this space a better place even after they're gone.
So shout out to the knowledge, RIP Frenchie.
And I guess that's, that'll wrap it up for this evening.
I am a Chad.Westport on Instagram.
You can find me ChadWestport.com.
And you can find me all over here
on future cannabis project, FCP02.
Deuces, part do, part do is done.
I appreciate it, man.
We'll say peace out, the deuce out.
