All right, welcome everybody. We are back for another installment of the Zenthanol IPM series.
We've covered some great topics in the past. Definitely check out the playlist on
FCP02, the Zenthanol IPM series, but we've got a new one for you today. So we're adding to the list. Mr. Matthew Gates,
A, how are you doing? And B, what are we talking about today?
I'm doing really great. Been very productive lately.
And today we're going to be talking about bud rot in general, and we'll go over some of the fungi that are responsible for it,
how they're able to do what they do, and
how you can mitigate that.
Well good, because that's something that we all struggle with at various points of the grow too. It's not just
post-harvest. Sometimes it's on the vine as they say, but you've arranged a little presentation for us today.
Hopefully we can get into that. I see everybody's starting to roll into chat. Big up Rob, Mad Dogs, Dadwin,
THC Garage. Thank you for joining us today.
It's time to get our learning on. So pen,
paper, let me turn it over to you, Mr. Gates.
And we'll pull up this presentation here for everybody too. So don't forget you guys can catch this all on replay.
You don't have to absorb it all the first time. We do our best to do that, but hey,
sometimes you got to go back and listen again. That's all right.
And let me add this to the stream here. And all right, go full screen with it. Take it away.
All right. Well, thank you very much everyone.
My name is Matthew Gates.
Today we're going to be talking about botrytis and other agents of bud rot,
a fungus disease in cannabis. We're going to be talking about a few different things. One of which is that, for example,
not all botrytis is harmful and not necessarily all of the species that we're talking about are actually as bad as we might think.
Specifically because there's a great variety of different strains of different species out there. And we're also going to be going over how
basically
botrytis and other necrotrophic fungi are able to trick plants into basically killing themselves.
And that's one of the reasons that they're very difficult to resist and to create sort of strategies for.
But despite all of that, there are some mitigating
factors we can employ. And we're going to be talking about some of those that work again on bud rot fungi in general.
Not just sort of treatment sprays and things like that, but
environmental conditions that we'd want to avoid or facilitate, as well as other things that might even be speculatively
interesting for the future.
A little bit about myself first. I am the founder of Zenthanol Consulting.
I've been supporting people as integrated pest management specialist for about 12 years now.
Most of my experience has been in cannabis at this point.
But I've also worked in tea when I was in China, as well as roses, lilies, and peppers.
I have the educational YouTube channel Zenthanol, where you can find a lot of the
videos and information that I like to talk about as a free reference with regards to pests like my pest primer videos.
You can also contact me or find other things that I find interesting on Twitter and Instagram
with my handle at SinkAngel.
A few things that I've done very recently. Last year
I contributed to two different chapters, two different books about phytopathology.
One of them was about basically mite and insect pests of cannabis in the USA, and the other one was about viral diseases of hemp.
I also wrote a
article about bud worms for Skunk Magazine's Fall 2022 issue.
I wrote an article for High Times about six common cannabis pests and how to identify them and treat them.
I was recently on the Homegrown Co.
podcast talking about everything I needed to know, or that you needed to know, rather, about cannabis plant pests.
To give a brief overview,
there's about 40 species of Botrytis out there.
Those species are arranged in a group that we call a genus, and then you have multiple genera that constitute one family.
They're in the family called Sclerotinaceae, and the most famous species is of course Botrytis cinerea, most people know.
It colonizes over 1,400 plant species, which is incredibly
broad for any real plant pathogen at all, and it can even exist asymptomatically or
vertically transmit from parent to seed, not just from having like spores on the seed hull, but actually being
physically in the tissue as an endophyte.
Some strains have been found to have positive effects on plant development, believe it or not,
and also,
so that's not confusing, Botrytis is actually a systemic
fungal pathogen, rather than another fungal pathogen like powdery mildew, which is not systemic.
It is just an epiphyte that grows on the surface of plants.
Botrytis cinerea can be what we call biphasic, so it switches between a lifestyle where it coexists with plant tissue,
which we call biotrophy, and then a lifestyle that is actively hostile to the plant tissue, which is necrotrophy, and
several other fungi colonize floral tissues as well, and they may also be called bud rot. A lot of people
will see the gray mold and they'll think, oh, it's Botrytis, even I've said that before,
but you don't actually know, and you can even have multiple species at the same time. Sometimes one
fungal parasite opens the door for other
opportunistic pathogens that might be more common in that opportunistic role, rather than being a primary parasite, if that makes sense.
Botrytis comes from the name Botrys, or the word Botrys in Greek, which means like a cluster specifically of grapes, and
itis is, of course, disease, and
cinerea is sort of a Latin derivative from the word cinereus, which means ashy, so ash
cluster or ashy clusters, kind of what the genus and species name mean together.
Botrytis has been estimated to cause between about 10 to 100 billion dollars USD in agricultural damage
per year on the global scale, which is a massive amount of damage,
and Botrytis cinerea associates even with marine macroalgae.
About six endophytic strains have been found in knapweed, for example, so as you can see Botrytis has gotten around, and it's a very capable
even colonizing
non-parasitically like some of the more primitive plants out there like macroalgae. And again for those who are just joining my
presentations and are not familiar,
it's very common for me to color code the text with the sources for those texts at the bottom,
so if you're curious to read or learn more about the things that I'm talking about, you can
look at those research reports and other sorts of references to get a better idea.
Here's an example. Anyone who's grown grapes could probably see the resemblance that I see
with, especially with the conidia forest on the right here.
They kind of look like the very first beginning fruiting parts of a grape cluster,
right before, way before you even have like the berry,
you know, to kind of like grow out of it.
And you can also see the middle here on the left some spores as well, Botrytis spores.
There are several causes of bud rot that we'll be talking about. One of course is Botrytis that we've already
spoken about a bit, has a wide range of hosts and ecology, and it's usually a systemically parasitic
pest. There are species like of course Botrytis cinerea, which also has a synonymous name like
Botrytina fucaliana. Botrytis pseudocinerea is another one, Botrytis pori, and these are in the family Sclerotinaceae.
Now we have Sclerotinia. Many of these are also systemic parasites.
Some have a very large host range, but others have very much more narrow host range, and they infect stem, leaf, and root tissue.
Some examples include Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, which also colonizes cannabis,
but also other species like Sclerotinia nivalis, Sclerotinia borealis, Sclerotinia synarctica. These are in the same family.
Diaportha has also been documented. These species can be parasites, endophytes, which implies usually a non-parasitic lifestyle,
and saprophytes, which
they colonize basically decaying organic matter,
or dead organic matter, which they made them decay.
Some are found even on hop as a new threat, not of cannabis, but of hop, although speculatively
maybe that will also be a new threat.
Some examples are Diaportha aries and Diaportha subordinaria.
They're in the family Diaportha aceae.
Then we have a very big name in cannabis pathogen
nomenclature, Fusarium.
It's a very, very common plant, endophyte and parasite group, and it's known to colonize hundreds of plants.
Fusarium solani, Fusarium oxysporum, Fusarium aureus, Fusarium aureus, Fusarium aureus, Fusarium aureus, Fusarium aureus,
Fusarium solani, Fusarium oxysporum, Fusarium proliferatum, Fusarium graminearum,
Fusarium sporotrichoides, and they're all in the family Nectria aceae.
Then last we have Penicillium, commonly encountered as a bud rot agent in cannabis,
but it's often an opportunistic parasite, although I don't think that necessarily means it can't be a primary one.
So we have some example species out there like Penicillium citrinum,
Penicillium ulsanii,
Penicillium simplicesimum,
and Penicillium spathulatum, and these are in the family Trichocomaceae.
The factors that contribute to bud rot include
the development of the inflorescence, so your bract density, which we'll be going over in this presentation,
and also how trichomes may be an infection site, which is also common in other plants.
We'll also be going over the environment. High humidity and surface moisture and low air circulation facilitate germination growth,
and also how wounding
during harvest, handling, trimming, and through other means of processing, you can create exploitable physical damage for fungi to then infect.
So here are some basics of Necrotrophy. On the left in this diagram,
or this figure from the research report,
you have a Biotroph, which is very similar, and this species is very similar to
some of the powdery mildews you might find on cannabis. It penetrates a cell, or some Hyphae penetrate a cell,
that penetrating
agent becomes a sort of a bulb called a Hostorium. If you're interested to learn more,
I went over powdery mildew in the last session in this series, so you can check that one out.
Basically, it's the site of nutrient and other resource transfer from the plant into the fungus. The fungus becomes more
stronger, it penetrates more cells, and then that's how it expands.
For a Necrotroph, it starts off
with the living cells and kind of interacting with those in a way that doesn't
destroy them.
They might be suppressing the immune system. Certainly, they're secreting
compounds and things like this, but then suddenly, after they've gotten the right sort of like arrangements,
they then start to massively disrupt the cell at multiple points, destroy the cell,
or cause it to destroy itself, and then they sort of
absorb the nutrients
in that location, and then those Hyphae will then spread out amongst the tissue and basically repeat the process.
There are several general ways that Necrotrophic fungi work. They're generalizable.
The first one that we'll go over is this red
highlighted and red boxed area in figure one here.
This is the manipulation of reactive oxygen species. For those who don't know,
ROS production is a very natural
sort of response to stress, but it also happens through basic sort of metabolism.
Think about how even in your own body, your cells produce like waste product, and that kind of sort of
cumulates, right? So a similar thing happens in plants, but of course, if they're overstressed, they'll
oftentimes produce a lot more, and the regulation of this is very important. It can also be a signal, too.
So
if a lot of it is produced, it'll actually start to damage
a lot of the inner machinery of the cell.
And that's of course not going to be very good for the cell. So it makes sense that the fungus is able to
use this as a factor for
manipulating it, possibly even suppressing the production of it for certain
gains and then moving into
overdrive, essentially. The second thing are this
sort of orange box here.
This is the secretion of acid or ammonia to
increase or decrease the amount of oxygen that's produced.
Increase or decrease the
cellular pH. This is very important because various processes in the cell don't work if they're not kept to a certain pH.
And the regulation of this is very, very important for stability in that way.
Certain things get neutralized, certain proteins don't form correctly.
It's very bad. So
obviously, this sort of modulation is incredibly useful for the fungus at sort of
throwing a monkey wrench into the plans of the plant cell. The third thing is the mitigation of
toxins and other defenses. This yellow box here.
The main way that necrotrophic fungi do this is through what are called efflux transporters.
Basically, they're able to take the compounds and if there's no other way to neutralize them,
then they'll just kind of sequester them in a way that makes them get excreted out
quicker and easier without really damaging the fungus, which is pretty incredible.
So they have all of these sort of things going on to the benefit of things like Botrytis and other fungi.
Here's an interesting diagram that goes over this in more detail with a better visual.
These blue arrow
effectors are
things that disrupt the cell wall and the cell membrane, which is very obviously important for keeping the cell like
turgid and whole and functioning.
Disrupting the integrity of the cell is obviously not great for it.
But one of the biggest things that necrotrophic fungi do
like Botrytis is that they secrete these effectors in the apoplast and so in the intercellular space.
And so they are
received, some of which will then start to create a cascade
effect in the cell and initiate programmed cell death. So cells actually have this really ingenious way to
deprive certain parasites of access to their resources by destroying them.
This is especially useful for things like, against things like viruses, which need the cellular machinery to like replicate, right?
So if they don't have that, they don't really replicate or they don't replicate very much before the cell dies.
Cumulatively, this is good. The other thing that's good against is biotrophs like powdery mildew because again,
if a powdery mildew gets in and the very first cell that the spore
infiltrates
is able to be sort of like, you know,
destroyed first before it gets enough resources, then the sporeling kind of dies before it's able to infect more. So it kind of works out.
Unfortunately, that doesn't work at all against things like hemibiotrophs and
necrotrophs like botrytis, which can switch between the two.
So calcium influx is also a major factor of inducing programmed cell death as well. And they even suppress
the gene expression of the plant cell, which is obviously going to have a massive effect on the ability for
the
fungus, for the plant to fight off the fungus, right?
So, yeah, so all these things coming together, this is a very, very difficult thing for a plant to sort of
overmatch. I'm not going to go over all of these, but these are some examples of some of those factors.
One of which I'm going to mention here is that botrytis has been done to produce what are called small RNA,
which are basically little small fragments of pre-DNA
that will then go and bind with genetic material and sort of jam up their ability to produce a protein.
And so basically genetic expression is able to be
reduced. And in this case, this small RNA
reduces the expression of immune signaling genes, which is obviously not great for the plant.
Here's another example here. Basically, these little things called plant chitinases,
they dissolve parts of the fungal cell wall.
And they break those parts into a certain size that a receptor called CIRC1
uses to signal defense. You can see that on the right here on the diagram.
But
the fungus can use things called effectors with chitinase activity or EWCAs.
And those dissolve those parts too small to be used to bind with the receptor.
What that ends up doing is it makes the
immune response reduce or absent simply because they're able to make this
small part even smaller. And small little like arms races like these are all kind of happening constantly during an infection stage.
Now at this point, I want to make some things really clear that
you should really be verifying the information sources that you get because this is a pretty complicated topic.
And a lot of people don't really understand all the details.
And it can be kind of hard to sort of conceptualize or if you don't spend a lot of time looking at research reports
or working with scientists or things like this, it can become a little bit difficult.
But basically, this interesting social media interaction that I had had recently
over whether or not plants can be resistant to things like botrytis and that sort of thing, hemibiotropes,
sort of outlined some of these misconceptions that we already went over, in fact, some of them,
which is the idea that resistance is very common at the beginning infection.
None of the research I know sort of supports this.
The idea that like if you don't see any mold on a plant,
then that means that resistance or pathogen death is happening. That's not necessarily true. Maybe this forest didn't germinate
for whatever reason. Maybe some of the fungi were killed for other reasons.
Maybe they even had a hypovirulent virus in them, which we'll also be talking about in the presentation.
So there's a lot of factors that you can't see visually.
The idea that plants target endophytic botrytis,
there's not a whole lot of research for that, although there is the possibility that plants are using the same
silencing RNA to make things like botrytis,
sorry, to make things like botrytis
ineffective or not reach a parasitic phenotype, which is kind of fascinating.
But also the idea that
hypersensitivity response or
programmed cell death harms the nicrotrophe is definitely not true. Obviously, like I just said,
and what these excerpts sort of mention as well,
this is actually very important for nicrotrophe to be effective.
So, yeah, you know, just because you create a workshop or a conference
or attend one, it doesn't necessarily mean that you're an expert on the subject.
And if you go through and like do your due diligence and
get a second report or sort of a second opinion about things, check out the research, check out cited sources, ask for them.
I think that'll sort of protect you from misinformation in general.
So like here on the left, this excerpt talks about how there were many examples of
botrytis strains that were living in plants basically asymptomatically.
And when they were testing with one strain, they actually found several other strains that they had not put into this sort of plant as well.
So that was very fascinating to them.
The other thing here in this middle excerpt
highlighted very clearly, it talks about how nicrotrophes actively induce plant cell death.
This is not a
appropriate response of the plant to the fungus. This is an inappropriate response. It's co-opting
the programmed cell death machinery of the host using specialized effector proteins.
And the induction of the plant cell death using protonaceous effectors is vital for the success of infection.
Here is what I was talking about a little bit earlier about how
there are interesting research examples of plants potentially having the ability to silence
the expression of certain genes in botrytis, just as botrytis can do the same thing with plants.
So that's kind of interesting. If you're interested to see more of that, you can check out the cited research at the bottom here.
Now I'm going to talk more generally about the sclerotin-EAC family, which is where a lot of these bud rot pathogens
are from, or at least some of the main ones.
There's about 1800 species of plant hosts that are affected by this family of fungi. The name scleros
comes from Greek. It means hard.
Same after the structure called sclerotia.
They diverge from a common ancestor with the San Anguissier about 70 million years ago, as you can see
in this sort of phylogenetic tree diagram on the left.
They're adapted to cold, and this adaptation to cold played a large role in their range increase according to some research.
Most are known species of plant parasites, but not all. One of them, like Coprotinia minutula,
is a coprophile, which means that it colonizes, well, fecal material. And another one,
Myriosclerotinia, is, or at least some species are
a natural endo, or sorry, not natural, a neutral endophyte.
So they don't actually cause sort of a parasitic
or a pathogenic relationship that's damaging to the host.
Now I'd like to direct your attention to the bottom left.
This is a video about phototropism and photomorphogenesis. So basically
a morpho,
development in reaction to light and also development towards light, essentially.
Sclerotia are these structures that are rich in hyphal resources, and they're used to survive harsh conditions.
They can last for years, and they're mostly made up of oils.
So here you can see the development from the sclerotia from a Sclerotinia fungus.
Pretty, you know, pretty
extreme, right?
So yeah, that's what you're contending with if you have a fungus like this. And if it develops in your area,
you better make sure you don't have sclerotia in it. It can be very hard to do that, however.
So why is any of this technical information relevant to cannabis growers, right? It all does seem sort of complicated, I bet.
But here's the thing.
Adaptation toward a high host range and the ability to jump to new hosts took this group about 60 million years to do
naturally, according to the research we have. But,
as is true for many plant pathogens,
humans have radically increased the movement and proximity of host plants and parasites
in a fraction of a fraction of that time.
So this has facilitated adaptation. And we've seen again in multiple plant pathogens,
humans have been shown to have a great effect. I showed an example of this for powdery mildew.
And certainly it's true for sclerotinia as well and other sorts of pathogens.
Common generalists may develop specialized strains to cannabis. This has also happened in other crops.
And so it would make a resistance to plant defense
even easier to accomplish for these fungi if they're able to
constantly infect agricultural crops, even if they're not monocrops. In fact, anything we do is going to be somewhat of a selection pressure.
So the real strategy is to try to know your enemy and know what you can do to mitigate those issues
short-term, mid-term, and also long-term.
Another basic overview. This diagram on the right shows several things, but a few things that point out that I'd like you to point out is
that the ancestral group of these fungi, they existed on a plant group called the fabids,
and cannabis is in this large plant group,
that the sclerotinia typically specialize in one host family. If you have one species or genus,
they tend to be in only a few family
species that they colonize.
But there are some that generalize more than 10 families, which is actually massively diverse. It means that they have to obviously contend with many
conserved but also unique defense strategies of plants.
And a few Botrytis are seen here, are shown in the diagram, being non-pathogenic.
But also this group 3, which we'll see in another diagram,
depicted these Botrytis
groups, they jump to monocots or like grasses very early in their life history,
which may account for some of the unique adaptations that they have.
So this diagram shows diversity over an evolutionary time scale of about 70 million years.
Just a few things here. G3 is the youngest group and it's the most diverse, about 20 million years old.
So this may signal their adaptation ability.
Group 3 is able to jump to diversion hosts like we've already said, and Botrytis cinerea and sclerotinia, sclerotiorum,
specifically, are only about 5 or less than 5 million years old, which is very, very young
compared to the rest of the family.
So species with high host range, again, they may also share traits suitable to colonizing cannabis.
This diagram is interesting.
Basically, it shows that diversification increases with time, which is shown in A here.
We have all 70 million years and you're counting back up to 0,
which is the present, and you can see how the number of species sort of
hockey sticks, maybe around 20 or 30 million years.
Group 3 is also way more prone to diversification
and host jumping to unrelated plant species, which you can see very obviously in B.
They would say that most of this has happened around the 10 million year mark and just sort of skyrocketed.
And a global decrease in temperature and an increase in grasslands may have influenced the sclerotinia as well.
And many of us live in places that are or
were sort of large grassland areas.
And so that might also be a thing to consider when planning and considering where you're growing and how that context affects you.
We've also already seen that movement from nearby vegetable and grain crops to cannabis does happen in pathology reports.
So that is something to consider if you're a cultivator or if you live or grow in a place that is near agricultural space.
This graph is really interesting. It's basically showing the relationship between
many plant host families and the parasites that colonize them. You can see that several species are
you know, well, they're a lot more
larger in their host range than others are, especially the light blue ones and some of the darker blue ones as well.
Now I couldn't find Cannabaceae here, but I did see the Moraceae, which is closely related to the Cannabaceae
along with the Erdicaceae, which are the nettles. Moraceae are like the mulberries.
So species we already know are on cannabis are Petriacea cinerea, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, Sclerotinia minor.
And speculatively you might think that perhaps some species like Sclerotinia nivalis or snow mold
or Sclerotinia borealis or some of these other ones here that I've listed
because they have so many other species that they're able to colonize. Maybe they could have the capability
of diversifying onto cannabis. I don't know this and more research has to be done
but it's the kind of thing that is a potentiality. We've certainly seen it before.
So
how does it happen? How does Petriacea colonization happen? Well, traditionally
the model that most people know about is sort of like through spores getting onto leaves.
The plant surface,
they germinate on it, a sporeling is produced and it sort of disrupts plant cell function in the way that we described earlier.
Programmed cell death is then triggered. Chlorosis and necrosis develops on tissue as you can kind of see in A and the rest of the
diagram pictures.
And then the mycelium and spores spread to new cells and oftentimes new plants as well.
And like I've said already, Petriacea does infect floral as well as stem and leaf tissue and we'll have several pictures that kind of show that.
This thing on the right here is something called an infection cushion. If you're familiar with the powdery mildew's
penetration peg and apresaurium, this is kind of the same sort of thing.
This is basically their way of
creating a mass of tendrils that are able to physically but also chemically
disrupt the plant cell.
There's a lot of interesting things that the infection cushion does as well that's important for, well, infection.
But one of those things is that chitin is sometimes
deacetylated into chitosan, which is an interesting thing when you consider that some people use chitosan for
immune system priming.
And some people have theorized, some researchers think that this is actually in a way to avoid the host immune system in some way.
But there's other possible factors as well.
And yeah, I just thought that it's an interesting thing to mention since I know some people like to use chitosan.
There's a lot that Botrytis can use to
colonize the plant. I've already mentioned several things, but here's a few other examples here.
Basically, they rely on toxic compounds and proteins to either
directly damage plant cells, trigger the programmed cell death,
and suppress the immune response. So there's a lot of examples here. There are metabolites like Botrytia, butyric acid.
These actually work synergistically together
to really hamper
the immune system response, but also do direct damage to the plant cell. You have Bitractolone.
Oh, yeah, Botrylactone. Sorry about that. And Botrycinuric acid.
But you also have things like peroxide. You might not think it's typical, but yeah, they can produce oxides and these directly damage the
host cell machinery. You have cellulases that break down cellulose.
Cutanases that break down cutan, which is the sort of waxy
covering of plant
leaves.
So these are enzymes that break them down. You also have lipases that degrade lipids.
So those make up the energy stores in plant cells, but also the cellular membranes.
Pretty important to keep your integrity.
And you also have things called carbohydrate active enzymes. These degrade things like complex sugars.
Two other things. There's this HIP-1
protein called hypersensitive response inducing protein one.
This is a very, very potent inducer of programmed cell death that we're going to go over a little bit.
And also,
Necrosis and ethylene inducing protein one. This perforates the cell membrane.
It induces oxidative bursts, like the reactive oxygen species we were talking about. And also it creates a
multifaceted nuclear death, which sounds like the name of my next heavy metal album,
but actually refers to how it destroys the nucleus itself in the plant cell. Not great.
And then we've already talked about these small RNAs and how they bind with the host cell and the internal genetic material.
Here's an example of some of those chemistries that we were talking about, like botrivial and the various boxinins.
So yeah, plantcelldeath.exe. This is HIP-1. Here's the thing. Very recently, this protein was characterized in
Botrytis. And
basically, it seems like even if you get rid of all of these amazing other tools that the fungus has that really
makes it difficult for plants to resist them.
Even if you get rid of all those, this protein, simply by getting
well, simply by binding with the receptor on the plant cell, it causes a cascade reaction
that results in programmed cell death by itself. You don't have to damage the cell.
You don't have to do other things that harm the cell. You just have to have this protein get received at the
entrance and the cell dies.
That's pretty egregious. And honestly, I think it would make things a lot easier.
And perhaps explains why things like resistance to Botrytis is very difficult to
breed for in other plants.
Obviously, if it works on so many other plants that have probably very similar receptors in the plant cells,
this is probably a very big explanation as to why they're so effective.
But
we all know that the spores are sort of the starting of this issue.
So to talk about how we can mitigate them, we have to know what facilitates them and what inhibits them.
In this research report, they basically found that air temperature between 20 to 22 degrees Celsius was ideal
for Botrytis spore germination.
They mentioned that relative humidity of over 90 percent,
which means things like, you know,
associated with things like rain, mist, but also sprays for cannabis cultivators, I would say.
So it obviously helped increase the humidity.
Things like high plant surface dew point or where basically the condensation is able to be produced on leaves
or again through sprays, you might just have
sort of high moisture.
This is very good for spore germination.
So what we can do is we can use a little bit of a chemical reaction
This is very good for spore germination.
Having a host that's flowering, they have an affinity for this sort of physiology. So that's also something to consider.
And also having free nutrients
does help Botrytis and other pathogenic fungi like these.
So in nature, this would be things like sugars from nectaries
or proteins from things like pollen. Also, of course, both of these are associated with the floral tissue too.
But also things like maybe nutrient sprays or foliar feeds that people are applying to cannabis, you know.
Some things maybe are mixed in together that might be negative for the fungi, true,
but other things might not and the Botrytis fungus will use those to grow stronger.
Also things like wind dispersal are going to have a massive effect on the ability for the Botrytis to spread.
So things that inhibit Botrytis include ultraviolet radiation,
high spore concentrations, which you'll probably not see in your environment.
Antagonistic microbes are a big one and we'll go over those as well.
And also some host resistance factors do have a negative effect with
fungal growth with the plant.
On the top here, we have some examples of Botrytis spores. On the right, we have an aerobiological
monitoring diagram.
Basically, these researchers had a
sensor and they were able to track spores per
cubic meter per day in one cubic meter. And then they made some extrapolations based on weather and this was in
grapes.
And what they found was like, for example, in one day, they got
446 spores per cubic meter per day in one cubic meter, right? And then in one year, 2018,
they had almost 8,000 spores in one
cubic meter cube.
So like,
if you extrapolate that out to a much larger area, you're probably dealing with a ton of spores, really. Probably not literally, maybe close to it.
Maybe over several years, but here's the thing.
You know, you're always going to have these spores. You're always going to be exposed to them.
It's not something that you're necessarily
going to be able to get rid of.
But what you can try to do is mitigate things like humidity or the capability for the fungus to sort of
the spores to germinate. That's like the major thing you should focus on, that you can focus on.
Now,
in personal air samples
from workers, this research report was able to find that botrytis was one of the most common by a long shot
versus other fungi that were tested for, that were sampled, I should say.
And
it's an important thing to consider because it can cause occupational exposure hazards because even people who are
immunocompetent,
what you might call normal or sort of typical,
you can still develop things like an allergic sensitization,
hypersensitivity, pneumonitis.
Other people who grow, people who who work in agriculture know that
you can have or can develop
sensitizations that you wouldn't normally have if you didn't just get exposed to certain things. And not just pathogenic fungal spores,
but also things that we might normally consider to be neutral.
These spores are out everywhere. They're buried in our lungs. We're breeding them in all the time, constantly.
I know this is kind of gross to think about, but it is really the reality unless you live in a clean room.
And even then, well,
internally you have your own microbiome, I suppose, and well, it does get out to some degree, right? And
yeah, so that's why you wear a suit in the clean room.
So exposure over time can harm you potentially. This is something that's very important,
especially if you work in the cannabis space, if you trim,
if you are sort of processing cannabis, there's dust, there's other things that can harm you.
There was recent news about such an issue happening recently.
So yeah, it's a very important thing that's important for me to sort of share and sort of
advocate for. Please wear your proper
protective equipment. And if you're not getting that,
it's very important that you are able to get that and keep yourself healthy.
For one slide, I'm going to switch over to the fact that
bacteria also play a role. This is of course about bud rot,
but here's an interesting thing from that research report that I think you'll find interesting too.
Approximately 40% of bacterial species, essentially, phyla, were identified in an analysis
with endotoxin-producing gram-negative bacteria.
Occupational exposure to these bacteria is well characterized and it can elicit adverse respiratory health effects like
hypersensitivity pneumonitis, like we said before,
bronchitis, organic dust toxic syndrome, asthma.
So these are very serious things.
And
you can't tell this visually.
Bacteria like this are a major threat to human health that you can't easily identify through a visual assessment.
You can't count on anyone to be doing that. And most microbes are not test culturable anyways.
So again,
to be forewarned is to be forearmed. And hopefully this
resonates with some people. And if you grow cannabis in a commercial setting or even at home,
I'm not saying that you're going to go out and poison yourself if you're in a home grow.
I'm a big advocate for home grow. But it is a thing that you should be aware of, I suppose.
Especially maybe if you have a history of people becoming sensitive to such things. Just something to know.
On the left here, you can see the characteristic gray mold of botrytis.
For those who've never encountered it, I'm very happy to hear it. But also,
this is just kind of what it looks like in comparison to other fungal molds. Like for example,
powdery mildew, which is much more wider and also typically not as common on the flow of tissue, at least in my experience.
Although it does happen.
But you can also find that colonizing things like the stem is causing sort of a canker as well.
And I'll admit even for myself, when I see things like this, I think of like sclerotinia.
Because sclerotinia often colonizes like that. But it can be botrytis. So you don't necessarily know upon visual inspection. You might
properly articulate that it's a necrotroph, but you might not necessarily know what species.
There might be multiple.
And yeah, just to emphasize that point, you know, which
picture here do you think is representing botrytis scenario, pseudoscenario, or pori?
You know,
like
you can't really tell visually. You could guess, but you don't necessarily know. And there's actually many more botrytis to consider.
But yeah, this is the example here. And you know, just a little,
you know, just a little re-emphasizing point that spores are everywhere, especially in plant dense environments.
Close relatedness and conversion evolution makes plant molds look very similar.
And fungal identification is very technical. And not all our pathogens nor have overt symptoms.
In this research report, botrytis did best between 15 to 27 degrees Celsius or about
59 to 80.6 degrees freedom units or Fahrenheit.
Colder and moist conditions facilitated botrytis. So that's some corroboration with the other research.
And botrytis scenario was the most successful colonizer.
You can kind of see that here in A and also in B, I suppose.
Now, bract development and the influence that it has on bud rot.
Here we see D. bubba, which is A through C.
And these are described as having loose bracts.
And then we have pink cush D through F described as having compact bracts.
This research report found that a greater number and more compact bracts are more prone to bud rot.
Now that might mean that loose bracts may be more suitable to environments with more bud rot fungi.
They found that a chunky bud set often equaled more bud rot. Their island honey cultivar had about two times the bracts
and about two times the rot.
So breeders and growers may seek to resist bud rot by emphasizing loose inflorescence traits.
But that might mean that lower density may correlate with a less efficient yield per space.
Because the more that you're able to produce in one area, the greater that yield.
But if you have to take a cut to that,
especially if you can have 100% of nothing, if it all becomes rotted out,
that might be the compromise that some people have to make in certain contexts.
Here's another example. Here we have a cultivar called Hashplant A through B.
And Pinkush C and D. And then the progression of colonization of Botrytis from one plant to several plants.
And that's E, F, and G.
Hopefully, ideally, you know, you would be able to be
culling these plants or rather the floral material that's infected and applying something for them.
Now I'm going to move on to Sclerotinia.
We've already gone over some aspects of the Sclerotiniaeaceae, of which Sclerotinia is basically like a model organism for.
But Sclerotinia sclerotiorum in particular colonizes about 400 species of plants.
It's a major multi-million dollar agricultural loss agent in many crops yearly.
Spores are predicted from the environment in special structures called Sclerotia, which we've already covered.
And also they have a very high rated mutation via transposable elements, which I went over in powdery mildew.
It's what makes them very effective as well.
These are sometimes called jumping genes.
But yeah, prevention is the key here. You want to limit exposure to spores from air, dead plant tissue, soil, and water.
And here's another diagram showing Sclerotinia sort of moving through the
tissue. It starts off playing nicely, producing a bunch of secretions that basically neutralize the plant cell in various ways.
And then it switches to a hostile environment, or rather I should say response.
And then
basically poisons and kills the cells, drinks in all the nutrients, and then goes and finds another area to sort of colonize deceptively.
Here's some Sclerotia on cannabis here.
But you can also see examples where there aren't really Sclerotia like here in the floral tissue, except at C perhaps.
And I want to point out that just because you don't see the Sclerotia doesn't mean it's not Sclerotinia and vice versa.
You don't necessarily always see the Sclerotia. It kind of depends on how
mature the infection is.
And although it's not diagnostic really, I will say that Sclerotinia tends to have like a white caltony or like
fluffy mycelium growth profile versus like butt rot, which is kind of more like
well, kind of like more like bread mold, I suppose. It's sort of just kind of gray and more compact.
It often affects the wounds on stem and root systems, which you can see here in G.
And the inflorescence, like not that you necessarily should, but it cannot be remediated. It has been
putrefied at this point. It is not really
fit for human consumption.
Now I'm going to talk about the Diaportha, which have also been found in cannabis.
They are a beneficial and detrimental species. So not all of them are bad, in fact.
Most or a major proportion actually do not parasitize their host,
but they do decay the dead tissue. So that means that they're important as a post-harvest
rot agent, right? So you might do everything right and then have, you know,
maybe you cut off some as a sample and you put it away that you want to like, you know,
test out and then you come to see that it's now become colonized.
Maybe that's because the temperature and the humidity changed in your vessel,
or maybe it's because the fungus became more active and was actually already in the tissue.
So that's something to be considered about.
Species like Diaportha humulicola, which is a new Diaportha from hop,
maybe it could colonize cannabis. This is speculation on my part. We don't actually know, but like I said earlier,
when you share hosts, especially since hop and cannabis are sister species,
you know, that's often been
true that organisms can switch between one sister species to another very easily, but that's not necessarily going to happen.
But also other species like grape, hop, citrus, and blueberry have
they also colonize cannabis as well, species that colonize those crops. So it's again sort of another corroborating point there too.
So here's an example here. As you can see the infection of Diaportha is a lot more, at least in these pictures
anyways, kind of reduced. You mostly see like the browning. I kind of almost would describe it here as like a blackening,
right? That's kind of happening to the tissues.
I don't think that's actually from the plant.
I believe that the sort of the necrotizing is less brown in some cases and actually kind of like a black color,
which is sort of interesting. Again, perhaps not diagnostic, but interesting to note here.
You can also see it colonizing
the tissue as well.
So Diaportha, they produce things called like pycnidia and pycnidia are the sites of
spore release essentially. You can see this on L here at the diagram on the right.
And that's one way you can perhaps tell Diaportha from other
fungal agents of rot.
So here's the hop Diaportha leaf spot. So this is a pathogen of hop, like I said earlier. It's currently known in Connecticut,
New York, but also Quebec and Canada.
The things that facilitate it, in case it's important for cannabis,
is the same things that helped other ones.
Moisture like rain, especially on the leaf surface,
and if it's able to develop multiple times in the same area over multiple seasons. That oftentimes
intensifies the infection for the next season. And this is true for a lot of pathogens where
if it colonizes the first season, it might not be that bad.
Second season, a little bit worse. Third season, a little bit worse. Fourth season, getting a lot worse.
You know, it sort of comes from minor to moderate to severe.
Now we've moved on to Fusarium, the 1000 species complex. There are so many Fusarium out there.
And when we first learned about Fusarium, of course, we were mostly aware of the parasites that cause damage.
But there's actually many species that cause no damage at all.
Fusarium is an animal pathogen as well as a plant pathogen, or at least there are species that are.
It's rarely a pathogen for humans, although Fusariosis does happen,
especially in the immunocompromised.
But also there are some weird edge cases that do happen sometimes.
There are also a big pest of like wheat and rye.
And so if you're kind of growing near there, you might be more likely and more prone to get Fusarium.
But many species are also seprobic and they feed on decaying organic matter.
And that way they're kind of an important recycler of the, well, of the ecology.
They're very famous for the T2 mycotoxin. It's actually a sesquicerpinoid,
but it infected grain and killed many people in the Soviet Union.
It's also a toxic inhalant. So it's not really great to have in cannabis.
The most common mycotoxins are nivalanol and deoxynivalanol or DON,
which actually recently was in the news because a lot of grain that is produced
actually tends to have a level of DON that is perhaps over a threshold that is safe for people.
So a thing to consider.
It's known to colonize the root stems, leaves, and the floral tissue.
And it causes about $2.7 billion in damage between 1998 and 2000.
So one can only imagine how much that has perhaps triplicated since then.
So this was actually from a very recent research report about hemp in Kentucky getting head blight.
We also call it head blight in other crops.
You can see on the right here where it's kind of infecting,
say here, the paragonal bracts of the hemp plant.
And on F here, you can see what the fusarium spore looks like.
Very different from the other spores we've seen so far.
So fusarium also often becomes colorful as it's infected.
In my experience, I've often seen it become like an orange color,
but other people's experiences may be different.
It grows very, very quickly, less than five days before cuttings.
Mortally infected in H, dead by I in the diagram here, less than 10 days.
It's a very quick killer.
That's why it's very important to crop scout,
very important to know what's likely in your environment and that sort of a thing.
It has sort of a web-like mycelium, which is kind of similar to the sclerotinia we talked about earlier.
But the mycelium often becomes red, orange, or yellow in color due to rubrofusarin and orofusarin.
Orofusarin is a mycotoxin.
It's also an antibiotic, very potent one.
See, the fungi also don't want to be competing with other fungi
or other bacteria or other decaying microbes.
So they've also developed their own sorts of antimicrobial substances,
many of which we actually use for various reasons.
Penicillium is also like that, right?
It contains many well-stayed plant pathogens.
It's also the famous source of penicillin.
They also produce statins, which are in nature an antibacterial,
used to compete with bacteria.
It's an oponocyte parasite, and it has many immune-suppressing compounds and proteins.
It's a real fungal, alchemical reaction sort of a vat.
Penicillium and other fungi can colonize granular trichomes, it seems,
based on some of the pictures from this research report.
Like other agricultural products, the spores do exist on the surface,
something you can't really escape.
Post-harvest processing and storage will help keep the spores dormant
and not problematic for people.
The mycotoxic nature of fungi in general tends to be
once it's actually started to colonize its host, its food source.
But as spores, they don't tend to be mycotoxic in and of themselves,
if that makes sense.
Now, a lot of people know trichomes as a defensive structure.
And while that can be true for some organisms,
or for some organisms in certain contexts, it's not always true.
And in a lot of cases, it's actually been shown that trichomes are desired by things like
insects and fungi and other organisms that actually use the compounds as hygienic resources
or for pheromone production or other sorts of things like that.
So that's another side to sort of consider when it comes to
talking about trichomes and the plant defense architecture.
This is sort of an interesting picture.
It shows a bunch of spores on the excruted substances.
These are actually aspergillus spores on the excrusions of a trichome bulb,
or gland, my bad.
So here's microbial biocontrols.
I like the pictures from this research, but you should really check out this one
that I'm citing here.
It's the source of many of the pictures in this presentation.
Here we go over three, two fungi and a bacteria, trichoderma asperillum,
bacillus amylolepiphasans, and Glyocladium catinulatum.
So I've color-coded this.
Those are actually in the products Pre-stop, Aspirello, and Stargus,
not respectively.
Check the color code.
You can kind of see how the difference between,
you know, the before and after for some of these is pretty remarkable.
Here's an example here you can see in the petri dishes at least.
For the bacillus amylolepiphasans, the light blue,
and the yellow, you can see that they're just secreting compounds.
If it's unclear, the microbe is at the top.
The fungus is the white maxillial thing at the bottom.
It's just secreting antifungal and antipathogen substances
that don't allow it to get closer.
Now trichoderma is a little bit different.
Trichoderma's main claim to fame is that it actually parasitizes the fungus.
It's a different mode of action.
So you can see that it is definitely taking over the fungus itself.
Also produces antifungal agents because that is how it's able to antagonize it.
Then you also have glyocladium, which also is a parasite of this noxious parasitic fungus.
Now, even if you use microbe-based solutions, those still produce spores.
So commercial populations are analyzed for health concerns that you might use.
So commercially available microbes.
But enumeration tests like CFUs, they don't actually reveal clinical harm or not.
So just because you have a bunch of spores doesn't mean they're going to harm you necessarily.
But it does depend on you and your own context to some degree.
My question to people who are watching this presentation, I think,
is to consider how do growers account for microbial exposure in indoor or outdoor settings?
How are you doing it as a cultivator when you know all the things that have been mentioned here
in the presentation?
And are unknown microbes or spores acceptable?
And to what level of unknown are we willing to have?
Do we want taxonomic units?
Do we want just to know whether it's bacteria or fungal?
You know, or is it just important enough that we don't see any example of mycelium?
So I did promise that we would go over things like resistance and how that goes.
So a little bit about the vocabulary of symbiosis is important.
Basically, we've already talked about the first three.
But resistance, I've chosen to sort of define here as
the inhibition or mitigation of the effects of one or more stressors.
So that's not necessarily a pathogen.
It can also be like high heat, low heat, high humidity, etc.
You have something called the disease triangle here, up in the right.
That's a very crucial thing that phytopathologists use to sort of
understand and analyze how a parasitic interaction is even possible.
You only have three sides of the triangle that are important.
But because infection success does depend on abundance,
virulence of the pathogen, the environment, and also genetic susceptibility,
there are multiple potential reasons why absence or
presence of the pathogen can be observed in the field.
So you have more details that are needed.
I give three examples here.
Basically, genetic factors are not visible.
You can't see the resistance taking place as happening
on an inter- and intracellular level, a molecular level.
And you can't also separate it from the environment or other cultural factors.
Part of the reason the plants might be doing better is something that you're doing,
and perhaps something you're not even realizing.
Also, pathogen strains can vary in capability.
So resistance to one population is not necessarily representative.
And that's a really crucial point that a lot of people don't know about resistance in general.
Basically, you have different strains that can be in different parts of the world,
and it has been shown that resistances that work in one place
actually don't necessarily work in the other place.
Not because other factors change, but because the pathogen itself
is different enough that resistances don't work.
And also, genes and expressions are not always inherited in the same way,
or sometimes they change between offspring and parents for various reasons.
So what should Botrytis resistance look like?
Well, like all living organisms, plants and their pathogens are diverse.
Between individuals of the same species, especially cannabis,
and genetic differences between individuals are a large factor
in adaptation for Botrytis and its hosts.
Botrytis strains are numerous and diverse.
To be useful, if you're developing resistance,
it must do these things.
This is also the standard for other types of resistance in other agricultural crops, by the way.
It must broadly resist strains commonly encountered.
It must resist adapted strains for multiple crop planting.
So it's got to be more useful than a one season use, right?
And it has to also update with pathogen adaptations through breeding, right?
So you don't just make a resistant plant and then that's it.
It's never going to be challenged again.
Evolution doesn't exist.
Adaptation doesn't happen.
It does happen and it happens cruelly rapidly.
There are other examples of this.
Basically, we have an example with the diamondback moth,
where people were using genetically modified organisms
with a protein from a microbe.
Basically, it was not necessarily effective for longer than a few years, if that.
So that was a lot of money and time and resources that basically went down the drain.
Botrytis has massive resistance to many really noxious compounds, in fact.
So that makes it much more likely to resist natural plant defense compounds as well.
We've also got tropical wilt, Fusarium adaptation to banana resistance.
The clonal propagation problem.
So by using monoculture, you're basically selecting for an extremely virulent pathovar,
which is a pathogen variety that is specific to a specific either cultivar of a plant
or species of a plant.
And I'm afraid that this could happen in Botrytis and Cannabis.
To sort of go over more about the disease triangle,
here it shows an example of where more spores equals more colonization.
Notionally speaking, there's a big difference between 10 to the fourth and 10 to the sixth spores.
And again, when we're talking about resistance, that's also very important.
OK, so the plant was able to resist 200 spores on average hitting the surface of the plant.
Maybe 80% of them die for any other reason.
20% of them germinate.
10% of them get through and they're resisted.
But what if 20,000 reach your plant?
What about then?
Is the resistance the same?
No, it's almost assuredly not in most cases.
So here's an example of two different species of Botrytis.
Botrytis squamosa and Botrytis elliptica.
Squamosa is found on onion.
Elliptica is found on lily.
They're specialists.
Botrytis cnerea is a generalist.
It's here on tobacco.
But what these researchers found was that the compounds and proteins that were produced by
the other two species, the specialists, if you took them from the species and then apply them
to a different host, like the host of each other, they still cause massive damage to the plant.
So they are still able to cause problems for the plant in that way, those compounds.
But that doesn't mean that the fungus itself or the species rather is actually able to
colonize the plant.
So it's a lot more complicated than just that.
Here in this diagram, they sort of show more of that, essentially that using this culture
filtrate of a bunch of their compounds and proteins and then applied to various groups here.
You can see that because Botrytis elliptica colonizes lily and squamosa colonizes onion
only, they can't really expansively invade the other plant.
Despite that, squamosa's proteins and compounds severely damage the lily, which is a non-host,
which you can see in three.
Squamosa proteins by themselves in C lacked this effect.
It suggests that the phytotoxic compounds, not the proteins, were important for the severe
damage even in a non-host.
And yeah, here's a few other examples of different biotropes.
So biotrope and necrotrope and hemibiotrope, these are general phrases, but they're still
tactics and strategies that are different between species.
Now, there are some chemical treatments that you can use.
In veg, I'm a big fan of using micronized sulfur against many fungi, but it does depend
on your growth system, your setup, and what you're able to accomplish with it.
Like I said in the powdery mildew presentation, it inhibits mitochondrial use of oxygen via
oxidation.
So it's a very terrible way to go, but it's highly effective.
And then you have potassium bicarbonate, which is a massively good preventative measure,
but also a curative measure in my experience, but you do often have to be very aggressive
with it.
It inhibits mycelium through osmotic pressure and pH changes.
So there are other products that you can also find that do this as well.
Like I said earlier, potrise has a very long history of resisting chemical treatments.
Even plant or micro-based treatments that rely on natural compounds may become less
effective over time, right?
And this research shows some incredibly, incredibly noxious compounds, which you should
never use on cannabis.
Although I'm sad to say that I have, well, I've seen it and I've experienced people who
have used it, unfortunately.
And yeah, the potrise was able to grow even without sort of compensating, because in a
lot of cases, these resistance adaptations, they come at a cost, usually a metabolic cost
or a physiological cost that makes it so that the fungus is maybe still growing or
some other sort of thing.
But in this case, potrise was not negatively affected at all, which is kind of scary.
Now we're going to talk about the ultraviolet light.
But before we talk about the damage that UV light can do in a way that you would be interested
in for treatment, I would like to mention and point out that actually potrise, like
you saw earlier, these fungi do react to light, but they also react to different spectra of
light, including near UV light, which promotes conmediation.
You have blue light and green light reactions, red light and even far red light reactions
as well.
So this is something that maybe a lot of people don't appreciate about the fungus.
But in fact, there are populations, there are strains that exist in nature that are
blind in a way that actually don't, they don't produce conidia or sclerotia.
They're actually just, they're not reactive in that way.
They just kind of like, they just kind of exist.
And although you would think that that would be not very helpful for their fitness ecologically,
it's actually very common.
Another reason why you have to know what strains you're actually resisting in your plants before
you call them resistant.
Here is a graph from an interesting engineering report that was going over UVC exposure to
Botryospores.
Now, UVA and UVB are found naturally, but UVC is not found naturally.
It doesn't go through the atmosphere, but we can apply UVC certainly.
And various places do this as a way to sterilize surfaces, equipment, but also the surfaces
of plants.
But you've got to be careful because you don't want to use too much at the same time
or have it for too long because you can damage the plant as well.
Botryospores does lack sort of melanized tissue compared to other sclerotia producing molds.
So that's an important thing to consider.
They're more susceptible.
And also research has come to show that a four hour dark period post UVC severely increased
the lethality of it, which is kind of fascinating.
Here are also some mechanisms of action for different microbial biocontrol agents as well.
I put this in here as well because I thought it was a really good diagram.
And on the right here, a really good example of all the different or some of the different
versions of these antifungal microorganisms for Botrytis.
If you wanted to find or use these or test them out, you could certainly try to do that.
It also shows you what those effects are and what the metabolites are that they're using.
So you know that it's not just somebody on some label just saying, hey, these microbes
are the things that you want.
Please use my product.
To sort of summate, we have biological treatment fungi.
So Trichoderma aspirellum, which is a mycoparasite, Glyocladium catulatum, mycoparasite, and Trichoderma
harzianum T39, which is a competitor microbe.
You have bacteria, which I already mentioned, like Bacillus amylolecopassans, has an antagonistic
effect, induces defense priming.
Some strains actually can co-culture and synergize with Trichoderma aspirellum, which is interesting.
You can check out that orange research report for more info.
But there's also viruses, which I said I would mention, from the Hypoviridae and the
Fusera viridae families that have been found to cause hypovirulence, which essentially
makes the fungus incredibly avirulent and ineffective at being able to colonize the
plant hosts.
And these are some examples.
Viruses, unfortunately, have kind of weird names.
Botryosinuria hypovirus 1, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum hypovirus 1, Fusarium gravinierum virus 1.
But all four of these have been shown to cause hypovirulence.
So they failed to create infection cushions in this research report, which is integral
to penetrating plant cells, like I explained earlier.
But wounded plants could be colonized despite virus infection, which you can see in the
row D.
And this is because other traits did work normally.
However, infection was still less severe than the baseline sort of non-infected strain.
Here's another diagram from the same research.
The microviruses here are these three.
The viral presence impaired the infection cushion development, which you can see with
all of the red squares, whereas the green square is the sort of uninfected strain.
You can see on the right, the graph shows pretty consistently how different the infection
cushion number was for the hypovirulent strains, except for perhaps Z33.
These hypoviruses were found in China across an area that is almost a million square kilometers,
which is a massive amount of space from Jilin to Shandong to Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi.
All of these places.
It's very likely that these hypovirulent viruses are very common.
And so their presence perhaps indicates that in a lot of cases, maybe when people are even
dealing with Botrytis themselves, they might actually be dealing with a hypovirulent strain.
So you have to be cognizant of this when you're trialing your breeding stock for resistance.
They're naturally abundant globally.
Some are already used as a biocontrol, like for the infamous chestnut blight, when we took
a few trees from China, brought them to America.
They had a fungus that the American trees were not as resistant to and just wiped out
millions of chestnut trees and we still haven't recovered.
So, you know, this kind of thing, it does happen.
But the effects can be variable.
So it will affect our resistance tests.
There's also cultural treatment.
I'll always scout.
Search your plants, especially floral tissue for symptoms.
That's probably the most important takeaway from the entire presentation, of any presentation
about IPM, honestly.
You also want to respond rapidly.
You want to detect and treat as soon as possible.
You want to have a plan and an SOP with options ready early, before ideally you have any problem
at all.
Hopefully you've actually sort of practiced what you might do in a way before you actually
do it, in case you have issues with the equipment that you're using or things like this.
You want to manage wounds.
You know, these, Botryos and other pathogens, they colonize the dead tissue.
Wounds are access points.
Biosecurity and hygiene, remove dead tissue, manage your equipment and area, process that,
turn to compost and then reintroduce it.
Leaf moisture prevention.
This is one of the reasons why you don't spray something in your flower for some other pathogen
or pest, where you have to be very careful when you do it, because you might introduce
moisture that would then cause you to have a Botrytis problem, when you didn't have one
before.
It's kind of a catch-22 sometimes.
Reducing humidity, genetic resistance to some degree, although like I stated earlier, this
has been kind of difficult for people to accomplish.
And also post-harvest management.
When you dry and cure appropriately, you also have to check for growth and cull judiciously.
This is for home grow and in commercial, you obviously need to have some sort of QC process.
And that is it.
Ooh, all right.
I'm coming out of here not on mute.
Well, thank you for that.
And I was actually just searching here in the background for the banner that says,
chat, questions are welcome.
Definitely get them in.
We've got a few lined up for you already, Matthew.
But yeah, everybody in chat, definitely get your questions in if you have some.
I've got a notebook too.
Let's see here.
Let's start here with a couple from the chat though.
So, oh, see, now I switched it back away from the bubble.
I like the bubble, easier to read.
Okay.
Hippy Zombie says, haven't had Botrytis, too damn dry here.
Is there such a thing as too dry for this to exist?
I think there's definitely something to be said of like too dry to be as common as in
other places, but you can get like microclimates, you know, and things like that.
So I wouldn't say that it's impossible necessarily.
I'm sure there are some places where it's very inhospitable for Botrytis to exist.
Perhaps Death Valley is an example.
One place, definitely.
I wouldn't want to be caught out there.
And you were talking too about gene suppression, which is interesting.
So, you know, acquired resistance.
And I live in the Pacific Northwest.
We have really cold, wet, rainy falls.
So west side of the mountains, it's a little hard to get outdoor growing.
That's one thing that growers out here, you know, look for, test for.
They're saying like, ah, you know, this one, this is PM resistant or this one is Botrytis
resistant.
Would a plant, let's see, in my head as I'm thinking about it, would a plant that has
a natural PM resistance also have a natural Botrytis resistance?
Or because they're two separate things, it's a toss up.
Well, the problem is that they have very different strategies.
So I think that some of the traits might be kind of more universal.
Maybe it's an antifungal compound that affects both, for example.
But sort of more, or maybe you could say less fundamental things, more specific differences
in what they affect, you know, that's not going to be effective for, like I said, you
know, all of the defenses for biotropes don't work against necrotropes because killing the
cell is actually the intent of the fungus.
Okay.
That makes sense there.
And two, because we're talking, you know, saprophytic fungi before, which feeds on the
decaying material.
And one popular question, you know, that comes up that I ask you pretty much every time
because it's so hard to distinguish between some of these molds.
Let's see here.
So, you know, what about Bob had a couple of questions.
One was actually related to cover crop.
He was worried last time when he was making seeds, a lot of pollen sacks hit the soil
and they fuzzed over real quick.
And, you know, again, we see that fuzz, we're just like, no.
But the more we learn about organic soils, we're like, yes.
So is there a good, easy way to tell the difference between the good fuzz and the bad fuzz?
Oh, yeah, that's a really good question.
I don't think it's always very obvious.
But like the thing about the pollen, that's a really great contextual point because it's
I mean, pollen is like it's just energy, like compacted together.
It's very nutritious.
A lot of things want that protein.
So if it like drops and you start to see a lot of sort of fungal growth immediately,
I wouldn't necessarily think that was a bad fungus.
There's a lot of opportunistic.
There's a lot of opportunistic, like you mentioned, like the saprobes, right?
Like there's a lot of organisms that a lot of fungal organisms, for example, that would
just make use of the protein kind of opportunistically.
Doesn't necessarily mean that they're a plant pathogen.
OK, good, because, you know, again, the thought is like, oh, my fan's going to blow it up
and the spores are going to go all over.
Yeah, I'm going to get in my bloods and Armageddon, you know, spore Armageddon.
And they kind of the follow up to that, too, which he had and I actually had written down
here, too, is, you know, just again about the dead plant tissue.
I think sclerotonia sclerotinia was one that you mentioned for the dead plant tissue.
Is that, you know, again, back to the good fuzz, bad fuzz type thing?
Yeah, this is exactly what I'm talking about.
You know, when people take the fresh green leaves and then they just kind of directly
mulch into the plant, into the plant soil.
I know people who do this and they don't get pitritus or anything like this.
So, I mean, I'm going to say that up front, but like all the phytopathologists that I
talked to and work with would say that that's probably inviting, like you're saying here,
problems potentially.
It really just only has to happen once to kind of ruin your crop.
Right.
For me, I would just process it some way and then maybe reintroduce it as mulch because
I think that's a little bit safer.
So, like composting is something that I think would be a really good way of doing that.
You could, like, I guess if you really want to, you could sterilize it, like boiling it
or something like that, fermenting it perhaps or something like that.
I think that'd be a little bit more.
I think it would be like less raw, essentially, because you don't know what's necessarily
on that material.
And in nature, that's literally how these pathogens spread.
Yeah.
And, you know, I've heard people just making like teas.
I know Smiley Garden was doing a tease out of stuff or with the juicing the leaves.
So, there's some people out there.
I've seen doing something similar.
Banana Farmer has a question here.
And I don't know.
Why is it that a plant with deficiency of potassium is more susceptible to botrytis?
And I don't know if the two are connected or not.
Is that something that you've heard or seen in the papers as far as particular weaknesses
of a plant?
Not personally, actually.
So, I'd be curious to know where that's from.
And, you know, if you could put that in the comments or something, I'd be curious to learn
more.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Fair enough there.
And then kind of similar, Belista says, would labs help as prevention?
Potentially.
I think so.
I'm not as versed in all the different labs out there.
But like from the research that I've read and also the experiences from people who I've
talked to, I do feel like the answer to this is like notionally, yes, because essentially
for the reasons I mentioned in the presentation, you can have microbes that are producing basically
antimicrobial compounds, antifungal compounds, maybe some of them even parasitize the fungus
potentially.
But at least the first things that I mentioned, you know, those sort of antagonistic effects
are kind of more universal.
I think they affect a lot of fungi kind of in a similar way, in a similar fundamental
way to their physiology.
So are they, you know, kind of like some predator bugs?
Are they discriminatory or would they go after kind of any type of fungal relationship?
That I don't know, but I'm assuming that there are some that produce in that way, basically
as sort of a more universal antagonistic agent.
Okay.
And agents and beneficial insects here?
Smaller, but any beneficial microbes that help with the botrytis there?
Yeah, definitely.
All the ones that I mentioned in the presentation.
So like the trichoderma that was mentioned, the gliocladium, so those are parasites.
So they'll parasitize the botrytis tissue, right?
So with the botrytis, know how it feels to be parasitized.
And other, yeah, other ones are, yeah, it's a karmic parasite, but the other ones are
actually, they're a negative for botrytis because they create toxins that are poisonous
to it, essentially.
But not to us, right?
Important to say.
Okay.
And you had mentioned, you know, the chitinase, and I'm assuming that would be used as a
foliar.
And was that disrupting the cell wall of the fungal or?
Oh yeah, that's a good point.
I didn't really mention it in my sort of flurry of explanation, but basically I don't think
it's actually causing a lot of damage when the plant chitinases.
It's really just so they can kind of shear off a small section, like what we're talking
on a micro scale.
So like a very small molecular section, and then those get just kind of, you know, they
kind of bind with the receptor, almost like smelling, right?
We smell an aroma, it gets into our nose, it binds to the receptor and we go, ah, that
smells like strawberry or something.
You know, it's more complicated than that too.
But yeah, so, but it is true that chitinases are going to break down chitin.
And if you have like citric acid or other sorts of things, citric acid works like a
chitinase.
So there are definitely substances that can have this sort of almost like acid melting
away something, you know, the sort of prime, the sort of fundamental chemical effect,
essentially, catalyzing effect.
Okay.
Just when you said melting away, I'm going to Indiana Jones and Raiders of the Lost
Ark in the very end.
I can just see that happening to the bugs.
Not beautiful.
That's the idea.
I know.
And you said, you know, that there are obviously many species.
There were kind of three that we were looking at here.
And I'm like, yep, seen that, seen that, seen that before.
So interesting that there is a little bit of a difference there.
And at the beginning too, you mentioned, you know, not all are harmful.
Was that just in the sense of two plants or did that also include like kind of the lungs,
you know, as well?
Sometimes people are like, I'll cut that piece of the cheese off and eat it.
Oh, yeah.
I mostly meant for people.
Yeah, that's a very good point to bring up.
Basically, what I mean, what I'm really trying to point out is an appreciation that like
there's a lot of diverse species out there.
And basically, what is very typical for us to do as growers and also researchers for
a long time is that we just think that this one expression of the species is like the
entirety of it.
So like, of course, we've paid attention to the ones that are killing our crops.
But there's this species that's like 99% the same over here that's helping a plant maybe.
And it's like that forces you to use careful language, I guess is what I'm saying.
Some of them are allies.
Some of them are allies.
And I'm sure the more that we learn to as time goes on and we get a peer more into the
microscopic world, we'll learn a little bit more about relationships.
I imagine we'll see you'll you probably anticipate that coming, right?
We don't know at all as far as symbiosis here, do we?
I don't think so.
I think there's more to learn for sure.
OK.
And fusarium, you know, you said fusarium, it lives in the soil.
That's something here again in Washington that we have a big issue.
The potato farmers have an issue with like there's acres of acres that are non farmable
now.
Yeah.
Is this something that like a living bed grower would need to worry about, particularly
when you do drop and chop?
Because from what I understand out here, that's a lot of how the mass acreage became infected.
It was in the plant material, which was then turned into the soil.
And then it's any roots that come in contact with are just done and potato being the root
crop.
So how long does it, you know, how long does it last in the soil or can it vary?
And it's can a living soil bed person recover from an outbreak of fusarium, I guess?
Yeah, to answer in reverse, I suspect that a living soil bed grower could recover.
But yeah, sometimes the fusarium can last quite a long time and there are ways to mitigate
it.
There are ways that maybe a living soil grower might not want to use.
It really just depends on your situation.
I think some people like to use like solarization, you know, but that's again, kind of going
nuclear, solar nuclear.
You know, so but like when you have nothing to eat or you have no crops that you can grow,
you know, your situation does sort of dictate that, I suppose.
But yeah, fusarium can exist in the sort of dormant.
A lot of these necrotrophs actually like with the sclerotia producing ones, they can just
kind of sit there and just be there.
And for a long time in human history, we didn't really know how that worked out.
So yeah.
Okay, well, that probably I mean, that kind of leads into my next question, you know,
it said things are just kind of sitting there and laying in wait.
You know, my question was, are you know, is an outbreak like a ramping up of conditions
like like boiling water?
It's hot, it's hot.
And then all of a sudden it's boiling.
It doesn't go from cold to boiling.
So is it like a ramping up of conditions?
Or is it something as you just kind of said, that's sitting there and it just needs to
be unlocked and then boom.
With the right conditions.
Yeah, for like, yeah, for in as an example, but yeah, basically, yeah, basically, like
with the disease triangles kind of describing that, that basically, you know, there's no
spontaneous generation, you know, it's not the medieval time when like, people thought
like maggots came from raw meat, just because that's how the universe wanted it to be, you
know.
So like the sport, the pathogen has to be there, but it also has to be viable.
So a lot of these spores like might die, they just like aren't formed correctly.
I think if you go back and see that, but try to spore that I had, you know, one of them
was kind of like dented, you know, probably not very viable, you know.
So there's that there's how many are infecting at once, you know, or did the plant get exposed
Or did the plant get exposed earlier in its life, and then later life is more competent,
we might call that a naive plant, and then a not naive plant afterwards, you know, so
there's a lot of factors that will contribute to that.
But basically, to have that sort of threshold, you need that humidity, that stimulus germination.
And then from there, it's a question of does the fungus have what it takes to make its
first kill and after that, you know, that's really going to depend on the plant.
Okay, and yeah, you mentioned, you know, 68 to 71 degrees Fahrenheit, 90% relative humidity
are just the like, you know, that's the t shirt and shorts weather for molds for the
mold.
Yeah, you're the best there.
You did also mention cold, though.
Can it still thrive in cold environments, like big, you know, chunky buds, as you said,
in a cold environment?
Still potential for bud rot?
Yeah, I guess it depends on how cold you mean.
But yeah, I would say that they could probably get a qualifier, you know, some somewhere
probably maybe like 50s 50s.
Yeah, 50s to 60s.
Yeah, I think if the plant is able to grow in that environment, it's doing well, I think
that is also possible.
Also, the issue, I think, now that you've said that, now that I'm thinking about it,
I wonder if you also would still, you know, you probably still have a moisture level.
Well, I won't get into more, more detailed response, really, if not necessary.
But yeah, I think so.
Okay, yeah, because I mean, it's that's kind of like one of the old one of the old bro
science and bro tales of, you know, it's like, dude, I dropped my temps in the last couple
of weeks, you know, down to 55.
And then I don't get bud mold.
But I think I also think that people that have gotten it a couple times.
I just want to say I think that if you have, I think that if you have, if you don't have
any germination yet, then the lower cold could be helpful for that.
Because like, you know, you don't have that heat that most even fungi, a lot of organisms
are going to, you know, be facilitated by but if you already have the germination, which
you might not know, you know, then I think that's sort of the issue.
Okay, well, you know, I gosh, I could play a couple ways off of that with the questions.
I'll go for another bro science for 400.
Alex.
Another thing that we hear is you want to avoid wide swings in your humidity.
And let's just say it's still within, you know, the preferable range that you want to
keep it in maybe just the low end and the high end of the scale.
Typically, this is you know, lights on versus lights off.
Does a swing increase the likelihood as well, even though it's within a good range?
It's the swing something that can contribute to bud rot or buchitis?
Yeah, yeah.
And particularly, there's two ways to answer that question to one way is that your outdoor
environment.
So even if you grow indoor, this is still relevant, I think, is a biosecurity awareness,
which is that, and this is what was found in the monitoring research report from before,
looking at the spores per cubic meter, basically, you know, the humidity might swing massively
because of rain.
So like during the rain, the spores aren't like getting around, they're like getting
pelted by water.
But afterwards, when the sun comes out, and there's this massive humidity shift and gets
muggy, or whatever, then a lot of botrytis will, the spores will germinate and a lot
of fungi that was already active, the conidia forest will release conidia or spores much
more egregiously.
I think this is also true for powdery mildew.
Okay, and I found it particularly interesting to that on the conidia spores for you were
going through the light spectrums.
That's what I'm trying to say here going through the light spectrums and red tended to promote
it, I believe, which red is flowering, we know we need more of that spectrum and flowering.
So that wavelength is kind of contributing a little bit to it.
But I believe the far red was an inhibitor of it or a suppressor, I think you said.
Yeah, I don't remember what the diagram says actually off the top of my head, I could go
right back and check.
But yeah, the thing is, is that we're probably not going to control the spectral detail of
what people are exposing their plants to too much.
But for those people who are experimenting, like with the powdery mildew presentation,
some of these spectrum may even, like you said, might be inhibitory.
And certainly the UVC is going to be inhibitory.
So yeah, I find that stuff very fascinating.
And I think there might be some niche edge cases.
But that's kind of speculative on my part.
That's a couple million dollars of R&D later.
We'll get to it later.
Yeah.
Okay, here's another one that comes up.
I see a lot.
Okay, so you've got, and I guess this could be indoor or outdoor, but you've got plants
close proximity to each other.
You look at this cola you've been staring at for a month, and you realize it has bud rot.
There's still a few weeks, you want to take it out so it doesn't spread to the other plants.
Now, do I just walk up and break it off?
Is that the bad plan?
Or what do you do?
What's the best way to not spread it to the rest of your crop when you discover it?
Yeah, there's a couple of ways, depending on how austere your situation is, that you
can accomplish this task with various results.
But one of the biggest ones, like you very well articulated here, is that you want to
not do that, right?
You don't want to just shake it.
It's sort of like it's a bunch of frankincense.
A few things you could do is you could put a bag over it of some kind, some sort of containing
structure.
A bag is great because it's flexible and pliable.
Maybe like a Ziploc bag, you can even seal up to the stem and then break it off that
way and then seal it under that and then put that in the trash or something.
Generally, you don't want to just cut and just kind of lay it.
You don't want to drop it to the floor.
Also, I did mention composting earlier, but people have different ways of composting too.
I know that I've done myself slow versus more active thermophilic composting.
The thing is, when I talk about that processing, if you're just letting it decay, most of these
are also saprophytes too.
When I say processing it, you do have to process it with the lens of you want to some way antagonize
the fungus pathogen because just letting it exist in this decaying organic matter is actually
in some cases not going to harm it at all.
Yeah, that's an interesting one when you get into temperatures too, just because I know
a lot of the apple farmers, when they would get some things on their trees,
take it away, burn it.
It doesn't get chipped, doesn't get mulched.
You take it to a far, far field away and burn it.
Do not put it back into the soil.
Apples get apple rust, for example, right?
And they have pycnidia too.
And they're just very onerous.
Now, and something else that as apple people, it was used out there was the refractometers.
We're checking our BRX levels out there.
We're checking our sugars.
You had mentioned that this botrytis penetrates or gets into the cell walls of the plant tissue.
Is there any similar test, like field test, that people can look at a sap or look at something
and be like, oh, I detected here before they would actually see it with their eyes?
The botrytis?
Yeah.
Like the potential, I guess, does it give a chemical presence inside of the plant before
it manifests itself as a visible symptom?
That's a cool question.
I don't know the exact answer to that.
I feel like based on some of the research that I was reading, especially the ones that
are looking at the secretome of the botrytis, which is all the secreted metabolites that
it's able to produce and things like that.
I bet there are ways that you could tell that sort of a thing because it does secrete things
even when it's in that biotrophic play nice with the plant host phase of its life.
So I imagine that that is probably true, but I don't know anyone using that necessarily.
Okay.
And that's something that I've not heard of, but that was something that made me curious
once you said that it did that.
A lot of these things, they're not always visible to the naked eye, even though they're
there.
Sometimes we get a closer look, like microscopically, how long do you think it is around before
it's visible to the eye?
And I know this is going to vary by case, by environment and conditions, but just in
a general sense.
Could we have some bud rot for a couple of weeks and not know it, and all of a sudden
the 15th day it manifests itself?
I mean, yeah.
Yeah.
Basically, you could have botrytis in that asymptomatic life stage, for example, and
not showing any of those symptoms.
This is especially how botrytis colonizes plants.
The traditional model, Ray, is that it can even pass to offspring, be totally asymptomatic,
the plants are growing totally normally.
And then as soon as it flowers, then changes happen in the plant.
Somehow, some way the fungus is prone or sensitive to this change.
Probably it's a hormonal thing.
Probably there's other things from what I've read.
And then that causes this rapid difference in how it colonizes cells and things like
that.
So yeah, in a lot of ways, you could say that.
Like as soon as the plant starts to flower, maybe not exactly then, but very close to
that time, especially in other plants, this is the case.
OK.
And I'm thinking a lot of just like post-harvest now, because post-harvest sometimes is when
we'll finally actually catch it.
It might have been when the buds were nice and dense and had the moisture content, we
didn't quite see it as much.
Now it's a little bit drier, still too wet, but a little bit drier.
We're starting to see a few of these things towards the core, or at least the signs of
brown leaves or the brown of bud rot.
If you've had it, you've seen it, you know it sucks.
So yeah, kind of just like speaking post-harvest, though.
It's possible then to, you know, if I had like a jeweler's loop or something, I'd be
able to identify it, but it's not something that I'm seeing with the naked eye and that
could sustain itself for a while.
You mean like the dead tissue that you harvest?
Yeah, the growth.
Yeah.
Without spreading, I guess.
Without spreading.
Well, or, you know, again, because microscopic, like if you have the jeweler's loop...
Without spreading a lot, right?
Is what you mean?
Yes, yeah.
Without spreading a lot.
Yeah, that's what you mean.
Yeah, absolutely.
That's sort of the, that's kind of the rub, is that like, you know, I was trying to make
this point sort of in other sort of examples where like these fungi are not like the powder
mildew.
It needs the liquid.
Are not like the powder mildew.
It needs the living plant tissue.
A lot of insects need the living plant tissue, but some don't.
They're just eating the plant tissue, you know, and it doesn't have to be alive or,
you know, and so the fungi can just sort of activate some of them when the plant tissue
is dead.
And in nature, this recycles the plant tissue, you know, they played nicely in the plant
and then just like us, right?
Like as macabre as it might be to say, you know, there are microbes in you and guess
what?
You know, things happen.
Yeah.
And it's the same kind of thing here, I suppose.
Yeah.
Well, you know, I have microbes inside me and things happen and it was funny you mentioned
clean rooms and sterile rooms and why people wear suits because sometimes things escape
from us.
Yeah, they do.
But in reverse, things also enter us and you had mentioned, you know, spores and microbes
in through the lungs.
And that's something that I don't think this industry even is close to beginning to discussing
or looking at because what insurance company wants to, right?
So how concerned should we be in commercial environments?
And is there one stage of growth that's more conducive to these worrisome spores or microbes,
or would it be the whole building?
Yeah.
So if for those who are really interested in another way of looking at this question,
I did have a slide that went over like the one that was talking about the air sampling
for workers and things like that.
That one was kind of focused on sort of the question that you're asking here.
I would say that any commercial space, you should take this kind of thing heavily seriously.
I think that people's worker safety health is incredibly important.
I've been poisoned on site before.
And a couple of times that's been intentional.
I know that sounds really terrible, but like it's true.
It's very true.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I take it personally very seriously.
And this is a sort of a thing that like, it's also a problem because people have different
tolerances, you know, and also people have, they have expectations about certain things,
but it's totally divorced from reality.
Right.
Cause like, you know, I get produce or I get like bread from the baker, right?
If I get that bread loaf from the baker and then I keep it wrapped, it's going to be a
gift for somebody.
Right.
And then like some time passes, let's say two weeks and it starts to mold over.
You know, I don't go to the baker and say, you tried to poison me.
Cause that's not what the problem is.
The problem wasn't that there were spores on the bread.
The problem was that the bread was able to mold over in the first place, which is not
a spore.
I mean, it's a spore presence thing because the spore has to be there, but you shouldn't
be expecting necessarily that your agricultural produce is going to be without any microbial
life.
That's kind of ridiculous a little bit, you know?
So, and that's just outside inside too, but like, again, people.
Yeah.
So that as well, the bread, wasn't the problem.
The problem was that it was sealed in the bread bag for two weeks and nature happens.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
And nature happened.
And would that, would that change?
Is that fairly common?
Like in a, from like, you know, from a bread bag to a plastic jar to a glass jar, if the
outside conditions change as far as humidity, does it change in a sealed jar as well?
I bet that there are some changes between like the materials like glass versus plastic.
I'm sure that there's a difference there.
Metal, you know, for example, you know, how much they conduct heat, how much they, you
know, how much light penetrates and how much that's an effect if any at all.
And then humidity and storage and that kind of that sort of site, what I'm trying to say
here, sort of air tightness.
All those are probably a factor.
But like generally, I don't think that any of them are, it's probably unlikely that with
a significant enough temperature increase or decrease, you're still probably going to
have, you know, you probably, the big key element is like to not have the temperature
swing at all in the first place, but like having a proper storing area other than relying
on the vessel itself.
Unless it's like vacuum, you know, unless it's something like very advanced or sophisticated.
Okay.
Yeah, no, well said.
Environment control, control that parameter, you control everything.
You know, I only have one question left here that I wrote down for myself.
Everybody in chat, if you guys have a couple of questions, toss them in, we'll get to those
as well.
Kind of the last one I had here for you though, was the curiosity, you know, it seemed to
be wounds, open wounds were primary targets for infections.
Now, is there a noticeable difference or significant enough difference between a cut or a tear?
My thinking is, you know, the lease, somebody, some people like to go and just strip off
the lease like that.
Other people will want to go in and cut it.
And, you know, one is cleaner than the other.
I'll, I'll say my piece afterwards though.
Yeah, you know, I think they're both, I think you could think of them as being sort of synonymous,
but like you might have more, I mean, for a lot of reasons that probably are obvious,
like a jagged cut is more prone or like just kind of tearing, right.
More prone to having a problem.
Yeah.
So that, that's like, I mean, imagine, like, imagine like the most nightmarish hangnail
ever.
Dude.
Oh, I know.
Dude, yeah.
I already know where you're going with that.
That's probably not great for like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like,
like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like,
like, like, like, like, like.
Ah, gnarly.
Okay.
Well that puts it into context again, more surface area.
Um, that's good.
And that was, you know, that's one of the questions, one of the first things, uh,
working commercially.
I had a guy come up to me and you know, he's cutting, cutting the
leafs instead of taking them off, uh, but he wasn't cutting them all the way down.
and he was leaving about like this much
attached off from the stem.
And that, because there was still that little branch,
it would still pump water.
And so all of the little ends that he had cut
instead of taking off cleanly,
always had like a bead of water on it.
And it's, I mean,
you're defoliating right underneath the bud sites.
And so, yeah, head grower came by real quick
and explained that one.
I was like, well, that makes freaking sense.
So yeah, because I have seen a lot of, you know,
anybody who maybe just cuts your stalks off
and then leaves them sitting in the dirt for a while,
it will still pump water.
It'll still use over.
And you come back a couple of days later
and you've got the gray mold all up and down
the rest of that stem.
So same, same thing there.
There are even some bacteria that will,
the way that they colonize plants,
is that they wait nicely right outside of a stoma
or they secrete a hormone that makes the stomata open up.
And then they get inside that way.
Like it opens up, liquid comes out through guttation,
gets into the liquid,
and then it comes right back through
because the pressure differential changes.
And then they're in the xylem channel
and they're just swimming around
and that's how they get through.
It's like, you know, it's easily bypassable for some.
Little, little buggers.
All right, let's see here.
It looks like we got a question from Chilbert in here.
It says, question, can resistance be temporary
as in eventually succumb to it?
Yeah, you know, you had mentioned the first year,
you might have it second year, a little bit more,
a third year and then a fourth year.
You're just like, yep, yep, we've got it all over.
Is that, I wonder if that kind of plays
into the question here or if it's like, you know,
one week we didn't get it
and then the next big fluctuation in weather,
yep, it hit.
Or does that have to maybe do a spore load?
Yeah, I think exposure is a major factor.
I would say also that, yeah,
like one of the biggest problems in plant breathing
and plant resistance breathing in general
that I've read is, and talked to with many people about,
is essentially the same issue,
which is that there are ways to like,
what's called like pyramiding,
which is when you can stack
different genetic resistances together,
you know, and kind of make them synergistic.
And so in that way you can kind of create,
almost like you create like a suit of armor
or a castle brick by brick.
You know, it's sort of a structure
that's gonna be more resilient.
However, it's not always done
or it's not always as easy to just say that
there's a lot of technical work
that goes into breathing that way.
But basically, yeah, a lot of cases resistance is not forever
unless you do, like we said in the powder mildew video,
you know, one of these like fundamental,
almost like non-host resistance type things,
like when you get rid of the mildew locus O gene.
And it's like, at that point,
you're getting rid of a fundamental thing
that allows powdery mildew to interact.
But the plant now can't interact with like mycorrhiza.
So that's a big trade-off.
And a lot of cases, these pathogens,
why they're so hard to deal with is because they,
well, they exploit pathways that beneficial microbes use
to interact with the plant.
And they exploit pathways that have been in plants
for like hundreds of millions of years.
So it's very hard for them to change.
They're not gonna change like how their cells made up
and that kind of stuff.
So it does make you, you are vulnerable to something,
you know, the door might be invincible,
but are the door hinges invincible?
And that kind of a thing.
Yeah.
Yes.
Oh, dispensaries.
Hey, yay, yay.
Okay.
Sorry, that was a...
I like it.
No, I get the reference.
I understand.
Yeah.
There's so many dispensaries around here
that had the middle of their whole wall busted in
because it's just fricking...
Yeah.
It's just, you're like, come on, man, you can't...
Nice door though.
That's what I'll say.
Nice door, dispensary.
Loves their glass doors.
Yeah.
Oh, shoot.
So, all right.
I guess that kind of wraps it.
I'm gonna keep my eye on chat here
for a couple last minute questions,
but everybody, thank you for watching today.
Matthew Gates' information,
all of his contacts are down in the show notes.
So definitely please do check those out.
But for everybody who's maybe on a cell phone,
can't access that right now,
can you please let people know where to find you?
Absolutely.
So you can find me for professional inquiries
related to integrated pest management
at my website, xanthanol.com.
You can also contact me through social media
on Twitter and Instagram,
both with the username Syncangel,
that's S-Y-N-C-H, like synchronize,
A-N-G-E-L, like the biblical creature.
You can also, well, I mean, those are the two,
those are the main places.
You can also join my Patreon
and get access to my Discord channel
for as little as $1 a month.
We have about 130 people,
a little bit over that currently,
and we're all kind of interested in pest mitigation and IPM
and many of the people also help each other,
but I make an effort,
I'm very constantly there answering people's questions.
So if you're the type of person
who would appreciate a little bit of extra help,
if you needed it, a quick identification,
something like that,
you can hop into my Discord
and basically have a pretty good resource for $12 a year.
And that helps sort of support
some of the educational YouTube channel stuff that I create,
some of the Instagram research
that I sort of break down and articulate
and things like that.
And some of the cool presentations
that you guys are enjoying right now, in fact.
Yes, and definitely do be sure to check out the playlist
here on FCP02, the Xanthanol IPM series.
I believe this is like episode 10 or 11.
They're getting up there.
So definitely a lot of material for you to go and learn from
and for the next session,
let us know what you'd like to hear about.
Type it into the comments, hit him up on Instagram.
He's a man with many talents.
So throw it out there
and I'm sure we'll get a good conversation going with it.
Anything else that you'd like to let people know about
or you got coming up before we head out for the day?
Yeah, I guess I do have one thing.
I'm open to more consultations lately,
getting ready for the next year, 2023.
So if you are interested,
this is a very, very good opportune time
to go over your SOPs with me
and sort of make your changes
to what you encountered last year.
This is a pivotal moment.
A lot of people are making big changes for 2023,
especially in cannabis, but also in other growing circles.
So honestly, this would be a really great time for you
to sort of expand or change
or sort of concentrate on the issues of the past
and then move forward more brightly.
So I do look forward to our mutual success
and thanks for having me, Chad.
Awesome, it's my pleasure.
Thank you for coming and for being here.
And actually, I'm just gonna scroll through this real quick.
This is the playlist.
And I saw, let me go back to the name,
LoneStarLarf in chat asking about aphids, cannabis aphids.
That's an all IPM series right here, boom.
So definitely get your fill there,
but we've got all of these videos ready for you
and I'm gonna add this one into the mix.
So let us know what you guys think is missing
and we will get to that next time.
But for now, Mr. Gates, I appreciate your time greatly.
Thank you again.
I love these opportunities in chat.
Everybody keep on rocking.
We will catch you next time, peace out.
