Alright, I think I'm live on Future Cannabis Projects as well.
Kauai! I've got to Kauai even more folks. Thanks for coming.
Here, thanks for joining us on Future Cannabis Projects.
I'm going to continue to do this great spotlight follow-up here.
Justin Stone is set right now.
Oh, it's in Manhattan. I must have said it.
I really love playing along with that intro song.
Hey, I have no idea. I can't see. For whatever reason, my streaming service is not giving me the chat.
I normally have chat, so I have no idea if you guys are there chatting or not.
Thanks for joining me, Brian, there on studio.
I hope we've got this going on.
I guess there is one way I can check it out.
Let's see. Be sure to... I'll go here.
You guys are just seeing me do weird stuff, but I'm going to do...
I'm checking some things here on my...
I don't have a web browser up.
We're going to content. I'm just making sure I have... I had some setup issues.
I want to make sure I've got an actual show going here.
I'm going to go live.
Yes, it says we're live now. Cool.
Again, I can't see comments. I can't see... I don't know what's going on there.
We're going to go right back into where we were before.
Checking out the... There we are.
Checking out my Instagram pages. Cool.
I'm pouring hot water for coffee.
Where were we?
I'm not sure if this is where we were.
I wish the comments would come up for me.
Sweet Blue Corn Woman.
15-year project mixing several Native American tribal heirloom corn flour and old Mexican sweet masa maize.
Bred in open pollination, mostly here, but I ran an acre on the Smith Field in West Valley,
in the City's pride, Senegro. That was my organic veggie farm.
I had five acres rolling for six years out, about 17 miles from my home.
This project was sprayed with Roundup by a neighbor, landed me in county 46 days, losing my farm.
I kicked a fence slat, a 70-cent fence slat, after eight years of my work had been sprayed with Roundup.
I ended up in jail over that. Lost my farm, almost lost my home.
Couldn't get a job for seven years. Pretty fucking crazy what they do to people.
Actually, I had three warrantless searches of my home.
They interrogated my child. They terrorized her at the age of eight.
Yeah, it's fucking nuts.
It's not the government. It's individuals within the government that do these things.
I hope you all understand that. We are the government.
Government is made up of individuals. We all make choices.
I pre-germinate to beat the ants and jumpstart the hot, dry sand.
It gets really hot and dry here. The ants come out pretty quick here.
Things start sprouting about this time of year, after we get 10 hours of daylight.
Chickens have been eating everything. I let them run around.
Chicken manure provides my nitrogen.
Persilene, the living mulch or cover crop.
I don't understand why more people don't use persilene in the cannabis industry.
It's an amazing cover crop and superfood.
I thin and feed the birds the persilene for better eggs.
They'll be soaking Anasazi beans for planting out the squashes today, too.
This was dated 139 weeks ago, June 29, 2019.
This is later in the season.
Right now, you have to wait for it to be warm enough to get that corn to sprout.
You have to keep growing without rot issues.
We get cold cycles on April 15th or so.
Let's see.
Squash planted outside. The typical timing is not...
Oh, so squash bugs. It's kind of a trip.
There's a timing period that you can adjust when you plant.
You can plant really early or really late.
If you plant in the regular timing, you get squash bugs a lot worse.
They're flying insects.
They scent the growth hormones in the plant and attack the tender young plants.
They're a real pain to get rid of once you get them on your plants.
If your neighbors aren't doing anything with them, they just keep coming.
Let's see.
I'm not sure what's going on with that image.
I seem to have a slow internet dial-up here.
Here I have 21 days, Fuck Cancer, Entheogen, Genesis 111, Genesis 129.
Part of sacred earth, sacred plant is maximizing returns on energy inputs like water flow.
Least energy inputs return the greatest goods.
Here, Breath of Green Dragon, Breath of Purple Dragon, Frost Rails on the sixth fan down from top at day 21.
Close-ups of Dr. Dream All Cure, Cherry Cookies, Hindu Cush, and Saint Bernard.
This is a 5x7, and I probably had a 1000-watt lamp running at this time in there.
That might have been even...
I might still have the 1200 double-ended in there.
That ended up blowing up on me.
Did not replace it. It was kind of hot for that space.
What do we got there? A little praying mantis indoor, huh?
I realized I used a rim tint filter that completely hides all the huge difference defoliation makes.
This is a major point of the post, really.
I should see some defol in here at some point.
Crazy, 21-day frost. This is what my genetics do.
Genetics just sit on the shelf and no one buys.
I got my check for $260 for the month of January seed sales.
I'm just shutting this stuff down. I'm documenting. I'm so fucking over.
I love helping people out, but I've got to survive, too.
I've got teeth falling out I need to fix.
I literally could make more money at McDonald's than I do breeding.
I'm done with it.
I apologize to anyone who...
...is hoping that I keep doing things.
This is from my best friend. My mentor passed away.
This is a funny one.
36 years ago today I got hit by lightning while tripping on 5 hits of windowpane LSD.
This is one of the many stories from the book I'm working on.
Good genes gone bad.
Unfortunately he ended up passing away soon after this from a heart attack.
He never got his book.
I've been sending him seeds and he was just starting to get back into breeding.
I know two folks been struck. One was surfing.
This guy has been struck three times.
It's crazy that we owe him more than you might imagine.
Hashtag immortals. Hashtag living flesh. Hashtag life beings. Hashtag medicine man.
One day I was skiing with him and he watched me send my last real big air.
Quote, you went at least 70 feet he told me.
He headed off to his locker for a re-up on medicine and I headed to the castle to get in line for some fresh white lines.
He said I'd see you over there.
Several years later he had a heart attack standing in that line.
I found out later he hit a tree going 70 miles an hour not a minute after that jump.
My nanny and he are best friends forever and she was able to sneak my feco into him in the ICU.
He had 27 broken bones and punctured lungs.
He ate a gram a day for two years and attributes this to his healing.
This is the man I refer to as my mentor.
To be sure there are things he does I would chastise him for if it were my place to pass judgment.
We're all humans.
I was just making cancer medicine yesterday.
Here's a 30 gram feco.
The man behind the curtain.
Oz.
We got the capsules.
These are for my daughter's mother who has an aggressive breast cancer right now.
I want to thank Olin Schumacher for throwing down dry CIF CBD for me.
I incorporated that into the medicine.
Here's some cool stuff.
Happy genetics.
Both of these colas here are the exact same cut, same mother.
What happened here is this went up close.
It was smaller when I planted them.
When I'm back it was much larger.
There's so much nitrogen in the soil.
Look at the difference in the plants there.
What I didn't do was I did not defoliate the smaller ones quite as much.
Here's another example.
Darker green, smaller.
It's got that jump top.
Back there is one.
I didn't defoliate this guy so much.
Look at the difference.
This is one of the larger ones.
This is one of the smaller ones.
The amount of nitrogen available at this point versus the form of it growing in,
how much flower there is.
These are epigenetic responses.
Here's another one there.
Such things as the size of the plant.
Here's some cool stuff.
Happy genetics.
What do you see in your garden or farm that may not be so obvious responses to variables?
Do you get a positive response or look to dial in to remove that?
Grow on.
Hashtag into botany.
Hashtag medicine man.
Hashtag heal yourself.
Cradle to grave says epigenetic is what's up.
I've been trying to have a convo on it.
One of the things I believe is that cannabis likes occasional stressors here and there.
If it doesn't happen, how so you know you got a solid line?
A few days of cold temps, some drought conditions, et cetera.
I have let my plants literally shrivel up and then water and they were happy as heck.
They didn't flower anything so I was happy.
A little jumbly on his.
He's saying the same thing.
I like to use stress to figure out what's really the best part of the whole response to the environment.
Figure out where your maximum yield is going to be.
Some people find that stressing your plants will produce a little more THC.
You can produce less larvae on your plant, things like that.
There's different ways of dialing in your system.
Let's see.
45 days after light flip, 800 watts.
It's too hot.
Used.
What's this?
July 26.
It's way hot here in the summertime without fully air conditioning the house.
It's pretty tough to maintain proper vapor pressure deficit.
It just gets too hot.
I've traditionally for 20 years just shut down indoor for three months in the summer.
Let's see.
Used to never run cycles in July and August.
Having issues.
Turned down to 700 dHPS and shortened to 10.5 hours of light.
I think it's too late for the talkstales though.
One is Dr. Dream All Cure.
This one's the Breath of Purple Dragon.
Again, 45 days.
Comment Bnerdy says, ah, the mold covered buds.
Morning, Tank Chair.
Thanks for joining on the Home Slice Studio channel over here.
I was just noticing yesterday, and again, this is 131 weeks ago, August 11th.
We had a couple of years of serious curly top or bushy top issues across the
Intermountain West and Rocky Mountain Desert regions.
This is the first time we've had a problem with the mold.
This is curly top beet virus, if I remember.
Is that right?
It transfers through the leaf hoppers.
This is something.
Utah was a major sugar beet producer.
We literally have a town called Sugar House.
We have high school football teams called the Beet Diggers.
As a way to get around the immorality of sugar cane plantations and slavery
associated therein, people started growing sugar beets.
One of the things that happened was this curly top disease.
It got pretty heavily infected across the hemp fields a few years back.
I was just noticing this yesterday.
33 years, and this is new.
No vector fluorescence here.
Last week, I was asked by a fellow who's been touring Colorado and a lot more
states, hemp farms.
He was thinking it may be a boron deficiency.
At first, I thought this was the thing folks say happens when you apply bloom
chaos from Nectar, NFTAG, into an alkaline system.
Then I saw a post asking about hemp farmers having curly top virus spread by
grasshoppers.
I'm like, I kill three or four a day in the greenhouse.
As I'm a week into tart pool and pre-flower already had begun, I'm going to
cut out curly damage with an aggressively, actively aerated warranty.
If it doesn't outright stop the virus, it should keep it in check and increase
vigor overall.
I pretty much did.
I cut out the most diseased parts and I sprayed it and ended up getting some
decent results and keeping it back.
We've learned over time that you just need to cut these ones out and call the
losses and treat for the leafhoppers.
There's my buddy.
There's my man.
Like I said, a few weeks later, he ended up not being here anymore so he never
finished his book.
Apparently, his family just raised the old farmhouse and dumped everything in
the garbage.
Unfortunately, there was seeds and hash and money.
He had jars of cash buried out throughout the property that hopefully somebody
finds someday with a metal detector.
So fucking strong, he had a heart attack and thought it was a stomach bug.
He was about to start breeding again.
I'd hooked him up with a few packs already and I'm going to be doing one last
series of breeding it seems.
The Rotten Rob Raleigh Phoenix and Medicine Man.
When a white light warrior shapeshifts to fight the next battle in the great war
of nevermore.
So that was my rip post.
A good friend of yours passes on.
What do you do?
He and I were interacting before we ever met and we changed the world together.
I hope he's doing good things in his next meat suit.
Hemp fiber, sun bleached hemp flowers, and my Colorado certified cold tolerant
PM resistant mothership I sifted out two years ago.
I still need to get testing.
Ran some real along to see how hot it gets.
The clones are vegging for STS run going in it.
So I made a bunch of female feminized hemp seed.
All that's talking about.
Let's see.
Nothing special.
Let's talk about old rule changes.
But hemp fiber.
You see this stuff.
And so this is this is a redded naturally.
Beautiful, beautiful fibers.
Yep.
White that is stuff is so supple and soft and you may have heard me tell the
story of the hemp silk vest my grandmother had from the old country that was
as soft as silk and the colors as bright as they were white.
Died the day before on the various trim pieces that were all embroidered and
whatnot.
So beautiful, beautiful hemp fiber here.
And we still don't have enough of this going on in the States.
Yes, I think that's that's my I'm testing that hemp in the ground right
there.
And that would be what the flower is.
Some of that hemp when it's all finished out.
Breath of red dragon land race breeding.
Enthogen THC V.
What is a sifting?
I know it says that sifting at about 21 days into depth from seed stock to.
Some flea stock.
So I'm going to go ahead and test that hemp.
And I'm going to go ahead and test that hemp.
21 days into depth from seed stock to.
Some flea stock.
So about 10 or 14 day equivalent to flipping a select cut.
So yeah, after that's something that.
There's a slight difference in from seed.
It takes a little longer for the transition.
It's not the sexual maturity thing.
It's the it's just it's adjusting once you've.
Taken clones and stuff.
Transitions and flowers out finishes seven to ten days faster on average.
It's not a rule hard rule.
That's kind of an average you can.
You get things done a little quicker from clone than you do from seed.
Let's see.
Nigerian Yoruba Bantu stud.
Dr. Dream all cure mom.
Sativa hybrid medicine man.
And let's see.
Pure Anywhere has to say I have a few of the Yoruba Bantu growing I got from you.
And very different growth structure and everything else in the garden.
Needle thin leaves but not too long and grows as short compact bush.
And they are just transitioning into flower now and not a lot of stretch.
So far looking really nice kind of lime green almost yellowish but healthy.
Next to Afghans.
I got there really bright green and a huge contrast.
Just looking for the THC V clone on each one.
Oh my.
These remind me a lot of the Nigerian.
So yeah that would be because it's the Nigerian pollen.
Mailed structure transition structure considerably or the pollen donor.
What we have here.
This here is my St. Bernard.
It just got rained on.
But it's done for the season.
And it starts by itself in mid July.
And this is seeded with a 25% potential CBD.
And so there should be a few packs of these coming out.
Should be a 15 by 15 or better.
Anyhow.
St. Bernard.
Early harvest stuff.
Talk about microbreeding.
This here is my St. Bernard.
Microbreeding.
That's in a little teeny little one gallon pot.
And I totally seeded the crap out of it.
Anyhow.
So St. Bernard by Cherry Wine F3 by Spectrum F2.
I got that from Tetra Guy.
And I am bred that considerably with some other to the wolf from We Should Taste Good and Miles.
So early season genetics.
St. Bernard starts flowering in mid July.
To flower early, second week of July here.
Super frosty, big shaggy colas.
Can purple up in cool weather.
This is the daughter of the Trident.
See here seeded with 25% potential hemp stud.
A very lemon dumb of it.
So I do have those seeds.
I never tested them.
I sent some out but I've never popped any.
I have no way of doing the tests and such.
We got a beautiful snowstorm coming in right now.
Just kind of looking out the window at that.
Beautiful day.
Here's a preying mantis.
Mantis looking ready to oviposit in wolf hemp seedling.
Seeded by Tetra 4, Cherry Wine F3, Spectrum F2.
From the Tetra Guy IPM Biological Controls Web of Life.
So that body starts really swelling up.
When it's time for them to lay eggs.
They'll also hang upside down like this when they're molting.
You see this one's gone through its multiple molts and has its full sets of wings.
I've got three cases right now.
I'm expecting the ones in the greenhouse to start popping open soon.
I don't see it.
It's right in the center.
Right in the center there.
When I lived in Tawalny Meadows, Yosemite, part of my job was to chase bears.
There were many remarkable stories in real time.
But this one, Long-Haired Cinnamon, she and I danced often.
We played hide and seek or forest tag where I'd chase her into the woods.
And she'd leave me standing in a patch of amanitas every time.
And she would be sitting on the same stump waiting for me at the edge of the lodge parking lot just laughing at me.
Well, real-time information access was a word of mouth or print in 1989-90
when I lived in Yosemite High Country.
No TV, much less internet or smartphones.
Bread of Life, Entheogen, and Mana.
Back then the rumors were scrape off the white stuff and eat the rest.
Eat the white stuff, toss the rest.
Only the stem, only the top, only fresh.
It has to be baked in the oven.
It will kill you.
So I never did go there.
Funny thing is I did gather and dry a nice bunch of them.
When you know.
So I know where these grow now.
I have patches of them that I can visit.
And I've still not gone there with these particular.
They sure are pretty when they're starting to burst though, aren't they?
Beautiful, beautiful calves.
Yum.
So that was an amanita subspecies that grows here in the Intermountain West.
And the Sierras, I've seen both the red and the yellow tops.
Let's see, big hemp's.
Hemp's Zade Run, Fall Style.
Two tarps.
One to block the light out, one to block the light in.
Sacred plant.
So I was growing up a bunch of hemp plants.
I had like 30 of them there, I think, in five gallons.
And it was a late run.
So yeah, I was throwing a tarp over my daytime.
There's some hemp fiber.
There's some long-bast fiber.
So grab that CBD money while you can.
That's going to be a couple of years of gold mining if you're lucky.
There's 50,000 acre farms.
And it's going to be like in every soft drink, tampon and product.
So I'm going to be doing a lot of that.
Tampon and products.
And $50 bottles won't be a very long deal.
Anyhow, I have stuff that's like Mulholland bringing water to California level niche markets.
Real industry investments.
If when people, I can't get folks to actually listen.
Everyone wants to just grow dope or sell bottles of CBD.
But anyhow.
So this is just a studio view.
Here and I'm showing you.
There's some long-bast fiber.
Yeah, so I'm running two streams of runs.
Pop in and out.
But the hemp project has all the imagery.
So if you find the same title show.
If you want to watch that.
You can.
Tampon and products.
If you want to watch that.
And $50 bottles won't be a very long deal.
So again, here's a.
I got.
What am I showing here?
I got blackout tarp on the main greenhouse in the background.
I've got the hemp ones have.
So they're blackout curtains that I salvaged from remodeling.
Like a $12 million cabin.
Second home in Park City.
And there.
Yeah.
And I use those blackout curtains for small low tunnels.
For.
For block out.
And there you can see exactly.
So I have.
This is twilight or early.
Early morning.
Where the lights at.
And.
So I keep those covered over and.
I'll pull the main tarp.
In the morning.
And I usually.
I usually put it.
Let this evening twilight.
Roll through.
What's this?
Oh, here's, here's a bunch of hemp.
That I let go to full seed.
And I see do that under the tarp.
So that's, I have, I have some pretty large.
And that ended up dropping seed and doing a full dry farm the next year with two inches.
From these amazing hemp.
And you can see this stuff is.
Extremely resinous and people tell me that's not even hemp.
This is the wolf.
By.
Tetra spectrum.
Cherry wine.
And I, and I had handed all this off to miles because I realized I couldn't do anything with it.
Technically with.
Testing and stuff, right?
So I sent all of my hemp projects to miles Felipe.
We each taste good.
And hopefully that that stuff got worked in his projects.
A little bit of snow in the local mountains.
What was that September 11.
From 2019.
Tells you how, what kind of growing season we have here.
And, you know, also pointing out like, like looking at when snow falls in the Himalaya in.
The areas that, for instance, Arizona and Indian land race seat.
I'm sorry.
Here is on the, the, the full power selections.
And he's got a couple of different projects he works with there.
But, but he's, he's the Indian land race.
And the box. Awesome.
Yeah. So, so we were trying to figure out when, you know, prior a couple of years prior to this, we were trying to figure out what seeds I could use from there to grow here.
And our snow happens.
Our freezes happen way earlier.
I ended up working with that.
New Mexico land grant instead of something from over yonder.
Breath of purple dragon outdoor natural cycle light depth 40 days and some S1 expression at 30 days.
I don't know what exactly I meant there.
Pleasant mild nose of berries, classic weed stink.
The smoke flavor is just classic cannabis.
No frills.
The front end is nondescript.
The creep will floor your ass or set you on a couch watching visuals for six hours.
If you don't see the end of the video, you're going to be in trouble.
You're going to be watching visuals for six hours.
If you don't stop at one or two hits from the bomb.
Heavy Pakistani Chitral Kush sedation in a solid flower with visuals.
That's what cookie rec does to me.
I'm such a lightweight.
Manual breathing after two hits.
Danny Knowles in the comment section there.
Knowles Family Farms is crushing it over in Oklahoma these days.
Check them out if you haven't.
Here's breath of red dragon Nigeria Rububantu pollen into Dr. Dream Alkir, a Zion Curtain God send genetic.
So if you haven't breath of red dragon, maybe you should.
I sent cuts out.
I have no idea what happened.
I sent one to Peter and never heard much after I saw veg.
But yeah, here's some some of that Nigerian breath of red dragon just stacking.
Just stack and the stuff is frosted.
I smoke bottoms hashtag big ass fucking soda pop bottle colas.
I believe this is bomb.
I believe this is bomb.
Bomb.
I believe this is bomb.
So for me, I'm the fully tender tangy fans and I was just seeing folks in India in my third eye as I worked making and drinking buttered warm milk with fresh pulverized cannabis leaf rejuvenating exhilarating invigorating a long time coming.
I also began my studies of cuneiform.
Didn't get too far on the cuneiform studies and was inspired to study Tamil language after the old Syrian sacred Earth sacred plant.
Yeah, I ended up just studying what people translated so far, but that would be a fun one for as I get older.
I really do want to learn cuneiform and read the old clay tablets of Syria, not Syrian.
Cool. Yeah, so bang hot milk and you can use I know there's different preparations of this and this super mild one here just using families even or even some of the some of the smaller sugar leaves whatever and pureed into a blender with hot milk.
Like if you ever done like golden milk with turmeric.
It like like, you know, 10 minutes later like all my arthritis. I feel like a baby for the turmeric this stuff here is even more so it acts you get that little bit THC a the you get the little bit of CBD and there's teeny you know, there's mostly it has a little CBD in it.
But I don't know how to describe it other than like invigorating rejuvenating and uplifting it gives me a ton of energy. This is one of those things that like when I was firefighting I would love to have had on on when you're all run down and you need an extra boost of energy.
This is be something that that if I was working a harvest and winter was coming on fast and the cold days were getting shorter. I would love to have something like this out in the field.
It's not something that's going to waste you. It's not a party drug. It's not I bet it actually has amazing medicinal purpose of properties as well. And I know it's something that they do as a regular basis and India.
I know also that they they'll do like what they call a bond lossy and there's actually they'll be putting like extracts or increasing the THC level. So there's definitely different ways of doing this.
Again, this is the most plain basic just families and a few sugar leaves pureed in with the hot milk and that made it just I love that shit. That's great stuff.
What do we got? Oh, I'm showing how the tarps work and things here.
So I've been so fucking poor since I found out my neck broke two times amongst the seven blown discs and my fully arthritic spine. I really had to stop working right and trying to compete with California and Oregon and everybody mass producing shit. It's just ridiculous, but whatever.
So amongst seven blown discs and fully arthritic spine to a demo my thoracic has been four years since my irrigation worked and I got my plumbing in my yard all fixed up already, but they have that programmed in obsolescence.
Right? So I totally built an irrigation for this house when I bought the property and went to go repair it and all the shit. They don't even make it anymore. They don't make repair parts yet. I do completely replace the entire irrigation system manifolds and pumps and valves and stuff. Right?
So it's been four years since my irrigation worked and my greenhouses have needed new covers for at least seven years. Reskinning the greenhouse solo double layer with in sealed and separate panels alone is an innovative endeavor.
Anyway, I'm working away and I hear fucking helicopter. It flies right over my yard and then circled around. I've been transitioning to hemp and I reskinned so I can do a hemp seed production this autumn. About 50 hemp plants exposed in my yard and the fucking irony is it is I get a visit for fucking hemp seeds.
The adrenaline is intense. I honestly can't remember if it's circled once or twice. Actually, after I thought about it, it was three or four times.
But I was standing next to the pictured bunch of hemp and gave them the big giant air cock stroke. Fuck him, it's hemp. Then they will still try and fuck with me for it. But that 1A and color of law conspiracy clause in the Constitution and that religious lands and incarcerated persons act of 2000.
I helped the manifestation of along with my mentor. Mighty powerful law of the land, the greenhouse film needs to be tacked down. They got the mini squirrel fan to get plant peas and greens to eat as well and grow on.
Hashtag fuck cancer. Fuck spinal edema. Fuck arthritis. Fuck Vickers, the opiate dealing senator. Reinstate prop to entheogen sacred or sacred plant. Genesis 111, Genesis 128.
Bro, we have made the lame walk, the blind see, the broken bones, no problem. Stolen patients from hospital before being operated on to install metal pins. Now patient is 100% of our patients last year.
So this is my sans wishman medicine man friend down in South Africa. So you can see the old torn skins. These things don't last forever. They do the job.
I have, I have, here's the double. I got it all spread out on the, on the street, getting the whole thing lined up. How do you skin a greenhouse? Cutting the lengths, get the whole thing dialed out.
So folding it back up so I can lay it out properly. What's this? Oh, there's my irrigation. I got dialed back in. I don't even put this in it. I found, I found a whole freaking thing of sod and sodded in this dead area of my lawn. Fix the irrigation.
I didn't even get all this proper in the ramble. That sod all my fucking soil here is so bad. That sod's all dead. It's the funniest shit.
Alkalide sand. There's all that hemp. Yeah, they wanted me to do the broker. These guys wanted me to broker, but like again, I couldn't get a hemp license here.
My micro farm. This is funny. So some of you may or may not have seen my, my, this is the first, some of the first hemp crops in Utah. And you can see that they, but they didn't get stuff planted until I think it was mid July.
And we did drive about 420 miles a day to look at farm properties. I got a buddy who's into, he got his real estate license that's specific for preserving old farms. We were driving around. We found a couple of hemp startups along the way. I was thinking the big investment was, was hurting.
So we saw one that was like a guy from Colorado had come over and did a drip line plastic culture transplants of clones and it was pretty sad looking but.
So we saw one that was like a guy from Colorado come over and did a drip line plastic culture
transplants of clones and it was pretty sad looking but
Here's 20 yeah, you can see how bad that so they tried direct seeding and
When it was just too fucking hot
Already the soil dried out and and I've shown and I wish I could get anybody to understand that we can dry farm by
direct seeding
either in the fall or
Earlier in the spring when the ground is moist here
So again just like some really sad hemp plants a lot of people lost a lot of money buying seed that they're
Implanting it way too frequently just because the legislation and stuff was when it was allowed to go through
So there's the Colorado hemp farm or startup you can see some gaps and stuff in there and
right, so there's I guess it wasn't all that bad considering how late they got started but
Other photos I had seen expectations would have been higher and I I tried to offer
Help and was told we got a guy with dreadlocks. He knows what he's doing
But this cool because this is the first time I ever saw legal cannabis in Utah
I can smell it now
Wow
This is a 80 acre hemp farm here in Utah and it's pretty sad looking. Yeah, it's very sad looking
Here's this so actually there's two different two farms
Two different farms connected, but there's a lot of disease teeny plants. They got in late. It looks like I left my information
There's a lot of weed a lot of sadness going on. Yeah, there's a lot of brownness going on yellowing
Maybe we'll find my
This is the old farmhouse I was looking at I
Found an amazing piece of property. I wish they could you could jumped on it
$20,000 more than my house was worth I would could have gotten if I had sold it at the time
So we didn't end up selling a couple weeks or so later. Ah
Let's ask a little little can now what living art would I see someone else what is it you replies?
Pedicle of microbes transforming ethanol and a residual sugar
You're gonna be busy if you're gonna take a be in my
Yeah, I got spelling issues
Oops what I do that's not what I meant to do. Well, you can do like this
We're doing for time 843
843
843
Where we doing for time 843
Great
Huh
Why my internet so freaking slow
Somewhere in here. What if I missed a bunch by accident?
Sorry folks
Let's see somewhere around
Somewhere right around in here wasn't me. Let's see
I think I was way past this
One point me the name actually cannabis oil
And is this 140
I'm trying to find a date on these June 14 2019
So yeah, I think I missed a bunch of this I cry thinking about the loved ones
I could not help my soul soars as my spine tingles knowing I've made a difference where and when it's possible to do
So I swear the chemo and radiation surgery is what kills them that and the false hopes placed in CBD alone to fight cancer
It is the THC Delta 9 that causes the apoptosis or self-induced cell death
In cancer cells CBD has other actions that are great, but without the THC it's not gonna do the job
I administer cold process THC a to allow the body to metabolize as needed with Delta 9 THC
Ministering Delta 9 is less effective in my comprehensions. The body will metabolize via enzyme to the carboxy 11
Which is a lucinogen
And will not be available to the job in quantities administered
I also administer dandelion root and cannabis and holy anointing oil with frankincense mercinum and that stuff alone will cure what ails you
Fuck cancer heal yourself FICO antigen medicine, man
Yeah, no I went through these last week, all right
We're exhausted all conventional measures. One last desperate option is to put you on an alternative natural medicine that has
90% success rate
Let's see catch us up here
That's where we started today
Buddy Rome quick talk about
Yeah
We're getting close on greenhouse
Scragglyhamp, there we go. All right, we're back. Yeah, that was when I was looking at
That was the one we went and looked at that would I
Would have been awesome to hop on but you know, they had the whole thing with 20 acres of hemp
I would have lost my fucking ass
Well, had I had I bought it I'd have a farm right now in a home with no payments
I would have it set up with some greenhouses and producing food as well. There's a lot of
There's a lot of tourism around there. There's a lot of house just just
Growth right and so this whole section we're looking at there the bottom of this picture here
This is a freeway intersection and that actually I saw it as a potential for
As things continue to grow and so that Highway 89 right there is a scenic byway
People come from around the world to travel goes down to Highway 12
You might have known in the Red Rock Country and this was great potential for like farm stands and many mark for
green thought people
But I was looking at this farm in central Utah has dirt and water 260 days of Sun
There was an offer ahead of us. It was about 10,000 more than my equity if I sold my house, so
No, no one stepped up to help me on that investment and it went bye-bye
There was the house. I was showing you the key from a
couple of buildings some garden zones
Just amazing. There's gold up in those mountains. There's there's backcountry skiing. You can see I
There's also a hot spring over just in the top right corner there the picture
The destination owned by an old deadhead his bus broke down traveling back to Colorado from California shows
Breath of turquoise dragon grown in Spain. So yeah, I actually did send a few of those out
Dr. Dream all cure by 1700, New Mexico old Spanish land grant only handful of folks have been blessed by this genetic
The new New Mexico land grant is likely the only true North American land race THC genetic
Fellow in New Mexico been growing 30 years ran it a few years back the breath of turquoise dragon
Yeah, the 30 strain garden 30 strains in his garden that year
He said the turquoise was the only true North American land race
30 strain garden 30 strains in his garden that year. He said the turquoise was the stankiest skunkiest thing he had ever
period
And I gotta agree that that one's got to be one of the stankiest freakin
Let's see breeding out after the f1 though has been tough that f1 was really weird freaking hat
I think I'd say f3 and should we'd like to open those things back up again without having
Financial returns for doing this shit. It's extremely difficult for me to continue
There's a passion and there's dedication and then there's the fact I got teeth falling out my fucking mouth. I need to fix
Growing season is technically over. This is the test. This is only a test and not the only test
I have some things that do not follow the rules
So you can see here we got down. That's that's a indoor outdoor my kitchen
Sean it's it's it's gold
But
Yes, I found things do survive below freezing just fine
When you're breeding and the runty rejects that were too small to clone at transition get all biblical
There she lusted for her lovers with genitals like those of donkeys
Hashtag donkey dick and breath of red dragon. Dr. Dream all cure Nigerian Yoruba bond to you gotta love that quote of the Bible
There she lusted for her lovers with gentles like those of donkeys
the missions
Yeah
Zion curtain gods engine and attempted about me plant medicine sacred or a sacred plant Genesis 111 129 medicine, man
Same thing here to phenos with heavy nose not pollinated no cuts
They were runts not noticed and that's my son's medicine
wish dr. Friend
Yeah, yeah, so this is this is the breath of red dragon
reject
Right when I ran 70, that's like the worst you're gonna get out of a pack of those. They should be some of those a daga
still
How's that for sacred geometry
Some of my blue corn woman
Purple white blue corn
These are different stages of having been
You can see when they're all swollen and stuff that's the perfect time to eat that stuff fresh
you can see how they're shrunken and that shows the
Sweetness the SS
The hybrid so I knew these with an open pollination down in the bottom corner here. You can see something. It's really cool
It's the socially genetic and what we have there is
Both
Tassels and silk coming off of the year and so through hybridization and modern selection and stuff over
Thousands of thousands of years the corn was bred to where it had two different parts. But again, this is corn
I'm it's all old genetic in it and it
Shows us some of that stuff. It's pretty cool
Comes through the so totally
I
Have left in my
Hemp garden I keep separating them trying to keep them apart. I just seen him fighting
So whatever they want to do the thing
Exactly sure what's going on?
Well, this is still as I can
I just do those leaves at him trying to break him up again, but
There we go
What so maybe
if you realize that I
Don't want to fight. I don't know
The last two I want them both sitting here eat food
There you go
So, I think one was a male owns a female and they were mating
My own foot there I have that process
Hemp garden I keep separating them trying to keep them apart. I just seen him fighting
Whatever they want to do this thing
Exactly sure what's going on?
Well, this is still as I can
I
Just do those leaves at him trying to break him up again
There we go
That's shorter one would be the female I guess no longer one female
So I'm trying to figure out what was wrong with my breath of green dragon
It was really hurting as we came into a finish here
You can see all these crinkled up leaves I was chopping some branches off and what I find is
the deep freeze
completely girdled this thing
Look at it still cranking
This is the bottoms this is why I say pound I smoke bottoms
My bottoms on my girdle plants were
Pretty crazy crazy stuff. Huh? This plant is completely grilled in multiple places
Plant is a 12 degrees here in a couple of the strength of my genetics
Breath of green dragon after it's been trying to figure out what was wrong with my breath of green dragon
It was really hurting as we came
This is breath of green dragon. I always say you're putting your foot in the ground
It was really hurting as we came
This is breath of green dragon. I always say your plant is dead when it gets girdled
Well, this is what happens from 23 to grab F direct exposure the water and the live stem
So again in the greenhouse, it doesn't get the hardening off as much or this is a cold frame
I don't think I had any heat in here. So
With without any heat into it and then it gets a hard freeze. There's a lot different than the slow
transitions, okay, and
So there's there's big difference of seeing you can see that in the springtime
I got folks that are sending me pictures of their their seedlings that are getting a hard freeze after a mild spring
start and
Although sometimes it looks like it might be some pithium going on as well in the cold the cold soils
But folks are definitely trying to try this
Earlier starts that I am pushing the cold temperatures that I advertise or advocate towards
So, well, this is what happens with 23 F direct exposure the water and the live stems froze and exploded
I just noticed that's the night. Okay. This is two weeks after the deep freeze
Right, so I was trying to figure out why why it was yellowing and stuff
And this is this thing is kept freaking cranking for two weeks after it was dead
That's I don't know. Anyhow, be nice if people could really understand what it is that I'm doing and support it but
Unfortunately, I get I get a maximum it seems of 700 you watching the show and it's a pretty small reach
Super psyched I took the risk and spent money. I don't have the
Gas ventless radiate radiant heater. So I went and bought a heater for the greenhouse. You can see my
my hydrous heat sink tubes as well, okay, so this is showing the
Temperature humidity
Temperature humidity
Greenhouse humidity is pretty high
Temperature 40-something. There's the
Mantis
Peppers are hanging in there cold tolerant hemp is super happy my fig taking it out
Managed to keep that little heater. It's 14 degrees outside. It is 50-something in here
so
Hemp is happy. You've got a couple of
Medicinal plants finishing out. Here's my mail
Just about to say
Pollen for everyone
And here's the cold tolerant hemp at 30 days
Actually, it's 28
Actually, it's 28
That is my cash crop
These seeds from these hemp plants this year and I just bought this greenhouse heater and I'm stoked
This guy is still hanging out
There's the greenhouse you can see this is my first view. There's some frost on the inside. It's so cold
Here's my my vapor barrier door and actually it sucks moisture out
Freezes it that creates a whole nother barrier and see moist
Allows a little bit of breathing here's my exhaust is covered with a frost blanket, but it doesn't just blast here heat out
This is a single layer here see how much more ice formed up on it and then the double layers
See how much more ice formed up on it and then the double layers
Can't have them completely sealed up
Here's the greenhouse you can see this is my first view
I
Saw the inside so that cold air getting pusher this black tube you got right there is a
Heat distributor I got a water pump and a
50 gallon tank and it can take water in in the day and our heat in on the day and he didn't I
distributed at night
That's I think showing the wall sides inside there but
Anyhow greenhouse is nice we're right kind of right there at that time so
There's a purple cherry dragon cush FF one I
Wish there was more of that seed out there. This was a feminized seed test reject
This was nowhere near the best of the litter
This was a run a couple of others were scraggly er, but the keepers were way better. I sifted out two from 30
I'm sure many of my rejects are cup winning material
I don't have the facility to keep them all especially when I know I made the seeds and I have more seeds
Basically, if you get a pack of breath of purple dragon FF one, this is your ice tag. I smoke bottoms selection
Love y'all have a great life go out and do wonderful things make the world a better place
Appreciate y'all
Appreciate what you do
It's probably something I can't
Cool, so I'm gonna be signing off till next week. Y'all have a great time
Living your life in the meat suit that you got
