Oh wow, we're live?
Wow, we're at the sesh we had for 20 last week and we're super excited.
I think we're smoking some Golden Coast today.
Thank you anyone who's watching or watching in the future.
Thank you to Golden Coast for giving us all of these flavors on the table.
And I think that just to frustrate Peter, we're starting with some Forum Cut Girl Scout
cookies and then we're going to move into some really interesting stuff.
But the Girl Scout cookies, and I think we can go around because we all smelled it, smelled
really awesome.
But then here there's some more Landrace-y stuff and it's just going to be a great sesh.
So what did, Zach, I know you had some really cool smell notes on the Girl Scout, on the
Forum Cut.
Yes, it was, the aroma I got was this great nutty coffee ground vibe and very sweet.
The cookies stood out as just a, it has such a foundation as a, as a, like a tone.
I can't wait to smoke it.
I can't wait to see if it translates.
I mean, I bet it, I bet it will.
It's very impressive in how rich, even for the amount in the bag, it was very like just
invasive, you know?
So I love, I love the terp that just gets right in there and it's undeniably a Forum
Cut.
It's like, it's so cookies.
It's like nutty and yeasty and sweet and like vanilla.
It's just great.
But also like mothball-y.
It's really, it is really complex.
I'm stoked to try it, but you all were smelling stuff before we got here.
Did anything else stand out?
Yeah.
Oh.
Sorry, the Lemon Cherry Gelato.
That one was so amazing.
It had like a very nice vanilla kind of frosting smell.
So it was really sweet and it really stood out to me.
If you guys haven't smelled it, then definitely take a whiff.
Right.
It's super nice, like delicate, almost yeasty sort of smell to it.
But I think this is a great mix of stuff we have in front of us here.
I think Gold Coast Genetics did a great job presenting what he's known for and what he's
passionate for with his Landrace crosses present in the Columbian Haze and the Albert Walker
crosses we have.
Some of the more new hyper stuff, you could call it, like the Lemon Cherry Gelatos and
everything else we have.
So let's get into it.
I think we're rolling up right now.
Otis, what are we rolling up?
Forum Cut.
We're rolling up the Girl Scout Cookies Forum Cut.
And then I think, yeah, Jaz, if you want to pick another one to go in on.
Yeah, definitely.
You know, we also have, we have the Garlic Skunk Strain here.
This is the one Peter was getting ripped on on 420.
And this is actually something unique because we have the dry-sift version and rosin version
of this as well.
Oh, for real?
Yeah, we do.
So we have three different variants of the same strain.
And that's something unique.
You very rarely get to see that.
So we'll definitely get a chance to compare that on the show today.
Yeah, right now we're talking about the Garlic Skunk.
So we have this in flower form as well as rosin and dry-sift form.
So yeah, right.
And it's very rare that you get different forms of the same cannabis flower.
So we're definitely excited to tuck into that on the show today and do a deeper dive
on that.
So we'll roll some of that up.
Maybe we'll put some of the wax into the joints and yeah, the dry-sift definitely.
We'll put a Garlic Skunk square joint up in there.
A donut.
Hell yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, this is such an amazing selection.
I guess, Jaz, are you more familiar with Golden Ghost's work and sort of which one of these
are meaningful parts of his stable and his sort of genetic library?
Just a little bit.
Yeah, I'm aware he's very passionate.
Him and Peter connect a lot on the landrace side of things and specifically just all across.
If you look on what we have present here, it is mostly South American landrace crosses
such as the Columbian hazes and other variants of sort.
But it is cool because he does have some modern stuff too.
As mentioned before, the Lemon Cherry Gelato, the Garlic Skunk, the Maynick Calio.
We have a bunch of new stuff and we're going to tuck into it all.
Really what I'm most excited for is the Columbian Haze A somewhere here that smells ridiculous.
So definitely want to tuck into that and see what the experience will be like.
Dave really is a wealth of knowledge.
Yeah, when I've seen him and Peter connect on YouTube, it feels like there's a really
strong understanding of just what makes quality.
And I kind of love to see that there's someone who's like a purveyor of things like these
equatorial hazes and is also like, yeah, the form cut is good enough that it makes
the cut.
You know, like there sort of isn't any sort of biases.
It really is just about quality.
And I tend to find that those people that mindset are the best growers.
I think everything we've examined here so far, whether it be old school genetics or
more new was all given the same amount of love and care.
And you can definitely tell in the end product is you can tell by our reactions and we're
just going around right now.
So we'll definitely share this with you and what we're thinking, too.
But right now, Gabe, what do you think about that joy, man?
The first inhale was really nice.
It definitely reminds me of cookies.
It has that kind of gingerbready thing.
You know, the first hit, the cherries always a little hot.
Yeah, they're a little cool down.
But I'll have something to say about it in a second.
But enjoyable smoke.
I mean, I certainly I certainly think the dry pull was really, really flavorful.
Just as like cookies is just good, comfortable, neutral smoking weed.
You know, you want like when you have an ounce of cookies, you don't resent it by the smalls
at the bottom, like you sort of are just down to keep enjoying it.
Right.
You know, and other things can be a little more a little more difficult and a little
more challenging, whereas I would describe cookies as like the most unchallenging smoke
and definitely a stable and anyone's and anyone's stable.
Definitely a strain stable and everyone's trying to collaborate at this point in time.
Some very of it.
Otis, I just want to say I love your Organics Alive hat, man.
Oh, yeah.
Shout out to Organics Alive, friend of the show.
Shout out, Eric, for sure.
Eric, no no nutrient company or I guess beneficial company pulls up to events and really supports
the community in SoCal like Organics Alive.
Shout out Organics Alive.
Shout out to BioAg up north.
Shout out all the homies.
Shout out everyone.
We love the homies.
Shout out everyone we got to see at Free Seed Day, too.
Yeah, man.
Free Seed Day was and it was great to get to talk to Trevor.
These sessions have just become such a such a cool meeting place for so many people.
And that hash.
I mean, I'm still I still think that that hash from Uplift Uplifted Minds is so good.
Some of the best material I've ever seen.
And they were out there on 422 at King Aziel.
It's just awesome seeing community come together.
Oh, what do you think of that?
Cookie.
It's nice.
The flavor profile is still developing.
It's very enjoyable.
It's smooth.
It's very cookie.
And so Jaz, did you want to get into the hazes next or the cushions?
Because I know that the Albert Walker's in there, too.
And you mentioned it.
Yeah, it is.
You got your hands are going to be busy tonight.
Oh, yeah.
Busy hands.
I was really intrigued by that Albert Walker dog.
I was told that Albert Walker is not a Skywalker, but rather something a little bit older.
So just something I've never seen before.
I was really curious about.
Well, I guess in the chat, can you tell us if the Albert Walker is a part of the dog
Walker because I feel like the dog Walker is a really popular one.
And I'm pretty sure that it's just like Chem X Albert Walker.
And so it's really cool.
I mean, I think getting to try like known parentage like I've never tried the Eddie
left. That's in so many things like getting the opportunity to try these, you know, meaningful
parents is always really cool to get to understand sort of the history of popular turf profiles.
Oh, it's kind of lemony cheesy.
It's not really a cush.
It's very interesting as a no super fruity on that one.
The nose on that is super, super nice.
Did you guys get that kind of like the Albert Walker?
Our dog, our dog, our dog, our dog.
That one is very nice.
What did you say?
Every single person open up one of those containers.
No, no shade.
No, like totally great.
All this product is amazing.
All this stuff is amazing.
But we were all interested in that.
We were all interested in the difference between the Tupperware versus the bag.
It seems that the bag, based on structure, quality nose seems like it's indoor work.
And then there's there's this these Tupperware that seems like it's depths and I'm not throwing
like depths are cool.
I don't have any problem.
Yeah, I'm going with, you know, outdoor full and I think we've and I don't know if we've
had this conversation, but I mean, mixed light makes for some of the best hash on earth.
It definitely does.
It's some of the best flower to depending on strains.
It's all about genetics as well.
And it Calio number six.
This one is one of the most stinky ones I've smelled so far.
That one smells great.
Isn't Calio.
This is man.
I know.
Calio, Cali.
All right.
Calio.
It's manic.
Irene.
That one.
This is the manic Calio.
But I think manic maybe Peter and if I don't know if there's something to pull up or if it seeds you sell.
But it seems like manic is a running theme around these jars.
So maybe that's like a common parent.
Yeah.
The Irene is another one where like I've rarely seen the Irene on its own, but it's just in so much.
Definitely.
I'll roll that one up.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Manic.
Manic Calio number six.
That one smells great.
There is there's an orange.
No, guys.
We have to do it.
We have to do it.
Manic Calio.
We're gonna have to roll the lemon cherry gelato eventually.
We just have to.
I think we'll run our life up at the end.
Definitely.
Definitely.
I like what we're doing right now where we're switching it in with the land race and then one of the newer strains and then switching it back.
So yeah, it'll be a good one.
And so Peter is that.
That's the one you guys smell that one?
And Peter was fresh for us, right?
That the Tupperware is mixed light and Tupperware is stuff that he grew at home.
OK.
And I just texted him asking how he grew it.
Sweet.
Nice.
I mean, again, and thank you so much to Golden Coast for this spread.
Also shout out to homie Kebab Senpai.
If you use his discount, you can get 15% off on Brothers Broadleafs.
Do not forget if you use the homie Kebab Senpai's discount code on Brothers Broadleafs website, you can get 15% off.
Is the discount.
I talked to them a long time ago about carrying that stuff.
I need to follow up with them again.
The best blunt you can buy.
And is what is the is the code Kebab Senpai?
Just so that everyone knows what is the code?
The code is just Kebabs.
All caps.
A B O B S.
K A.
Of course.
But, you know, there's two way to spell Kebabs.
So just making sure they know.
So for blunts.
So we're putting hazelnut.
This is the one that I'm about to.
Gabe can't handle that.
Chinese food.
Is that that's not what it's called, is it?
No, this one almost has like.
I think that's what the nose is reminiscent of.
Some kind of Mandarin vibes.
Which one is that?
The Calio number six.
Manic Calio number six.
It definitely is Calio.
You're really.
No, I don't think it's only Calio, but I think Calio must mean Calio.
Based on that nose.
C A L I O.
Manic Calio number six.
It smells good.
There's a nugget in here to smell.
It's good.
Ooh, a chocolatey vibe.
Yeah.
It's like a, um, it's like a Walker's chocolate orange.
Like the like English one.
Thank you.
Thank you.
What am I experiencing?
I'm experiencing a Walker's chocolate orange.
Yeah.
Chocolate orange.
Exactly.
I was going to say the tootsie pop, the orange.
You're like biting into the whole thing.
You're not even, you're just like broken glass into the terpiness
of orange and chocolate.
And it's like a, it's like a chalky chocolate.
There's another nugget right here to put in there.
Yeah.
Chalk is for sure.
Like chalky is, is a terp profile that will come out.
Those candy wafers things.
They're like, who, who made this?
This came from over here.
Pinksy.
Pinksy.
How's it feeling?
How's it feeling?
So the good homie Tetris.
Really nice weed.
I mean, I enjoy it.
I really do like it.
This is pretty.
I hope it translates in the flavor.
Okay.
I definitely like, I smell that definitely that orangey, tangerine, like
creamsicle type for sure.
This one also has kind of like that light glaze, the sweetness.
I do like stuff like this.
I really hope I can taste this.
That would be a nice thing to taste.
Let's do it.
Manicalio number six.
Right now.
Cigarette.
Is that him?
No, this is tobacco.
The flavor really developed in this one.
I like this at three, five.
I needed to get halfway through this before I could like, uh, get that
classic cookie flavor.
That's what we were just saying is that the mintiness really just came out and
it's so jazz was just pointing out how smooth it was.
Um, yeah.
Great job, Dave.
So far you're one for one on, on the trip.
Triple A is for sure.
And it's, it's cookie with the good cookie flavor and not the doo-doo musty flavor.
Yup.
It's like that, that well, well point of like gas that's just well-rounded and not
too obscure, but not too much either.
It's super well balanced.
I agree on that.
Extremely smooth.
You're actually likes.
I like Hayes.
I smoke them in the morning and they get me late.
I like the hazes I've tried.
I like, I think I've, you know, the best Hayes I saw was Pifko screen Hayes, but I
really don't know how many of those like true hundred 10 plus day aquaponics grown
in Miami type, you know, like that real is it's something I'd love to see more of.
Yeah.
I want to smoke some Hayes Rosin.
That's like some real Hayes or Hayes like a hash.
Yeah, for sure.
Like a lower than my lightsaber, like a dry stiff would be cool.
That'd be dope.
On the Hayes.
Yeah.
I bet there's like some old heads who have some stories about like Hayes finger hash
or something.
Just bouncing it on screens.
I mean, it's like, you have to be in a very cold environment pretty much.
Oh yeah.
Have you done dry stuff?
No, I'm not.
I've just seen the internet, you know, and of course like the traditional way that
people make it, which is pretty cool.
Like with these like endless amounts of filtered screens and like, you know, these
are people in Morocco or people making this in Afghanistan or something like that, which is
like super cool.
And like all the different varieties and stuff.
It's super.
I mean, every micron is different, you know, and the way, of course, how it's how it's
constantly processed in like certain seasons and stuff like that's so cool to me.
You know, it's like a very ritualized event, you know, which I like a lot about a lot of
weed stuff, you know, it's the ritual, the history.
Well, it's also how things were originally sort of like preserved and how turps were
actually shared across the world was in hash, you know, like how it can be preserved.
Yeah.
So I think we should on that note, definitely in the next joint.
Oh, you know, we should we should smoke what Peter smoked on 420 next.
That's garlic skunk.
And maybe we should roll a hash of the garlic skunk with a little bit of dry sift and some
rosin in it as well.
The dry sift I think is near me.
Yes, we have rosin, dry sift and flour of the same form and from the same person as
well.
If you'd like to check it out.
Yes, I was very impressed.
I was very impressed by the dry sift.
It looks really nice.
It's sticky.
It just you can the like when you're breathing it in the the way that it invades and fills
the sinus and everything is like super has it just it is full.
It is like the jazz cam.
Is that what this cam is right here?
It's currently aimed at you.
Look at this.
Where's the flour at?
I mean, it's pretty it's pretty.
I mean, it's.
We have an empty jar of garlic skunk if you guys want.
I mean, it's a little green, but I mean, like dry sift is dry sift.
You know, it's like you're removing certain size heads and it's doesn't mean just because
it's green doesn't mean it's bad.
Is that dry sift or is that?
I thought it was.
All right.
Yes.
Well, I guess I was assuming it was bubble hash.
No, I mean, I mean, it kind of is.
It depends on it's basically dried.
This is cured already.
It should.
I'm pretty sure it's cured.
You know, usually dry sift has to be.
I mean, but it's you know, it's like I don't know if this is from his trim bin or whatever,
but I hope he's it is from his trim bin.
Very clean trim bin.
Very nicely done.
Very clean.
But I'm excited about that.
It has such a I mean, dry sift.
Yeah, it's very, very rich.
Kind of has some like gassy notes to it.
Yeah, it's herbal.
Can I check it out after you?
Yeah.
It's got some like a sweet lemon notes to it.
I mean, there's it's I was impressed.
I was like into it.
Have you ever played around with any skunk genetics?
Do they wash?
Uh, yes, they do.
Um, I haven't personally washed, but I've heard good numbers about some of their genetics.
I'm trying to think what would be the greatest that I've seen by them.
Oh, I was just talking about like skunk one type cultivars, but also.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, I think I thought you were saying like skunk house genetics.
Oh, no, but that's just abbreviating.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, they're I know they're they're worth washing.
They have great genetics for washing.
But I don't know.
I actually I haven't I haven't washed any skunk genetics, but I'd be down.
I'd be down.
Bring me bring them to me.
Bring me your fresh frozen.
And we will do for the science for the community.
I think it's only right that we put the lemon cherry gelato on the blind.
Yeah, that's cool.
Are we are we is the hash?
We're going to be the blonde.
No, no, no.
The hash has to be in a joint.
We have to taste the colors.
All right.
Just like now you're getting picky.
Yeah, no.
Sorry, I love blunts.
They're they're guilty pleasure.
I really can't beat a man.
A lemon cherry in a blind is it's like the 20th century.
God, it's timeless.
A blunt is Thomas, but lemon cherry in the blunt.
I would say that's a rather new trend.
That is a trend.
Lemon cherry in the blunt is kind of like hitting the Fortnite dance.
Yeah, it is.
Who do you know smokes lemon cherry gelato on the paper?
I don't know anybody.
Nobody.
Nobody.
You can smoke lemon cherry gelato in a blunt in any state in the United States.
That's for sure.
Lemon cherry gelato.
This is an interesting one to go around the table.
Is lemon cherry gelato runts?
Answer your say what you were going to say and then answer the question.
But is lemon cherry gelato runts is a question I'd oppose to the room.
Well, first I was going to say, well, putting a lemon cherry gelato in a blunt,
it kind of takes away from that flavor of it.
And that's why it goes great in a paper cone or, you know, in a bong hit like a solid rip,
because you can really get that rush of that flavors.
And like, I don't know, it just lights off the terpenes in a magical way.
I 100% agree with that statement.
However, this is superior tobacco.
This is a brother's broadleaf.
Unflavored.
That's fair.
If the weed's good, it shines.
That's fair.
Well, the pink Z really came out.
So I have faith in it just because the pink Z, I can really taste the flavor of that.
So that was really nice.
You can really still taste the fruitiness of it.
So I'll give it to you.
He said he had it was the pink Z that was in the last blunt.
Daniel was a pink Z, was the pink zebra.
Yes.
Shout out to don't panic.
It's all right.
We spoke to him for 20.
It was good.
Yes, we did.
We smoked the fruit zoops as well.
But I guess and I'm curious, what do people think about?
Because I agree that it's super flavorful to me.
It is very similar to runs, but there's something it's obviously a different Fino.
But is it the same thing or is it a run or is it just a gelato Fino?
Like people say, is it a 33 bag seed?
I think it's very close to the cake because a lot of times you get.
I think it's.
I think it's closer to cake just because you get that that sweetness and then also you get that
like that dark purplish normally with those like orange ish hairs.
So you get that nice little combo, which you really see in a lot of the cake mixtures.
So I definitely really like the gelato is more than the runs personally.
I think it's runs.
I think it tastes like runs.
It tastes like a floral, like fruit punch yogurt or like some kind of funky, funky old
milk vibe with and, you know, and I think that that's pretty consistent amongst all
of them I've tasted.
And I know a lot of people rename everything this and so I've said, but I've you know,
it's been around, it's been around, but I'm going to be very straightforward.
I'm not a runs fan, really not.
Um, certain gelatos I do enjoy a lot.
Um, 41, you know, that's great.
You know, like.
41's a classic.
Always so good in a blunt.
Oh, so good in a blunt.
But I think one of the stories about lemon cherry gelato, the one that is other than
it being runs is that it was a connected black bag 41 bag seed.
Yep.
And like, who knows?
They're so similar and so closely related regardless, but it's a fun one.
Yeah, it is.
The mythology of runs versus.
So right now we're rolling up the, uh, the, the manic calio number six, which tastes like
Japanese food, which is interesting because the other, you know, tastes like Chinese food.
So yeah, this one's Japanese food.
Soy sauce.
This one, this one tastes like seaweed salad.
Umami.
Yes.
Umami.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Which is present in a lot of stuff.
Yeah.
I love that.
I love that's one of my favorite.
Um, finding like that kind of like kimchi note that's in food too, or in, in me too,
is super delicious.
I love that.
Well, and I also feel like because you like it, you are more attuned to seeing it in things
that people described in more purely deserty tones.
I forget what it was that we were looking at recently.
And I was thinking of it as just like a straight dessert profile.
And then you very astutely called out that there were some of those.
Yeah.
Something.
I think it might've been a Skittles cross, which I, you know, you don't normally think
about that being in Skittles, but it's there.
It's good.
The flavor is translating.
There's that like Tootsie roll, Tootsie pop that you were talking about.
Um, there's like a, kind of like a condensed milk thing, but then also kind of like a seaweed
salad, like, like, like good seaweed salad with like sesame oil.
Maybe it's a sesame oil thing.
I'm tasting more than seaweed.
But the condensed milk is that umami.
Yeah.
Like that.
Oh, you're going to get that from this.
But you crushed that descript like that.
Oh yeah.
Hell yeah.
Taste that.
You're going to, you're going to get that condensed milk for sure.
It's good.
It's more sesame oil and seaweed salad.
I didn't realize that one was manic.
This one, number six.
Yeah.
Oh, here you go.
Well, because you said condensed milk to me, it totally just tastes like a less sweet
Thai iced tea.
Yeah.
Like a less overtly sugary.
Yeah.
That's awesome.
Max, you're going to like this one.
Yeah.
I like that.
I would sit on that joint and smoke.
This one's fire.
Crazy.
It's the, um, the lemon cherry, the manic, manicaglio number six.
So this one has a spectacular look, super tracked out.
A lot of pistols on it because the perps has the color has a smell to it.
Like we said, um, we're going to put this one in the blend.
Just roll it all up.
Laughing gas.
It's interesting that all the manicaglio are so.
This is the Cali, the manicaglio.
2012 times 10 thin mints.
Oh, that is sounds good for next.
That one smells crazy.
That's like a, definitely has like a mint back undertone.
Yeah.
The cookies are unbelievable, Peter.
It's hard to say.
Why are you not a fan?
Is it a little wet?
Yeah.
The last one is crazy.
That no, I'm kidding.
That, that normal license does not taste like the, this week.
Sweet.
Peter, do you want to ask Dave what 2012 is?
Yeah.
I know he told me before.
Hold on one second.
I like that one.
How long were you?
I think I might have to take this one home with me.
Manicaglio number six.
It's got orange flavor, which I like.
It really does though.
It's like taste of one of those orange candies that you have.
Where's the Chinese food one?
Chinese foods over here.
And then Japanese food is right here.
Where's the Chinese food one?
Wow.
And then this one also.
Yeah.
That's a very Chinese food.
No, number three.
There's a non-Chinese food.
Number three.
That's crazy.
Yes.
I'm gonna, I'll do it.
I'm gonna give you a full report right here.
This is crazy.
Yes, there's two different of the different.
I can't wait.
Now we were talking just briefly, you've mentioned what,
what kind of Japanese food are we talking about?
I mean, it can be very, that's a very complex thing.
That smells good.
Garlic skunk.
That smells great.
Smells super nice.
Well, you're going to put it in the joint.
Wow.
I do.
I do.
Yeah, actually.
No, it's definitely on that weird, not weird, but tahini.
It's got this kind of rich sesame vibe for sure.
Yeah, it's very accurate.
Yeah.
And it's cured, it's cured, you know, you can taste the curedness.
Right now we're rolling the LCG, right?
It has like a waxy vibe.
Yeah, this is the Chinese food.
I really thought Otis's note of condensed milk was spot on.
Do you get any of that?
Condensed milk, Thai tea.
There's no wheat in it though.
Yeah, no wheat in it.
Oh, this Chinese food one dude.
It has again with the sour dairy note.
Smells like the same shit.
Sour dairy note with like the acidic, very acidic,
whereas you taste the tangerine in this, you know, but it's also very acidic,
which I think is the relationship with also the,
like ponzu or something like something that has like a sharp citrus, but not sweet citrus.
Lemon cherry.
Yeah, okay, I'm going to be honest too, it has like a vomit vibe.
And like, I like it.
Yeah.
I had the same sort of vibes from it, sort of like that, you know, like that piffy,
almost like youth throw up sort of nose to it.
Like, you know, like when someone pukes in front of you and like you're holding up the
urge to not puke.
It's like the feels.
Everyone's been there.
If you're a real homie, you've been around another homie.
This is a Terp description.
We keep it real over here.
They can't all be winners.
No, and the good homie Greasy Gator frequently talks about like baby vomit.
I agree 100%.
As a Terp that's in the 33 heavy.
That's hilarious.
Um, and I think there was someone, if I could find my phone, there's a chemical compound
that they associated with.
I'll find it.
It's, I mean, you got those very potter flavored jelly beans that taste like gross stuff, right?
I mean, it's a Terp.
It's available.
Yeah, I mean, I think some like Grease Monkey I've always talked about as being like one
of the nastiest Terpines that I've tasted, where it has that acidic poo, poo vibe.
Like this curry, poo vibe, curry, poo vibe.
I really like.
Oh yeah, that's number six.
I'm about to roll the number three.
I love curry.
This is not a bad thing.
The similar smelling one.
It's nasty, kind of intense, you know, gets really into this.
Like, uh, just so this one's way stickier.
This one, the number three is way stickier than the number six.
The number six was, uh, maybe just more far along in the dry or something.
Butyric acid.
It's what contributes to that butyric acid.
Butyric acid.
Is what is, and it's very common in a lot of the gelato progeny.
Gelati.
Gelati biscotti.
Gross and amazing.
Yeah, but then there's that orange thing too.
Yeah, there's definitely a really orange back, like back end.
Calio has to be calio.
Yeah, it's like spelled like it's like a South American land race.
It's like C-A-L-I-O.
But I think it's just Cali dash O.
Sure, we don't need to exoticize it.
It's just California.
Cali O.
The Cali ounce.
The Cali O.
Calio.
Yeah, it's an English land race.
Jeez, English land race.
Grown in Scotland's foggy hills.
Calio is like the OG California orange strain.
Well, I think Calio is the common parent of like tangy and then everything that comes out.
Like I think it's with us still.
California.
Cali O as in Cali orange.
Matthew, have you seen this one?
Oh.
You've seen this one?
I'm like.
Like I like smelling.
I like smelling this haze, but I don't want to smoke it.
What is it?
The haze.
The haze.
It's just called the haze.
It's called the Colombian slash haze A.
The A one.
The A one is pretty amazing.
See, that's what I would throw in the blunt jazz.
That's what I would.
But.
Shout out Blue for the sponsorship.
We have multiple blunts, Gabe.
That's not a worry.
Italian cheese on that one.
These Tupperwares are very cool.
I like this.
This is a great method of getting people work.
Nice.
Parmesan turps, which also has.
Parmesan has that butic acid.
Yeah, it is.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Love that.
The more you know.
I'm curious about whatever 2012 is.
Yeah.
And then I guess, Peter, a question for you.
Which of these genetics have been like most popular in seed on the site?
I mean, we literally just put them up this week.
Oh, nice.
Well, that's awesome.
This is everyone's introduction.
And are these the crosses or offered in seed?
Some of them are and some of them are.
Others.
Rudy.
We should definitely smoke one of the ones that is available in seed.
Yeah, well, the Albert Walker one.
Nice.
Shout out curve paper.
You can buy them on dog.
Garden.
Oh, yeah.
You can you can buy lots of amazing things there.
Otis said it best.
You can buy anything you can imagine on Daga Academy dot com and Daga Gardens.
Daga Garden.
Daga Garden.
And you can read all the flower reviews your little heart could ever desire on.
On Daga Academy, one of the best sites to learn and interact with a with a very friendly community.
Much more articulate over there.
And there's no Instagram word limit either.
So shout out my English class teacher.
I did you right to page limit.
Your elements don't have the windmill.
They're not real.
And then I think we just got an incredible, an incredible piece of knowledge that if your
element pack doesn't have a windmill, you probably should go and buy some curve papers
off Daga Garden because you have fake element papers.
So.
Smoke real papers, people.
Don't smoke that caca.
Yeah, I'm trying to get all the OCD stuff.
Yeah, OCD, classical school.
We aren't smoking that dog shit over here.
We're smoking that Albert Walker dog.
The papers are certain papers on my bed.
Wow, nice.
It's a nice tip in there.
Yeah, Scooby Snacks.
Scooby Snack.
Can you know to drop a candle?
Which cut?
What cut is this?
Drop.
Yeah, drop.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Drop this lemon cherry gelato.
Is is a turf of power.
It's pretty good.
It's it's I would say out of the three things we've tried so far, it's euphoric flights.
Shout out.
Shout out.
Saint small batch, man.
Yeah, dream guest shoot of the world.
Not as citrusy as usual on the drop.
Was the flower purple?
Do you have the flower here?
No.
Herb skirt from up north.
The bud was super purple, yeah?
Can I see that?
I want to see that nut.
It's OK.
Oh, this is a good lemon cherry.
It's actually a very well done phenol of it.
The strain that I would say I see the most of.
Unfortunately.
Unfortunately, and you know, it makes it so when you do get a good batch,
it makes for a pleasant surprise.
Yeah, it's good candy.
Give me all the leaves.
Peter, are there tobacco seeds on the website?
If people want to grow their own leaf?
I give them out.
I don't sell them, but I've given my kind of like DMT and I have all different hurdles.
How long do you think it takes to grow?
I mean, you have to grow a big enough tree to get the leaf.
A couple of months.
That's it.
It's big.
It's big, right?
That's sick.
Yeah.
Wow.
Yeah, yeah.
You cut the...
Wow.
And then you've...
Have you ever done that?
Have you anyone cured it?
You cured it?
I mean, not well.
No, no, but it's...
I got it all over my groin.
It's like...
I was like, I knew, I knew.
I was like, either way it gets passed, it's going to take the same amount of...
That's what's the review.
Let me see here.
I've been waiting.
I've been waiting.
It's delicious.
Yes.
That's from LCG.
I think that one's either going to be...
Definitely still wish it was in a joint.
For sure.
Both knows, knows the small garden or that one's from PDX.
I think that one's actually...
That one's from PDX Presson.
Oh, and who sent this down?
And that's...
You can look above on Instagram, 2Turkey.
Hell yeah, this is good.
2Turkey and Instagram, dog.
Hold on to that for just a second more, my friend.
That is Lovelace Gardens.
That's who it's actually from, Lovelace Gardens.
Lovelace Gardens in Portland, Oregon.
Portland.
What's up, Portland?
Right around Eugene, Portland, Oregon, right around that area.
Oh man.
This is delicious.
This is very nice.
Yeah, you know, the lemon cherry gelato has made one round around.
What does everyone think?
This is great.
This is probably one of the better I've smoked.
It's sweeter.
Much more developed.
It's got like a...
I feel like I just...
Yeah, I guess mids.
I've smoked only mids and this is above it.
But this is delicious.
Good job not being mids.
What was the name of the guy who grew it?
What's the name of the homie?
Golden Coast.
Golden Coast is not mids.
Yeah, Golden Coast is not mids.
No, it's delicious.
I agree.
All the weed that we smoked tonight's been delicious.
Everyone that's smoking mids thinking it's gas.
Change your life.
Yeah, run to your life, bro.
Run to your life, Hope.
The only interesting one tonight's been that manic aglio.
Speaking of which, I actually saw Young LB in real life last week.
Chinese food?
Yes, this is the lemon cherry gelato.
Yes.
Daniel.
It gives me like an orange chicken vibe.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, literally gives me like an orange chicken, like slash sesame chicken vibe.
Like that like burnt...
No way.
Like that burnt...
Yeah, I smelled it.
I smelled it and I was like, yeah.
It's good.
Sorry, just give me a headache.
I personally loved it.
It was just as smooth and that full body taste.
You could taste it definitely through.
Like I was saying earlier, I definitely still wish it was in a joint, but all the flavors
still came through and it was definitely one of my favorites out of all of them.
We also got Otis over there on the rolling station.
Shout out to the rolling master.
No, dude, jazz.
That was a great roll.
Thank you, Doug.
Jazz with the rolled blunt too.
And Matthew in the background.
Matthew in the background rolling up some good ones.
Good roller.
It's always about how it's rolled.
The delivery.
A joke is best.
You have to have the right delivery, right?
You could have the punchline.
You can have good material.
But you have to have the delivery.
So let's see this rolling tag.
We got some cool rolling tech over there.
You do a little stuffer.
Oh, he does the cone tech.
He's a cone head.
Cone head.
Cone head.
Cone head.
We are from France.
This lemon cherry is blowing.
I got like some honey notes in there.
How sweet it was.
I was going to say, like, it definitely seemed like it was taken full term for sure.
Like with the notes I'm getting, it's very different from some lemon cherries.
I can't tell how much of it's from the blunt, but it is like a good balance.
Like you said, like that honey note with the slight nuttiness of sorts you get from the gelato.
And then just that general floral sweetness as well.
Without like that sickly sweetness, you know, that sometimes you get from some variants of
lemon cherry gelato.
But it also doesn't have the peppery note that happens when you take it too long, like
sidedly.
So I think there's, it's pretty dialed.
It's done very, very well.
Yeah, he runs his life up.
That's for sure.
It's safe to say we here at FCP believe lemon cherry gelato and runs are the same thing.
What's next?
All right.
We got to do this.
Are we going to do the walk?
The dog walker, Albert dog walker.
I like that.
That had also some very cakey vibe.
I like the way it looks.
It has a great structure.
Big fat nug.
Both of them.
Big old nugs.
Lot of trichomes on the leaves, on the sugar leaf that was left there, which I also have
to say, I like your trimming style.
That's always a, you know, indication of headiness.
I think, you know, it's the presentation.
Yeah.
And I think that it is, you know, a lot of when I get stuff directly from growers, a
lot of the times they give it to me on trim and they're like, this is how I'd want it.
Like you do that yourself.
It's a little annoying, but I get it.
No, just finger trim it, man.
But for the preservation of the, I do think it preserves the trichomes.
I think there's something to be said about whatever that is.
And it's like self-serve, like everyone has a different visual appearance preference.
Some prefer some sugar leaves, some prefer a lot of sugar leaves, some prefer none.
Some people like the...
Some people like the holes in their butts from the machine.
Shave, trim.
You get it how you live it.
I love the sugar leaf.
I like cutting it myself.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think we all agree here, like a more delicate, thoughtful trim is better than a...
Than a shave, an LA pack shave.
Hand trim for the win.
A runs your life up shave.
Than sending your pack to the barber, yeah.
Yeah, literally.
The washing machine.
Rock tumbler.
You ever guys ever run one of those machines?
You guys have any experience with this?
Rock tumblers?
Those are lit, dude.
No, trim machines.
Oh no, I haven't.
Dude, trim machines are ridiculous, man.
Oh my gosh.
Dude, do they have to oil them?
How are they not covering the shit with oil?
Yeah, you gotta have...
The way they've...
I don't know what originally it was for, like shucking peanuts or something, automotive.
You know, I feel like it's definitely something that's taken from the ag world
and thrown into the cannabis world and how they decided to just like tumble trim this stuff,
thinking it would work.
I feel like they never tried it.
And then seeing people do it like wet,
they're like, oh, you're supposed to do it wet.
Like there's all this myth, like how it's done the best.
And it's like, it's all bad.
There's also a fundamental misunderstanding.
It's like the fruit isn't the plant matter, it's the resin.
Like it's a...
The principles might work from an agricultural perspective, but yeah.
Chad's that don't know what they're doing.
We boomerang to the lemon cherry.
Oh, so creamy.
Creamy, dreamy.
This tastes...
This tastes similar to the number six with that sesame note,
but there's something different about this that I haven't discovered.
It's almost less...
The number three is almost like less condensed milky, more like sesame oil, Chinese foodie.
But it has the elements of orange, essence of orange, but definitely like a...
Like you just hit some sesame oil for sure.
Like at the Korean barbecue, you know what I'm saying?
Get the little dunk.
Dabs right off the hibachi.
Yeah, exactly, bro.
Hibachi dabs.
Like a hot knife with my...
My cutco knives.
My hot spatula.
I need a hot spatula.
When I make hash, I wear a chef's hat.
You guys know what I'm saying?
Yeah, exactly.
That's number three, aka Chinese food.
This one is peppery, but also has much more floral.
Yeah, it's more floral.
This one's interesting.
Less condensed milk.
Number three.
Oh, Tetris, sorry.
My bad. I forgot it wasn't a blunt.
Excuse me.
By the way, Otis, you barred this.
Thank you, bro.
I appreciate it.
Pearls by OG.
Oh yeah, that one was...
I had to wrestle with that one, but I got it rocking.
Watch out for the hand rolls coming soon.
Super small batch.
The hand rolls.
The hand rolls.
The hand rolls.
That's genius.
That's genius.
The hand rolls.
Yeah, exactly.
The hand rolls.
The sweat shot.
They're going to lock me in a basement until we have a thousand donuts.
Oh man.
I'm down with that.
I would love to do that.
Where's the basement at?
Peter's house.
Peter's got a basement.
You get occasional piano performances.
Like we got on 420, which was amazing, but...
The best part of 420.
Yes.
We try to hide our weed, but then we realize she's married to you, so it's probably all right.
No, we still hid our weed.
I still hid my weed.
I hid my rigs and my weed.
It was an extremely, it was an extremely, literally, extremely grade A performance.
Oh, it was awesome.
My mother watched it.
My mother said she's adorable.
FCP is for the children.
Yeah, we need a theme song eventually.
We should get Laker to do a theme song.
Laker.
That's a really nice name for a rapper, just Laker.
I guess it's a real guy.
Did you get the peppery floral?
Yeah, I definitely did.
There's some pepperonis for sure.
Oh yeah.
That's your speed.
That's your speed.
It's definitely louder than the other.
You get the salt and pepper like pork labs?
Salt pepper vibe like out of the little package that you get at the restaurant.
Yeah.
And it's mixed.
They're mixed together and you shh and it's, yeah.
It's like preservative.
And it's citrus.
Yeah, no like citrus peel.
Unfiltered orange.
That's the best way to put it.
Like there's like no sweetness at all.
Just like a citric acid like in its finest form.
That's like you're taking the words out of my mouth, dude.
These are exactly what I would call it.
What are your thoughts on the number two, Otis?
It's less orange.
Very sticky.
Chocolate vibe.
Almost has like cushy kind of stuff going on.
Number two.
It's really nice to get to smoke two Finos side by side to just see how...
The variation between the genetics, right?
As we've had guests speak about it before, it's something that truly is
so wide in terms of the variables you're playing with and the traits that can run down.
And so to find keepers is, you know, people really do underestimate how hard it is.
And we get to participate somewhat through these small little different variances of
Finos we get.
And it really is hard to find a keeper or just truly pick one that you think everyone would enjoy.
And so I think through this, we've also developed a lot of respect for the
growers and breeders who are able to do these and pick winning crosses and bring them to market.
Wow, this laughing gas might be my favorite nose.
We've had...
Yeah, so the laughing gas was honestly, I thought like all sweetness without that gelato.
Did you smoke it?
No, we have not yet actually.
But when we're passing it around originally, this was...
And I believe this is one of the newer genetics as well.
So this looks to be indoor run.
Smells amazing.
What do you guys think about this laughing gas?
That one smells awesome.
You see this?
Super D Fire.
Super D Fire.
Super D Fire.
Albert Walker dog.
I think I smelled this.
Dude, I got that dog in it.
Got that dog in it.
Okay.
Shot that dog, Walker.
Like what?
Mosquito spray.
Oh, like citronella?
Citronella.
Ah, that's a good one.
Which one was that?
Oh, the laughing gas.
Yeah.
Right?
The laughing gas is the one.
We got a Lysol flavor right here.
It's like lemon pledge, but more pledge.
Albert Walker dog OG.
This is some...
This reminds me of some weird Batman shit.
That one's crazy.
It's like a Batman straight laughing gas.
I don't know why.
Heath Ledger.
I see Heath Ledger smoking this kind of, you know, his impersonation of the Joker.
With the laughing gas.
And did we smoke the garlic skunk?
No, we didn't.
We have not yet.
Garlic skunk weed with garlic scented...
Dude, I saw a...
There's a guy...
Aggressive.
Whichever one.
All three?
That garlic skunk cannoli.
Yeah, should we do a garlic skunk cannoli?
And that sounds pretty fun to me.
I don't think there's anyone who can say no.
Garlic skunk cannoli.
It's nice.
Oh, yeah, we saw something that looked exactly like Lord Farquaad.
What's up?
I don't know if there's enough of this.
Peter, you smoked all the garlic skunk?
I'm sure he did.
No one likes that.
Yeah.
Smells good.
I love this.
Nice.
As you should.
What was your favorite, Peter?
What'd you like out of all this?
I like it all.
Yeah.
Now, the garlic skunk's good.
And then I had the...
No, we're about to roll in a hash hole.
I want to take a dab of it.
Yeah.
I'd love to take a dab of that.
Yeah, we should take some dabs right now.
Hold on, let's sacrifice the mics for some dabs.
Let's do dabs of that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay, okay.
All right.
All right.
I wonder what's up with this hash.
Peter, you know anything about this rosin?
Is it what's the micron?
We got a micron.
We got...
Dude, I want to hit a double dip.
Is this indoor, outdoor, full spec?
Who washed it?
Mystery washer.
Boss Hoss wash.
Which, and just speaking of friends of the show,
the Mission Hill Melts Lobster Farm is amazing.
No one else heard that.
The honey bananas wasn't that good?
The Mission Hill Melts Lobster Family Farms rosin is sensational.
I have some with me.
Oh, that's some of the best stuff.
Which one was that?
The honey banana chili burrito.
Yeah, I have some.
The honey banana was awesome.
Always, I like those banana drips.
I thought you were talking about food and I think I'm going to drop by the lobster family farm.
Shout out to Rotten Skateboards, the big homie.
What's up?
Your shit is fired, dawg.
The dabics.
That's Lobster Family?
Yeah.
He's also Rotten Skateboards.
Yes, sir.
At Rotten Skateboards, smoking on some of that right now.
Got some of the honey bananas still in the dabics chamber.
Nice.
That's a crazy compartment.
Secret compartment.
No, there's a secret compartment.
If you want all your rosin to go really dry.
Crazy to say, but I accidentally forgot that there was rosin on here and I flew home to
South Carolina last week with rosin in my dabics, so I definitely could have taken a rip in the
smoking section of the airplane.
In the bathroom of the plane?
In the smoking section.
I was so tempted.
On the way back, I knew it was in there on the way home, so I was like, man, I could just go out
in California and do the cigarette smoking area and take a dabics rip for pre-flight.
So funny.
So dank.
When I was in Ohio, they would have these enclosed, almost like phone booths.
You'd have to go smoke it.
That's some European shit, man.
If someone sends us a picture from inside one of those with a dabics.
They would have joined.
There will be something very cool coming your way.
Yeah, free promotion.
I got you next time.
Flaming poop on their doorstep.
Just kidding.
Just one of the many services offered by Dog-a-Dog Garden.
Got haters?
We'll take care of them.
And shout out our old guest, Jeremy, who came on a few weeks ago.
His book we have with us.
Every time we come, I read a new page and I'm captivated by the shit that is going on.
There's going to be a mini Dwank.
I'm going to put the hash in the next one.
Opened it today and he was like, he got set up.
He was dating a girl who had mental problems and she set him up at a McDonald's.
And then the car's pulled up.
Oh, yeah.
Yes, in the book.
That was chapter 13.
Tune into chapter 14 tidbits next week, guys.
We'll definitely.
Audio books by jazz.
Just another service offered by Dog-a-Dog Garden.
That's sick.
I want that.
I want that.
Can we get Zach Wood singing a goodnight lullaby?
And so I feel like speaking of New York, the video that I saw Golden Coast on was
also had JJ from Top Dog and it was this cool like east west coast thing.
But I feel like I didn't get the strongest sense of what Golden Coast likes to smoke.
That one's the number three.
Chinese food.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
But Peter, what does Golden Coast when you've spoken with him, like what is his favorite
stuff to smoke out of all of this?
Or where do his personal preferences lie?
I think in the.
I think some of the stuff he wants to explore more is like the Thai stuff.
Sick.
I like Thai.
There's a Thai velvet buzzsaw thing that I like to smoke in the morning.
Shout out.
The velvet buzzsaw is insane.
Dude, it's crazy.
It has weird structure and it's delicious.
It is so elongated and like you said, it is a very unique butt structure, but the high
itself is just something that is so great.
That is nice dry sift.
That's some sticky dry sift.
I have some dry sift that I've been saving from various harvests in my freezer, like
probably like a pound and a half of dry sift from like harvest when I was working at a
bigger like facility.
And it's a lot of GMO, but it's some of it is some of it is really carefully sifted and
it's all just like melty like this.
It's all dabble varying grades of, you know, debris behind three star.
Yeah, I got some three star got some two and a half star.
Yeah, you know, you got two and a half star fam.
That's what hashing this is.
It's some of these combusted, you know, materials and makes up like what it is, you know, exactly.
And like you can refine it too.
That's why I have it in my freezer still got these big ass jar.
I have a whole shelf in the freezer just all filled with dry sift jars like from like the
last few years.
And I think when refined dry sift can be some of the most pleasant smoke.
I mean, like the was it resin ranch that we tried?
Yeah, it was resin ranch.
He has some great dry sift.
Very good.
Medium like 500.
Toasty.
That's hot.
That's a hot dab.
500.
I like 500.
Hot ish.
What's up with this glass?
Max, what's up with this?
Glass by the real Dillinger.
The real Dillinger.
It's a little thumbprint, thumby tube with some.
Oh yeah, heady.
A little bit of a little rewag on the bottom.
Oh nice.
Looking really cool.
For all you glass collectors, this is some heady shit there.
Heady glass.
Yeah, real heady.
From the heady Karen.
Yeah, from the heady Karen.
The heady Karen.
Now it all makes sense.
Yeah, what's the pendee today?
Oh, today I'm rocking a Rice Made This pendee.
He blows glass out of Peace of Mind OC in Newport Beach.
Go sure to check him out at Rice Made This on Instagram.
Rice Made This.
Killer, killer work.
Very cool, very cool fume work.
Very chill there.
Like that.
I have six of these same pendees.
So I am a big collector of his work.
Here we go.
Where's his cap?
There we go.
That's a nice size dab.
Great.
Oh nice.
Beautiful.
Oh, if anyone is ever doing the smoking Olympics, OG is the ringer.
That's a small dab.
The cough cam?
We just have the cough cam now.
The shots of Tony Toks too much for taking one gram dabs while we were trying to film the show.
That was amazing.
The clouds we saw literally looked like a volcano had been erupted
at the tables behind the FCP studio set.
I have no memory of this.
No, but the man who was coughing was taking one gram dabs.
That was the reason.
Yeah, he was sick.
He was sick.
I was coughing after his dab.
Heady Karen, could I get in the line?
It's like the effervescent notes that are on Kevin GMO
without the like garlic full body dark notes.
I think you'll like it.
Shout out John Doe, the homie, for hitting me with the ninja dab on 420.
You didn't want to give him 450 or 440.
Because 500 was...
Because it's a better banger than like what we're dabbing on.
I usually have the booty slurper, the fucking whatever the hell.
Yeah, no, I'm not even using the Toro.
I'm using the bootleg slurper.
That's a real Toro right there.
Yeah, the G-West.
Yeah, G-West.
They're actually great.
Yeah.
Yeah, G-West, shout out to G-West.
Yeah, no hate.
And shout out to, what is four's company?
SD Dank Quartz.
Yeah, where's four?
Shout out to SD Dank Quartz, 619, holding it down.
Shout out to four.
Absolutely shout out to four.
Yeah, big four.
I think four, one of our sesh regulars, I'm interested in talking to him about it,
but he was involved in something that won Kush stock in some capacity.
So congratulations to four.
Yeah, shout out to four.
We like to think of him as the residential Razen expert here at the seshes.
One of.
One of, one of, always.
But certainly the ambassador with the most.
Yeah.
We miss you, bro.
We're eating cookies that taste like tri-tip for you.
Yeah, exactly, brother.
True.
Exactly.
So it's the, what are you rolling up?
I forget.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Garlic skunk.
Yeah.
And where's the rolls in?
Right when dry sifted it.
Yeah.
Like you rolled it up.
I haven't yet, but I'm about to.
Yeah, I'm gonna sprinkle the dry sift in.
It's gonna be dank.
And Otis, did you take a dab with the Honey Bananas Wilson or the-
No, I smoked this, dude.
The garlic skunk.
It was really good.
There was effervescent notes similar to GMO and chem.
You know, I think that probably comes from the garlic part of the lineage.
And then some lemon from the skunk.
It was like, you know, GMO without the full body and like,
like a lemony chem without like some of the more like bitter chem notes,
which is really enjoyable.
Big fan of chem.
Sam, you can never go wrong with chem.
I'm a huge fan of chem.
And those notes that I call bitter, I like.
I have a chem I-95.
Pax and I did a chem I-95 Durban that is like,
it's like more, more funky, skunky, bitter than like GMO even.
Like we called it, we were like joking,
we were like, we should just like call this like new GMO.
But it's better.
It's a-
It deserves it's, it's better than that.
Not better than GMO, but it deserves its own life.
Damn, lots of low Cs.
What is that?
G-Y-G-M-O.
Sandalwood vine.
The coffee bake chem.
And I think that the breeder behind that is having a moving sale.
So if anyone's interested in covert genetics,
unfortunately I don't think on dogadogarden,
but available on Instagram, his stuff rocks.
Cuts or just seeds?
I think just seeds.
I want cuts.
I know, I feel you.
Taking orphans.
Gabe.
What's up with that?
Big dabs.
That was awesome.
Isn't that good?
To the future.
Dabs to the future.
Dabs to the future.
Yeah, but I'm just weak.
Nah, those are some clouds of respect.
Dude, there's something about that nail.
That nail is powerful, man.
Char.
And so, give you a few seconds to recuperate.
What'd you taste on that dab, Gabe?
Lemony.
It was lemony.
Super lemony.
Lemony.
Lemony with like an earthy undertone.
That's exactly what I love.
Yeah, definitely super gassy.
Who's next?
That gassy flavor.
You're next?
No, Jazz is next.
Jazz is next.
And then you're next?
Sure.
Thank you.
Very garlicky.
Let's get the boys right.
Let's do this right.
Peter, I understand if you were smoking on that all 420, how that was a long day.
I started early and...
Started early at 420 AM.
Rolling a fatty in his garage.
Hell yeah.
That's gonna be the best one.
That's my wife's one.
Ah.
Two joints at once.
Did anyone smoke like a ridiculously large joint for 420 or something that was like cartoonishly
funny?
Like comedically.
I got ninja dabbed.
You got ninja dabbed.
That's never fun, but also kind of...
Like a .6 to 7 dab, .6, 7.
It was a massive dab.
But some awesome fresh press.
Not fresh press, but some rainbow belts that was fresh press.
And then what did I get ninja'd with?
Something good.
BHA.
Some CRC.
Delta 8.
A diamond.
CBD isolate from the internet.
Yeah.
It might have been the dark...
Mega dark Z.
It was.
It was the mega dark D from mega dark Z from Super Dope.
And that was really nice, actually.
That was amazing.
You weren't mad.
That was actually the surprise dab of 420 along with the pie dough from JD's turf farm shop.
And the mega dark is the super zope, right?
So that is the zope variant.
And the blue is their Z.
And the red is their RS11.
Drive safe.
Have a good one.
Bye.
Shout out Golden Coast.
This has been...
Great smoke.
Thank you so much for the flavor flight.
I think we truly enjoyed this and we're all looking forward to this Albert dog that's
getting rolled up right now.
Yes, Albert dog.
I extremely want to try this.
Yeah, we could do it.
It's amazing.
It smells insane.
We can do it.
We should have everyone rolling joints.
Yeah.
I mean, I could roll a joint.
I could roll...
Packing cones.
How many people can not roll?
How many people can roll here?
I can roll.
I mean, not like...
I can't roll like you, but you know...
This guy can roll.
Yeah, how do you pack a cone?
With a scoop stick.
With a stick.
You pull up with a stick.
You got to get that tech.
I'm stupid.
No, but there's...
But really it is a properly rolled joint.
Elevates the smoking experience so much.
And you just crush it every time with...
And I think you want to talk about sort of the dimensions that you go for.
Oh yeah.
I mean, for me, I think rather than rolling like a long skinny joint.
With the same amount of weed, you can roll a shorter fatter joint.
Where there's more surface area that's being vaporized and smoked throughout the whole joint.
Forward of the front of the joint is going to be smoked.
Back of it's vaporized from the hot air and hot smoke.
Uniform dimensions.
I mean, you can roll cones and stuff.
But you know, whatever's easiest for you.
I like the uniformity.
It burns uniform.
You don't want it to be too tight.
You want to be able to draw.
I like to use a couple crutches.
But you know, everyone rolls their own way.
You're not like, you don't have glass tips?
You do any of those?
I have glass tips, but I just, I don't like having to like wash them and shit.
Like I'd rather just like, I can make something that feels as sturdy as a glass tip out of like four crutches.
But then again, people claim that the crutches have a flavor to them.
That's real.
For me, I just like, I'll roll like a fat joint with no tip at all.
And just get everybody's mouth covered in Scooby snacks.
But I like glass tips.
I like glass tips.
I want to make some as soon as I'm blown more glass.
It'll be sick.
And the use of capillary tubing to make tips got really big through Gordo Scientific's RIP tips.
Also, everyone check out, if you have Instagram, Otis King Glass.
Glass Fricks?
Glass?
Otis King Glass.
Otis King Glass.
Some really cool pieces.
We use them on this show all the time.
Oh yeah.
We can all verify they're amazing.
They smoke.
You should definitely check them out.
Maybe soon to be available on Gaga.
This piece isn't by you, but it's by your mentor, right?
Do you want to talk about this?
Well, I don't know if he wants me to tell very much about that,
but he's a legendary guy in the color game.
And he did a line of bongs secretly once.
And this is one of them.
But shout out to you if you're watching.
You know who you are.
That's awesome.
That is the definition of petty.
We'll rip it.
Yeah, we'll rip it.
Yeah.
Can I see what's up with that functional glass?
This is garlic skunk, ex-garlic skunk.
Excited about this.
Peter, tell us about the playlist selection tonight.
Yeah.
Tell us about the more diverse playlist tonight.
You kept it.
That was me having time to add shit on a Spotify playlist.
I just start to throw stuff in there.
I mean, it's like I have no time to do that.
One of these weeks, I want to DJ.
I'll turn it up in here.
Hell yeah.
You DJs?
Vinyl?
Any of them.
Everything.
Hot Steppa is in some of the finest DJs.
Oh, yeah.
Hot Steppa, the GOAT.
Yeah.
Go check out their mobile DJ sound system.
Check out their Instagram to see where it's at.
Hot Steppa Supply Co.
Shout out to the big homie right here, Tetris.
I will say that the first Smoke of the Day event and the vibes that you brought,
that was one of the coolest things this year.
Such a cool way to kick off the year.
Hell yeah.
That was sick.
That was really amazing.
Actually, I didn't go to that one.
I was literally, I think I was literally out of the state,
but the vibes were so apparently bomb that I could feel it through Instagram.
So they're radiating vibes.
Yeah, the whole team brought the A game that night.
Oh, this is nice.
This is Hot Steppa.
Garlic Skunk x Garlic Skunk.
Jazz dude.
Jazz, what are you doing?
And Otis, you barbed this joint and once again, we just want to emphasize,
it's very rare that you get the opportunity to try different versions of the same strain.
And so thank you once again, Golden Coast Genetics,
for providing us this opportunity with the Garlic Skunk.
And I'm pretty sure this torch is super loud right now,
but we love hot dabs, so I'm not complaining.
Um, the Garlic Skunk is, I just described as like super GMO.
Super GMO.
White Rhino Laughing Gas.
Is that a White Rhino Cross or Laughing Gas?
Laughing Gas is one of the standouts.
White Rhino Manic.
Should we smoke the Laughing Gas?
We should maybe roll up the Laughing Gas first and then the next one go.
Laughing Gas smells like Zaza.
Matthew needs some Laughing Gas.
Is there somebody selling Laughing Gas at this event?
I think we should get somebody doing that.
Potion Man maybe?
Two for five.
Fuck the authority.
We missed you at Pre-Seed Day this year.
Where are the ice cold fatties?
You have to climb over the chair.
Ice cold fatties.
Three for 20?
Shout out to Fish.
Custies.
Nitrous Mafia.
I should be sure I got Custied at the Fish Show.
Three for five.
That'd be sick.
Inside a...
Three for 20, man.
Jeez.
I think super GMO would be the best way to describe this.
But once again with all the flavors we've been able to try today.
Just very well done, super mature, grown smoke.
Super Smoke.
And I think the dry sift actually has like,
added a really unique component to this similar almost to like,
dare I say a full melt hash roll of sorts?
In terms of like the the upliftedness I'm feeling in the smoothness
and slow burn of the stewbee as well.
That nail rips.
That's a clowder.
That's for taking rippers.
Oh nice, that's dank.
Delicious.
Dude, lime.
Limeade.
Limeade.
Super delicious.
This is delicious.
Gold Coast might need a part two.
There's so much wee on this table we still have not even tried.
Oh.
This is like a lime.
Is he packing the cherries?
Yeah, yeah.
Oh no, it's a lemon cherry.
Never mind, never mind.
Super sweet.
Yeah, it's good, right?
Super GMO.
With the GMO hash snake in it.
GMO.
Yeah, I think it's more effervescent.
In the rosin you're getting more of the lemony skunky.
Lemony with almost like a light chem sort of back into it.
Like a bare GMO taste at the end of this.
Like you said, it's those light curves.
Almost effervescent is the best way to describe it.
Yeah, totally.
It sort of glides over.
Yeah, it's like champagne bubbles.
Exactly, right?
Like fleeting.
Yeah.
What am I smoking right now?
This is laughing gas.
Oh shit.
We're gonna smoke some laughing gas.
It's very Zaza.
It smells super Zaza.
Nice.
Zazotic.
It's interesting to smoke the hash and then going right into the flower.
I like smoking hash and flower from the same plant.
Yeah.
Or same like mother plant, genetic.
That's what I'm aiming to do that with my ash holes.
Ooh, that's gonna be cool.
It's like one and like the oil and the flower.
Yeah, that'll be fire.
Perfectly like full spectrum and then you have the rosin.
I can't wait for that, dude.
That's gonna be, yeah, we've been calling it freshies.
We've been calling them freshies.
It's great.
That was perfect temp by the way too.
It had like a key lime pie vibe.
Ooh, I like that.
I really like that.
I like that.
Lime, lime, lime, lime.
Key limes.
I went to San Diego today.
Hell yeah.
Oh shit, hell yeah.
Shout out San Diego.
Shout out the hometown.
Shout out Relentless Melts.
Also holding down a 619.
And shout out Dragon's Den in Mission Beach.
One of the coolest smoke shops we've ever been.
Shout out to Brad.
Shout out to Denise.
It was a party.
Yeah, live glass blowing there.
Oh, that's cool.
That's awesome.
They just have a little setup at the front of the store and some of the coolest pieces.
They had some stuff there.
They just run smoke whenever you want.
Hell yeah.
Steel.
It was literally a replica of this piece right here.
Running at a very, very affordable price.
Hell yeah.
Huh?
Relentless is from 619, yeah?
He's from San Diego.
Shout out to Holy Rollers, San Diego.
Shout out Cold Room Cuts.
Shout out Numu Novelty.
Shout out all them boys holding it down.
Putting in great work.
We'll go there and see you in the weekend.
Shout out Strictly Lit, San Diego.
You guys know about Strictly Lit.
That guy's killing it.
Yeah, he's Strictly Lit in San Diego.
This guy's killing it, yeah.
Hey, speaking of killing it, shout out to Fresh Press.
He's killing it.
With everything from their concentrators to their packaging to their creative ideas.
We got, we didn't sponsor shit yet.
We'll be sponsoring it soon.
We'll figure it out.
I'm normally wearing my Fresh Press shirt.
Usually.
Coming out with new colors soon.
Mine's covered in gym sweat.
Fresh Press.
Affordable for all.
Yes, bro.
I love my hoodie.
Karen Terps.
Sweaty ass Karen Terps.
Bloody butthole crack Terps.
Savory.
What's up with this?
Where's this going?
It's the honesty.
It's the honesty.
Pshh.
Wu-Tang, no way.
Yo, what does the chat think about Wu-Tang?
Yeah, if someone in the chat is a proponent of Wu-Tang, we'd love to meet you.
Yeah.
I get it.
It's a ritual.
It's cool.
It's boss.
It's a humiliation ritual.
It's amazing.
Yeah, it's like, that is like a true...
Cheers to Peter being right there behind the camera right now.
Peter's taking a big ass dab.
That's a humiliation ritual.
Our producer.
We need a Peter cam.
Where's the Pete cam?
What do you think, Peter?
Low temp dab of the Garlic Skunk.
Garlic Skunk is a real big winner.
Yeah, Garlic Skunk's dank.
Real big winner.
I'm already where I need to be.
Is this live right now?
Oh yeah.
Could be.
Could be.
Yeah.
Everything's live, man.
Endless noise.
Heady.
Heady coffee.
Heady records.
Yeah, it's a vibe.
It's a vibe.
It's a lifestyle.
Pull up on Tuesdays.
It's a vibe.
It's a vibe.
It's a lifestyle.
All right.
And you know, it's a vibe.
It's a vibe.
Come on, pause.
What are you twisting up right now?
I don't know.
I forgot.
The laughing ass cross to the, uh, wait, just laughing ass?
The laughing ass white rhino.
Oh, we put that in there.
We put the garlic, uh,
The double garlic.
Yeah, really?
That's why that was.
Double garlic.
Oh, shit.
Super garlic.
I need to take a break for I'm where I need to be.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
Smoking.
Peter made a great point.
We might have to make it a two part.
I was just going to say that.
Yeah, we should make this a two part.
Or Peter, we might have to make the full lineup a two part.
Everyone's already too high.
We still have a shitload to try.
We probably did like five.
But we had like four or five.
Yeah.
Lemon cherry gelato, I think was still one of my favorites.
It's good.
What was your guys' favorite strength you guys tried?
The cookie.
The cookie.
I'm smoking on cookie, you smoking on mild.
Whoa.
I like that.
Yeah, that, that, that, uh, that, what is it?
The GMO we just smoked?
What was it?
The garlic skunk.
Garlic skunk.
That was, that.
That shit was hitting.
Among usly.
I love that.
I'm going to be cliche, but I think for me, it was a lemon cherry gelato.
That one kind of took me by surprise.
And, uh, so far, at least it was, uh, it was the one I enjoyed the most out of all these.
But I'm also partial because I like blunts.
So we'll leave that be.
I think the garlic skunk was also phenomenal too.
So that would be my flower take.
I am a big GMO fan.
I like the Calio, Manic Calio.
The two or the three?
Uh, I like the six.
The six.
So you were saying the six was the one with more citrus herbs or less citrus herbs?
Six was more like condensed milk.
Like, uh, like more, like more intense lactic, vomity, condensed milk.
Interesting.
Like that sort of like rotten milk sort of.
You smoked the six first.
Yeah.
And then the number three was more citrusy to me.
More floral.
Juice.
Not necessarily more citrusy.
Nice.
I think after we light this, it might be time for us to wrap it up.
Everyone's getting so high.
Old Coast did a great job.
Shout out Golden Coast.
This is, I mean.
Good chronic.
For every palette, there was something here and the one that really hit mine was as good
a representation of that strain as I've seen in a long time.
Yeah.
Same.
I think everyone really hopped on the.
Yeah.
You know, I think everyone really hopped on a flavor flight today and was able to find
something they really enjoyed and thank you, Gold Coast again.
The chronic was bubonic.
Yeah.
It's flowing easy today.
Like.
Let's do it.
But thank you so much, everyone, for watching.
Thank you for tuning in.
Hope you guys have a great rest of your night.
Tune in next Tuesday.
We'll see you guys soon.
Have a great week.
We did it.
