Okay guys, we are three days after you last saw it in the previous video.
I'm starting to notice that the leaves are changing a little bit of color and they're
starting to droop a little bit.
Usually to me that means the clone is ready for soil.
So let's check out the roots on this bad boy.
Oh yeah.
I would say that's ready for the soil.
There we go guys, that is the roots.
That is the roots we got off of this massive freaking cloning attempt.
So now we're just going to put it in soil and we're going to see if it lives.
Check out those roots.
Alright guys, we are 24 hours after taking it from the AeroCloner and putting it into
the pot and these things look pretty limp.
There's not much water pressure.
This is actually what I was expecting when I took it as a clone, but hey, it did good
in the AeroCloner.
Right now I've just been misting it with some water, kind of foliar feed it a little bit
if I can.
And we're going to leave it in here and see what happens.
Do you think it's going to bounce back?
Put your comments in the comment section.
Holy cow y'all, it's five days since I took this thing out of the cloner.
It was looking a little limp.
These things were down and droopy, but look at that.
They're up, they're turgid, there's water pressure.
They're growing.
So I don't think I'm the first, but when's the last time you saw somebody take a two
foot clone?
Boom!
Breaking science.
Or whatever.
Now the only thing really left to do is take this and take the bottom half and flower them.
And we'll see how we get it.
We're back.
We've got our top.
We've got our bottom.
And we're about ready to put these into flower.
And for anybody that was curious, the amount of time this took is not very much.
Less than 30 days.
So it took 27 days actually.
On the 26th I made the cut.
On the 8th I had my first roots, which you saw in part one.
That was a 12 day difference.
Six days after that on the 14th I transplanted it into the soil with that big root mass,
which you see in this video.
And nine days after that on the 23rd I'm putting them into flower.
So in a month's time I really created two plants out of one because of this Twin Peaks
two plant topping system.
This bottom part, you know, it really filled out.
It really filled in.
It became a nice bush with a lot of top colas.
These middles have filled in so there's going to be a lot of bud produced on this plant.
And it's a long way from that scraggly looking plant in the beginning less than 30 days ago.
And we got our top.
You know, it's got nice water pressure in it now.
It's looking good.
It's getting new growth.
And really I'd probably let it go another week.
But I'm putting it into flower now because hey, rotation is rotation guys.
We are 10 days into flower now.
And in case I haven't said it yet, I'm going to declare this one a successful clone.
I mean, look at them.
We've got them starting to form buds.
Both the top, both the bottom.
We're getting nice bud formation.
So yes, this successfully has been a clone.
And I am definitely going to say that's the largest clone I've ever taken.
I mean, who knew?
But like somebody I think mentioned in comments, this is good to know in case you happen to
snap a plant in half.
All is not lost.
You know now that, hey, you might just be able to clone that thing.
I mean, we took this thing, we chopped this plant in half.
We stuck this part in the AeroCloner.
We got some decent roots on it.
We put it into the soil.
We let it veg for a week.
It's been in flower for 10 days and ladies and gentlemen, it is getting buds on it.
So yes, that is a successful clone.
And you know, another thing I want to say too is all these buds here, all these top shoots
that you see, if these were all the way under here, there is no way they would get the same
amount of light.
And there's no way it would produce the same amount of yield that it's going to produce
like it is here.
So by chopping this plant in half, did I actually just increase my yield?
It'll be interesting to know.
I'm curious to find out and let me know in the comments what you think is going to produce
the heftier buds.
Is it going to be the top or is it going to be the bottom with presumably the thicker,
fuller root system?
We'll find out, but I'll keep you guys updated.
So no worries there.
Another possible advantage to this is this really helped keep my plant count down.
You know, I only was growing one plant.
So I saved time.
I saved materials.
I had one plant until I saw the pre-flowers and I realized it was a female and then I
turned it into two.
That could be helpful for somebody that is trying to keep their plant count down because
you only have to grow a certain amount of plants and then if you like them, they're
females, you turn them into two, give it 30 days as I did and voila, you have two nicely
growing plants to flower out.
So some potential advantages to doing this Twin Peaks two plant topping system, but it's
not, you know, I'm not going to say this is a commercially viable technique.
This is something that you could do at home.
You can have fun with it.
Who knows, you might be able to increase your yields, keep your plant count lower, but it's
something to have fun with and you got to have some fun while you're growing.
That's part of why we do this.
