seems. Yeah, that's definitely true. Well, let's just start with those then. Definitely hard to
talk about identification without a media representation, like a picture or video.
But generally speaking, they tend to be small, maybe larger than a lot of the pests that people
deal with. Usually kind of a teardrop shape. A lot of them are sort of a green color, but they can
be green or black or orange. Cannabis aphids tend to be sort of a pale green, sort of whitish color.
But the rice root aphid that goes after cannabis and many other plants
tends to be like sort of a, either a green, there's a green morph that has a sort of like
a reddish bottom. And there's also kind of a black morph that is what I usually associate
with their winged forms. There are aphids with wings and aphids without them. And they're pretty
commonly conflated with fungicide. Russell's here. You know, it's funny every time I get,
you guys are on, I forget my schedule. And then every time you guys are on, I'm always.
What was that, Russell? Yeah, I think Russell's multitasking here. But yeah, sorry about that.
Go on with what you were describing in terms of cannabis and root aphids there,
or rice root aphids, Matthew. Yeah, for sure. I can definitely appreciate task saturated
environment. So fungus gnats are also an insect that are pretty common for people to interact
with. And I'm often asked, you know, is this a fungus gnat or is this a rice root aphid?
And then I'm more often asked, is this a rice root aphid? Because it's a little less common
that people even know the difference or that there is one or the other. But basically,
fungus gnats are kind of sort of daintier. And I have videos on my YouTube channel,
Xenthanol, for those who are interested, which does have observational footage and pictures and
information about their sort of biology and the hosts they can feed on and how to treat them,
of course. And one of the ways you can really tell fungus gnats from rice root aphids, for example,
is that rice root aphids kind of are bulky and sort of like I said before, teardrop shaped,
kind of like their abdomen is sort of large relative to the rest of their body. And somebody
who's curious about what these look like can just look up rice root aphid probably on a
nearby computer or a phone and you'll see what I mean, I think. Whereas like a fungus gnat has sort
of like a thinner body generally. Usually their sort of abdomen is very thin, it kind of tapers
to a point. And when you see them on your soil, you can really tell them apart because the aphids
will kind of move, I like to use the word like lumbering, but they're just kind of like bulky
and sort of more clumsy. Whereas fungus gnats and other flies tend to be really fast and
sort of quick. And fungus gnats especially, they like to move across soil and other sort of
substrates with their legs. They prefer their legs, even though they're okay flyers
for short distances, they prefer to just kind of walk very quickly across a substrate. So that's
one way that you can kind of tell the difference. Of course, if you also see the larvae of fungus
gnats, they have like a whitish or a cream color body with like a black head. So it's pretty typical
to see. Oftentimes people will see the larvae and they won't see the adults actually, at least in my
experience. But it's also very common to kind of see both acting at the same time. That's a good
description. I like it. I've seen the rice tree aphids, the winged flyers of root aphids. Yeah,
I like they lumber and they're fatter. And then they seem like they sometimes are crawling up
stalks more than I've seen fungus gnats. Like a lot of times I'll see them on the stalks
as they just try to disperse throughout the environment.
Yeah, that's another way you can kind of tell it's the aphids they feed on.
They're a kind of a color wash from a spiral. They put that into the plant tissue and they suck up the
plant for insect. And so basically, if they come off the stalk, you see them kind of...
You're coming through a bit quietly there, Matthew. I can't quite hear you at all.
Oh, okay. That's interesting. How's now?
It's still quiet. You were loud at first and then all of a sudden it got... It's shifted somehow.
Something just changed.
How about this?
Nope. While he's figuring out, there's some other thing on that regenerative farming guild.
Trevor, I don't know if you were there during that, but the gentleman from the beneficial
insectary was describing... I caught a blip of it. He was describing... He was actually
talking about this, the differences between trying to identify between fungus gnats and
winged brood aphids. And there was something about the morphology of the wings that was very
particular. There's a very distinct difference in the morphology of the wings, but I can't remember
as usual. I'm moving 800 miles an hour. And so I didn't fully catch that little clip of it, but
I'll try to find that one.
You're still coming through kind of quiet, Matthew. I think the Bluetooth maybe got us.
Boomer.
Maybe leave and come back. I don't know. Something.
If you do that, you'll come right back up to the stage automatically.
Yeah. And in general, the Bluetooth devices for some reason for this app are particularly
troublesome.
Matt's the best. I love him for entomology. He's really a gem. We're lucky to have him
in our camp. And I'm looking forward to hosting a workshop with him. We're going to be doing
a workshop. We're planning one down in the Southern California bio region. I don't know
where it's going to be yet. I think we're going to talk to Peter about that. Peter will help us
get squared away with that. So we're looking forward to that, hopefully within the next few
months. All right. How's this?
Okay, cool. So you might have already mentioned it, but basically aphids are part of a group,
a larger order of insects called the hemiptera. And basically most orders of insects, the names
that they get are related to their wings because insects are the first animals to have powered
flight. And so basically hemiptera means half wing. And aphids and their relatives have a
primary set of wings, two pair or one pair, and then a secondary pair of wings that is smaller,
about half sized in a lot of them. And that's where that comes from. So flies are diterra.
They have two wings. So they only have two wings and the other quote two wings in their ancestors,
and most of them, pretty much all of them have become these things called halteres,
which are kind of like a gyroscope and a balancing mechanism for them to move really,
really well, really agile. And yeah, so you can tell aphids apart from flies like fungus gnats
because, well, one of them has an extra pair of wings. So that should be pretty easy to tell
if you're looking at them under like a microscope or something.
They also might have mentioned like venation and like there's like differences in like the veins
on their wings, but I wouldn't expect a non-specialist to really understand that
too intricately. I wouldn't really rely on it as a way to tell them apart compared to what I
had already said because I think that's a little bit easier.
Yeah, that totally makes sense.
Was there also something about the way in which their wings are positioned,
like something about them being straight up and then the other wings being more
like horizontal or like close to the body as opposed to like perpendicular with the body?
Oh yeah, I don't know if this, we had said that it was somebody who had mentioned some things
we had said that it was somebody who had mentioned some things earlier, but you're right.
That's also another good way to tell because, and this is true for other insects, you can kind of
get, sometimes there are groups that will basically, they will position their wings at rest
in a specific way and usually consistently in that way. And that's a nice way that you
can kind of tell some bugs from others. So like with aphids, they keep them kind of steepled
sort of over their body, kind of like together. So it kind of looks like they have just like this
one long, I guess you could say like wing or protrusion when it's like, you know, held kind
of vertically over their bodies. Whereas I think with fungus gnats, you know, they have it, if I'm
kind of picturing it right in my head at the moment, they kind of keep them sort of at rest,
sort of folded together down across their body, kind of like what you're saying, Trevor.
But there are other kinds of flies out there too that might be a little bit different.
Totally. So yeah, I'd like to also welcome, Doc, welcome up, Evian, Johnny, and Chase.
Good to see all you. And we're just, you know, talking some entomology and bugs.
And if anyone has any questions about any bugs or pathogens, Matthew's a great resource
to discuss that. And also anybody in the audience, just raise your hand. There's the new chat
function. So feel free to throw a question into the chat and we'll be sure to get it answered.
Yeah, I'm happy to answer questions.
Well, it's nice to hear your voices and happy to be back over here. And I was happy that Matthew
would be here, you know, speaking to some of these things. I know that historically for me,
I've had issues, you know, with the more beneficial predator insects sometimes, even with staff,
like scouting sometimes, where they'll be like, oh my God, there's bugs. And we're like, no,
actually, those are like the friendly mite. Those are the ones you want.
And we actually ended up doing like a chart on the wall, which was really helpful for us. So
then it could be like, oh, these are our friends. And then these are kind of like the ones that
aren't friends, because it just, and then it's there all the time so people can refer to it.
And I found that personally to be helpful. And even, you know, people will come and ask all
sorts of questions like, what's this? Like, is this, you know, the lacewing eggs or, you know,
the lacewing eggs or different things along those lines. So maybe you can speak to some of the
friendly, like, friendly things that are just common, you know, because especially if you
release things at a facility, it's like good to maybe train people, not just on like the bad pests,
but also on your friendly pests.
Actually, I'm a major fan of that. And it really does kill me when I see people who
sort of mistake something kind of benign. It might not even be a pest or something sort of
beneficial for you. It could just be some, you know, some sort of caterpillar, hunter beetle
vibing, although I guess that would be a beneficial. But you know, something like that,
it's like a mold mite or predatory mites, especially people will see them and they're
soil. And, you know, having, especially if people are new to growing plants in general, and also
perhaps in cannabis, this might be the first plant they've ever grown. And, you know, they'll
mistake it as a problem. And I know people who have spent tons of money trying to get rid of a
not problem sort of organism. And it's sort of unfortunate when that happens. So having like a
reference or a resource like that, like even like a poster in a cultivation facility,
or just having something on your phone or videos on YouTube, there's many out there,
you know, kind of going over what these organisms look like and kind of telling
others from each other. You asked me to speak to something else specifically, though.
I was thinking maybe to like, the most common, the most common, you know, things that we release,
you know, I know that I've had people even come in being concerned about like lacewing
eggs or something along those lines. So I was just thinking maybe to give people a rundown of
like, what are the most common things that we're using? And basically, a little breakdown of like,
what those things would look like, or how they're different than some of the most common pests?
Oh, for sure. Well, I mean, predatory mice are probably the biggest
biocontrol that I see people kind of interacting with and using. And you can kind of tell those
from other sort of herbivorous mites because, well, like two-spotted spider mite is super common.
Like Trevor was mentioning earlier, it's like one of the most ubiquitous pests that you can encounter.
And it's sort of a rule of thumb, but basically, a lot of your herbivorous mites, for one thing,
some of the bigger ones that people worry about, bigger meaning more problematic,
but actually are quite small, are like the broad mites and the russet mites. And spider mites are
actually a little bit bigger than they are. The first two I mentioned, you often, if you're not
looking for them, if you're not seeing any damage or anything, it can be very difficult to see them
with the naked eye. Whereas spider mites are big enough that you can kind of see them crawling
around. And a lot of these predatory mites are like that too. They're about the same size, but
those herbivorous mites usually are not going to be moving around super quickly. Not always is this
true, but a lot of times they don't. They're kind of sitting in one place, generally sort of feeding
on the plant because that's the food source. And ideally, it wouldn't have to move at all,
as little as possible. Whereas the predatory mites are not like this way. Certain predatory
mites are kind of omnivorous. So they're always searching around for food, whether that's maybe
some sort of pollen or maybe even certain spores of a fungus in some cases. Or in our case, what
we really care about is them coming across sort of a pest organism that they'll feed on. Like
in the case of like cucumberous mites or swirsky, they're very commonly used against whiteflies
on thrips. They'll go after, and for example, persimilis mites are specialists. They'll go
after spider mites. So you can kind of tell them by sort of their frenetic, quick behavior moving
around. And especially they like to use their legs because they don't see. They're blind. They
have no eyes. Or if they do have eyes, perhaps they only have like eye spots or some way to like
tell light from dark. But they don't have like eyes like even other insects or mites sometimes do.
And they'll wave their legs a lot of the time in front of themselves, hoping to
catch sort of like a compound, aromatic compound, kind of like wafting it in the air so they can like
sense smells, which helps them kind of orient. And also physically, tactilely, they'll hit
something that might be a food source or a prey item, and then they'll go after it.
Tricker two times has something to say. Should we invite him to speak?
Actually, I wanted to.
So yes, we should definitely bring up people to come up and talk. But one thing I want to say that
that's really new here and that that might be new for everybody, especially if you're new to this,
is they actually have a room chat available now. So if you go on the bottom right hand side of the
screen, you can see a little bubble with the thing. And there's actually a few questions in there,
one from CY and another from Victor. So maybe that would be a good idea to target those areas as well.
And because I know some people get a little bit shy coming up to the screen. So I'm going to
see if I can get a little bit of a chat going on here. Because I know some people get a little
bit shy coming up on stage. I think it's a great avenue for people to ask questions. And so
I'll see why not there.
I won't waste nobody's time. I just came in to say hello. I'm back.
Okay.
Anyways, so CY is asking, is there a particular insect guide you'd recommend that is focused on
identifying common cannabis? And also, I would love to ask this too. Is there a recommendation
of like, is there a medium high thing? Because I like complicated stuff. But I'm like, you know,
if I have to look up too many words too frequently, it's going to kill me. But I would love like,
I'd love like, almost a university level book to get into to start looking at identification
that might be on the easier side of reading. Or even or even the university book itself would
be really cool. I always like finding this stuff. So maybe you could recommend kind of,
like what you would advise somebody if they wanted to start getting into and really learning about
this to start reading and where they might be where they might decide to move forward.
So I'm a little bit. I'm a little bit pedantic. And because of that, I tend to like to,
like you to look at the very complicated stuff. And my my, my genuine, like, I think that something
that'd be super accessible for people wouldn't even necessarily be a book, although I myself
when actually working on such a book, I have a living document that I that's accessible for
people through my Patreon. But this is not meant to be like a sales pitch. To be honest, be very
frank. You want to learn more about various insects and mites and their their morphology.
It's super easy to just go on to like Wikipedia, or in some cases, like a good a good reference for
pests, not just for cannabis, but other plants would be like the University of Florida entomology
department. They have a really great reference for various sort of plant pests. And the American
Phytopathology Society is also good for not just insects, but also fungi and bacteria that are
pests of various plants, also viruses for that matter. But sort of learning like the major groups
is a great way to get yourself familiar with what could be a bad guy and what could be a good guy,
kind of roughly speaking. Of course, you'd want to learn more of that context. But I find that
when it comes to like physically looking at these organisms, sure, a lot of times you do have to
learn some of the taxonomic names, which are kind of a little bit annoying. But I do find I do feel
like that's like a really great way to give you sort of a basis. And then also kind of learning
some sort of like some basic sort of life cycle stuff. Like for those who don't know, you know,
like there's kind of two main kinds of insects out there. Two main groups evolutionarily. There's the
group of insects that evolved to have a larval form that's kind of worm-like usually, and then
a pupil form like a cocoon or a chrysalis, and then also an adult form that usually has wings.
Alternatively, there's the other one. That's the sort of the complete metamorphosis, as they say,
the whole of metabola. And then you have the hemimetabola. You have the incomplete metamorphosis.
These are insects that sort of have a nymphal stage that looks very similar to the adult stage,
but usually lacks wings in some case or in some way. And as they kind of grow larger,
they just kind of shed their skin and they grow a little bit bigger and a little bit bigger. They
might like regenerate limbs this way, and they might sort of take on other colorations and
sort of other physical attributes as they grow up. Just doing that little bit of the difference
will kind of give you an idea about what something that you're looking at could be,
and especially the various kinds of adult forms that insects are. Hopefully that's not a
too bad of a question. I don't have a whole lot of experience with a lot of these
books that are all encompassing, because for one thing, there's just so many insects out there.
Usually you want to get a guide that's really specific either to a geographic location that
you're in, or you want to find an agricultural reference for a plant that you're growing.
In the case of cannabis, there actually are some research reports out there. One of them is by
Whitney Crenshaw from the University of Colorado. They're doing a lot of great work on cannabis
at the university level for identification, but also understanding their economic effects and
pest pressures and things like this. I'm very excited to see more research to that end coming
out of the University of Colorado, and probably also California coming up pretty soon too.
There is actually a question here on the chat. I don't know if you saw this one or answered it
already, but Berserker's got this great one. What is the best IBM practice for a new soil source
from a local hydro source? What's your suggestion for people walking through a hydro source,
if I could? I asked Berserker in the live chat on YouTube, which I'm also active on a little bit
here. They said that it was their local shop that carries Fox Farm soil, is my interpretation of
that. Just said that they're curious if there's any recommendation routine IPM treatments to use
when getting new soil. For me personally, if you have soil, you should be trusting the source.
Hopefully, the soil that you're getting, usually you're not going to have pests necessarily in it.
A lot of their vivorous pests, this is a basic thing about insects in general, or I guess just
the agricultural pests in general, is that usually they have to be feeding on plant tissues
as an important part of their life cycle. Even if they were put into soil, for example,
like eggs, for example, or even like adult forms, if there's no food for them, they'll die.
They'll pretty quickly die in most cases. If you have a soil, I wouldn't necessarily treat it with
anything, especially if I trusted the source to not have organisms that are going to be problematic.
I do feel like people come across mold mites and things like this pretty often. Like I was saying
earlier, they're not actually, in most cases anyway, it's not really a threat to your plants.
Although I have seen seedlings become overrun and nibbled to death by springtails, a really
particularly prodigious or overactive colony of thousands, or pill bugs or roly polies or
slaters, as various people from various parts of the world call them. Mold mites also can be
a problem if their populations get really, really massive and the tissues of the plant that you're
dealing with, like from a seedling, are very soft and supple. But I tend to not see really a problem
with plants once they've kind of hardened off and become a little bit more woody.
And when going through the HydroStore, another thing that I would say, or other kinds of stores
related to plant cultivation, I would be very, very careful about the biocontrols that you can
get from those locations. Because in my experience, tertiary locations, so not direct distributors
of various biocontrols, especially ones that are alive when you get them.
What I mean by that is like active, I suppose, like ladybugs and things like this. Although I'm
not a big fan of buying ladybugs in general. I'll get into that, I guess. But on the whole,
you want to buy stuff directly from insectaries. You ideally don't want to buy things from people
who are distributing them, not from those insectaries, because they're going to be older.
A lot of times they're going to be, in some cases, lower quality. They might be
originally from primary distributors, but because for whatever reason they were bought
and they were held, that's just going to tank the quality a lot of the time.
Sometimes it makes sense though, if you want to produce, or rather you want to apply a whole
bunch of them and the price is right. But in my experience, it's usually a subpar or suboptimal
choice for treatment. This is less true for things like nematodes and other organisms.
Those aren't insects, of course, but you can use them against insects like fungus net larvae,
and in some cases thrips pupae that are in the soil. Those are good because you can keep them
in a fridge and they're in this torpor, hibernation-like state. But if you're dealing
with something that's supposed to be alive and active and moving around, like mites, for example,
or certain insect species, that's usually not going to be so great for the quality, in my experience.
I've had issues with nematodes, just from multiple sources, and I really second everything that you've
said. I try to encourage to try to buy directly from the source. But I will just say, as far as
knowing your source with soil, over the years I've had so many different experiences
with different soil suppliers and have had on different batches issues, mainly with fungus net.
I feel like that's the main place where I see, and especially with bagged soil. I will say that
I am super weary of certain brands of bagged soil. I won't even bring them into my home area or farm
area at all, just because I've seen it really go terribly awry. And then also with soil tests,
and same with compost. We've had issues in Oregon with huge batches of organic compost,
even coming with pesticides and other things. So I would be very, very cautious, especially when
you're buying things larger in bulk, making sure that you're actually asking for a test
on things like compost. But I don't know, I've had issues. That's why I'm very, very picky about
people I will buy. If I have to bring in an import soil, I'm super picky and will only work with two
or three different people at this point, because I've seen whole entire totes just hatch in warm
weather with fungus net larvae and just really get out of control. And I will say, if you're walking,
in large scale nursery operations, which is what I've done for years, you have people coming from
other farms to pick up plants, or you have people coming and going all the time. So it definitely,
you have to use extra precautions. But I feel like having limited access areas at your facility,
especially for like your clonal propagation areas, or TC areas, or different things. And then also
even in greenhouses, or if you're even a home grower, I think foot baths are just such a great
way to mitigate pests and pathogens in general. And I think that really, you know, how the
universities do it, and they do it like that for a reason. And there's also like the sticky mats
that you can pull up. And I think that's a great, great practice. And also, I really think that
Matthew is so right on with the like, really knowing your source when you're when you're buying,
you know, your, your beneficials and other things, because you're also going to end up paying a lot
more if you're buying some of those things from a local, a local source. I did have a lot of issues
with like bunk nematodes, but that was a few years back. I think that, you know, we learned to like,
look at things under the microscope, and then like not order from certain companies anymore. So
those are my experiences.
I see more issues and something that everybody does have to keep in mind whenever you're buying
soil, that a lot of soil does have microbial life added to it. So some soil manufacturers
will spray water down, because a lot of things are sold also by weight. So that's something that has
to be kept in mind. But something that most people don't think about when most soil comes from the
manufacturer, it's usually clean, it's usually always going to boil down to who's holding that
soil. And if it's being kept indoors or outdoors, I know that for me working across multiple states,
I have seen the good, the bad and the ugly from the standpoint of how stuff is kept. And if you
think about it, if you have a pallet that is, you know, wrapped in plastic, and it's super cold
outside or starting to get cold, bugs are going to go, hey, you know, that's a nice warm spot that
I can lay my eggs or that I can start the next generation. So they will just kind of swarm to
those things. And it's not necessarily one brand, because I've literally had it with the most
expensive brands, I've had it with the cheapest brands. And that's why, for me, I like using
something that's sterile right off the bat, like a cocoa or a rockwool, just because I know what I'm
getting. I can kind of control those things. But even those things have their own pitfalls. So
there's no such thing as a silver bullet in cannabis with any one solution or thing. But
it's just good to be able to know about some of these things and to inspect as much as possible.
But not knowing, you know, I know that I've heard people talk shit on, you know, this brand over
that brand, you know, I bought this brand, and I had bugs with it. Well, you know, how was it being
kept outside? I need to treat everything like it's contaminated if they're going to be bringing it in
their facility, look at everything from the stand.
Hey, Chase, can you adjust your mic or where you're talking into?
It sounds like you're muffled.
I had my volume down. Anyways, that was all that I had to say. So I'll shut up now.
People ask me a lot. Like, for example, with like, Bryce Rene, because like we said earlier,
you know, can I get them in soil? Or like somebody will ask me if rice hulls, I get that question a
lot. If rice hulls can be sort of a vector for rice root aphids, essentially. And the answer
to that is I suppose possibly, I guess it's I could I could conceive theoretically a way that
that could happen, especially since aphids and also thrips are really good. They're incredibly good
at sort of being kind of covert. And especially if they're on like living plant tissue,
sort of moving across the globe through human transport. But when it comes to like soil in
particular, like if there's no like living plant material, by which I mean, like,
for vascular tissue that's active, so like so that it can, especially with aphids,
there's nothing for them to feed on and they'll die pretty quickly. But you know, if the aphids
could get, you know, if they were put into some sort of input or like a package of some kind,
and they were shipped very quickly, and sort of like some of the conditions were sort of ideal,
they don't get crushed in the process somehow. I could potentially, I don't know, I don't know if
don't get crushed in the process somehow. I could potentially see that happening. But to be honest,
I wouldn't really expect it for the most part. But that's a I think that's kind of a question
that people ask quite a bit. And sort of a good point to make like, a lot of these pests are
usually specialist herbivores. So they feed on plants, specifically living tissues,
and they usually can't feed on other alternative food sources. Not always is this true, like with
fungus gnats, for example. But a lot of times this is pretty, a pretty good baseline. So if you don't
have any of that, like if you if you grow in a certain space, like indoors or outdoors, but
specifically more so indoors, and you get rid of all the living plant material, like that'll,
that'll limit the resources completely for these sorts of insects to feed.
And I guess I'll address that, I'll address it here in the chat. 2x tray is how I'm going to
read that name. In chat asked me how many different sprays are sufficient to be like
considered rotation, so that pests don't build up like an immunity to them. And
personally, I feel as though like that's a very contextual question. But essentially,
like if you're using certain like botanical insecticides or something,
or something, and you don't want that chemistry to become resisted, which happens a lot with
synthetic chemistries and also natural chemistries, for that matter. A good rule of thumb
is to sort of rotate with compounds that have a different mode of action. So like,
not to get super complicated, but like some compounds are toxic to an insect because
it blocks the sort of ion channels in its body, and cripples it, and basically makes it unable
to like move its muscles. Other compounds like nicotine, for example, they will interfere with,
I think that's acetylcholine neurotransmitters, or receptors, and essentially block the ability for
the insect to sort of function in that way. So if you were to like move between these two different
compounds that have very different mode of actions that affect very different aspects of the
physiology, then you will most likely not select as strongly for mutations that do not have that
problem. And the main way that insects sort of resist, at least chemical compounds, are through
big ones. One is through just detoxification enzymes. So like, for example, the spider mite
is incredibly good at this. A massive amount of its genome is actually devoted to this kind of
thing, to detoxify plant compounds. And they actually, they were able to show horizontal
gene transfer of some bacterial genes a long time ago, very long time ago before spider mites were
spider mites. But this has been in their genome for a long time. And basically, it helps them
break down some of the really toxic compounds in certain plants. In fact, I don't remember the name
off the top of my head. I think it's, I remember the acronym, it's UDP, but I do not remember what
that stands for. But essentially, that's one way, is through having a bunch of detoxification
enzymes and other things like redox reactions in their gut and different pH in different parts of
their gut. And all these sort of break down, neutralize phytochemicals and hormones and
various things like this. Then the other way that they resist is through things called
point mutations. And so like, basically, like I was saying earlier, those two compounds work
because they basically bind with a natural receptor in the insect or mite or whatever.
And usually these things bind and then they unbind. And so that allows movement to things
like in your own body, but they bind and then they don't unbind for a long time. And then they
slowly starve to death. Usually it's what happens like with a muscle restrictor or with a neurotoxin.
And that's also what happens to you when you're affected by those kinds of things. Not the same
compounds, mind you. Our physiology is different enough that those are usually not super affected
by us. But some people are sensitive, just like some insects will be resistant or sensitive
depending on their makeup. And when you select for resistance, essentially, a lot of times those
insects already exist that have slightly different receptors. And so those chemicals don't bind as
well as they used to. And then you have resistant population and that's how that happens.
So then if you stop using those compounds over time, usually these are very costly mutations.
So basically what I mean is that there's a reason why they evolved to have receptors the way they
did. And with them being a little bit different, that was really helpful when they were being
inundated with these toxins, like from a plant they feed on or from us applying them. And basically,
it's probably suboptimal for a lot of other reasons. And if those pressures go away,
then usually the ambient population kind of trends back towards their other sort of...
There's more standard physiology. Usually that's what happens. And so you can kind of
sort of go backwards if you like maybe switch to using bio controls mostly,
or again, like kind of switching and rotation. It's a good question and something I'm very
passionate about because I feel like people have interesting opinions about how insects resist
their host defenses and how plants actually use them in the first place.
Yeah. In the chat here on the clubhouse, Taylor brings up a good set of questions.
And this is something I've seen you talk about, Matthew. First, he mentions breeding for vertical
and horizontal resistance, which is something we can get into basically the difference there.
Horizontal resistance would refer more to a quantitative resistance. So this is multiple
genes controlling the resistance or multiple resistance genes controlling the resistance
trait. Whereas vertical resistance refers more to qualitative genetic expressions or controls,
where you have essentially one or two major genes controlling the resistance.
And we can get into that more. I know you have some limited time with us, Matthew,
and have to jump off and you'll come back on hopefully later, time permitting. But something
Taylor mentions here that I see you talk about is the qualifications for claiming a plant is
pest resistant and the difference between resistance and tolerance. And that's something
I think you could speak to better than most. Yeah, I appreciate it. So, and that is true. I'll
probably be hopping off after this response, but I'm expecting to be able to pick back up
later on, maybe in about 20 or 30 minutes, if you're on then. But basically, yeah. So
first of all, I just want to say that for phytopathologists and other people who know
about this topic more than me, that literally conducts the research about this topic.
Even for these folks, from the literature that I've read and are familiar with, basically,
this question is actually hard for even the experts to answer. And so usually you have to
use kind of models to depict the resistance that we're talking about. And essentially,
when we're talking about what is sort of resistance versus susceptibility,
there are three main words that they commonly come across. And so usually that's tolerance,
resistance, and then maybe something closer to like immunity. And there's a different,
various different kinds of this. And these words are very specific, and people colloquially kind
of change them around or use them interchangeably. But basically, like tolerance is the ability to
like tolerance is the ability for a plant to basically grow essentially fine, normal,
sort of unabated by a population of an insect. This is, I guess you could call susceptibility,
but I guess you can kind of take susceptibility as a given if it's a host plant for an insect.
So some insects are specialists and other arthropods for that matter, like mites and
things, but others are generalists. So the ones that are specialists tend to have a physiology
that is honed towards that plant's physiology and specifically defeating their various defenses.
A generalist is in some cases, you could say even better because depending on how generalized it is
like spider mites, for example, or rice root aphids are a good one too for cannabis.
They have to be able to feed on various kinds of plants that are sort of
disparately related to each other. And so their various defenses and compounds and
other adaptations are going to be very different from each other. And yet the generalist is able
to feed on these plants. And so they have a tendency to have a very robust sort of immune
system. And usually one that is geared towards either or both suppressing the immune system of
the plant locally and also generally, which aphids do and spider mites oftentimes do,
and broad mites and hemp racemites and things. Hemp racemites are specialists.
And so that's one way that they do it. Another thing that they'll perhaps do is actually
they'll elicit an immune response intentionally. And also certain pathogens do this too,
like necrotropes such as Botrytis. And essentially what they're doing is they're
taking advantage of the plant's normal immune response, I suppose you could say.
And they're eliciting either they'll elicit multiple immune pathways. So essentially
signals in the plant, and usually this is hormone regulated. So the plant will detect a problem,
or it will detect damage, or it will detect like a microbe or a part of an insect that it associates
with basically danger, problem. So that will elicit an immune response. Well, the organism
could also produce proteins and compounds that are meant to facilitate an immune response,
and maybe even elicit other kinds of immune responses. And what happens is that you get this
sort of antagonistic crosstalk effect. And basically that means that you're overstressing
the body, kind of like if you were dealing with a fever and you're also running a mile run,
and it's also hot out, and also you're kind of dehydrated. Imagine you were dealing with all
of these stressors on your own body, which would make like a pathogen more effective.
It's kind of like doing the same sort of thing. They're eliciting all of these responses in the
plant host. And basically what that ends up doing is it ends up making those effects reduced. It
makes those immune responses not very effective. And it can actually be very damaging to a plant
when it comes to fighting off other sorts of pests. And they do this because they actually are
really good at just sopping up those toxins and detoxifying them, or possibly feeding in a special
way that allows them to avoid the compounds themselves. Like maybe they feed on plant cell
contents and they locally suppress the immune system. Or maybe in some cases they might feed
on certain parts of the plant over others. So maybe certain parts of the leaves near to the stem,
or perhaps on the stem, or they'll feed on newer growth with a preference of that over older growth,
just various things like that. So it's a very complicated subject. And I know Trevor knows
how passionate I am about that pretty nuanced subject matter. So I appreciate being able to
talk about that. Yeah, and if you feel free to hop back on, we'll be going certainly for another 30
minutes, hour plus. We typically go until as late as eight, nine o'clock here on the west coast
sometimes. So yeah, we'd love to have you back on if you have to hop off.
Yeah, absolutely. I think that I will. And I look forward to all of our mutual successes,
and I will probably hop back on. So if you have any pressing questions or cool things,
you can put them in the live chat on YouTube or here in the chat at Clubhouse. And you can also
always find me at my YouTube channel, Zenthanol, or my Instagram, which is at Zinkangel. So I'll
be on soon. Awesome. Thank you so much. And yeah, I can't recommend the YouTube enough.
It's definitely, when I have questions about different pests or pathogens, it's one of the
first resources I go to. So while there isn't a book, there is Zenthanol on YouTube, and I would
definitely encourage people to check it out. I actually wanted to ask Matthew what he recommends
when diagnosing something. Obviously, it's important to be able to have that visual aid.
But at the same time, I know that we're probably trying to explain the way a bug looks to another
person, and it becomes like a telephone game trying to do that. So I know that for us,
we make sure that we have slides and a dropper so that we can somehow collect a sample and be able
to keep it under a microscope by using a slide. Yeah, it's been incredibly difficult over the
years to do identification of bugs, particularly when you're just a layperson and trying to figure
it out through Google. But him coming into the community and making himself available to people,
I know he probably gets inundated, and it's, I'm sure, at times a bit much. But
I know I've sent him a number of requests for identification, and he's always willing to
help people out and figure out what bugs are. And even as an expert in the field,
he's somebody who, you know, it really does require clear, crisp photography that actually
captures the whatever the bug in question may be, or insect rather. So yeah, it was great to have him
on. And another, it's a bit dated at this point, but for people interested, there's the Hemp
Disease and Pest Management and Biological Control book by John McPartland, Robert Clark, and David
Watson. It's, I think it was published about in 2000, I believe. So like I said, it's a little
bit dated. Yeah, first published in 2000. It's been reprinted numerous times up till 2014.
But it's a very useful resource, and there's a lot of good information in there for people who
are looking for a cannabis-specific text. And I do think it's, I think, $100 for the hard cover,
but I've seen copies of it online. Also something to keep in mind that if,
you know, whenever I move to a new state, the first thing that I do is I will contact the
local universities to see if they have any type of an ag department. If they do specialize in ag,
most likely they are going to have an entomology department. Obviously not everybody. What I had
to do with universities here in Oklahoma is I had to find an entomologist that was willing to be
involved in cannabis, but they can't wear their OU or OSU t-shirt or shirt to the farm just because
of the stance from the universities. But a lot of those guys are great resources and are willing to
help if you can get in contact with them. So definitely take advantage of extension programs
through universities. Yeah, I remember, Peter, you had on one of the foremost experts' names
escaping me at the moment, but one of the mite experts who I remember years ago when the broad
mite and russet mite outbreaks first happened about 2009, 2010. He was one of the people that
was an academic researcher who was actually very helpful in identifying and addressing
the micro mite epidemic. It's sad that I'm completely blanking on who that is.
I'll go back. I know I saw him on here. But yeah, it's definitely, if you can use,
make yourself the Ag extensions in wherever you are. To the extent that they do interact
with cannabis people, it's always helpful. Sometimes it's difficult. It always helps to find
senior staff and people who are tenured and are very interested in the subject
and more willing to go out on a limb. Can I completely change the topic on you?
Sure. So there's a guy who may or may not be watching right now. I told him to jump on,
but he can't right now. But you smoked some of his haze crosses up at the seed swap event,
or actually I'm totally blanking on which event it was, but you had good things to say about it.
Do you remember who I'm talking about? Oh yeah, that was Dave Greenhouse.
I didn't have you wanted his name mentioned, but that is the guy I'm talking about.
So tell us about Dave's weed. It was fire. It was funny because I was sitting there.
I was hanging out with a couple of people. I think Jesse Sticky Farms was there. And
Eric Branstad walks up and puts a jar in front of me. And I thought it was some Northern Lights
5 Haze from the pop that Bam did. And I was a little confused. That's very clearly some Northern
Lights 5 Haze. Where'd you get that? Because it was really, really high quality, nicely grown.
And he pointed over to the dude, the dude came over and he had a bag full of jars and
bags of different hazes and pulled out a couple of them. We smoked at least two. The Band-Aid
Haze was super fire. Then after smoking the Band-Aid Haze, we smoked the,
I can't, the name is, it's, I'm blanking. I believe it had to do, he posted about it recently.
It's a Shanti Baba's Holy Grail crossed with another haze, I believe.
Ah, hey, Eric. But yeah, it was absolutely incredible herb. We smoked two joints,
full blown, just cut through. I had been puffing tough the entire day. And
it just immediately sent me on one where I had been smoking, you know, modern hybrid type stuff,
Ghani type stuff. Smoking that just cut through everything I had been smoking in that day
and sent me on a full on rocket ship ride. It was incredible. Very nice, very clear and energetic
high, super flavorful. And yeah, it was, it's what classic hazes are all about. And so it was a good
time. And yeah, and I got to meet up with some people who I've known on the gram for a long time,
but never actually met in person. So that was super cool. And it was right at the same time.
So yeah, those hazes are legit. And it's really good to see people bringing that kind of herb
back around. And just preserving it because yeah, those things are not easy to grow.
And they're difficult to maintain, but people are putting in a lot of work and dedication to do it.
So that's good to see. Yeah, I think Eric was on Clubhouse a little while ago.
I think he just came up onto the stage, but I don't know if he's listening in or not.
What? No, no, you were talking about Eric Branstad, right?
Different Eric, my bad.
What's going on, Trevor? You hear me?
Hey, how's it going, man?
Good, good. Yeah, no, I was there with Eric. I've known Eric for 25 years. Our kids grew up
together, our 18 year olds. And yeah, I was standing there with Dave. I just met Dave like
two weeks before about Sugar Bowl snowboarding. He's one of Eric's friends. And he had some fire
sour diesel, grown indoor, smoked like sun grown. And he just happened to be at that Southern Humboldt
seat sesh we were at. And he walks up, he's like the first person we see, we get there at like 1130
12. And he goes, dude, you got to check out this urban. Of course, I smelled it right away. And I
was like, holy shit, this is what I've been looking for. This is what has been missing from my life
for like 20 years. And it looks like shit. I think probably all the people on this panel, and maybe
everyone in the cannabis world and all consumers, everyone would look at it and goes, I don't want
to buy it. I mean, if you couldn't smell it, and you hadn't tried it yet, you most likely would be
like, no, I don't really want that. It looked like shit. Trevor can attest to that. It was spindly,
it was thin. It's just not, it doesn't look like dank or the definition of dank in these modern
times. But Dave, I trusted Dave and he said, Yo, dude, I just smoked like a spaghetti joint. He
called it a spaghetti joint before he got there. Super thin. He's like, I didn't even think I was
gonna make it over here. He's like, my heart was racing so much. I was spinning. I was so high.
So he rolled me a little spaghetti joint before Trevor got there. And maybe Trevor was on the
other side of the fairground or the venue. And I smoked it and my heart started racing and I wanted
to get creative and I wanted to go do something and I was inspired. And it was the kind of weed
that I feel like all the modern cultivars are missing. You know, like everything looks so
fucking good. And everything smells fairly good. But the highs that we've moved into are so dull
and boring to me that I wouldn't say I'm turned off because I've been, I mean, I'm 44. I've been
smoking weed since I was 14. But it's just kind of like, I don't know if Trevor can attest to this
vibe too, or anyone on this panel can attest to this, but it's kind of like, I don't know,
I wouldn't say I get bored with all the modern herb or all the crosses, but it's just kind of like,
that's why I think we're going to go back, you know? I mean, and that's what Dave was like,
well, I'm here at this event, like, who do I talk to? Who do I show this to? And I go,
you show it to the mayor of the cannabis community, this guy, Trevor, over here,
Sun Grown Mids. We'll go talk to him and show him this. And then this is going to be what,
he's going to be the one that helps put it out into the world and kind of talk to people and
get that conversation started. Because it's quite sad what's happening. We noticed that too,
when Eric and I were judging the cup the last few years, you know, cakes, desserts, fruits,
that's great. But then you get like one OG double chem and it's not labeled, we don't know who grew
it, but it sticks out out of say a hundred samples and you're going, oh shit, that's that OG,
that's that chem, you know, that used to be around that seems to be missing. I mean,
I'm sure it's still out there. I know some people are still holding it, but
you know, you don't see it in clubs and people aren't really growing it, mass producing it.
And, but yeah, that double OG chem, the hazes, all that stuff. I think we're going to hopefully
go back to that. If I could call out a trend that we're going to go into in the next five years,
I think the cakes and the gelatos and the fruits and all that stuff is kind of played out. And I
think at least for me, I'm kind of tired of it. I mean, it's like all looks, it's like,
it's like a beautiful woman, you know, and you're like, oh, I fucking got it. Like,
I got this beautiful woman in my life and she's going to solve all my problems. And then you live
with her, you know, for a few months, you know, I get the hell out of my life, you know, like,
I don't want you around anymore. You're not doing it for me. And then on the other side,
you have a woman that's maybe not the most beautiful, but she's like taking care of you.
And she's supporting you emotionally. And she's, she always delivers. And that sort of analogy is
what I see. And I was just fucking amped when Trevor got to take a look at it. And he got all
excited. And then it's like, it kind of like spread like wildfire amongst the group. And we
all started showing it and talking about it and smoking it. I mean, I think Trevor and I, I mean,
I think he sat down, but I was like standing for like eight hours straight. I don't think I ate
all day. I drank water. It was just like the old days. I was like, this is rad. You know,
it was like, I didn't feel like I needed to sit down or take a nap or I hit a ceiling and I couldn't
smoke. It was like, I think we smoked some of that puck, Trevor, after Bob Hemphill's puck crosses.
And I still felt that, that haze. And I think what he said it was, was it was like an old
Viennese cross with the tie. I don't know if I'm right. Correct me if I'm wrong, but
that's what he was saying it was. And shit was fire, man. I think we're going to hopefully go
back to that because yeah, commercially it's not viable. I mean, you can't sell it in a jar if you
can't smell it or smoke it or even chest it or try it. But the ones that know are like, yeah,
that's what I want in my jar. I want to smoke that. At least I do. I mean, I'm getting old,
so I don't, you know, I need to stay motivated, inspired. But yeah, thanks for talking. I was
going to also ask Matthew the question about aphids. Maybe I'll jump back on when he comes
back on. But yeah, man, thanks for letting me chat about it. I've been wanting to talk to you.
I'm stoked to see you went to that regenerative cannabis conference in Middletown this last
weekend. I couldn't make it. But yeah, man, that was quite an event. And that's probably my
favorite event that I've ever gone to. I mean, whether it was Emerald Cup or whether it was
all these other places. And I felt bad because like Taylor was standing there, you know,
and she's like a legend herself, Tim Blake's daughter. And I was just like sitting there
going, holy shit, like this is like Emerald Cup in the area 101 days, you know, before it moved
to a big venue and everyone was there and it was like the real people that are super passionate
about the culture and love it. The type of people that can stand for eight hours and talk about this
stuff and never get tired about it. We're there that day and it was just, God, I'm still like
reeling off of it. I'm still like amped about it and wanting to talk about it. So
thanks for letting me chat. Sorry, I'm kind of rambling on. But yeah, thank you.
No, it was super legit. The Seed Swap, Sohum Seed Swap put on by Joey Berger,
Humboldt Local 2.0 on Instagram. Jude's been putting on these events and they're really great.
It's, it feels good to get back together with people. He put on one up in Humboldt
about two weeks ago. Then just this last, on Friday, we had one down in Middletown
and he's got plans to do one up in the Foothills area. And yeah, it's nice to see people coming
out and getting an opportunity to interact in non-commercial venues where we're just getting
together and interacting, having educational panels, doing discussions. And the focus is
more about getting, having an opportunity for everybody to get together more than anything.
They've both been family-friendly events, so it's been super cool. And I'd encourage anybody
in California or, you know, the region to make the trip to Grass Valley if you're able to,
when the next one happens down there. Well, hopefully we'll have video from that one soon.
And then I think Frank filmed the next one, that your breeder panel got punted to the next one,
right? Yeah, we had the panel on Friday and it was Itolf Foundation, Spring Creek
Farms, Zellig, and Josh Moongazer Farms, and Daniel from Heart Rock. Yeah, yeah, Heart Rock
Mountain. And it was a good panel. It was a good time. Daniel's hilarious. He's got a newborn,
and so he's in that sleep-deprived state. But dude's hilarious, and it was a great panel. And
really, Joel, Itolf Foundation laid it down and has a lot to say and a lot of
ideas about how we're going to be able to
develop a whole set of different pathways forward, be it, you know, the individuals in the community
who are doing their personal individual rec sort of situation, to people who are operating in the
licensed market, and how we do things in a way that kind of like connects different people and
allows for genetics to be preserved in a way that doesn't just, you know, conform necessarily to
what you were talking about, Eric, where we see the commercially viable strains, 30% THC,
purple candy gas, designers, you know, dessert names, etc. That's where the market's going,
and that's driving a lot of what's going on. But as that's happening, we're losing a lot of
different genetic diversity and a lot of options for people. And so we got to figure out how to
create an opportunity for those things to have a pathway forward.
And I think that's one of the most important things to have a pathway into the market,
because really, if you got a nursery, and you're going to be distributing clones and getting clones
out there, unfortunately, the only way you can do that is through the regulated market and
how to make it so these nurseries are actually, you know, responsive to consumer desires and
demands and maintaining these genetics is something that is important. And it's good to
see that there are nurseries out there who are interested in that and focused on doing some of
that work. So that's some of what we talked about. And it's really just kind of like
a starting point for more discussions and more effort around this sort of
a recalibration in this new regulated system. You know, like, it's here, we have to figure
out ways to navigate it and make it so that it's not just a
bureaucratic nightmare for everybody. And, you know, people get pushed out,
we got to figure out ways and pathways through this shit.
Hey, when is Peter, you said that's in the works of getting posted
the breeders kind of chat that they had at Middletown?
Well, so Frank filled it, filmed it, and he was supposed to lob it over the
fence to me, but I haven't heard from him. So I'll check in with him.
Cool. Yeah, I definitely want to want to hear that I wasn't able to get out there. But yeah,
it looked like a awesome event. And I'm really stoked to see these kind of things popping up at
the frequency that they are and I hope they keep coming. These type of events are exactly what the
community needs to get together, brainstorm, just kind of let off steam. I wish I had some of that,
some of those Hayes varieties you all were talking about. Actually, I did get a chance to smoke some
Vietnamese land race at the event that was in outside of Garberville. And that stuff, it was
about, I think, eight o'clock at night. And I smoked a joint of that. And boy, I tell you,
it gave me that extra pep in my step to drive home an hour afterwards and stick around. And
yeah, it's really a bummer to kind of see the market dominated by the purple candy gas.
And it seems like that's all people want. I just saw someone post a picture of some sort of
gelato cut. And I mean, it's how many years is this thing isn't going to be around and what
people are talking about? It's just to me, it's getting so boring having that. It's good weed.
It's good weed. But at this point in time, I'm personally burned out from the purple candy gas.
And it's really the market still wants it. And a lot of I feel like what comes to market
is what is good for growers too, and what growers are seeing and what's going to yield
well for them. And I think that's largely why we saw ice cream cake do what it did.
I think Gushmintz is going to be a cultivar that's going to be huge this year because
people aren't growing ice cream cake as much because they're like, oh, we can't sell this.
Nobody wants it. Well, let's move to the next thing. And Gushmintz checks the boxes,
purple candy gas, and it yields and it's easy to grow. And I'm just hoping that we see a break
away from that trend because yeah, like where can you find some chem dog or some, you know,
Durban poison or just something unique or not even unique, but just different than what's around
right now. And it's sad because bag appeal, it rules the market right now. Purple, if it looks
good, it's good. So yeah, I'm really, I'm hoping for a change. I'm personally for my personal
growth. I'm just growing all sorts of fun shit that I want to grow that, you know, I'm not really
going to be able to put to work in a commercial market. But for me, it's just like, it's getting
to the point where, holy fuck, I'm bored of the purple candy gas. I hope someone can make it stop
sooner or later. Yeah, it's definitely a bummer. I know I'm doing pretty much the same thing with
my own selections this year. They're all things that are either long equatorial,
long season equatorial sativas or hybrids of those. Mostly just because they're not present
in the commercial market and I'm more than capable and willing to go full, you know,
go as long as I have to with these and see what they produce. And I'm also, you know, I'm
very interested in seeing how a number of these wash. Obviously, I'm going to keep some flower
for head stash. But the turps that I've gotten on things that are, they don't yield as well,
but they just got some incredibly unique turps. The Panama Red LA Pure Wilson is absolute fire.
And my buddy who just grew out some of this commercially, he thinks that he could run this
at scale and do just fine in the fresh frozen market because it yields all right. It's got a
unique turf profile and it grows incredibly well. And so I think there are opportunities. It's just,
and you know, Ebbian can speak to this, particularly in California, we've got a
less than mature market that is still focused strictly on THC percentage metrics because it's
easily quantifiable and purple candy, yes, because that's where the hype is. But I do think that there
is with each of the experiments and the different efforts I've seen by people stepping out of the
box, I'm encouraged and I'm seeing good things that I think are commercially viable. So yeah,
I'm heartened by that. But I do think that primarily a lot of this work is going to happen
outside of the commercially regulated market because it just, yeah, the current economics and
the marketplace don't afford itself to long season equatorials.
Fucking money ruining everything as always. It's not like a commercially viable
thing to grow that. And it's such a bummer to see this, like the varieties that people are growing,
just people want short finishing. And I get it is from a commercial standpoint, but man,
how far we've come from where we were even just a few years ago, I feel.
I'm interested to see how that stuff, you said the Panama Red cross, it washed well.
That's crazy to me to hear that equatorial sativa did well with solvent lists.
Yeah, this wasn't solvent list. This was paper planes. They're a solvent full.
But yeah, it washed well and it fits within a viable commercial sort of model.
And that's something that when a commercial farm crunched the numbers and looked at the
different options, it was actually one that pencils out a bit better, which was surprising.
And it just, it has a lot to do with, Santa Cruz cannabis, he's a homie. And he posted in his
stories recently, a quiz for people on washing yields and overall yields and essentially
arguing that the lower washer, higher yielder actually yields you more resins in the end.
And yeah, I think that that's, this is a real world example of that where
dude's gone through, he's got some high washers, five percenters that did really well,
that have done really well in solvent lists. But their yields relative to the yields that he saw
in the Panama don't, bigger yields, lower wash ends up yielding more in the end was kind of what
he found. I have this argument with customers all the time because everyone wants to run eight
week flower times. And then most people don't even take in consideration the reset time of the room.
Most people aren't automated well enough to be able to do anything under a week reset time,
especially when they're doing it at scale. When you're like a thousand square foot grow or a
med grow, you can do that within a day or two, but whenever you multiply that out, it becomes
significantly more challenging. So that's the reason why in commercial settings, people won't
run anything over a 10 week flower time. Because if you look at it from a simple mathematical
equation with just say you have an eight week, a nine week and a 10 week flowering plant,
add one week onto that and then divide that by 52 weeks in a year and tell me how many runs you
get. And that's the reason why people want as close to that eight week flowering time, because
that's the difference in that business sometimes being profitable and not profitable. So it's
extremely challenging to have anybody do this at commercial just because of the economics that are
associated with it. And that's why it's important that the home growers, the medical patients are
really the ones that are doing a lot of the genetic preservation that we need done until we
have a viable business model that we can all make genetics through and with. I literally have this
argument probably once a week with a completely different person and it all boils down to
what they're able to produce out of the facility in a year's time frame and maximizing their
space while maximizing their utilities and their fixed expenses that come along with a commercial
operation. You know, that's something that I think is going to be kind of like a hot
commodity. Like you were saying, eight week cultivars. I'm surprised that we're not watching,
we're not seeing more breeders breed with intent for a shorter flowering time.
Specifically for, I mean, I know it's been done in the past where people were crossing just
like Afghanis with a tie to have it finish faster. And it seems like the breeding with intent,
nine out of 10 breeders in air quotes are just kind of chucking pollen around,
not really having a clear intent besides I'm going to cross this runts with this purple punch or
whatever. And just, it's going to be purple runts and just kind of, there's not the intention that
there should be because I feel like having like breeding for that, breeding, trying to get some
of these, these headier kind of equatorial, you know, sativa highs into something that finishes
faster. It's, I mean, I know it's been, like I said, it's been done in the past, but we're
drifting far away from that. And those types of cultivars are really like, they're not like,
not prevalent. So I'm hoping to see in the next few years, some righteous breeders who are doing
actually good work, you know, getting on this type of activity.
I don't know how to word it or how to say it, but I've got a thought and I just don't know how to
like put it into words. Hopefully someone can understand what I'm trying to say, but
we're pretty much after the gold rush. If you're up in Humble, you drive around, you could tell,
like I hadn't been in Humble in 20 years since the Regenerative Conference. And I don't remember
ever being that quiet, ever having that little amount of cars on the road at the 101,
that many businesses out of business. There's a mass exodus of this cannabis industry. And
I don't know if you guys saw Savage Farms. He's kind of one of the big
farms up in Humble, his post. Maybe Trevor, you saw that the other day. He just threw out 500 pounds
that he could not get rid of. And I'm sure it was gelato and I'm sure it was eight week and I'm sure
it was fire. And because I've seen his fire, I've seen his herb before. It's award-winning herb.
What I'm trying to say, I don't know how to say it, but God, what am I trying to say?
I think something's got to change and something's got to give. I get it, back in the day, it was.
It was eight week. How many cycles can you get through? Because weed was flying off the shelves,
whether it was the legal market or the legacy market, you could get rid of it.
Legacy market, you could get rid of it. But we have an issue now that just started in July,
maybe June of this past summer, where weed's backlogged. Maybe that's not everywhere in the
nation. Maybe that's not everywhere in the world, but in California, you can't really get rid of
your weed, whether it's fire or not. And it's just interesting to see. I think the whole paradigm's
going to shift because it was like fast food, get it out quick, whatever. But something's got
to give. And I think for the mass majority of cannabis consumers, maybe don't care as much as
a lot of the people on here about those hazes or about the highs or how it makes you feel.
They just want something that's pretty, that's affordable, that gets you high.
But I feel like something's got to change and something's got to shift. I don't know how that's
going to change or how that's going to play out. But something's got to give. And I think it's
going to come full circle back to the old school stuff and the stuff that makes you feel giggly
and fun, kind of like the herb you kind of smoked when you were a kid, you know, or when back in the
day, the herb we used to get in the 90s. It was like different high and different feeling and
just a whole different experience. And it's just interesting to see what's kind of going on,
because this is all new, I think, to a lot of people, this whole like oversaturation of cannabis
on the market, whether it's legal market or legacy market, backlogged, seeing these farms throw out
hundreds of pounds of weed, seeing these people. I mean, I stopped in, we stopped, Eric and I
stopped in at that cafe that's in Garber Villa, everyone kind of goes to, it's pretty nice. They've
got good coffee and food and stuff. And Joel was actually kicking it there, ITAL Foundation.
And I just picked up fricking one of the real estate pamphlets and you will be blown away.
I mean, it's like every single page, it must have been a 50 page real estate pamphlet for the area,
Trinity, Humboldt, Mendocino, farm, farm, farm, greenhouse, greenhouse, turnkey, turnkey. I mean,
it's just, it's done. I mean, it's after the gold rush. So what you're left with
is the people that would die for herb, people that, you know, herb saved their lives. Like I'm
a stage four cancer survivor. I've gone through cancer twice. It saved my life. I care about it
more than a lot of things in my life. And I think what happens is a lot of the people that were in
it for the money and in it for how many turns you could get and in it for, oh, I just want to do it
for eight weeks. They're going to find out it's going to get nasty these next few years for them
because those good old days are kind of gone. I mean, you kind of need a job. Like I do property
management. I have a job, you know, it's like, I've got a career. It's like, if you're just in it,
oh, you think I'm going to start a cannabis career and I'm going to start a company and it's going to
be all fun. And I'm going to be a baller and you know, it's like, nope, sorry. You missed that boat.
Those days are over. If you're not doing it for the passion, if you're not doing it for the love,
I mean, you know what I mean? It's like, then it's just another job and maybe that's cool. Maybe it's
just another job for you. I don't know. But I think these next five years or three years,
it's going to be really interesting to see what happens. And we're going to always have the
McDonald's of the weed business, you know, people that are turning it over and fast food and pump
it out. But I look forward to some of the stuff like that Dave's doing that Trevor and that Johnny
here is talking about bringing back some of those old, interesting highs and interesting flavors and
interesting experiences with cannabis because we've kind of reached a point where it's like,
okay, guys, you know, we got it. Okay. This is what the cannabis, to me, it's like what
Johnny said. It's like, it's boring. Like, I don't, you know what I mean? It's like,
I always have buddies that send me pictures of their indoor that they get from SoCal and they're
like, dude, look at this fire. And it's like, yeah, it looks like alien weed. It doesn't look
real, but I'm like, how does it make you feel? How does it taste? What's the come down on it?
You know, how does it feel when you come down on it? Are you grumpy? Do you feel kind of,
you know, it's like, what is the experience with it? And, but I think everyone's so caught up with
like, oh, look, look what I've got. Doesn't it look fire? Look what it looks like on my Instagram
page or look what it looks like when I hold it in a bag. Don't you want to come smoke it?
And it's like, I tell them like, sorry. I mean, it's like, yeah, I'll smoke it, but I'm not going
to be, I'm probably guaranteed I'm not going to be that impressed, you know, with how it makes me
feel or how long it lasts, or this and that. And so, yeah, sorry, I didn't know how to word it,
but I'm just, I think something is about to happen pretty big. And there's going to be two paths.
It's going to be like the McDonald's path. And then there's going to be like this fine wine
dining path, connoisseur path. And maybe it's already here, you know, I don't, I don't know,
but it felt like that when we were at that Sohum seed sesh, it felt very connoisseur,
people that really cared, people that really knew their herb, people that you can have a
conversation with and not just someone goes in and goes, I don't really want that. That's,
that's ugly. Or I don't want that, you know, or at least give it a try. And I, I tried good looking
exotic shit all day. And a lot of it, like Johnny said, it's pretty good herb, you know,
but it gets to a point where you're oversaturated. And it's not impressed. It's like, everyone's got
it. And you're like, I want something different. I want something that's going to shock me here.
So I don't know, I just, I can't get that point enough. And I think that's what's going to happen
as kind of legalization sweeps the nation. And you see all these people starting to get into it. And
it's like, maybe you could have a killer career right now in the East Coast or Oklahoma, or
Michigan, or wherever and kind of like kill it, you know, because you set up in a right situation.
And you know, it makes sense. But yeah, I mean, when they open it up federally, and I was going
to talk to Trevor about this, I want to get his opinion. I think, I don't know, but I'm feeling
like they're going to make home grows federally, an illegal thing. And so you have to buy it from
the store. They're kind of like what they did, I think, in Washington, where they said you can't
have a home grow. And I mean, why not? Why wouldn't they do that? You know, like, what makes
you think that they're going to allow people to grow at home and like, grow their own medicine?
I mean, I don't know, maybe I'm just a pessimist. But you know, I think they're going to come in
and do that. And then we're going to be going like, oh, remember 64? Just like we're like,
oh, remember 215? Like, remember how fucking epic Prop 215 was like the golden years? Like,
we're going to be looking back at 64 and going, yeah, 64 wasn't that bad. You know, you could
grow six plants and you could fucking, you know, do this legally and do this and do that.
But yeah, it's going to be interesting what happens these next three to five years, because
I think everyone's like, we got to open it up. We got to open up like, fucking, you know,
lines and we got to, you know, be able to do trans state continental distribution and all that. And
I'm like, I don't know, dude, I think these guys are sitting around a roundtable in Washington,
DC or wherever they're at. And they're fucking scheming up like the worst case scenario for a
lot of people, you know, and because they want to make money too. They're not fucking just gonna
let us keep, you know what I mean? They're gonna make it tough for a lot of people,
you know, that think, oh yeah, now I'm in the cannabis industry. I got my fucking
thing in Florida or I got my thing in Maine or I got my thing in fucking, you know, it's like,
okay, you know, it's like, I don't know. I want to be an optimist and think that they're gonna
make it easy and think, but at the same time, part of me thinks that they're just gonna control it
like no other thing in the world. And like, kind of like what they did to Trevor. Trevor was a
perfect point at the Emerald Ball, you know, what the DCC did or whatever they're called, DCD,
you know, how they came in like that, super hot. And the Soham C-Sesh, you know, felt like
something they couldn't touch, you know, something they couldn't put their fucking hand on,
you know, because they would have loved to come in there. They would have loved to tax everything,
everyone was selling. They would have loved to say, you know, you can't have this many seeds
here. You can't do this. It was funny at one moment during the day. I don't know if you caught
it, Trevor. It was like three o'clock. A fucking copter, a huge black copter, I don't know if you
caught that, it came over the C-Sesh and everyone's like, ah, they can't leave us alone. But, you know,
it's like, they would have loved to come in there and control that and tell us what we can and
cannot do. But see, the cannabis industry was always a thing in the past where it actually
gave you a sense of freedom. It actually gave you the real American way. You want to put the work in,
you want to work your ass off, you'll be rewarded. You don't have to deal with some boss. You don't
have to deal with some bullshit. You don't have to deal with regulations. You don't have to deal
with someone taxing you. You don't have to deal with all this bullshit. And that's what that's
what Joey's doing. And I almost don't want to talk about it too much because you just never know who
you're talking to on Clubhouse or this whole thing. But it's like, and my fear is that these
fucking parasites are going to come in and try to like put a hold on it or try to squash it.
Because they would love to do that. You know, they'd love to come in and say, oh, you can't
have these kind of gatherings. You can't do this kind of thing. And legally, I don't know, maybe
Trevor can speak on it a little bit more. You know, because it's private. It's a private party,
if we're allowed to do that. But man, I just love those kind of events. And then I was there on the
Emerald Ball on Sunday with Eric. I joked down with him. And I was like, oh, can I see your
flower? I was buying some flower from the small regenerative, it was like Redwood Roots area.
And I'm like, can I smell it? And like, oh, dude, sorry, you can't smell it. Like the fucking DCC
was here yesterday, and they were busting people and they were telling us we can't show you the,
let you smell the jars and just I was like, what? I'm like, what? Like, it's like a whole different
universe. It's kind of like the COVID thing. And I don't want to get into that with people. I know
people are passionate about it. But it's like, it's like a whole different universe that exists
that I don't want any part of, you know, like, I don't want that world. So you know, that's not my
world. My world is joy, and peace and prosperity and abundance. And they want to come in and like,
knock you down, and create scarcity and fear and, you know, no, no, no, you can't do that.
You know, no, no, no, you can't be that. You know, and it's like, they'd love to do that.
And those are the bullies. And those are the people that you never wanted to be friends with
in high school. You never wanted to be friends with in elementary school. You're like, oh,
yeah, that guy, like, fuck that guy. You know, he tries to like control everyone and, you know,
all that. So kind of like, rambling on, I'm sorry. But yeah, I just love these talks. And
thank you, Peter and Trevor and Johnny and everyone. I'm just kind of listening in. And yeah,
thank you.
Well, I really hope you're wrong about the federal ban on home cultivation. But the good news is
there already is one of those. So I don't see that stopping too many people. And hopefully,
that is that remains up to individual states how they want to regulate cannabis. I'm not 100% sure
if that's how it's going to look. But there's going to be some major, major pushback from the
community at large about not being able to grow a plant at your house. That's definitely a step in
complete wrong direction. But yeah, man, as you were saying that, that event was really special.
And you get to have all those people come together and be passionate and share their passion with
each other. And it really it takes me back to my days of like going to a music festival before they
get blown out and everybody and their mother knew. And it's a double edged sword. You want a lot of
people at these events. But at the same time, once it hits this certain tipping point, it becomes
this whole other beast where it's not what it was in the past. And you have to have... You start
having to have security, maybe police presence when it's a larger event, kind of how I'm assuming
Emerald Cup, the transition from it being a grassroots small event and then turning into this
huge, huge corporate brand name event. And another thing I would like to comment on is
that you were saying, Eric, is how you... You were in Garberville and you just saw it kind of being
a shell of its former self. And yeah, the Green Rush, it's over in California anyways.
In other places, if you know, get it while the getting's good, because I think there's still
plenty of opportunity to get in and to really crush it for a temporary amount of time. However,
I think that we're kind of headed in this route where, go figure, cannabis being, you're farming,
or if you're growing indoor, you're not really farming, but you're growing a crop.
What other crop are you able to profit even on the low end of things? What other crop are you
able to get $200 a pound? Or, indoor, it's still going for pretty good numbers. It's a huge profit
margin. For instance, my indoor, I produced pounds for about, I think, 300 bucks. So, even at
freaking 800 bucks or even at $500, $200 profit per pound of a thing,
what other agricultural commodity are you going to be able to produce and get that kind of money?
I think that a lot of people have been kind of spoiled by the glory days of the industry where
they were selling outdoor pounds for 2000 bucks. It was easy, easy living. You buy three trucks and
you have two wives and they go on vacation for six months of the year and pay people. You don't
have to lift a finger to do anything and you're making money hand over fist. I never got those
days. I came out to Humboldt and I stuck around. I didn't get paid for my first two years out here.
I got fucked over by my employer. I eventually got paid. I literally have stuck around when
conditions were like that. I'm sleeping in a cold car because I love to do what I was doing
and I was passionate about it and I would rather do that. What I saw is paying my dues to get to
the point where I'm at. I would love to have a shit ton of money, but I'm glad that I was never
spoiled and have these expectations because I'm watching the fallout happen with a lot of
farmers who their whole way of lives are changing so rapidly and it's so dramatic.
For me, it's like, well, I'm still making the same amount. I'm making a little bit more than I was
when I got into the industry, a good amount then compared to nothing. I'm still doing good.
I'm still happy where I'm at and I'm grateful to have humble beginnings in this industry because
it's devastating. People get used to these extravagant lifestyles and they're going to have
to really tone down and also be really careful because the margins aren't what they are. You
can't afford to fuck up a harvest. Back in the day, I watched my first boss just completely
let a greenhouse mold and then what was salvageable, he let mold in the dry room.
He still had a good year. That's not happening anymore. Big changes on the horizon.
I'm optimistic and cautiously optimistic because it could be as you said, federal
legalization comes in and they could be really trying to push back home grows, which
I'm going to be livid and I'm sure everybody in this room will be as well.
I think that having these talks ahead of time and organizing and getting this coalition of
passionate individuals who can get the word out to wider audiences and have a grassroots movement,
I think that we can potentially as a community prevent something like that from happening.
Matthew Tauber
Definitely a different kind of pest, but I can totally understand where you're coming from.
Matthew Tauber
Welcome back, Matthew. They are a pest, that's for sure.
Matthew Tauber
So what did I miss?
I just jumped in, Matthew. I just met Trevor at the seed session. I just had a quick question
rounding it back to pests. I saw aphids three years ago for the first time here in Northern
California. We had seen spider mites before, Botrytis, that sort of thing. But I remember
seeing aphids for the first time about three years ago. Then I started talking to some friends,
and I go, oh, yeah, it's the hemp bong aphid. It's coming down from Oregon. I didn't know
how to attack it or how to go amongst it or anything. It took out a couple of my really
fruity, terpy cultivars. I think I grew a blueberry muffin that year, and it just fucking decimated.
It didn't touch a lot of the other ones, but I just kind of let it go. I was like, oh, fuck it.
It's not even worth it. I'll just pull it. Then I'm talking to Josh and Kelly who own Dragonflight
Earth Medicine. I always thought, oh, shit, maybe because I've been organic, no-till soil years,
like organic, whatever, small scale, just a little homegrown. It's not a big deal.
I don't bottle feed or anything because I was like, okay, it's not the nutrients I'm putting
in it. I don't live close to anyone. I'm like, it's not neighbor. Then I hear Josh and Kelly
own Dragonflight Earth Medicine. They're like the most regenerative people you've ever met.
They were talking, I think on one of Peter's future cannabis project broadcasts. They were
like, holy shit. They're like, this aphid. She's like, if I would have guessed, if I would have
been paranoid, I would have guessed it was like some engineered fricking pest that's made up by
some regulator to kill all cannabis or something. She's like, we can't control this thing. She said
the only way she could control it was to heat up their greenhouses to 120 degrees for 15 minutes,
make sure the plants are well-watered, sit in the greenhouse with them for 15 minutes. I know
Josh Dutch Blooms talks about this too, for 15 minutes. Then it breaks their ectoskeleton or
something or dehydrates them or kills them off. I remember I pulled off one a couple years ago and I
put it in a trashcan lid upside down with a little bit of bleach. I came back eight hours later and
the fricking thing was still swimming around in the bleach. I was like, these things are insane.
They make spider mites look like your friends, at least in my opinion. Then to hear what Josh and
Kelly said, because I never heard them talk about pests. Then they started talking about aphids the
last couple of years. Can you give me a little three minute or five minute breakdown on this
hemp bong aphid or this aphid that we've seen come in in the last three years? It's fricking horrific.
I've blasted it with water, seems to help. Last year I ordered a shit ton of green lace wings.
They kept them at bay. It didn't take them all out, but shit, those lace wings kept them at bay
so I could at least harvest a little flower for myself. It's just gnarly. The sprays don't work,
none of it works. I sprayed it with some high power water. That helped blow them off the leaves.
Then the green lace wings, a couple releases of them really helped. I could see they would chew
them up. Can you just give me a three minute breakdown on this fricking alien pest, I feel like?
Thanks. Yeah, absolutely. I want to start off by saying that
the only real man-made pests we ever make tend to be of our own design, how we treat them.
I was talking earlier about resistance to chemicals and how that happens in
arthropods, usually through point mutation or through detoxification enzymes and things like
this. With aphids, basically all aphids, there's a little over 6,000 species of aphids out there.
The cannabis aphid in particular, it has probably been with cannabis for as long as cannabis has
been around, maybe a little bit less time. I say this speculatively based on the fact that
cannabis aphid is part of a genus of aphids called forodon. There are other forodon aphids
out there. Forodon cannabis is the cannabis aphid, but forodon humuli is the damson hop aphid. It
switches between hops, which descends from the same common ancestors, cannabis and the
Cannabaceae, very directly. Those two specifically, hops and cannabis, sure the other Cannabaceae
share a lineage very closely, but these two came from the same direct ancestor, as far as we can
tell from molecular genetics. That's all important because essentially, this hemp aphid is super
specialized on cannabis and isn't really that new. In fact, the first documentation of cannabis aphid
is in the 1800s, I think 1860, somewhere close to that. I have a cannabis aphid video on my YouTube
channel and I even use it myself for references of just this sort of information, if you're really
curious. It was in Italy, presumably on some sort of industrial hemp crop. I don't actually know the
answer to that specifically, although I think it is in the documentation. It's been around for
actually probably over 200 years or definitely over 200 years. It's probably been with human
cultivation for much longer than this. It's specialized on cannabis physiology, incredibly
so. For aphids in general, a few things you have to know about them, which cannabis aphid does have
this capability, is that they basically have clonal offspring and they live birth them. They don't have
to, sometimes they lay eggs. Eggs tend to be the overwintering structures. In nature, usually
what would happen is that the cannabis plant would grow and then seasonally it would go through
its life stage. It would start to senesce, but the aphids would colonize it at some point in its
life cycle. As it starts to senesce and as the days become shorter and it goes from spring and
summer to autumn and winter, the aphids react to this change in environment, both the taste,
literal nutrient and other chemical constituents of their food. They can basically tell that the
plant is senescing. When that happens, they start to produce eggs. Then when the plant dies and
produces seeds and the seeds fall to the ground, essentially it's timed up that when it stops being
autumn and winter and starts being spring again, the new plants germinate and then the aphids are
right there next to a suitable host when the eggs hatch. That's the life cycle in nature.
But after they've hatched as eggs, they produce a bunch of clonal live birth offspring. A bunch
of little clones of themselves, essentially. They just rapidly reproduce, tons of them.
Cannabis aphids are no exception to this. Aphids, when they feed on plants,
they have a lot of different, sophisticated ways of making that process super easy for themselves.
One of them is that they have a bunch of symbionts, bacterial symbionts in their body,
and special cells called bacteriosomes. What these do is they essentially can produce
various compounds and also detoxification enzymes. But they can also help the aphid produce
amino acids for itself. It's really self-sufficient on what is actually, for animals, a very
unique food source, which is sap. Most of the food that they're getting from the plant is sugars,
but they also get other sorts of compounds, too. Some proteins, some amino acids,
some minerals and stuff. It's been documented that aphids will sometimes even feed on the xylem,
which is the water channels. But they typically just feed on the sap.
When they feed, they also produce saliva. This saliva has compounds in it. Those compounds break
down the immune system response of the plant locally, where they're feeding. You can imagine
that when a female aphid is feeding on a plant and it's producing one or two nymphs that can feed just
about right after they're birthed, every couple of days. They do this for maybe two or three weeks
or a month, depending on ideal conditions and that sort of a thing. If those nymphs stay around
each other pretty rapidly, you start to have a massive immune system depression in this area.
That allows them to be really successful. It allows them to feed easier. If they can feed easier,
then they, of course, can produce more offspring easier. This is pretty common for insects in
general. That's one of the reasons why cannabis aphid is so dang difficult, is because it has
all these adaptations for reproducing itself very rapidly. They also have a winged form.
When it gets too crowded, they start to produce these winged forms. These forms will move to other
plants and produce more offspring. Sometimes they produce offspring that make more clones. Sometimes
they produce offspring that make eggs to overwinter. Pretty rapidly, these aphids will
specialize on populations. Since they're already specialized on cannabis, one of the other really
cool things about aphids, if you can call it cool, is that because they reproduce almost asexually
really rapidly and they can travel really easily with their wings on the air currents,
that means that when they get to a suitable host, another cannabis plant somewhere,
basically they're put under a selection pressure in that environment. Aphids are really good
at colonizing new environments. If it's a little bit more hot or a little bit more cold,
those general temperature changes, it's more likely that over time aphids will become more
adapted, if not to new hosts, like in the case of the cannabis aphid, which is only on cannabis,
than to new environments. I think those are some of the things that make these aphids,
again, so difficult. They are really adapted to the plant's immune system. They can overmatch it.
They can't eat any other plant but this, as far as we can tell.
They reproduce so quickly asexually that if they have an adaptation, like a mutation,
that's beneficial, then that gets rapidly reproduced. If they have one that's not,
well, that also gets rapidly reproduced. Tons of things also eat aphids and things like this,
so there is a bit of a balancing act. That's why they're a problem.
Does that help you understand? Are there other aspects that...
No, that's great. One more question I have is, do the ants bring the aphids or do the aphids bring
the ants? Yeah, that's a good question. Not all ants have a relationship with aphids and other
insects that produce honeydew. I mentioned the symbionts before. Actually, there are
other microbes that can be passed in the honeydew, which are usually bacteria. Those bacteria can
also produce compounds and volatiles that might signal for predators, like, hey, you can eat this
aphid here, or also have other effects on the physiology of their plant host. They're also a
substrate for a fungus called sooty mold, the black mold that actually isn't a pathogen of the
plants. It only is on this honeydew, but it can foul your flower if it's on the flower. They can
also just be gross and sticky and look really bad cosmetically. There's a lot of reasons you
wouldn't want to have that. Basically, some ants, some families, some sub-families of ants,
will be attracted to this honeydew substance. In that way, you could say the aphids are what
attract the ants. Some species of ants will guard very loosely an aphid colony. They're
kind of just in the general area, and they'll come and they'll feed on the honeydew, and they'll
sort of tap their antennae on the aphid, and the aphid will produce a droplet of excretion,
and then they'll drink it up. Other times, it's actually really very rigid,
and they are very active in their defense of the aphid colony in specific. In other cases,
they will actually pick up and move aphids to other plants. That last sort of behavior
is not generalizable. I think people have heard of this happening in some cases,
and then they apply it to all aphid ant, what's called trophobiosis,
or tritrophic, or three-part interactions. That is not actually the case.
I'm not sure if this really happened, but I thought I saw it happen was I released some
of those lacewings, and they were just nymphs. The freaking ants, I watched an ant attack a
lacewing and pretty much devour a lacewing. I was like, fuck, these guys are like... Now I'm
dealing with the ants and the aphids while I'm trying to get the lacewings in there.
It was just interesting to watch. Then my buddy was like, yeah, you got to get that tanglefoot
wrap and put it around your trunk so the ants can't crawl up the trunk of the tree to get up
there to get the lacewings. I was like, okay. Which was interesting because I did catch a lot
of ants with that tanglefoot wrap that they use for fruit trees and stuff, and put that around
there. It stopped a lot of the ants from crawling up. It was just interesting to see ants freaking
go on the lacewing nymphs. I was like, oh my God. That's why they do it because the ants are...
This is called guard recruitment. If you are interested in ecology, anyone who hears this,
you can look that up. That's the ecological term that people use for this kind of behavior.
Other insects besides aphids that produce honeydew, like leafhoppers and
I guess whitefly is technically true, but other sorts of sucking or piercing mouthpart insects
of the hematura, a lot of them produce honeydew. A lot of other animals come in and will feed on
the honeydew. It's this adaptive response where the ants need this carbohydrate sugar source.
It's very helpful for a lot of ants to get that. It's an incredible fitness benefit.
But then they of course go after the predators that would kill them. In the case of some plants,
I like to bring up this example. I think there's some in the Amazon where the aphids are actually
beneficial for the plant because although they do steal the sugar resource from the plant,
when they attract the ants, a lot of these ants are actually rather formidable.
They will actually attack and antagonize and sometimes outright kill grasshoppers and even
mammalian herbivores that might come around and jostle the tree or plant or whatever.
They are a bit of a cost, kind of like how certain microbes or mycorrhizae can be a bit of a cost.
They take hexose or sucrose in exchange for hydration and phosphorus or whatever from the
mycorrhizae. It's the same kind of thing where they take some of this sugar and that's beneficial
because other herbivores that would eat the whole leaf or eat various branches, clean the leaves,
that's going to be much more destructive and require way more energy to make up for.
It's a little interesting point there. Matthew, I have a question. You were saying
that the cannabis aphid has been around for at least 200 years. Your man knows your stuff,
and I definitely believe that. What's your hypothesis on the last few years, this explosion
of their growth and spread across the country? What do you think are some of the factors and
reasons why we weren't really seeing widespread issues with the cannabis aphid before the last
few years? What I mean to say when I say that we've had it as a human species, as a cultivation
pest for more than 200 years, is because we have. But as far as cultivation in the United States,
especially in the last four or five decades plus, which, mind you, is older than I am,
so I'm not talking from personal experience totally. Basically, I think that it's probably
like most other pests that become newer and more recognized. You see this very often. It's not very
unique. Cannabis isn't unique in this case, even for specialist pests. As the cultivation increases,
then the people who are trying to get the plant, and especially through cuttings, various pests are
very commonly transmitted this way. I'm imagining that probably nurseries or
cultivation areas that serve like nurseries, essentially, are probably the main way that
this aphid pest has gotten around and become a more major, more noticeable pest.
That's pretty common for aphids in general. It would be pretty easy to see it being the case here.
Certainly, I don't think that it came necessarily from any one place.
For all I know, because cannabis has been cultivated in North America for a long time,
and also Europe, and also other places too. I'm very curious, and I have not been able to find
a lot of resources that would allow me to know, because people just didn't keep records in the
same way that they do now, what crops could have been with cannabis aphid. Also, specifically in
North America, what is the earliest example of cannabis aphid in North American hemp, for
example? I certainly don't know. If it's a more recent event in the US or in North America,
generally, or if it's been around as a transient pest. Also, you have to consider that
people have been... Well, people were applying different kinds of pesticides than they were now.
That can have a major effect on the kind of pests that you used to never see before,
and not just in cannabis, but other crops. Now, we see them more often, because fortunately,
people are not using things like DDT. They're not using, for the most part, other sorts of
really noxious compounds as widespread. I think that can also account for a lot of the discrepancy,
especially recently. This is also what we see in other pests too. There's a precedent for that.
Wasn't it from hops? Matthew, I felt like there was some correlation also that it was found on
hops. Then, part of my observation, because I've been touching cannabis plants for quite a long
time now, and I've just watched this issue with the aphids, whether it's the bong hemp aphid or
the other aphids. I've seen it come over the past few years. It's gotten to that point where the
past few years, obviously, the Department of Agriculture putting out bulletins in Oregon,
at least. I know Colorado had similar. My understanding was that they were also
finding them overwintering. I talked to somebody at the Oregon Department of Agriculture,
that they were finding them overwintering in certain types of fruit trees, mainly like
my brain. Sorry, end of day Monday, my brain's like 80 places at once.
They were overwintering in the stone fruit trees. We in Southern Oregon have a lot of fruit orchards
and other things. I've been very suspect because it's like to watch the life cycle. You definitely
see. They're not overwintering. Winter, right now, I've been through multiple facilities over the
past few months. I haven't really been seeing any aphids anywhere. It's like they all of a sudden
come back with full vengeance, come midsummer. I'm fairly certain that they lay that very specific
type of egg. That's like the dark black one where it's like a different, because they don't normally
lay eggs. They lay live young, but then there's this weird. It's like weird phenomena. I've
noticed in Southern Oregon towards the end of the season when it's like they get out of control
at the end of the season. Then they take flight. Then it looks like they're overwintering somewhere,
for sure. It's not on cannabis plants is my assumption. I don't know. I'm just curious if
you could speak to any of those observations. Absolutely. I'll start with the eggs.
I didn't want to get super complicated. If you're curious on the Future Cannabis Project,
even with Chad Westport, we did two presentations on rice root aphids and also on cannabis aphids.
I go over some of this as well. If you want to learn more about that, you can check that out,
or on my YouTube channel as well. These two are also covered. Basically, and also aphids generally,
when they produce eggs, they usually start off as a white creamish color, and then they
darken over time because they're hardening, essentially. There's a melanization or something
like this. I don't actually know the compound in particular, but that's what happens is that
as they age, they get darker. That's just a natural matter of that process, basically.
With regards to overwintering on other plants, I actually wouldn't be surprised if this is the
case. I actually haven't heard of it personally. I'd love to hear more about it, or if anyone knows
of any resources, either academic or even if they're not published literature, I'm very curious
to hear these observations because insects are especially good at adapting to using
new situations. I could totally see how even if they can't use that plant as a host,
they could perhaps live in the trees. I know that I've talked about the damson hop aphid,
which is the close relative that does feed on hops, and they look very similar. In fact,
I think the only reliable way to tell the difference would be on host, which is why
it's frustrating to deal with certain insects. I don't know if that's true, but I think it's
true with certain insect pests because usually a lot of times they can be morphologically identical
because they're closely related. But the real difference is host plant preference,
and a few other things maybe, tergenomically.
Damson hop aphid can feed on hops, and it can feed on damson plum, and also some other plants.
When it is on the damson plum, interestingly enough, there's literature that shows that
it benefits from other aphids because those aphids, and I don't remember the name off the
top of my head, they'll produce what are called pseudogalls. When they feed on the plant,
they basically produce hormones, and maybe there are other compounds that have this sort of effect.
But essentially it produces, it creates the leaves, it makes the leaves curl in a way that
is almost vaguely geometric, this curling. What it does, it allows the aphids to feed on the plant
leaf pretty much without having certain predators get at them. It's not quite a gall,
which for those who are not familiar is a very sophisticated structure that various insects can
produce in plants. For aphids in particular, these are great because they're structures that are
meant to do what I just said, but more better. I wonder if we get cannabis aphid moving into
another plant because they do often overwinter as eggs, but in some rare cases,
I know that like the, I think the wheat aphid, which I'm forgetting the scientific name for,
I believe it's also known to overwinter as an adult sometimes as well.
They're really wicked. I will just say that whatever is happening, and I thought of you
a couple of different times because I've talked to Suzanne the bug lady about it a little bit.
What's happened here in Southern Oregon over the past few, it's pretty dramatic.
Also, we've had to learn all these different tactics to keep the, because obviously I've
had people calling me from indoor facilities and I know it's the same in Northern California,
where they just, I don't, I mean, it's pretty full blown.
It's fucking gnarly. Did she have an opinion about that?
She was wanting to ID deeper and I know that we've really worked hard to try and ID,
because I've definitely seen multiple different aphids and we've tried to get really clear on
which is the one that's predominantly the most, the biggest problem in Southern Oregon and
Northern California. Because like you said, they really do look so similar.
But I have a deeper question just because we're geeking out for a second on this. I really,
I don't, maybe we've discussed this before when you were in here, but I'm really curious because
I've also observed this levels of farness being raised. And I've also talked to other,
talked to scientists and other people about this is that we've seen like more production of this
terpene in cannabis over the last few years. And obviously they're testing for more terpene. So
there's also this theory that like, oh, it's just because they're testing for it. But I've really
seen the levels actually increase and see that show up. And like from, if you look at COAs from
one season and then you see them in another season where all of a sudden you're like, okay, well,
weird, this terpene is like coming through. And I definitely know from my observations that there's
certain cultivars that the aphids just don't like, you know, they really don't like, and they love
other things and who knows, you know, nuanced, you know, what's going on with the feeding
or different things as well. But I'm curious what your thoughts are on-
Can you quickly give examples of cultivars they don't like?
Black lime reserve, they don't care for at all. It's like just really some things that are
typically traditionally like very heavy in, you know, just heavier producing terpene plants, like
plants that I know for us will tend to have really high levels, like 5.75 terpenes in general. They
don't, they tend to be less obtrusive on cultivars that have really high terpene production from
my- and this is anecdotal also, but I know with certain things, like I felt like, and I don't know
if it's because they don't like plants that are, I don't know if you guys are familiar, but there's
certain cultivars that are just like they kind of drip, they're like drippy, or they tend to oxidize
quickly. But I just wanted to ask quickly with Matthew here, just because this is something
something that's like really puzzled me, and I may have already asked you this in the past, but
for me it's like the, and I don't know if the hump aphid does this, but it's the alarm pheromone
of, you know, a bunch of different aphid species I know have this, it's like the principal component
or something of the sequestered terpene farnesine is emitted by aphids when they're attacked by
enemies. And so I've been curious, like it just to me it just seems like like the plant's natural
you know, it's like that they are trying to avoid predators, and so if the plant is creating more of
the specific terpene that is the mirror of this alarm pheromone, and I'm just curious also because
I've been kind of fascinated by, you know, I'm fascinated by IPAM in general, and like
just all the different parts, whether it's biocontrols, or you know, I've recognized we
need like these three-pronged approaches, and I'm curious, you know, I know in other countries they
definitely use a lot more pheromone, I don't even know what to call it, like but they use pheromones
as a part of their, or fake pheromones as part of their IPM strategy. So I'm just curious, I know
that they've done white papers on peas with this specific topic, but I just feel like it's like we
need, like I would just so love to know more about, and I'm also curious about like breeding,
because it ties back to the breeders thing, like you know how we breed cultivars that are more
resistant, so I would just be curious what your thoughts are on that, anybody actually, Matthew
specifically. Well sure, I'll try to not bogart the response, that was a lot of, that was a few
really cool topics honestly, and so I'm gonna be, I'm gonna try to not get too excited to talk about
it, but basically I'm actually, I actually opened up my cannabis aphid video on my YouTube channel,
because I wanted to make sure I had a reference right, but basically, so I'll start off by saying
this, so yes aphids do use pheromones to find, well in the rare case you have males, that's one
example, but they also use their olfactory senses to find hosts as well, and oftentimes what we've
found is that insect sort of olfactory response to host plants is, it can be kind of stochastic,
it can be kind of wishy-washy, not really easy to predict, and I guess part of that has to do
with the fact that for some insects, actually the pheromones they produce, in addition to the
compounds, the volatiles that the plants that they're on their hosts are producing, will mix
essentially in the air, and that actually is a much stronger attractance than the pheromone or the
host plant compounds alone, and on top of that, when I say host plant compounds, that's very vague,
and different cultivars for example, like you mentioned, are going to produce different ones
at different rates, so in a lot of cases there's a question as to whether or not,
you know, there's this sort of volatility that's orchestrated by the plant and its
reaction to like various herbivores and pathogens and things like this, or it's a screaming cacophony
of scents, and basically like predators and parasitic wasps and things like this,
they can become desensitized to these compounds, right? It doesn't get talked often enough about,
but it's like reactions to things like scents and associations like that, a lot of that can be
instinctual, but it can also be somewhat learned, and certainly we've taught things like bumblebees
and honeybees and even paper wasps to react to certain compounds, some of them like TNT,
I believe is one of them actually, for bum sniffing, believe it or not, but also other
compounds too, and I guess the point I'm trying to make is that sometimes these responses are not
what we expect them to be, and that's because, you know, they might have originally started
with an attraction to these compounds that might be more instinctual, but over time as they hunt
for food, those compounds might actually prove in their specific location to not be really great
indicators of food or whatever, whatever they're trying to look for, what they associate it with,
and so they develop, you know, Pavlonian responses to new compounds and things like that in nature,
or at least they seem to have the plasticity to allow for this sort of change, and a lot of the
experimental examples like with aphid parasitoids. You said E-beta-farnesine, right?
I think that you did, but let me know if you did not.
Yeah, sorry, I walked away from my phone like right that second.
Totally.
That's okay. Yeah, so I believe I have, so here on my video,
so this is from a paper called the Use of Metabolomics to Elucidate Resistance Markers
Against Damson Hop Aphid. In my Fordon Cannabis video, I talk a lot about the Damson Hop Aphid
because we don't have a lot of research on the cannabis aphid in 2019, and also for that matter,
now in 2022, but they say here that the sesquiterpenes E. muroline germicrine D
drive the separate clustering of the resistance genotypes in hop to the hop aphid,
so that could be useful to us. Germicrine D was strongly correlated with aphid resistance.
Kralj and others recognized three markers correlating with hop resistance to aphids,
where two compounds were positively annotated as alpha and beta-pinene. That's very common
in various cannabis groups, cannabis cultivars. They go on to say that lupulin and lupulin-like
compounds that seem to drive the separation of the very susceptible genotypes, a high beta acid
content in hop leaves has been reported to be a good indicator for aphid susceptibility,
and I don't know to what degree beta acids are in the constituency of cannabis, so that's
something somebody would have to find out or tell me. They also go on at the very end to say,
these components of the beta acid family of leaf-specific bitter acids have repellent and
oviposition-deferring effects. Is that deferring or deterring? Deterring effects on two-spot
spider mites, like Tetranichus hirtici, which is another well-known pest of hops. So there is
definitely a reaction between the compounds that cannabis can produce and other sort of relatives
can produce that can be negatively associated with the aphids. Somebody in chat also reminded me that
I can't believe I forgot to say it. Not only are aphid nymphs born pregnant, or I'm sorry,
born live birth, but they're also born pregnant. I said it already. So,
and a lot of times that actual nymph is born pregnant with offspring that are also born
pregnant. So we call those telescoping generations, and it's one of the keys to aphid success.
They do produce alarm compounds when they're fed on. So you have to remember that aphids are kind
of like, you might want to consider them like micro bugs. They actually reproduce and they
make a ton of them. So they're not just aphids, they're actually aphids. So they're actually
reproduced and they make a ton of themselves. And so they have adaptations that might allow
individuals to be killed, but their sisters that share their genome are also able to continue on.
So a lot of, and I don't know the case for cannabis aphid, but like examples include just
regular alarm pheromones that can be unique to certain species that just tell them to drop off
the plant basically. And that's their reaction is that they'll move away or they'll literally
just drop off the plant and try to find another plant. Other compounds that are produced, and
these are usually in those sort of what people like to call tailpipes, the cornicoles or cypherncoles.
Aphids can also produce a defensive compound that might like gum up the mandibles of like a lady
beetle larva or a late, or not so much a late spring larva, but maybe like a hoverfly larva,
for example, and kill the predator. The one that produces the compound probably dies in the process,
but the entire colony survives. Whereas if that didn't happen, the predator might've eaten the
whole colony because they're pretty voracious. They can feed on dozens of aphids. So that's
just an example since we're geeking out about their physiology.
And I had one other thing regarding what you had said.
The damson hop aphid seems to respond to, as for pheromones anyways,
nepetalactone, nepetalactone, oh, a different nepetalactone compound. And okay. Yeah. So
nepetalactone and nepetalactone, which I don't know too much about these compounds, although I
do think that a lot of insects react to it. And I think it is also produced by certain plants.
So yeah, that's the extent of my quick reference for pheromones and volatiles and aphid resistance
and things associated with that. But to be honest, aphids are really good at detoxifying those
compounds. So I think the main defense of the cannabis plant to aphids in particular,
isn't so much like the production of these terpenes and other compounds like that,
that are going to be toxic. It's probably as a signal of communication, I would say.
And also perhaps just like the trichomes themselves, although we don't want this to happen,
just physically gluing onto the aphid and preventing it from moving and it dies there.
We don't want that in our bud, but that definitely helps the insect.
I really appreciate you going into detail on that because in my personal opinion,
this is one of the biggest challenges that we're going to face. I mean, I just,
and I would be curious, I mean, it's just like there's so many multi-layered issues
when a pest like this becomes, and when you're monocropping something,
which we are doing, I don't care how regenerative you are, we're still monocropping
across the board here. And I've never seen, I mean, I have all the nemesis, I've dealt with
thrips and I've dealt with two-spotted and I've dealt with, I mean, I've dealt with everything
across the board. And there are certain things I just think are way more, what is the word?
I mean, I just see that it's a huge, it's going to cause economic loss at some point. And
I see the different varying degrees, I mean, where it's like, to me, the two biggest pest
problems for cannabis, and I could be wrong, but I think that russets or broad mites
and aphids are potentially our biggest problem. And I would say, obviously, there's a whole
slew of other things, depending on what sort of cultivation you're doing, like some phylums,
and there's so many other things, but it's like, when you're talking about crop loss,
those are the things to me that seem like a very prevalent problem that seems to be getting worse.
And that's what I've seen with the aphids over the past few years. It seems to be getting worse,
people have issues with resistance, people don't treat early enough, and it just seems to keep
spreading. And I've joked, I'm like, there's like, literally, like, I know farms, I'm like,
oh, it's usually breeding them, basically, you know, and just the problem keeps going. So I don't
know, I just think into the future. And I've seen that with hoverflies, too. I've seen hoverflies.
I've seen, I've had so many calls over the past few years from friends in Northern California,
and all around Southern Oregon of people freaking out because the hoverfly larva,
like overwinter, and they overwinter in flower, in the cannabis flower, and it's just like,
what is this? You know, you're like, oh, it's a hoverfly larva. It's cute, but nobody really
wants it in their, you know, cannabis. So I just, I personally think this is a huge issue that we're
barely just kind of touching the ice. It's like the tip of the iceberg, basically, my opinion.
No, between aphids and hoplita, and it's like, it's not even fun anymore. It's like, Jesus Christ,
you know? Yeah, I mean, like, for example, with the aphids, I feel like they're a major issue.
In my experience, it's just like, kind of get even just like getting into the flower,
not so much like stunting the growth as much, though that can happen. But like getting into
the flower and just being kind of like obnoxious in this way, and kind of like hoverfly larvae,
like you say, they'll pupate, you know, they'll spin a cocoon kind of in the flower, and then,
you know, people will take their butt out. I guess it's missing quality control.
And sometimes there's a hoverfly adult in the jar, you know? I've definitely seen that. I've
had several people come to me first as cultivators and being like, what's this caterpillar? Should I
kill it? And saying, no, no, no, don't. It's going to kill a bunch of those aphids that you
may or may not have nearby. But on top of that, as pupae, or puparia, if I want to be technical,
in the flowers. And that's, you know, I'm not squeamish about it, but I'm super biased. I'm
not representative of most people. I guess, I have heard some people say like, you know, oh,
well, at least I knew it was organic, or at least I knew it wasn't spread with something super
noxious like malathion, which I guess is true. But yeah, I mean, it's not my preference either.
Oh, but I was going to make a point, a larger point, but you're right. Some of these pests are
actually sort of destructive in like a very egregious way. I feel like these aphids are
kind of less so. They're problematic for not destructive ways, but like sort of obnoxiously
fouling the plant. But like, hemp racemite is like super destructive. Budworm moth larvae are
super destructive. Hemp borer is super destructive. Brodmites, I would say, are super destructive.
And that's just the arthropods, right? That's not counting the pathogens that like get into your
system systemically and choke off the nutrient movement or the water movement.
It's very hard to come back from that kind of a thing.
I've seen that also. I mean, there's a few things. That's why I kind of feel like the focus on
destruction, but also like when you really look at it, if you have somebody dealing with aphids
in flower, I mean, it really is destructive because A, they're defecating in the flower,
they're like sticking to the bud. There's like their little exoskeletons or whatever. I mean,
it's like the layers. And then if you're using something like the parasitic wasps and these
other things, it just becomes like, I don't really know. I've just seen it go awry. I mean,
Amy and I just PTR'd for like, there's a photo of just one of the field walks I did this year
at a friend's facility. And it was just, it was like insane to see so many. And it was cool also
to see the population of lacewings. I've definitely seen like certain things kind of ramp up like the
hoverflies. Some things just naturally are kind of coming in too. I've never seen so many ladybugs
and I don't even know, I'm not trying to like ID, but I literally, I mean, they're just showing up
in full force, which is kind of crazy to observe, but also you're seeing that these people,
it's affecting multiple levels of cultivation. It's affecting greenhouse. People are having
major issues with aphids indoors in facilities, which is crazy to think. And it's not just,
this is not just outdoor cultivation where it's a problem. But I wanted to say too that
the other thing that I've seen cause massive loss is I've seen caterpillars and I'm not sure,
I don't remember the exact, my brain isn't there, but the exact type of caterpillars, but I have
seen people really have a hard time when they didn't treat preemptively because they show up
almost every year in outdoor and greenhouse cultivation in Northern California and
Southern Oregon. And they show up with a vengeance and people, I've heard people say,
oh, they're not really going to make that big of a deal or they don't make impact. But when you see
it's gone awry, they definitely can cause massive crop loss for people. I mean,
you see it in corn and other things and you can see it in cannabis as well.
So I think that maybe, I think that's the part where I really appreciate you too, Matthew,
because there's some of this stuff, I feel like it's not about, it's not a competition.
It's like, this is the same with the hopsite and viroid. Like these are things that as a community,
we need to come up with really good solutions for, really know what products worked, really know what
kind of three-pronged approach should be used because like I'm talking to all my neighbors.
I want to know what, and the same with other facilities and especially having nursery practices,
like you really, I think sharing information open source is really how we're going to
kind of stay on top of this. Otherwise these things could become like really, I don't know
what the right word is when it's like such a bad pest issue or virus issue, but it's like an
epidemic or something that's crazy. There's a lot of crossover with epidemiology. I really
appreciate this. It means a lot to hear that as somebody who grew up loving something as weird
as like bugs and plants and that kind of stuff. And I'm glad that that sort of specialized knowledge
is getting expanded and a lot of people are hearing it. And honestly, I really resent when
people try to like put that information through a paywall. Certainly I do this professionally
and so I do make money this way as well, but I consider it like a duty, like a biosecurity duty.
To like have this information, it's like it would be as if like telling people that basic hygiene,
like not letting people know how to, you know what I mean? It's just so, it's so bad for us to not
know like what pests are. And it's been my professional and personal experience that
maybe perhaps like, I'm not sure if it was Eric or Johnny or London or whomever was talking about how
like in the past you were able to get away with maybe a lot more of certain things that
nowadays are going to kill your growth. And I think this is a good example of that.
Where, but I also see it nowadays too, where people like, they don't even think about,
well, what if something goes wrong, whether it's with their reservoir, whether with their irrigation
or their land or their taxes or something. But also like, you know, they don't even consider
the possibility that it might get swarmed with pests. Oh, we'll be okay. And then it's not.
And then it's not in a very huge way. Totally. I love that you're saying the
biosecurity thing, because actually that's, that's kind of to me where I look at it. And I think that
I know for me in the past, like six years, I think I've given out, like had more emergency
calls from friends or people or other people. And like, it's about pests that it really is like
biosecurity issue. And maybe that's kind of what we were like, okay, we need to have like
an open source discussion periodically. And I feel like it's just one of those things like the,
you know, we do for each other within the cannabis community because we care
on a deeper level. But I like that circle the wagons and talk biosecurity.
I think that's the reality of what we're doing.
I think for so long, it was like, what's your tech? Like what, what amendments do you use? And
how, how many years is your soil, you know, not tilled or what's your kind of tricks of the trade?
But now I think it's coming to a point of like, well, how are you controlling the pests? And
that's becoming even more important than how you grow your herb, you know, because it's like,
you know, because it's like, yeah, I mean, there's a million ways to grow herb and
different amendments and this and that, but like, how you controlling the pests,
how you keeping them out of your grow, because if you don't, you're not going to have any herb. I
mean, it won't matter how you grew your herb, you know, that's not going to matter in the end.
There is no margin for error anymore with the way that the market is and with the how competitive
everything is, is what I've been telling people, you know, I think I've said that, I don't know,
dozens of times over the past few weeks, because we really are getting to that place where, you
know, the margins are too slim anymore. And we can't afford to, there's no, because I mean,
and it's agriculture, and there's always going to be issues are going to come up, things are going
to happen, tech's going to change, things are going to wrap around, and you always have new
issues to deal with. But at the end of the day, it's like to have a positive solution oriented
kind of community perspective. Because if we care, like I care about cultivators in other areas,
because if something becomes a massive problem, and you're monocropping, like we're seeing with
the hop, slate and thyroid, then, you know, then then it extends out in ways that can really cause
massive damage. But it's ultimately like protecting the plant, I think, also, as well as
like the bottom line, I think that there's some sort of due diligence that we have,
working with cannabis to like, make sure that we're not creating bigger problems down the line.
This is probably a good time to mention that I probably will have to go in 10 minutes.
So if there's like a rapid fire lightning round of questions, and I'll promise to try to keep it
brief. I always say that, but I'm really going to try this time. I'd happy to go through that. And
I also wanted to say that I'm working on a basically a workshop with Russell, Russell
Pace from Cannabis Horticultural Association. We're going to hopefully do sort of a holistic IPM,
sort of permaculture styled, sort of workshop, focusing on techniques that are sort of practical
for people to use, and are kind of empirically backed, that can help people sort of facilitate
and synergize with insects, and that sort of a thing. So I'm working on that. And if you're
interested in these topics, I'd love to hear more about what people are interested in, so that it
would be more useful. I can roll. Shout out to the room, shout out to the panel. I practice K&F,
natural farming practices and fermentations. And one of the things that excite me the most,
aside from that, is biochar. And wood vinegar is like a really excellent, in my opinion,
I think it's foolproof, a pesticide. It's a herbicide, pesticide, fungicide,
in three different dilutions, as well as a fertilizer. And it's a byproduct of making
charcoal. So I definitely urge everyone and yeah, suggest looking into that.
You're fullering that onto your plants? You're spraying that vinegar,
biochar on your plants? Just curious.
The charcoal will work as kind of like a host for microbes, and food, and micronutrients,
as well as macro. And you'll notice a growth rate going twice as big, twice as fast with the charcoal
once it's charged and activated with your fertilizer. But the wood vinegar, I notice
you can do a foliar, you can run it straight into the lines. And it's so naturally potent that
I think just running it through the lines would remediate any pest issue from the inside out. But
if you do foliar, definitely would suggest using some sort of carrier oil like neem,
just so it, you don't really need to apply it one time. And then it's like a one and done type
of thing. That's why I really love it. You really stop playing around with,
like I don't like putting oils on my plants personally. So this is a really good alternative.
Alternative. But yeah, check it out. It's called wood vinegar. The scientific name is pyrolignia
acid. And it's, again, it's a byproduct of making charcoal. So it's very, very economical.
Sounds rad. The only reason why I ask is because after regenerative conference, we went over
to Joey's place. That was like a month ago in January. And this guy had a little booth. No,
he was just like, this is my K&F flower, or natural. And I remember them saying they use
vinegar a lot in K&F. And so I opened the jar and I smell this flower and I shit you not,
the weed smelled like vinegar. And I'm really sensitive. So like a lot of times I can smell
fish if people overdo fish and their flower or whatever. Like I can smell it in the flower.
And I fucking I tell you, bro, I, it was like, I was like, Oh my god. And then I opened another jar,
and it was vinegar and then another cultivar and I could like smell vinegar. So when you said,
use vinegar wood and I was like, Are you for in that? Like I was like, Oh, and yeah, so I'm sure
like you said one and done and potentially just in veg, I assume you don't want to be spraying
that in flower. Correct. You know, it's funny is that's, that's true. In K&F, they use a lot of
brown rice vinegar to extract calcium and stuff. So I don't know, maybe they use vinegar in that
jar. But this kind of vinegar isn't necessarily like the traditional understanding of vinegar,
right? Like this is literally liquid smoke. It's just cooling down the chimney and condensing the
smoke into liquid. That's all it is. So you get different properties, you get different
efficacies of, of wood vinegar, or liquid smoke or pyrolignin, assassin, whatever you want to call
it. But yeah, essentially, is you just kink the chimney of your rocket stove when you're making
your charcoal, which is high heat, low oxygen, right? And you cool down that, that chimney,
you put a little chink in it, and then the liquid that drips out, that's your wood vinegar. And
it's incredible. Like I first had to use it for chicken mites, when we had like 30 chickens,
and that's what convinced me like, oh, shit, this is definitely gonna work
on plants, food and cannabis. But yeah, no, there, this is, it definitely does not
smell like vinegar. It just smells like a campfire.
Cool. Sounds epic.
Cool. Real quick, while we still have Matthew on, does anybody have any questions up here or in
the audience or in chat or over on YouTube? I don't have YouTube up in front of me. But if
we can get some questions directed towards Matthew, while he's still with us, that'd be dope.
Earlier, somebody asked in the YouTube chat about thrips.
So basically, I just wanted to say very briefly that just like, actually, they're very closely
related taxonomically, but thrips are kind of like aphids in that they easily move on the air,
they easily move in cuttings to other places because they're so small. And they like to
oftentimes sort of like get into like little nooks and crannies in a plant. So it can be very kind of
challenging to kind of just do a once over, take a look and miss them. It's actually easy to do that.
And usually people are encountering the Western flower thrips, which is also
the most common thrips species generally in crop plants. And the way that you get rid of them,
my favorite way is usually with predatory mites like Swarovski or Cucumrus, which are
also predators of other pests like white flies, and I would say thrips. And they also go after
broad mites and russet mites. So I like to use them, they don't get every single pest,
they won't kill everything, but they'll go after a lot of bevy of pests that are pretty common in
Canada. So I just want to answer that one. Yeah, I'd be curious, your approach there,
because thrips have historically been one of my nemesis, and especially because it was a breeding
thing like they eat pollen. So I've noticed that when there's like larger scale breeding projects,
I noticed that thrips are usually the first one to the table. And I've always like, I've struggled
just because of the complex life cycle to just use beneficials when it comes to or like predatory
mites when it comes to their crazy complex life cycle. I was actually thinking too, I have,
Jason, do you feel like you need to, Matthew, use other like approaches in there? Or do you feel
like you can just clear it? Like say if something was like pretty extreme, do you feel like you can
just clear it up with that? Like, even if you can't get all of them, you can clear it up decently?
I will say that every context is different. But in my experience, I find that those, so like,
it's a resource question too, right? Because some people can't, for understandable reasons,
home grow or commercial grow just not afford the predatory mite application. So I would say that
in my experience, it has been very useful to use them. And I've been able to clear up thrips
completely in various crops, cannabis and also other crops with the cocoon or mites, for example.
If the population is really egregious though, I generally like, and I've actually gone from just
straight biocontrols to like, you know, having like, I mean, in some cases we were sampling like
10, 15, or even 20 per plant in a sampling like five leaves or so in a random sampling,
eight acres, something like that. It was pretty bad in some of these plants. And we used just
cocoon risks and we applied them for multiple weeks though, right? And it was effective. So
in my ideal situation, you would be able to knock down with another, like a compound,
like maybe pyrethrin, especially if you're in veg or something like azadirachtin also,
not in flower, or even something like wettable sulfur, which I have friends on the Cheap Home
Grow podcast that like Spartan Grown, for those who know him, he loves to use wettable sulfur
sort of in that framework. And then sort of come afterwards, like maybe two to three days,
if you can sort of logistically line it up well, which you can't always do,
so you can apply it. And then like three or four days later, you have the mites shipped to you and
land at your door, and then you're able to apply them. And the frequency and rate will depend
on what you're seeing, because the second question everyone asks me after that is,
well, how long do you have to use them? Well, it depends on what you see in your crop.
As you're crop scouting, you have to pay attention to what you're seeing and if the populations are
higher or lower than what you were recording earlier. And a lot of people just eyeball it,
I understand that. But if you actually do take like numbers and data, if you're doing this
commercially, for example, then that's going to be very key, because that will actually tell you
efficacy, or at least let you gauge it in some way. And I find that oftentimes for really large
populations, like I was saying earlier, you might have to apply maybe 300 to 400 per square meter.
And I find that to be super effective also for even other pests like russet mites and broad
mites. And sometimes you have to apply these two to three weeks. And that's my question.
I'm going to have to get going. Really appreciate you being on here.
Are you going to the BioControls conference? Because it's like one of my second or it's like
the next couple of days. It's such an awesome conference. I don't know if anybody here is going,
but are you going?
I've been to BioControls. I've been to BioControls West a few times, but I won't be going this week,
or at least I don't plan to. That might change, but I probably won't be there.
It's such a great conference. If anybody out there is going, it would be nice to,
because it's always like new tech and BioControls and biostimulants. It's
always really interesting stuff. A lot of great people there. So good. Well,
thanks for sharing, Nath. You really appreciate your time and your wisdom.
Excited to see what comes next with your permaculture style, like incorporation.
Thanks so much.
Yeah. Thank you for coming on, Matthew. It was a really great show with all of your insights,
and I appreciate it. And yeah, we'll definitely follow up on the upcoming event that you and
Russell are planning too. So everyone stay tuned. I know Russell is in touch with Peter, and so
we will probably have some sort of video feed here on FCP from the conference for whenever it gets
finalized. I know Russell's reached out to me too about it. So I look forward to actually doing that
sometime in April. Yeah. I think we may do it down here in SoCal. That was kind of the last
conversation I had with him. Yep. That's what he had mentioned to me too. And I said I was down to
make the journey down south. Yeah. Hopefully I can lock in the greenhouse before then. But
quick question, Avianne. In the nursery world, this season, 2022, what cultivars are you
kind of predicting are going to, or are you guys working with for the commercial market?
And what trends are you seeing this year versus last year?
Funny you should ask. That's actually what I'm doing for the nursery up here right now. As I
was just sitting here, I was actually looking for the nursery list. I'm seeing the same trends. I
actually really, I'm seeing this kind of, I'm not going to say it's annoying because I got it,
but I definitely feel like everybody just is still stuck in this purple, gassy, candy gas
reality with all of this kind of hype, genetic, wrapper weed, exotic thing. And that's just kind
of what everybody wants. And it's a little bit frustrating to be honest. I was joking that we
need to start a campaign that's like, make cannabis green again, or make weed green again.
Because it's like, it's why, I don't know why we tend to go down this funnel as a community where
everybody just wants this one specific thing. So I'm feeling a little bit frustrated with that.
And I feel like there's, I feel like at the end of the day, that the consumers really are the
people who's missing out. Honestly, I feel like it's, cannabis offers such an incredible amount
of diversity and there's all these incredible breeders and everybody's doing amazing work with
these lines. But when it comes to sales, it's just this kind of like a very narrow trough that we're
all required to fit through. And I think that this, honestly, I think should be a very much
wider conversation with consumers. And same with the fact that, you know, the market's flooded in
California and other places and that that is not reflected back to the consumer. I think people
should be outraged personally. So kind of a sensitive topic for me. But so we have a lot
of tried and true things this year. We have things that we've bred, but we also have a lot of tried
and true. So, you know, for me, it's like about tasting the rainbow. So curating, and I think I
have a lot of respect for other people in the nursery space too. People are trying to curate,
you know, clean genetics that are clean of pests, clean of hop, slate, and virae, you know, just in
general, clean things, but also what people want. So a lot of tried and true, and then also a lot of
kind of newer flavors. I know that I feel like some of the tried and true stuff actually fell
off this year. And that's what I'm looking at my little list right now. I mean, there's new things
on the list, like there's, you know, the pancakes and the apple fritters, some Skittles, and there's
like a lot of the newer flavors and cereal milk and all the typical gelato things. And, you know,
and then I think when we're looking out this menu for the year, it's kind of a little bit of,
you know, an erring towards what buyers want, unfortunately. So there's some newer things too,
like there's truffle cake and truffle shuffle, things that we've bred. And then there's also
just a lot of, you know, we have different breeder's cuts, like Sunday driver, same,
same, same, but it's like I've noticing like cuts being replaced of things that we've run for years.
So it's like different, slightly different, better cuts of wedding cake. And it's very hard to tell.
I mean, that's part of the work with the Ethical Data Alliance too, is like, you know, we've run
like so many different cuts of wedding cake over the years. And then suddenly there's like the
gassier wedding cake shows up that hits all the marks, but it's definitely clearly not the same
cut as previous. And so who knows anymore, honestly, like I try to keep it as true with
the breeders. But things I'm excited about, I like the peach cobbler this year. I actually like the
pancake and I actually like the apple for time skittles currently. And I like the, the jealousy
and the jokers right now also, and you know, mimosas and there's all the usual stuff, but I
just feel like we're, I don't know, it's like such a complex conversation around genetics and I wish
it wasn't so hype driven, honestly, at the end of the day, but yeah, I'm staring at like this
massive list of things, but not like over, you know, I'm excited about stuff, but I feel like
I would be way more excited if people actually wanted to buy, like, there's not a single mixed
ratio thing on the nursery because nobody wants to buy it in the nursery right now. But the end,
the end of the day, the person that misses out is the consumer at the tail end that like needs that
medicine, you know, and I think that I'd love to see us air back. I know that we have a few things
on here that we personally love as medicine, you know, like we grew up blue dream still,
because we like it as medicine. We think it's great. So I don't know. I mean, I could run down
a whole list here for you guys. But those are just some things that are like, I actually give away a
blue dream. And like a love laughter blue dream cross. And I'm always like wondering what the
reaction is going to be when people open up that and see what they got. Like some things become a
joke, right? Like it's like some things kind of become a joke in the space. And I just had some
really I mean, it's like I wish I had more I had we have we breed our own genetics. And then we also
have like amazing breeders. But like to run selection to get the next thing is like super
expensive also when you're like at production scale. So I would love to run that like what
you just said that sounds awesome. And then it's like how that sounds really special lavender love
bomb and we dream. Yeah, like how do we how do we get back to like what really matters here and
away from, you know, just like running the things or offering the things that we know that the buyers
want. So pretty deep. I mean, I think that making more time for selection and making more space for
selection is kind of key for us. And then creating our own hype as a breeder community around what
is the thing that people you know, getting people to want the new thing, especially the buyers.
Because yeah, I'd be curious like what other people are doing in their nursery space this year.
Yeah, I'm excited about some of these things. But I'm more excited about the selection and the
phenol hunting. I want I want some of that Peter, can you send some of that over? Because that
sounds like my flavor. I like things that are like tastes like violets and lavender and magic.
Bring back the unicorns.
Well, I think the love laughter I think is from heart rock, right?
I think so. Yeah.
That's a high CBD strain to if I'm not mistaken. Right?
Yeah, I feel like I have I feel a little bummed like the past couple of years and I would be
curious what other people who run for production are feeling like, you know, like our go GDC.
We've won multiple cups with that. But like every year over the past few years, because
we've just scaled back on and we have all of these amazing mixed ratio cultivars.
But I feel like I mean, I know for me, that's the medicine I love personally. And it's what
I would introduce like somebody who's gonna smoke cannabis for the first time, I would be way more
apt to invite them to try a mixed ratio cultivar or something along those lines. But that, you know,
it's just, it's not people want high THC and they want like this, what I'm observing, and I'd be
very curious what your all of your perceptions are, is that people want things that, you know,
have that exotic cleaning, genetic kind of story with them and that they look like
blingy candy. And they, you know, it's like this one kind of flavor profile that people
are looking for right now, which is kind of like this gas driven fuel driven.
But it has to look a certain way it has to be tinged with a certain sort of purple.
And, you know, I think just recently, Berner did like his, he threw out all the genetics that
they're about to put into the new stores, and they all looked almost exactly identical, and
none of them were green. I'm like, how is this where we ended up? It just is really baffling to
me. I think, you know, I think it's actually a deeper conversation, maybe we could have a
future cannabis conversation about like the trends and predictions for this year.
And, and how we can start to take control back of the market, you know, so that the breeders
can really like showcase their art. I don't know, Trevor, anybody else, your thoughts on that topic?
Trevor I think the industry is leaning, I know that the industry is leaning way more heavily
towards the homegrower now, as much as the smoker, as much as the patient. And I think that's not
something to be taken lightly. We were watching us come out of a two year, shutdown, quarantine,
pandemic, what have you. And as Target opens up and Starbucks opens up the mindset of the culture
has to open up too. And with more events, more cups, more expos, all that, those are more meaningful
than ever. And we should really lean into it being like culture centered, like with, you know, pop-up
chefs and local artists, local musicians, and make it like a real relaxing vibe and not like this DMV
dispensary vibe, because that's pretty much the culture we're fighting. And I see, you know,
Jungle Boys, for good, for better, for worse, whatever you feel about them as a business,
they really show showcase how a small homegrower can be their own vertical. So if you focus on
getting your mixed strain ratio of like one-to-one CBD to THC, and then your
fuel-heavy OG kush, if everybody just focused on that, you'll find your own crazy coconut honey
Fino just, you know, supplying the demand that everybody's asking for and still not neglecting
your own flagship. But yeah, that's my two cents on it all.
I appreciate those thoughts because, you know, somewhere in the data analytics recently,
it showed that the home growers were actually some of the best buyers, actually, because they're out
and they're wanting to try and explore and experiment and learn more. And I really, I wish
that we could help change some of the legislative piece. And I'm realizing more and more that we
kind of have to lobby to create more of that farmers market, kind of more friendly, open
environment. And I really think that we have to change this model because otherwise it becomes
like the Convenience Store Association of America is kind of like an Amazon. And like, we're handing
it over in this way where I think that there really is something to be said about the craft
and people who have been doing this and like the legacy of the legacy work of people who have like
had to see their lifestyle and it's been passed off in a different way. And I think that the
consumer needs to figure out that it's not just, you know, it's really going to make a huge
difference if you buy something from somebody that actually really cares and, you know, cares
about their growing practices, cares about the earth and they're not just like, you know, monocropping.
And I mean, it's just very different. Like I know for me, I don't want to smoke something that's like
mass produced in like this, you know, super sterile environment without a lot of TLC and care.
And not to say that there aren't some facilities that are doing really good TLC and care and doing,
you know, living soil at scale and all these different things. But I just feel like, yeah,
we really need to kind of, I think it's like now's our time to make that stand.
But at the end of the day, I do have concerns around, you know, if the buyers actually are
getting that memo or how it really kind of trickles down to the end consumer.
We need to stop working so hard and being so hard on ourselves. We just need like a film festival,
you know, like Sundance. Like we need some shit like that, Kraken.
We need fun back. We need fun back.
Yeah, we need to reopen fun and cultivate more fun cultivars and keep it simple. Like,
you know, what's the perfect example is the alcohol industry. You just need to copy them.
Like everything, beer, wine, you know, it's that simple.
Well, it's definitely what we had going on. I think it was last week or the week before,
I can't remember in Southern Humboldt. You know, I mean, we drove five hours, four hours, Eric and I,
because we know, you know, we know it's going to be fun. We know there's going to be-
Joey, congrats to you guys. That sounds like a real successful hang.
What if we could get that for the masses? I mean, like-
Oh, that should be monthly. Are you kidding me?
The farmer's market. Like you go to the farmer's market and the farmer like goes,
here, try this strawberry. You try the strawberry and then you end up going, oh my God, I want
four packs of that strawberry to take home because I'm going to give it to my parents. I'm going to
give it to my kids and we're going to make smoothies out of it. It's like, I got to have
those strawberries. And then every Sunday or whenever your farmer's market is, you go back
just to get those strawberries. Like, I'm not going back to the store. I can't eat those plastic
strawberries anymore. You know what I mean? It's like a barber. Like that hits your hair perfect.
You're not going back to Fantastic Sam's now. Hopefully we get there, you know, hopefully
there's enough people that care and fight for that. I mean, I don't want to be a pessimist.
We were there. We were there two years ago. They disrupted the momentum. You know, we built that
momentum up. That was a lot of momentum we built, you know, to get to this point where we're talking
today. Like two years ago, nobody would talk like this freely, like without being too paranoid about
their growth and getting busted and blah, blah, blah. So it's like we do need to just give ourselves
credit where credit's due and keep pushing because we're doing the right thing. We're definitely
doing the right thing. You know, I was going to say one other thing is I was tied to the
Farmers Guild in Sonoma County. Shout out to the Farmers Guild. And it's real easy for people to
get in, like, kind of create a farming community with the Farmers Guild, which is a non-profit.
And they would host a once a month potluck and have different chapters throughout the county.
And every time I go, I'd meet somebody new.
Just hear like this priceless, like,
legacy farmer story of like a farm that's been in someone's family for generations. But they usually
have like a dry erase board that says, I have and I need two different dry erase boards. And
people will list, you know, an excess of property, acreage they're going to lease out.
Maybe a rental unit of a house that's they're either selling or renting, extra sheep, extra
eggs, job offers. So it's like, imagine that with cannabis, you know, or both. You know, that's
really the goal, right? Is to blur the whole stigma of food agriculture and cannabis agriculture and
food agriculture and cannabis agriculture and starting to see it as a symbiotic relationship
more than a political, you know, stance. And that's where, you know, I really feel like we're
crossing over because for the longest time, the Farmers Guild would only be about food,
but now I'm seeing them list things about cannabis. So it's really as fast as we organize,
like these events or these communal events. I'm seeing so I'm in I'm in Central California,
Monterey. And I'm gonna sign a lease, a one year lease next week. But I'm very motivated
to host some things at local breweries. Try to do like a once a month,
Central California, like Monterey chapter, where we do like a potluck once a month.
So if anybody's interested, please hit me up with that.
Johnny, what are you running? Or are you excited about anything right now?
If you're still there, but Peter, also, I'm curious about other things that you're doing
with interested, like, I always want to know what people's favorites are to like,
what we wish we thought could be more of. Johnny, are you are you at MIA?
Yeah, sorry, I was just putting some wood on the stove. Can you can you ask what you were asking
again? I was just curious what genetics kind of like what Peter was asking before, like it,
what things that you're planning on running this year? And if you're, you know, doing more selection
or what you're looking at? Yeah, so kind of like what I am thinking is I want to be going for
a things that make good solventless hash that have like decent yields, that's going to be like
a major factor in in the selection that I'm picking. But at the same time, with the just
abundance of everything like I have a feeling that the solventless hash market is about to
fall out in the near future, too. I think there's going to be a major oversupply.
Spill from this year, and it's going to be sitting on the market, you know, for a while.
So I'm kind of hesitant to just like, yeah, go all in. Yeah, everybody's washing everything.
And next year, it's going to be even crazier. I think I think that's going to be a plan that
a lot of people are going to be trying to execute. So I'm not really necessarily going for
like just straight high yield. I obviously it's going to be a factor, but I'm interested in more
like unique terpene profiles, high terpene concentrations, as well as like a modest,
like at least a modest, like decent yield. So I really, really loved the jelly rancher cultivar
that I ran last year. It made an excellent solventless. The rosin tested at like 8% terpenes.
So yeah, I'm really stoked on that. It was it finished early, which is something, you know,
that's going to be something I'm also mindful of. Last year, I didn't really have choice on the
genetics. And also I hadn't farmed in this particular location before. And after a season
of seeing kind of how the weather plays out, I'm going to be definitely going for
a lot more earlier finishing varieties because yeah, we get pretty, it gets pretty humid
there. I'm a little closer to the coast and a little high, more north than I'm, than I'm used
to farming. So yeah, we're, we're going to be going for mold and powder mildew resistant varieties
and stuff that finishes relatively early and things that have a unique terpene profile because
the GMO, you know, flood of rosin, I feel like we're, we're not seeing it yet, but it's going to
be, it's going to be pretty ridiculous. I think there's going to be a lot of stuff that people
are like, Oh, this washed at 6% or whatever. And it's like, yeah, cool. But there's now how much
of it is there on the market? Like, you know, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of kilos that
are just not going to have a place to go no matter how low the price goes. Just like, just like
flour, you know, it's like, it doesn't matter if you're like, Oh, I'll give these to you for 50
bucks. Sometimes people will be like, Nope, like not interested. We're loaded up. So yeah, that's
right there. That's the conversation that people need to be having right now is like, that it's,
it doesn't matter how good something is. It doesn't matter how low the price is. It's just
like, it's, we're getting to that kind of weird salemate zone, where it's like, try to be positive.
And also, I think you're totally right with the solventless thing. And I think quicks are,
I've been kind of fascinated by quicks. And I'm always I chose a lot of things last year that were
on that quick tip. And I think that there's some really cool stuff. And people have been doing some
like major headway breeding with like the fast track kind of cultivars. And I think some of them
would probably be really good. There's a couple things we've got back channel you I think might
be good for that growing area. But obviously, you would need to do some more selection on them. But
I'm excited for quicks. But I you know, it concerns me with the market is like just what
you just said with the you know, it's like everybody has those same ideas, forward thinking
and the solventless thing I think is, we've seen it with flour and now we're seeing it like there's
still, you know, like every solventless producer I know right now is just like so stocked on product
and on material. So it's a very weird equation, weird times to be in. So I think really finding
the best thing for what you're growing is probably if that's your goal. Are you do you have are you
vertically integrated with processing? No, God, I wish. And that's another thing that the 50 50
split with producers, it's like, you know, it's right now with the way the market is and the
pricing is viable. But I mean, you think about that in two seasons, one seasons going to the
producer. And with the margins being what they are currently, it's doable. And it's still like
the equivalent of getting something close to like five or 600 a pound after the extraction and the
splits done. But yeah, I mean, I just don't think that that's going to be a feasible business
solution for farms for very long doing that kind of arrangement, which, to my understanding, that's
pretty, pretty standard for producers taking in product of 50 50 split, which, yeah, to me, it's
just like, it's it's something that I'm trying to move away from. And I do have an interested party.
Who would be willing to process and do everything and kind of do work more as a
team versus like, just kind of two separate entities. But yeah, it's I wish that we were
vertically integrated at this point in time, because that would make a huge difference.
Yeah, I definitely recommend talking to your person because I know over the past few years,
it's really been helpful to like, get super specific on what they want or need.
And then partnering with them to grow like the growing the right genetics for the right people,
because I'm always so impressed by all the solventless people when they come through and
they can really look at the genetics on the plan and just be like, yes, no, yes, no, yes, no, that
yes. And it's just like, I, I'm still learning over all of this time, but it's just kind of like,
they are they have such good eyes, some of them on like, they know exactly what's going to do
the thing that they want it to do. And I love seeing genetics that we love and have tended
and cared for turned into like incredible, like, incredible solventless, fresh frozen products and
things. It's like, that to me is like one of my favorite parts, actually, is when you see
what can happen and be created out of things that are like pure magic. So yeah, I definitely think
that getting the features on those things is like imperative, especially with the way things are.
I like to save definitely the new ones that catch my eye. But I am really excited to run a mint
hash plant times so delicious by Super Seco. And they also blessed me with a CBD to THC 101.
That's really exciting. And yeah, it has DJ short blueberry in it, and some train wreck and I have
another trainer across but I still have some of the new stuff from my counter auto had a
collaboration with Matt finest, they did a tissue culture project with can be times daily driver.
And they call it crop duster and daily driver Sunday driver times skills. So I'm really excited
about looking at that. But I want to grow a lot of OG cush I want to breed a lot of OG cush and
just kind of like lean heavy into that because that's where you're all your great hash is that
and I think the market might shift towards water hash and bubble hash in the future.
I could be wrong. But yeah, I'm really excited.
I checked out the crowd.
I like
Mike is coming through kind of
slow.
You may or may not be stuck in the matrix.
There's a glitch in the future of the matrix. And apparently, we cannot hear you.
Trevor, you said that so so kindly, you're kind of talking a little slow.
Well, resin that, that crop duster that actually that sounds refreshing and
dank. Definitely interested to see how that comes out.
Yeah, thanks. I'm really excited about tissue culturing, specifically myself. So I'm going to
try to hop into that immediately. And that way I can preserve all the favorites because it just
seems like that's the easiest way to do for breeding while still preserving some of the old,
heavy hitters. And then yeah, now you're set up to grow mushrooms to you know what I'm saying?
So like, two birds, one stone, you want to look in the tissue culture. And now you might as well
start growing some mushrooms and add some co2 in your rooms.
Speaking of that, I was just I forget where I saw it. But somebody said something about keeping
their worm bin inside of their indoor. And I'm totally gonna do that. It's such a genius idea.
And yeah, the mushrooms just kind of incorporate two different things. It's like a permaculture
practice, but you're you know, you're doing it inside and trying to make the most of it and close
the loop, which is something that's really commendable. I personally have never had good
luck with the worm bins in the greenhouses even. So I would definitely be curious what Matthew had
to say about like, you guys definitely there was a lot of maintenance. And mine always ended up
stuck outside. No matter how much maintenance or what happened. I really think that rabbits and
personally, like the perfect mating for permaculture. But that is my I used to raise
rabbits. But I'm a big fan of those things being combined.
I could do you one better. You can just get a fish tank and get into aquaponics for your indoor.
That's another good look too.
Trevor, are you doing a bunch of selection this year? What you're looking for?
I don't really know. I've got
yeah, like, since I don't have an operating license, I'm kind of
dependent upon my friends who do have operating licenses. And a number of them are doing different
hunts this year. They're all doing their own independent things. Some with genetics that I've
either made or help provide to them. So that'll be fun just to see what they do.
Bigger, like, well, then the I've got like smaller, I guess would be the operative descriptor.
I've also got my own little small personal thing. And I'm doing different crosses that have a lot of
different equatorial long season varieties cross to more of a
equatorial long season varieties cross to more modern hybrids like the headband cross to the
Vietnamese from Golden Coast Dave. Then I've got the
Malawi Gold and the three cams from Malawi Gold from
both across a few years back and doing
Malawi Gold.
And Malawi Gold sounds real nice.
Yeah, yeah, Malawi Gold is legit. It came from African seed
allowable offering that was available probably about 20 years ago.
Then, yeah, so I'm doing those and going to do a couple of the Pacific Northwest
hash plant cross to the puck back cross one from crickets and cicada. And yeah, so I'm just doing
smaller, you know, 10 seeds here and there with those. Going to get a few females and run them
out, see what happens. That's mostly just for fun. And unfortunately, I can't really do it at scale.
But then I've got other folks who with their licenses, they're doing things at a bit larger
scale. And it'll be interesting just to, you know, follow up, see what they're doing.
I think a lot of the pina hash plant crosses that were made last year by us
will end up getting grown out this year. So I'm excited to see how those come out.
But in terms of like the bigger picture and trends coming up this year, I honestly don't see anything
changing really. It's, you know, people keep saying, oh gee, it's going to come back. And it's
quite possible that green herb and or OG will reemerge, but I tend to doubt it. I just don't
think that the, there's a lot of inertia built up into the market and into the
marketing plans and strategies of different brands. And that's not going to change all that quickly.
And in California, at least there's some very, very serious issues in terms of
supply chain and ability for small farmers and different farmers to
provide a varied experience to consumers. And I just don't think that's going to change anytime soon.
But yeah, I do. And same, I mean, Johnny, I mean, what you were saying, like, you know,
$50 pounds in the fresh frozen market are a thing. And it's not just $50 pounds. It's people like
fronting on $50 pounds because there's so much herb sitting in freezers and massive electricity
bills being racked up by people just sitting on frozen herbs that it's insane. So
that's something that is definitely, there's a lot of inertia built up there too. And it's going to
take a lot of time for that herb that's already in the manufacturers' freezers and in the farmers'
freezers to get processed. And we're already seeing people, as Eric mentioned earlier,
Savage Farms and others, a lot of people have had to destroy product because at a certain point,
it's just not worth it to continue to pay to keep herb frozen if you're not going to be able to
get your cost per unit back. And so shit's real out there. And people are going to have to
figure out and diversify and fill in new niches. But like, the main thing is just be as efficient
and streamlined as you can so that you can actually make it through, at least here in
California, because the next few years are going to be incredibly difficult for all small farmers
and pretty much everybody in the supply chain who isn't vertically integrated.
Facts. Mic drop. It's so hard to be positive. I've been really struggling recently. I was accused of
being pessimistic. But I've also gotten into it with people who are like, the flower market has
peaked. And I'm like, I don't know if I agree. I feel like I'm not going to be able to keep
And I'm like, I don't know if I agree. I feel like we're still with all these dates coming
online. And I 100% agree with everything you just said, Trevor. I mean, it's like,
it's the unfortunate truth of the situation. And that's kind of where I feel like we're saying
before is like, there's really no margin for error. And it's not just frozen flower. There's
like, and in order, I mean, I joked that I think that more cannabis got grown on the West Coast
last year than like ever before in history. And it's I mean, if you saw what happened in Southern
Oregon, all the issues here with like the cartel and all the things I mean, and we've fought so
hard to stay in production with our adult use licensing. And they, we have had a moratorium
on producer licenses in Oregon for the past few years, the market crashed in 2018. And then that
moratorium was lifted on the second of January. And as soon as it was lifted, 5000 licenses,
license applications, excuse me, poured through queue. And so currently, as it stands in Oregon,
in a market that's like, you can't even breathe, barely, barely breathe, you can barely, you know,
make it work. And none of that trickles down to the end consumer. And it's just this whole thing.
And there's just like this. I mean, it's gorgeous, gorgeous products, they've seen so much beautiful
flower and products also, so like people who are processing, there's just, there's lots of really
amazing stuff available. And they, it doesn't get voted on legislative change in Oregon, they're
proposing another three or moratorium, but we have to wait for it to be voted on in April. And so
we're everybody's kind of holding their breath. But the theory is like that we're going to get
another three years moratorium on producer licenses. So everybody's praying that that's
what's going to happen. But hopefully, at that moment, I'm pretty sure the way it's written is
that it will back clear out the queue. So that we're not going to end up with this, because even
just the 800 more licenses they put through last year, you can really feel that impact on the
market. And, you know, in the pricing, and doesn't matter, unless you have like the most
immaculate, perfect, exactly what buyers want product, it's definitely very hard to move. And
so that's where I've been trying to kind of really figure out, you know, the trend prediction piece
is half the battle. It's like, what do people want? And how do we effectively, you know, get it
to our consumers in an elegant way? And how does that price trickle down to the end consumer?
Because it's not really and they've also they're trying to get more taxes, and we're having water
issues. I mean, there's definitely a way deeper conversation. And I think that might be maybe
future cannabis, I would be speaking, Trevor, I had a couple insights into, you know, just maybe
how we frame the importance of the conversations that we need to have in order to survive as,
you know, over the next few years, and how really, at the end of the day, it is the consumer,
that's really the one that's kind of missing out. And how do we kind of all circle around and co
up and team up together to showcase like all the beautiful art of the breeders and all the
different things I think, I think it's a very interesting time to be in cannabis. And a quote
that has come to me a few times recently is like the I don't know if you guys are all I'm sure you
guys are all familiar with like the stoics. And there's this quote of like, what stands in the way
is what stands in the way is the way and that has really just been I've been feeling like there's
got to be a solution in here somewhere. And I think that we need to ask for what we need
and continue to work forward to find a solution to this, you know, larger issue and how we elegantly
move forward. That quote is from Marcus Aurelius, and it just has been stuck in my head. Like we,
we I think need to figure out how, like creative, just creatively how we move forward. And I think
I love what you're breeding stuff, Trevor, to the I've always been a huge fan of the headband. I
don't know if the headband that you're working with is the awesome mean, do you know and the
terpenes because I know there's different cuts of headband floating around that awesome mean
kind of stood out to me what you want.
Yeah, I'm not sure what Trevor's working with that that awesome mean
cut really is just so gorgeous. And I love I love the way it smells. And I think it's a really
beautiful plant also. So be curious to see what comes out of your work with the Landry stuff.
Yeah, I'm not sure which one it came from. Golden Coast genetics. So I'm not sure exactly which one
he has. And given the fact that there are so many different headbands that have been floating around,
it's, you know, impossible to say. But yeah, I'm excited to see what comes out of those. And also,
just generally, I think that that's something that we need to develop more is
figuring out ways of getting people who aren't in the rec system,
different cultivars and different experiences, because that can be granted, some of these are
going to be harder to cultivate. But I feel like there's,
you know, most of there's a lot of people out there who would like to grow and would like to
experience something different. And one of the ways that we can do that is by, you know, I'm going to
ideally select and save and hopefully be able to make available any of the selections that I make
out of these. But for other people who want to be able to grow something that's a little bit
different, that they wouldn't be able to experience or get in the rec market, the personal
grow community is really where that stuff's going to happen. And so I just hope that we can
reconnect and rebuild that sort of community that got disrupted in the last, you know,
five or six years by a whole host of different things. Regulations here in California have had
a very disjoining impact, but then there's also, you know, COVID and all of those things. It's
really the last couple weeks of getting together at some of these family friendly
non-commercial events has been really cool. And I think we need to, you know, use that as a model,
keep building it out. Resin down there on Monterey area. I know there's talk of doing something over
in the foothills. All these are really important. So good stuff.
Yeah, totally. I hope people grow more freaks and that hopefully our consumers can start
like, I think also, like, I think that the projects we've been working on, like you saying
Trevor about, you know, that there are so many cuts, like there are, there are so many cuts of
headband. There are so many cuts of wedding cake. There are so many cuts of all of these
different things. And then even now, it's like you hear how quickly, you know, and then the
authentication part. And I really feel like the work we've been trying to do for the past couple
years, not trying, but we are doing with the ethical data alliances. Like I really just so
want to be able to solve for this equation. Like I just want to be able to have it like what
consumers are getting. Cause my main biggest concern still is that, you know, like the,
cause we kind of merged the adult use market and the medical markets and, you know, the rec market,
which is really, I just really wish that every new state that came online could just not use the
term recreational. It would just make me so happy. And that if we could actually change our
legislation to not say recreational, because it's just the stupidest whoever came up with that,
like really, I'm sorry, but you just, you really failed us so dramatically. And I feel like,
you know, for the end consumer, we really need people find a medicine that works for them. They
need to be able to know that they can go, you know, somebody finds a cultivar that is the right fit and
the right medicine for them. They need to know when they go in to the sensory. And I think people
just believe it. They're like, Oh, this is, you know, I'm just using wedding cake as an example,
like, Oh, this is blue dream. But the reality is, is like, that there are so many other things
that the reality is, is like that there are so many other things. And there's all of these
renaming issues. And even like, if you look at, we're not required to do terpene tests. But if
you look at actual terpene tests on a cultivar, that says it is, you know, a certain thing,
and then you compare it to something else, like unless the cultivator has actually really cared
and curated from the breeder. And so we've been working so hard to utilize this blockchain
technology, that we can actually third party verify, like, you know, somebody breeds this
thing, and it is what it says, and then it goes to the nursery, and it's still what it says at
the nursery, and then it goes to the cultivator. And these are all the things and then it goes
through third party testing, and then all of the different ways cultivated. And so we're working
really hard right now on our next round of pilot with the blockchain. So, you know, and along the
way, there could be other third party between like the breeder different things, there's all
different sorts of groups that we have now involved. And, you know, with the genomics piece,
which could go back and forth, whether that's 100% necessary for cultivar verification. But I think
that we really need to get to a point where our supply chain traceability is, because metric,
we'll not get in trouble for saying this, but it's like inept, like actually proving what it
says it is, is what it is. And obviously, yeah, well, I'm trying not to trash talk too much,
because it's like, you know, public forum or whatever. But it's also the largest, you know,
Fran will have a monopoly on this. But as far as supply chain traceability, like we are missing a
beat so dramatically within a space, especially if at the point of distribution, that means can
be changed and things along those lines. And it's like, really, it's, I can my concern is that, you
know, people need to know what they're getting, like you say, it's a, you know, this heirloom
tomato from x, y, and z, you need to know that it actually is and to be able to storytell along the
way. So that's what we've been working really hard on. And hopefully, we'll be able to have
to showcase that back to the community, like that you can actually clearly trace the supply chain
with cannabis. So fingers crossed that this next pilot works really well. And you can show,
show that we're, that we're missing it, you know, we're missing a key part of what we're doing here.
And I think really, at the end of the day, it will, the breeders are also really it's gonna,
it's gonna help everybody along the supply chain, every single person involved,
and mainly the end consumer is going to win.
It's not recreational, it's agricultural before it is recreational.
I think home tests will be a reality one day, the genome sequence.
So that kind of reminds me of a tale how you were like, well, you can kind of see or say
anything's whatever you want it to on metric. And one of my first moments in a dispensary,
I actually had this, this happened to me where I asked to smell a jar of fire OG,
the guy opens up the jar, sure enough, says fire OG on it. There is a 99% chance,
chance that this was Blue Dream. You know, that's a very distinctive noise. And I said something,
I'm like, no, I'm like, man, this is like Blue Dream. He's like, no, it's fire OG, look at the
jar. And I'm like, yeah, I see that it says that, but this is not OG, like smell that.
And no, there is no telling this guy that that definitely wasn't an OG. And it almost positively
was Blue Dream. And I'm like, what a dirty trick. You know, this is one of the first years of rec in
California. I'm like, these guys can just grow freaking Blue Dream and say it's whatever they
want to have it say in the average consumer is it's going to be like, okay, whatever. And they're
going to be paying top dollar for a variety that they wouldn't pick if they knew what it was.
But seeing it was something else, they're going to go for it. So yeah, having that kind of
accountability and a true like indicator of what's what, and I'm hoping to see more of a terpene
analysis and kind of comparison so we can actually, you know, really map these things out and know
what we're actually getting. But yeah, that was like my first time in a dispensary or one of my
first times and I was like, wow, this is just a crazy world we're living in for sure.
Well, so many people don't understand that like you can I mean, I feel like that's when I actually
realized that I understood cannabis when I can be like, oh, that's train wreck. Like that's what I
think. So like I finally got it at some point. Like I don't remember when that was. But when I
realized I was like, oh, I can actually like with my with just like basic organoleptics, like I can
understand the difference between these things, just by looking and smelling and, you know, really
having an intimate relationship with the plant. And I feel like it's so lost on so many people.
And it's funny that you say that FIROG because we grew FIROG for years and absolutely love FIROG
and stopped growing it because the structure didn't meet with the market standards needed
in order. And it's sad now. I like oftentimes like lament where I'm like, oh, like, you know,
but it's like, so there's two. And I think that the end consumer doesn't really even understand
this. And what I'm seeing too in the like the genetics of the part of why I feel like I have
this frustration with the hype culture around genetics, where it's like you have 80 different
cultivars that look and smell so similar and they're beautiful, but they're just so similar
that there's no there's no space. And if people can just easily swap in the rename game, it's like
this, you know, because it's like what's selling, you know, people are going to shift and move to
what's selling. And I just think that it's a disservice to the plant and it's a disservice to
the education. And I think the most exciting thing for me beyond being able to like verify genetics
and cultivars through the blockchain technology is the ability to use it as a storytelling tool
for our industry and for the craft producers and for the breeders and for all of the people that
are in between. And to actually be able to eloquently tell a story for the end consumer.
That is my biggest goal with like the nonprofit work and all of these things, because I feel like
there's a heritage here that could very easily be lost to, you know, to big ag or big, you know,
corporate weed or whatever. And I feel like it's the that as farmers and as an agricultural crop,
it like that has such a really fascinating history and fascinating story that it deserves to be
told with like grace and consumers deserve to really learn and be able to understand like
all of the massive nuances and the diversity, the sheer magnitude. I know plants like plants
are in my life, I've been my life. I love so many other different types, but the sheer diversity of
cannabis and the story that she has to tell, I feel like that right there is that is what sets
craft apart. That's what's going to set all of these things apart. Because it's not just like,
oh, it's cannabis or oh, it's weed or oh, it's this one thing. It's like, it's incredible,
the amount of diversity that this plant can offer and healing also. And that's just like,
that's just the nuance that like, just, I think that we really need to showcase that story. And
that might be what saves us at the end of the day. Because we do manufacture a product, but how
elegantly we do it is, I think, half the battle.
I'm going to be breeding a headband. It's called headstand, actually. So it's across a headband.
But it's a headband times white OG. And I'm really excited to go through that one.
Yeah, train wreck is like a forgotten strain and terpene profile of like sandalwood.
Very distinct smelling. The headband has the same kind of smell to
definitely see the OGs coming back with a vengeance this year, because so many of those
names are just like, it's such a small gene pool to be crossing and over crossing,
feminizing and back crossing, which is like a whole other thing.
I think forward breeding is the best and the most diverse gene pool, I think, to like,
strain wise, encyclopedia wise is so vast and expansive, specifically between
98 and 2005. That whole era is just, it's the best of every world. There's so much
history preserved up until then. And I think so much is trying to be lost with
like a lack of naming that like, kind of like, correlates to the ones, the generations before.
So it's a little confusing. But, you know, like any other opportunity in breeding, like it just,
the cream is going to rise. And the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,
the cream is going to rise. And the, the, the breeders, whether they're industrial,
whether they're home grower, they're going to rise like to the top. So the interesting selections
will come. I think a lot of them are going to come out of the East Coast because a lot of people
saved so much bag seed on the East Coast for so many years, you know, out of survival.
So it's exciting.
We've had some interesting conversations about bag seed. I feel like in here, I don't know,
I think, I don't know. I know Ryan's not here tonight, but we've definitely had some interesting
conversation. My personal theory is that it's not like the straw, like, I don't, I mean,
of course, magical things have come out of bag seed. And then also a lot of unstable genetics
have, and it kind of perpetuate, perpetuate in my opinion, some of the, I think that 90,
my guess is that 90% of the time when there is bag seed, it's because there were Hermes.
And that's why people are ending up with bag seed. It's not like even a true, you know,
male. And I don't know. I just personally, I'm not super sure if it's the way.
I think it depends.
It's fun. It's fun.
I think it depends. Like if, if, if you're getting a lot of seeds in your bag, then yes,
this sounds like you got a bunch of Hermes seeds, but you find the one rare one,
you know, like in, in a pound or an ounce and stuff, chances are you got a nice,
you had a, you probably got some solid genetics on your hands.
I mean, I would be surprised just because so few people run actual males that I would be
also surprised even. Like, I don't know. We'll never know. But yeah, I have mixed feelings about
it.
Because essentially that's the story of how cookies got their, their strings.
Something came out of a bag seed with a cherry pie or something. I can't remember the whole story.
I think that, I think I've said this before in the breeder's group, but I think that,
I think the seed stories are really, some of them are super interesting and awesome. And I think
that's kind of like before it gets too late in the game here, I think that we really need to
start showcasing some of the stories because they're fascinating and I'm excited. I love to
hear the stories, especially from like the old cat breeders and just like where, I mean, there's
just so many good stories. I know that Trevor, Trevor, Trevor's like a wealth of knowledge on a
lot of the great stories.
I agree big time. It's like writing, it is writing history. Just like when we named apples,
there used to be over like 2000 varietals. Now it's like, oh, it's like, oh, it's like, oh,
it's over like 2000 varietals. Now there's like less than 600. And a lot of those are tied to
families last names and stuff like that. So it'd be cool to see a lot of
home growers tie some of these strings to their last names and like preserve their legacy like
that and honor their family like that. Because I think that's the other good way
of, you know, honoring the culture and honoring our family members. That's what
that's what we're all in this for is for our family. So yeah, it's really
interesting to see the OG Kush kind of come back. Out of all the cookies, Dosey
Doe's is my favorite. So I picked up a couple strains with that are crossed with
the Dosey Doe's and Skittles and because it has face off OG inside that. But yeah,
not too impressed with like the majority of the cookies. But I love the ice cream
cake. That's really incredible every time you get it and the Dosey Doe's. But
hash wise, I'm really interested in these hash plants I'm getting and really
looking forward to seeing like that structure from my Platinum OG and Pure
Kush. I can't find any Pure Kush these days and I miss God's gift. God's gift
was a badass strain of like GDP times OG Kush. So yeah, I'm looking forward to
that coming back. Hmm it is getting quite late. We are at four hours and 27, 8, 9
seconds. Are we starting to think we should wind the evening down my friends?
Yeah, we could wrap.
He's been real shout out to the room. Shout out to the panelists. It was dope.
You're welcome. Welcome. Did you have anything to say Trevor before we close
out?
Um, no, just yeah, thank you everyone for coming on. It was really great to have
Matthew come and join us. Thank you. Everyone on the panel currently and
earlier and to the audience. It's been real. Anything you have to say in
closing, Peter? I know you've got a big event tomorrow, correct?
Yeah, and I'm getting ready for that right now. And I have a three year old
passed out on the couch next to me watching Ferdinand the bull. And all the
parents know what that one is. And but you got my Did you get my email on the
88 g 13 crosses?
That sounds fire.
I did. Yes. And sorry, I have not responded. But um, yeah, so I, I need to
get things situated and down to you. I've got I've got others or the replacements
or whatever. But um, yeah, we I will be in touch. Got it. Perfect.
Got it. Perfect.
Well, I think with that, yeah, for whoever's in LA, we have a a reader
conversation with hopefully with snow high. And Tyler from family tree seeds
tomorrow and then a reggae show here in LA. And that will be the first of
regular events back down in LA and resin I just shot you a DM about events up in
your area. And I know London's working on stuff up in the across the border.
As beautiful Congrats. Yeah, I'll definitely pass that fire. That's cool,
man.
I'll use this as a moment to plug too, because we got like next week and next
Tuesday is International Women's Day. And everyone who will be on the panel as
well. We have a we have a bad ass panel of amazing women helping to move the
cannabis industry forward. It's it like we've got like 12 to 15 like powerhouse
people to come check. Come come join the conversation. So if you're if you're
around Tuesday at 5pm PST next week, definitely be here for that one because
it's going to be epic. Absolutely. No, no dudes. No dudes on stage. It's all
girls. All the women do
moderators. Ladies. No,
who's gonna moderate who's gonna
moderate
while you're not going to see my face.
All do all we need your we need the support from come and ask all the questions.
And find me cast. Hey, Peter, and if you need if you need support in Oregon, just
know, you know, here, Southern Oregon.
Always floating around.
Yeah, no, I'd love to scheme on some Oregon stuff.
I'd be down when these borders open up to come down and pop down to Oregon and
visit you.
Oregon kind of in a lull right now. So we can use I know I've been like keep
getting invited to events in Cali and I'm like, Okay, come on, Oregon. Like we
really lost the plot. I think
you're in Southern Oregon, or you know,
Southern Oregon, like we lost some of our best cut to like the cult classics not
happening again this year. And so
y'all need to combine it into one big one.
Yeah, only with hemp. Can we really do that?
I don't know. I'm looking forward to a bunch of Cali events this year, which is
kind of weird.
Oregon. So
well, I think that is all.
And London you have a cheddar Bob is probably already in bed now prepping for
tomorrow morning, right? For his garden tour.
Yes, I made him reshoot his video because he did a five minute video and
he didn't do it in landscape. He did it in Instagram style.
What was the one thing I told you? I said, make sure he does it landscape not like
an Instagram selfie.
So yeah, so we had to do that part. But we got that first thing in the morning
cannabis for breakfast too. Which will be awesome and fun as well. So it'll be
cheddar Bob's garden. I'm really excited like the guy gets some of the biggest,
most badass mushrooms I've ever seen in a four by four bed. So I'm really excited
to dig into it with everyone. And I'm actually, I got some training to do
tomorrow morning as well. So I figure I'd set it up and I do some plant
training. Like I got to do some high stress training on some of the girls
going into the flower again next little bit. So I figure I'd do that at the same
time. It'll be fun.
And then I'll shoot at the I got all the email addresses of all the family tree
testers. So we're going to do a recurring YouTube show with a bunch of
people testing some family tree stuff with Tyler from family tree, which should
be fun. Just like every couple of weeks, everybody regrouping on YouTube to show
how things are growing and be able to talk to the breeder. And so
exciting. Well, do you guys want to shut down the room over here and I'll do the
future cannabis site, the YouTube site?
Sure. Trevor, you want to hit that kill button?
Sure thing. Thanks everyone. Have a great night.
Oh, right.
Can you hear me? Oh, yeah. Here you get, you can probably do it.
End room. There you go. I did it. I have the power. I have the power for both
the rooms. Can you hear me? Do you like my electric guitar?
I hope you all enjoyed this show. It was a wonderful one. As always, we're looking
forward to more in the future. Like I mentioned, we will have
we will have another show. Not in the room.
We will have another show happening tomorrow. First thing in the morning was
cheddar and then there's midday stuff and then there might be some midday stuff
coming up. So we'll see you guys tomorrow.
No, I'm not 100% sure. I don't know if I saw anything in the schedule.
We're the first no, but I do have the cannabis for breakfast in the morning
with cheddar Bob right here. I haven't seen him in chat. So maybe he's napping.
And then at 5pm, we have retail trends in cannabis, which is going to be
exciting. I have this really awesome. It's like a private dispensary. It's not
like one of those big conglomerates and they're actually they've been awarded
like the third. They're in the top three of the dispensaries in southern
Ontario, which is one of largest Canadian cannabis markets. So they've
done a really amazing job or just doing something awesome. So I'm really
excited to have them on and discuss about what it's like to be in that
space here in Canada and see how those things are going. So get your A's in
your Canadian ready to go. Other than that, we should have another wonderful
week and don't forget to check out. I've posted up for the International
Women's Day episode happening next week on the 8th. So make sure you click
and check that out there. And also don't forget to check out Daga.academy,
make a post, check out my course. There's some sick stuff happening. So don't
miss out on any of it. And the easiest way to make sure you're in on the know
is to sign up for Daga.academy.
