All right, and we are live. Welcome everyone. Thanks for waiting. We got Alex and Peter
and we're waiting for the star of the show who may have fallen asleep on his couch, but
we'll find out if he shows up. But do you want to...
The great wide world of Landrace is...
Yeah, our adventures continue.
Yeah, it's literally global. So catching folks on the time schedule is an interesting endeavor for sure.
Did you have one of those big spinning globes growing up?
I did. We had a pretty good one actually as kids. It was big and it's fun and it had...
Yeah, I remember though that globes are expensive. Even a cheap one is properly
made as an expensive artwork or science object.
Yeah, no, I want to get Gemma and Valentina one of those. For me it was such a powerful thing
growing up just to be able to see the whole world and where countries are. I used to stare at that
thing all the time.
Oh yeah, and try to figure out little cities and see how tight the names were in Europe and
what everything was in there and how the color coding of the lines. I actually have a
pretty good collection of old maps and I'm kind of bummed I don't have a translocator because
that's one of the best ways for figuring out your Landrace in your own personal position is just
running a ruler across one of those translocators. I like to look at how the boundaries changed over
time and different countries evolved into what they are, were, and different place names. I used
to really get into looking at old... You can't find them on digitized maps, but I love mineralization.
I love minerals. I love rocks and stuff. So, locating old, lost, and abandoned mines
is a whole other... I tend not to go into them because they're dangerous and I
can't stop myself from pulling rocks off the side. This is what kills you.
I've got a pretty good understanding of geology, engineering, and things like that now.
But that's a whole other thing. Studying ancient maps and seeing how our world has evolved and
and, gosh, geopolitics is totally rules in this entire thing. Why are we looking at preserving
Landraces? It's such a geopolitical thing. Why did cannabis become illegal? It was a
geopolitical move from the United States with power for oil and pharmaceuticals primarily.
And we forced that down on the entire world after Aslinger was installed by his uncle, who was the
head of the Department of Commerce, who was part of the oil regime that was producing plastics.
I'm sorry if I get the names wrong. I'm not sure if he was one of the DuPont family,
but there was the five oil families. There's the banking cartel. And then
the that all also controlled the pharmaceutical and the entire medical program that they were
impregnated upon the world that we can sell you pills instead of you grow your own plants.
And unbeknownst to our Congress, they passed a law making cannabis, all cannabis illegal,
not knowing that hemp was cannabis because they changed the words around and used the racist
term of the completely different plant marijuana, which is the kind of local weed in Mexico that
will make you go nuts and applying all these psychosis of hard drugs and addiction to what
we all know is God's gift to man. But some Mexicans in Mexico, did marijuana have a bad
connotation in like the late 1800s, early 1900s? Cannabis was smoked and did not have that bad
connotation so much. It was this other plant. It's like a desert local weed that they and I
never wrote it down. I knew what it was, but it was it's not it's not the local weed. It's not
the angel trumpet. There's a whole nother little I keep on wanting to say it's kind of like the
rattlesnake weed because it has this I think it has a seed pod that shakes. I can't I can't
remember this one exactly. But it but yeah, it's like a Sonoran desert and island endemic that's
got this. It make you go look at if I remember right, it was poisonous enough to kill you if
you over ingested it, right? So that that one never really had a good connotation, right? It's like,
we know people who are Jimson weed shaman. I would never recommend anybody
consume Jimson weed without serious contemplation. That stuff is I did the serious contemplation and
I knew a Jimson shaman as a kid. And I just I smoked the trumpet itself one time.
And that's like the most mild effect you can get. My little brother and I were the high Sierras and
we immediately sat down and went into the other world asleep for
eight or nine hours and woke up at dusk 10 miles from where we're supposed to be in the
high Sierras that night. Had to end up walking through the night. But you know, the guy I knew
that was the tourist shaman, he was he was out there. He would come he would come back to Earth
once in a while or Earth plane but he was and so there's these different chemicals, right? And
this stuff was applied to to what to what? Oh, gosh, is that? He just asked me. I'm referring
to Yeah, Jimson weed, right? And some people make a tea different people make a there's definitely
different medicinal uses for it. I'm not an expert on it. It's something I just tell people stay away
from. You don't want to mess with it. It's it's poison, right? But there's also so like, you know,
we talked about the shamanism that an actual word is kind of interesting. It actually comes from
the Siberian region. And so that's where I guess Gregory's genetics originate. And so there's
actually you can find some pictures I've got one someplace when he's Siberian shaman, and they're
like full on dready. They look like a Native American. Yeah, it's it's easy. It's straight
poison. Yeah. Stay away from that stuff. Thanks for the confirmation there. Yeah, it's the Siberian
shaman and then they they're more likely Amanita consumers. And there may be some other substance,
maybe we can ask Gregory about him knowing the locality a lot better than my ancestors left.
The region, maybe five generations ago, and I only have, I had like a 2%
of the Russian blood. And my ancestors were, and something I'm gonna look into if they were part
of the Hessian, but they were definitely they were German military officer farmers that went into
work for the White Russian Army, and bizarre and then came to America did that revolution.
But the yeah, so the shamanism there in the Siberia is where the actual word comes from,
that we apply to all mystics, and medicine men, which doctors, etc. All the people using earth
medicine, and in heavy psychology, right magic. Then there is that there is that line between
what science can understand, and what happens in these other realms. There's the man. Welcome.
Hey, guys, how's it going? Are you on your your phone or your computer? I'm on my phone. I was
trying to log on through Chrome, but it didn't allow me to do that. Okay, so turn Can you turn
your phone 90 degrees like a TV? Yeah, look at that. My gosh, we got the nose and chin shot.
There we go. So we're just we're just talking about the roots of shamanism in the Siberian region.
The word. Awesome. Well, let's continue the conversation. And good morning, sir, everybody.
You haven't gone to bed yet, right? Fuck, man, I had to reset, dude, I had to reset,
I had to reset. So my brain is fresh today. So you did sleep memory compacting there.
So you did sleep up. He's a little frozen. He'll be back.
Gregory's working hard. There he is. He's back. He's got the grind going.
So wait, so you did sleep? I did. I had to get a little bit of sleep. I had to I had to get
together with some Russians yesterday and do a little bit of cultural cultural exchanges.
Does that imply like homemade firewater? That's right. You guys already know.
Potato water. Nice. Are you connected with is it Portnoff? I can't remember.
The Russian community in Alaska. Is that the name of the town there? Is it Portnoff?
No, I'm in Anchorage. You're in Anchorage. But there is there's old Russian communities still
in Alaska north of there, right? Oh, there's there's communities everywhere.
There's communities everywhere. Like there's a community in Anchorage here.
But you're absolutely right. There is a pretty big community in Homer. There's a pretty big
community up north. These guys are really taking advantage of the fact that a lot of people don't
want to be here. But, you know, just like all indigenous people, they they have absolutely
no problem finding a way how to adapt and how to take advantage of the land. And some of the most
successful people have been the people who are just put their nose to the grindstone, so to say.
And then it's really their grandparents who made something. Unless it's the people who come here
with that work ethic, because here in Alaska, just like most anywhere, man, you really got to put
that work in just because, I mean, if you ain't like that Paul, the guy who comes out here and
build the cabin on your own, you're going to have to use a bunch of equipment and all that stuff is
so expensive. So knowledge and skills come to play such prominently at an extreme place like this.
You know? Yeah. I had the pleasure and honor to live on Fort Wainwright in Fairbanks for a summer
as an Alaska fire specialist with the BLM. And I got a fairly good taste of what goes on up there.
Spent some time in Sultatna as well. But actual anchorage, I just flew through maybe a dozen times
on commercial aircraft there. But the one thing that this is going to trip some people out,
this is, I've got this theory about what I don't think actually exists anymore,
the original Natanuska Thunderfuck. Right? So Alaska used to be part of Russia.
And it looks like we lost him again. So I'm going to wait till he, okay. Yeah. So like, you know,
Alaska used to be part of Russia, right? And same latitudes as Siberia, more or less, right?
And it's a pretty big area north to south there. But, and these people migrated over and occupied
that land and brought with them the plants that they grew, right? And their culture. And this
cannabis that you're stewarding happens to, I believe, be part of that original culture that
they brought with them. From what I understand, people have been utilizing hemp as food in that
region for as long as people have been there. Is that right? I think so. I think you're on the same
thought path as a lot of people who are just tracing the roots of migration, the roots of
people who have come because people have always used Alaska as a land bridge. And Alaska is
basically the connecting factor between these ancient civilizations that literally migrated
through the Bering and through the Bering Strait back in the day. Like, this is, it's very hard to
put like a timescale on it. Right. But like you were saying, it's basically ancient. So whenever
the environment allowed it, people have always migrated. And they're, I mean, back in the day,
you could only imagine how tough those people were, the ones that made the journey. So you have
to think like if those people would make a journey, then of course they would have to take with them
every necessity that they needed for any kind of survival, medicine use and everything else,
because they would have to be self-sufficient. Yes. And this is what the plant allows in a lot
of ways, right? It can adapt. It can spread. It can go with us. And, you know, people talk about
we're the steward of the plant, but I often believe the plant stewards us, right? And we go
where it can go and things like that. But, you know, that's just mystic ancient history. We don't
really know how the actual, but it's definitely been with us for a long time. We've been with it.
And one of the things that, so in the late eighties, my brother got to go up with my uncle
and they did some backpacking up in around Mount Denali. And on the trip back, they met a local who
gifted my brother a bunch of what was, he called the original Matanuska Thunderfuck.
And my original understanding of stuff, nobody today that I know says that they have a plant
that can flower out in the summer outdoors without light depth and calling it Matanuska
Thunderfuck. But what my brother brought back and the guy, the old timers, when I was there
asking around, they said, yeah, there used to be this plant that survived and flowered and finished
before in our short summer. And the one seed that came back with my brother was a, one thing I
remember it was about the size of a, of a small dry pea. It was freaking huge, which would allow
for that explosive growth as soon as the sun, the soils warm there. And that's a huge factor up north
there is when the soil, there's plenty of sun before the soil is warm enough. But as soon as
that soil is warm enough and growth can explode, boom, that thing's gone. It's in those deep
volcanic loams. It's got that sub irrigation that a lot of those locations have.
And so I have this theory that that was the origins. And then, you know, when the Gold Rush
came, that stuff was there still. And then when the second Gold Rush in the 80s came, it was there
still. And, but then after, I'm sorry, is that late mid seventies, eighties, there was, there was
that, that, that Gold Rush in that section there. But, but yeah, by the time we started hybridizing
and stuff like that, I think is, you know, by the, by the mid nineties, that genetic probably got
polluted and no longer could do the auto flowering. So that, that's kind of a theory that I got in my
head. And I figured you might give people insight that, yeah, that's a very real possibility that.
And actually just before you answer that, Alex, can you quit, can you close out and come back?
Your audio is clipping a little bit and I want to see if that solves the problem of just like
rebooting. And while you're dabbing, there was a question, the outdoor grow season in Anchorage.
All right. Well, the outdoor season in Anchorage really depends from year to year, depending on our
summers. So for instance, last summer was fairly, fairly warm summer. So it kind of stretches from
the beginning of May to the end of September. And every year in Alaska for the last hundred years,
people have noticed that the growing season, and every year for the last hundred years or more,
Alaska have noticed that the growing season has been increasing and increasing and increasing.
I mean, this is one of the places where you could actually, very easily track global warming,
just because of the ability to have the growing season be able to be tracked. And every year,
we're getting another day, we're getting another day. So I'm very excited guys, in a couple of,
in about a hundred years, you guys are going to have to come start growing up here, man.
We're going to have to be living up there to grow in another hundred years. No,
that's a reality. Here in Utah, the same thing.
10, 12, 12 years ago, I showed up with carrots in March and they're like, this is unheard of.
This has never happened before. No one's ever, we all have a winter farmer's market, but you know,
I had tomatoes in May and we never heard of this. This is impossible. And well, the weather's
changing and you throw a greenhouse out and you don't even have to use heat anymore to make it
through the cusp seasons to keep things growing. And yeah, same thing up there. There's things are
changing rapidly. I remember watching the permafrost melt away and roads getting buried
the summer I was up there. And people who did not. I mean, it's a wonderful subject to bring up
because just think, you know, something interesting that I was listening to the other day,
it said that ancient cultures may be a key, not to our past, but to our future. And I was starting
to think about how, I mean, one of the reasons why I'm so interested in this plant and I was
interested in this plant is just because I think a lot of people shown me and opened my eyes to
a what sustainability is and what unsustainable cannabis growing is. And I mean, nature is one
of the number one examples that shows us what sustainable cannabis is like. That's why so many
of us are in love with land-raised cannabis because we respect the sun and the soil and the
people who toil to make this beautiful hashish happen for so, for so, for so, so long. And when
we're talking about being sufficient as a society, it actually ends up being a determining
factor of your survival because if you don't have sustainable practices, you'll literally go bankrupt
or go in debt or have to whore yourself out. And I mean, somehow you're able to financially
sustain that your children are going to be in the shithole when they have that money and they're
going, well, I can't buy air and water. Exactly. Somebody is going to have to pay for it.
And really we're, and we're going to be the ones to have to pay for it. So here in Alaska,
it's a, it's interesting. We're going to be bounded like many other places to have to grow
indoors at certain periods of time. But what this can, uh, cannabis root or alice allows you to have
the ability is to have so many regions open up to so many different cannabinoids and different
potentials of cannabis because of the Siberian Northern root or alice gene that has the ability
to have frost resistant, cold resistance, early flowering, and early planting capabilities and
have the ability. So you could plant some in may some in June and some in July, and then you could
have multiple harvests and you could harvest not all at the same time. And I think that's one of
the best, uh, utilities behind cannabis. And of course we're seeing it all across America. That's
probably of course, what was happening a hundred years ago in Oklahoma, the Mecca of cannabis
breeding back in the, in this wonderful country. And so much of that was happening in this place
where we have brought our canvas root or alice from Bush, Kirsten, they have this breeding program,
which was basically like the capital of this whole huge civilization that had brought so many
countries together called the Soviet Union back, you know, uh, a hundred years or more ago. So it's
very fascinating because those people have put a lot of work into breeding it for the purposes that
we're now going to be able to exploit. I think, I think people don't really understand the potentials
that you just described and how, um, how it can really affect their, if you're just a breeder,
your long-term sustainability of putting the seeds out there, because that is going to be
one of the major production modes of the future is, uh, you know, in California, they're taxing a
tarp, right? So how do you get around that tax is you plant an auto flower. Another one of the,
uh, uh, benefits of this, uh, genetic that, that, uh, I believe is the ability to drop that taproot
and survive, um, without the much irrigation. That's for me, a massive factor in a lot of these
things that, um, um, also in native soils without doing a whole lot of improvement,
they can still do the job. Whereas so much of this hybridized stuff that we've got, we've babied,
we've babied all our seed for so many generations. It doesn't really have that capacity to,
with, with, uh, probably bread root or Alice or other land race, you can just direct seed in your
field at those proper times to get your, it's going to sprout. It's going to come up. It's
going to give you your crop. And, um, you don't got to worry about all that energy of cloning it.
You don't got to worry about all that energy of greenhouse time and starts and transplant and
having that machinery to transplant. You don't need plastic culture. You don't need those drip
lines, all of that stuff. You don't need, you don't need the plastic netting to hold the plant
up because it has evolved with a little bit of a hand of man to withstand the craziest weather
it's ever going to get thrown at it. Right. I mean, look at Afghanistan, look at Pakistan.
These places are of extreme weather and altitude and elevation. So when you think about the
cannabis that survives out there, naturally, do you think that that cannabis that those
feral varieties don't have those genes in it? It's very interesting to see like the cannabis
genome, but it's so difficult to find it, right? Because the data that's out there,
where's it exists. Phyllis Phyllis hardly gives you any kind of real representation
other than a small comparison color chart about something about these categories.
You know, it literally we're a hundred years behind the rest of the plant communities and
breeding stuff as far as science goes. So it's a start. We've got a long ways to go. And, you know,
I've got one of the reasons you, you've got this root or Alice and I look at it every fucking day.
And I think I told you before, this is the key to a project I envisioned 30 years ago.
The only reason I haven't acquired this probably because it's scary. I like,
as soon as I got them, I'm committed to a seven year freaking breeding project that
like, I want to go to the thing, but we just inspire people to take up this concept I developed.
Whereas if you take one of these long running sativas and that goes into flower and you can't
revert it back into veg, because it's this tropical strain that's developed in this long
flowering cycle and you cross it with these auto flowers and you're going to end up in some,
I talked to someone who's done this, who did it by accident, but he confirmed my theory.
He had a plant that literally flowered for 18 months straight and never like you could pick
flowers off it and the top keeps growing. And so if you have something like this and you
selectively prune a top, the bottom becomes the top and you have a forever flower. Okay.
Very fascinating.
This is something that I don't necessarily envision this as a commercial production mode,
but for horticulturalists and people who need that just right medicine, they don't need a whole lot.
People in Southern California, for instance, could probably have something like this grow
year round. It might go into a slight dormant stage and then come right back out,
just like my tomatoes did as a kid. But with the slightest amount of greenhouse or cold frame
in the Mediterranean or temperate zones, that could end up being a year round producer.
And if you end up having a male with it, you've got food for your birds and your plants and your
rabbits or whatever. You got your hemp. And part of this all originated, one of the first
grows I ever saw was a guy came back from Vietnam and had a plant growing in. It was this Vietnamese
stuff that just, my best understanding was he had two plants over like a 12 year period. They just
kept going in the Southern California cold frame. But it was one of those tropical sativas that both
put off male and female flowers. So he was feeding his ducks, his seed. He was feeding his fish,
his duck eggs. You take that duck pond water to feed the plant. And that is as sustainable
a system as you can get. And it was also my first introduction to permaculture concepts.
And he brought that, he observed this concept with the rice fields and the ducks and the fish
in Vietnam. And again, like you said, that going back to ancient knowledge is our future.
All of my concepts of permaculture and emix and all that stuff,
comes from seeing that guy. Yeah. Well, I'm really stoked to hop on to share with people
because I think you're absolutely right. The project that you're talking about is such a
revolutionary, amazing idea, right? Year round cannabis trees. You have the ability to affect
and change the plant genetically and physiologically and other things. And
physiologically and other plants like with the Australian bastard, like what is really actually
the limit to cannabis or the ability for us to change and to train it and to make it more suitable
for any kind of purpose, any kind of region, any kind of cannabinoid production potentially,
especially if we're able to find it and then isolate it and then share it and allow people
to have access to do with it as they need. So I really like the concept of Instagram because
it really has allowed me to think in the same way. How could I ever accomplish this seven-year
project by myself or sometimes even take on this project because of the dauntingness of it,
if you were to plan it out seriously, this is potentially a 10-year project. So I mean,
you have to get other people involved. And that's really the reason why I kind of came on
into Instagram when I did a couple of years ago, because I saw my inability to do it by myself.
I knew that I would have to reach out and allow other people to do it because I knew that my
abilities were very limited and you really need so many other people to bring in everything. Because
all those guys that I'm seeing, like Flying Lion Research and some of these guys,
they have really revolutionized my mind about what ruderalis can be, right?
And California, California was my first introduction to cannabis. When I went out
there and I saw the ability of these trees to get to the size of like 14, 15, 16 feet,
it literally blew me away because before that, my concept was of the natural cannabis. And I
really never knew that Nepalese and some of the Indian varieties would have the ability to get to
be like over 20 feet tall, like naturally without any struggle or any kind of really
feeding regimens. And that exists in Siberia as well. So you are so right to think about
honing in that fast, fast gene to be having that explosive growth. And that's the most beautiful
thing about ruderalis and some of these feral varieties is their ability to continuously flower
and to have that hardiness that really allows it to like survive. And I think so many of the
viewers who are probably watching this are probably wondering because so many people don't
live in California. I mean, I know California right now is the Mecca of us developing the science and
the breeding, but that's been for such a long time. But everybody, but how many viewers are
actually living in California? And with all this information, it spreads California. You really
can't say California is the best weed in the world anymore because we all have this access to people
like me teaching, right. And all the other folks who have all this information. And it's like,
if you can filter to find the right information, you can do exactly what I'm doing. You can grow
tomatoes. People will pay you $12 a pound for it. You understand soil, keep it simple, right? You
can do the same thing with your cannabis, right? But filtering that out and getting through all
of the misinformation is a whole nother story, but it's a hell of a lot easier today for everyone to
be able to get that base of core information than it was 30 years ago, for instance, or 20 years ago,
or even 10, right? Through the social media. It made the world a lot smaller. There's no way-
How'd you guys get onto this subject of shamanism before I forget?
Oh, I was just filling time and gosh, so where was I going with that? I was just talking about-
I think just the... Well, first we were talking about the word marijuana and Mexico and whether
it has a negative connotation. And then we talked, the fact that shamanism comes from Siberia,
which is a region we're going to be talking about.
And yeah, so I think I was talking about the mysticism, part of why they made cannabis illegal.
It was kind of where I was heading with all that too, was the racism and just the-
It's probably a good conversation to have as it's related to cannabis and to Rurales because of
what's happening right now in that region of the world and in so many places in the world.
Okay, so before you say whatever you're going to say next, let me
contextualize this for everyone. Give me one second.
Let's do it. Cheers, guys.
Cheers. We're going to- All right. So actually, it's interesting.
So this is where we were last week, right? We explored Northern India, Afghanistan, Pakistan,
and then now, I mean, it's actually immense how far we're going and how north, right?
Exactly.
So tell me when to stop.
All right. Now go back and lower left corner.
Yep. So your mouse a little bit more to the left.
So right above all these regions is basically a belt of some of the best Rurales that's grown,
because where we're looking at is the Altai Mountain region, and we're looking at what's
called Bashkirstan and Kurgan, which are basically two autonomous regions within.
So we're looking at right here, which is kind of like a triangle between Kazakhstan, Mongolia,
and Russia, and this Altai Mountain region has some of the most epic looking cannabis,
and this is a huge area of interest for us and for development and for strain hunting.
Because of its ability, I mean, this is a very tough area, the mountain Altai region,
and it's been very difficult to bring some of the best cannabis into this region.
So do you want me to go up, down, left, or right, or am I right in the bullseye?
Here's Altai.
Right above Kazakhstan, and the region where cannabis stretches to goes way further up north.
This is just having a survey, correct? Okay. So which way do you want me to go?
Go up. I mean, it's kind of got, oh, here we go. Let me zoom in.
Yep. Keep going left. Keep going left. Keep going left. And you're about to see it.
You're about to see it. Keep going. Keep going. It's about to be in the center.
It's about to be in the center. So right here. So right here. Right here. There you go. Right
there in the center. And you guys are looking at Chelyabinsk. Now, Chelyabinsk is the gate
to Siberia, basically, because it has the Trans-Siberian Railroad that connects Western
Russia, the European side of Russia, to the Eastern side of Russia. And the travel all
around these places, basically, is a lot of times the main limiting factor because of the vast
distances that we're looking at. I mean, this is such a huge chunk of the world. It takes a lot
to travel from one side to the other. It kind of makes the US small.
Yeah. Like Texas and California. We think Texas is big. Yeah. Like Alaska and Texas, though. You
cut Alaska in half and Texas is still the third smallest state. So putting people's minds in
perspective here, this place is... We're looking at a huge landmass, right? Yeah. So the reason why
I wanted to bring up shamanism is because really what you guys have struck on is something that I
think is a root factor of cannabis, cannabis use, cannabis culture, cannabis preservation,
cannabis expansion and breeding, because right now it is illegal. That huge side of the world,
for some reason, considers cannabis to be illegal. And there's so many strict, incredibly unjust
laws all throughout such a huge part of the world. It's an atrocity that laws like this exist and
that people have not found a way to really communicate with each other and to spread the
information of this plant. So it's like if somebody is looking at us right now, are they literally
just thinking that we're only drug users and that our only purpose in mind is to just get mindlessly
high? No. So these ancient cultures, they are the bearers of what we are carrying now, the torch.
So in a lot of ways, one of the reasons why I thought about doing what I'm doing is because I
thought about the responsibility as a user that I had to the people who literally kept the seed,
like you, right? The people who had talked about sustaining this plant against all odds, against
the odds of death, persecution and everything else. I've had a dozen machine guns held on me
for half a gram of cannabis in my life in Mexico. Yeah. Just imagine the people who are right now in
Mexico still doing that. Just think about it. It's legal in Mexico now. Well, that's crazy.
They don't have more problem if you're producing your own in Mexico with the cartels, I understand,
than you would have from the government at this point. Yeah. Well, that's really the other factor
though behind it, because man. Yeah. My brother went in, I think it was 90. He traveled down to
the fields from where the Acapulco gold originates. And he spent some time there and tried to buy
some to bring back and they couldn't sell to him. Like, oh, they'd kill us all if we sold you
a pound, right? Or a kilo. But there's this bandito camp where he was visiting and it was
his coworker friend that he drove home for Christmas. His cousin was out there living in
the camp as he got in a fight and killed somebody at a wedding drop. So, he's now one of the banditos
working for the cartel growing weed. And they're out there playing volleyball and they all set
their guns against the volleyball net, whatever. But nobody had a single bullet for their gun.
Mexico is illegal to have guns and bullets. And it just so happened my brother had a box of 50,
22 shells in his pickup truck. This place is so poor that the tractor broke down. So,
they used his truck to plow the cornfields, right? And they- We put that mission to use.
He gave them the bullets as a gift and they're like, whoa, dude, we can't. This is worth more
than gold in its weight, right? And it's just 22 rounds. They ended up giving him a quarter pound
of Acapulco gold and a gallon of true mezcal, right? The cactus with the hallucinogen in it
as a liqueur. And he managed to get some of that back up over the border. But back then,
it was back when two years after the federal rallies held the machine gun on me and
extorted money and kept my identity, et cetera. Yeah, that's how it is in a lot of the world
still. Definitely. I can only imagine the impact of these type of experiences, right?
I'm a white American. They're like, oh, we got this guy here and we're going to extort him for
everything. Imagine if you didn't have the money or the privilege that I was born with, right?
And you get arrested for the same thing. You get thrown into a prison that's just walls and
doesn't have a roof and they don't feed you. Yeah, exactly.
Right? And that's how it is around the world. What was the movie? It was the Midnight Express.
And that shit scared the death out of me. And that's when this was going down. I'm like,
oh, God, I'm going to be that guy. And that's still the way it is for so many minutes. But yeah,
and so part of that, we were talking about the shamanism was that entire thing came from here
in America with our corporate ordered lords 100 years ago wanting to impress synthetic fiber,
synthetic fuel, petroleum industry and synthetic pills. And so then that's where the shaman came
into this was describing like why our America impregnated the entire world with this illegal
status and made cannabis to be this evil thing that the medicine man used. We had,
was it 300 or more or 500 actual cannabis medicines in the American pharmacopeia
when they made it illegal. And well, you're absolutely right. We're not even touching the
surface of the power of this plant yet. We're sticking to two major cannabinoids CBD and THC
is driving the entire cannabis economy right now. And the only thing on my vision board,
my sight for reality and like when I pray to the higher power, it tells me to make oil paintings,
but I have a seed oil press on my refrigerator, right? That a picture of a seed oil press,
because that's where my grandchildren's wealth will be is if we can get seed oil legal. We can't
feed cannabis to animals yet legally here. It's just ridiculous. The stuff just, how much water
we feed alfalfa and feed our animals or our grains and it all could be this rain fed, literally
two inches of rain here in Utah last year. And I dry farmed, I had nine foot hemp plants that I
had chopped for fodder twice at 12 inches. Yeah, exactly. I mean, I guess that's one of the main
reasons why I definitely wanted to get back to that and to think about that just because so much
of our wonderful culture, our wonderful community has these ties to this, what we call,
what you guys refer to as shamanism that now is developing and we're seeing the evolution and the
infusion with cannabis culture. A lot of the same guys who are doing cannabis, just imagine
so many of the same guys who are interested in developing cannabis are also developing psychedelics
and are also psychedelic users. And I think so much of this stuff is tied to really the
revolution that we have to have as the 20 year olds, 30 year olds and the 40, 50 year olds,
whatever age you are right now. Even my dad at 70 years old has finally come around to the idea of
like, okay, let's do some mushrooms. Like, oh my God, dad, it took me about fucking 15 years to
convince you about the fucking idea. So there is a possibility to move the fucking world.
I got to argue with my pop who's 83 last month and the end of it was like, I really just want
to mail him some caps. Yeah, absolutely. He's using CBD every day now. I send him some for his
wife who's getting dementia and he ended up taking it and realizing like he can walk again, his hips
and kneels you shot. But he did joke, I sent some sort of image, I don't remember, maybe some of my
artwork or something and he made a joke about it. And he's never told me he ate mushrooms,
but maybe he did. I think a bunch of my cousins did back when I was a kid and did parties at my
house, but I sure wouldn't mind. It's definitely. So I personally am a purveyor of the fact I truly
believe that cannabis is an entheogen, a plant with God within. Yeah, me too.
What we refer to as the greater psychedelics, but as the cannabis, actually, if we listen to,
for instance, the song Sweet Leaf, right? You introduced me to my mind. When I met you, I was
alone. Right? And people listen to Sabbath and the guy was an entertainer, right? He ended up taking
on the role that people put him into because what they heard when he played what he played.
But the original albums he was putting out was like, totally, don't be a fucking idiot. Don't
overdo this stuff. Don't be, you know, Satan's gonna come and take your soul. And everyone's
like, thinking he's a Satan worshiper, because they heard that. He's like, Oh, well, I'll make
a lot of money if I play that game. So he did. If you really listen to Paranoid, the album,
he's saying, don't overdo this stuff. You're gonna kill yourself. And, you know, that's,
that's kind of the origins of where we are today with that with that shamanism was the acid tests
and things like that. And people have different vibrations and tuned in different means of how,
you know, music was a huge part of everything. Absolutely. I was gonna start the show today with
my drums, but I can't figure out how to get the studio set up. Man, we're gonna have to tune in
on one of those shows because I think that's really the time link. So glad that you guys decided and
to invite me and to bring me on because one of the things that I'm sure you guys show invites people
to do all the time is just to grow right? Because the because once you have the that experience and
once you kind of start to go down this path, it's really a path of self exploration,
of self discovery, because so much of it is a challenge, you know, is one of the main reasons
that keeps me addicted to growing, because it's just such a mental challenge to innovate,
to figure out to mimic culture. And there's so many guys who are just so inspirational,
and how that really allows me to tie this current experience to the broader range that lies just
beneath the surface of your eyes, which is called the human experience that our ancestors have been
living and that we actually can live through, like the elders. I mean, that's one of the
most incredible thing about the plant is allowed me to get in touch with the knowledge and the
understanding. And once you start to touch that, you start to feel that it's ancient, it's
terrestrial, it's Jurassic, the knowledge of cannabis, cannabis growing ties in so intimately
with the human experience that it is inexplicable. It is impossible to separate these two. But man
still comes down with the iron hammer, with communism, with all this shit that's happening,
like in Russia, and these places where cannabis laws are as they are, you know, and the historical
development is happening, such that if we don't take the counter steps that had been initiated
in America, and we don't spread it globally, then things aren't going to change, you know. So it's
like you really have to take it upon yourself to explore what I think we're talking about, because
I've been so, so attracted by the experience that elders have had with this plant. And I see it all
the time explored in land-raised cannabis. Why am I so into land-raised cannabis? Or ruderalis.
I'm not into ruderalis, I'm into land-raised cannabis because of the use and the anthropological
implications of the plant inside the mind of what it could give birth to, you know.
Right, right, right. So when you're growing, I see you're using living soil concepts.
Absolutely.
And then you're making a lot of hybrids, I see.
Absolutely.
So are you, I see a bunch, you're filling them centrifuges up, you're packing those up,
is it primarily F1s of the Siberian? So you're, there's going to be like a fast flower primarily
that you're putting out? Or are you working those some into when they're the fourth generation and
become auto flower? Or what stage are you at? In all honesty, I can't lie, I'm just such a
beginner in this. So I am just experimenting and trying to learn as much and grow as much
diversity as I can. So I can then take this knowledge and apply it in a way that can be
useful. Because I'm not interested, yeah, of just putting out F1s or just putting out F1s,
or even F2s or F3s, just from a personal level. What I think I do am interested in is what it
allows other people to then do with them. And that's the primary key for me, is because what
I found out is I learned through other people so much, and the greatest way is just by sharing.
And that's the key that I've learned. That's why I want to grow as much as I can and experiment
as much as I can. And hybridization of the Siberian varieties is definitely key for me,
because I think it's allowing so many people, and it's allowing me to explore the idea of growing
in Alaska, to growing in different latitudes and in different microclimates. Because even here within
Alaska, there are so many different microclimates. So Anchorage is so much different compared to
the Aleutian Islands or the tip of the peninsula. Or Fairbanks. Or Fairbanks. So in those regions,
and that's why ruderallas are really, really interesting to me,
along with the land-raised varieties, because we can hybridize them.
And that really will, I mean, the experience that I've had is being outside with cannabis plants
under the moonlight. That's what I want people to have the experience of.
It's pretty key. It's pretty awesome being at dusk and seeing the alpine glow,
reflecting off the surface of the leaf and stuff. And it's a powerful, definitely powerful
experience. There's no doubt about that. Yeah. I mean, I believe that it can kill that hate
that you have in your heart that's called, that's born out of ignorance and born out of fear.
We all fear nature. We're feared the world. That's why psychedelics are such a powerful
experience because it allows you to potentially get comfortable with that uncomfortability of
having to face your mortality. To have to face that, which you don't want to recognize and see
within yourself, within society, within others and face it and confront it.
Yeah. That's what, with that whole line I was talking about from Zadis,
when I first met you, I was alone. You introduced me to my mind and you start realizing it's like,
wait, but I'm part of this entire thing as the one song, the universe.
Right. Just being in harmonic chord with it all. And, you know, kicking the goads,
working hard, trying to just get by when it's like, it shouldn't be the struggle.
That's one thing I was telling you. Yeah. It's just like, we shouldn't, there's a really neat
book. This is a, this all ties together here with, when you grow, you're, I love agriculture. You
plant a seed and it multiplies. Right. Right. And it's a great investment. You get what you reap,
what you sow. Right. And something I've been wanting to tell you directly since I chipped
up on that. And like, what do you have to offer to this conversation? Have you read the book,
The Richest Man in Babylon? No. Okay. So everybody go get that book. This is why I'm a homeowner.
I know I'm a weak individual and I have more desires than I have will. And one of those is
I'm addicted to skiing. Right. And so I don't work because I'm skiing. I used to get paid a
little to ski, but that was a, it was a dichotomous aspect to firefighting. I would say, Hey, I fight
fire all summer to ski, so I could ski all winter and stay in shape. And I stayed in shape skiing
and I could fight fire all summer. But I knew once I started realizing it's like, you know,
just like you, it's like, man, I'm working my ass off and I'm not, I don't have anything
that's more expensive around me. And that book's basis, the tenet is that if you realize that 10%
of every penny that comes to you, every 10 cents of every dollar that comes to you is yours.
And I see you spend a lot of time, you're investing, you're engaging that stock market. And so
if 10 pennies of every dollar is put into that and invested properly, right. And that's what
agriculture is great like that. Cause you're, if you take money and invest 10% of your income into
your agriculture, you're going to end up growing a huge farm. Right. But whatever it is that you
just find that it's going to be your investment thing. And like, when I started realizing this.
You know, I'm so glad that you brought up this conversation because what it comes down to is
having accountability for yourself and your resources and your pocketbook and your budget.
And that has to deal with sustainability in your cultivation practices because everything you do.
Yeah. Because in the end you're spending your own money, right. And apparently wealth is generated
and you can generate wealth. But if you're constantly just throwing everything that
you're generating into an endless furnace that has no return, because you have absolutely no vision
to what will be a viable return. Then, I mean, we're living in a world of blind people led by
blind people. And that's why I am so interested in the idea of the stock market and the psychology
behind it, because so much of it is intricately connected with basically your own wealth and your
own ability to survive. All of us are living on finite resources with other finite beings here.
So you literally, how are you going to make it above other people? Are you going to step on their
heads or are you going to cooperate? Because there's multiple alternate ways of approaching
generating wealth or happiness or sustainability. But it does all, I think for me, tie into,
I think the greater, broader experience of what I'm able to share, like during this conversation,
what a heartwarming, heartfelt conversation, especially as it retains to individuals'
happiness, because it's not in the dollar, but the dollar or whatever it is. I mean,
if we could bargain, and that's a wonderful thing about our community.
It gives all these abilities, but so many people, if you don't grow, you have no capital,
you have no land. If you have no land, nothing to grow, where are you making money? You better
be writing code. And I'm so passionate about this shit. Don't get me started. I'm like,
you better be working your motherfucking ass off right now. If you are a kid watching this shit,
if you're thinking, I'm just going to get high and then everything's going to be great. Oh my God,
dude, don't be doing that shit. You're literally, the devil's going to take your ass.
It's not so easy to just grow a living anymore. Everyone's growing. So the value, and this is
like my mentor's dream was that weed has no value, so everyone has it for free.
Move on to the next sections of a true value is fiber and fuel.
Gosh, you said so much, I can't even grab one pop to follow up.
Yeah, my mind is fucking sporadic as shit. I'm glad we're looking at this.
That's the book. It's got a great storyline that talks about, so it totally relates to the blue
collar and the white collar, right? But basically it tells you a formula for anybody in any status
of debt or whatever. It shows you how that like, whatever, even if we're working a minimum wage,
10% of that's yours. Put that aside. I worked minimum wage jobs back in the
89, 90. I was doing construction, heavy construction for seven bucks an hour.
I didn't have enough money to buy a beer after I paid for the fuel to get to come and go.
But yeah, I got arrested in my dorm room again for half a gram of weed and they kicked me out
of college and there I was stuck doing, working for my girlfriend's dad's construction company
because that was the only thing I had. And I was six months and I asked them for a raise. They were
like, I worked for $7 an hour for the first eight years. That was like in 1970 when that bought a
house for you, right? And here we are, what is it? $9 an hour is the minimum wage and that doesn't
buy you a room in a house for rent, hardly. So yeah, figuring how the what you're going to,
this is where we're going. You got to be able to increase what you are worth in which way you can
and not just growing weed, but growing food, right? Sustainability, right? That's like the
wealth basically idea. If you don't got to spend half your money on real food, because there's
why is cheap food so cheap? Because it subsidized the medical industry, right?
And it's all the same thing. The central bank subsidizes the cheap food. They also direct the
entire medical scholastic industry and regulate the drugs and who's a doctor and who can prescribe.
Okay. And you know, like anyone who comes out talking about sugar acidosis is immediately
labeled as a quack. But sugar acidosis is a very real thing. And we are unindated with
Candida, right? Our entire body is overrun by this sugar craving.
Dr. Justin Marchegiani Exactly.
Dr. Aaron Deacon This turns us into a drug addict.
Dr. Justin Marchegiani Yeah.
For this crappy food that also sent us into the hospital obese, sick and having diabetes.
Dr. Aaron Deacon Well, I mean, I just want to interject the
reason why this is such an important conversation, right? The reason why is because of this
sustainability factor. We could just continue and just repeat that over and over again,
because I think this is a point that needs to be hammered down. What you're doing by increasing
your knowledge is you're making yourself more self-sufficient, which is making yourself wealthier,
which is making yourself less dependent on the system, which is relieving the system of the
pressure that it is under because the system is not evil in itself. It is only doing it because
it is looking at society and all these people. It's like, oh, no, these guys can't grow for
themselves. They don't need to or they can't be farmers. They don't have the knowledge.
Let us take it upon ourselves to provide it for them. And they take away the ability of us having
knowledge. Exactly. And then they take it. They take the money and and then you are robbed of
knowledge and experience and of the quality that you could provide for yourself that nobody else
would be able. Well, not unless you're paying for it. You won't be able to afford it. Right?
Yeah. So afford it. So you have to afford it with your the power of the most powerful tools,
the most strong muscle we have is our mind. Right. Right. And so like there's a misnomer
in this came up in our in our in our Instagram conversation. There is a thought that our
education system is a just training to be a worker or complacent. And there is a component
of that. Right. Especially because built on when American expansion was was democracy.
Right. And when we were coming off of the farms, we had it's like my family went through the entire
thing where chemicals came in and they didn't have to spend their entire 13 people in the family
hiring another 13 people just to hoe the weeds to get the crop out. Right. They sprayed them
magic. Right. And they didn't know any better. So this is all the progression of how we got to
here we are today. But the it's using your mind in that school. It gives you the basic set of
and me fidgety like super energy. I got I get I got kicked out because I couldn't pay attention.
Right. My mind is all freaking over the place. Right. Because people couldn't grasp your
attention. Right. Right. But you got it. You got to be able to deal with the people who are
not catching up. Yeah. And all of this. So so when it comes to those is what my point getting there
is in school. We're sitting there and there's this opportunity of knowledge and it's up to you.
And it's the hardest thing is up to you to make that work, whether you're a college or a young
kid in grammar school. It's more your parents. But here we are. Our parents are struggling
to get by with three incomes. So they don't have time to motivate the kids to use their
mind properly. Right. Exactly. You know, that's an inspiration. No. Two homes, three homes with
my family. My daughter learned how to manipulate the situation and get away with being a princess.
And so it's a longer haul for me here. She just pointed out the other day where literally
she's like, Dad, I think it's one year today that I went to uni, which was literally one year to the
day that she survived an overdose. OK, you know, the society was so messed up and I was trying to
do just my body being broken. Literally, the doctors missed the fact my neck was broken twice
and I have seven discs on my shoulder broken. All this shit. I live in utter pain. Come through.
And I'm in misery. I'm doing my best to provide for my kid. Right. Last time I never left Utah
because I'm here for my daughter. And if I hadn't been here, the second overdose probably would have
been the end. But she got out and did something else. And 16 years old and yeah, going through.
Um, she was 15 at the time. Right. And that's with the entire society just shut down last year.
Right. And all this was like, oh, toilet paper. I know exactly. You know, that's like the one thing
everyone like that was society's one thing they went for. They didn't they didn't they didn't buy
things, didn't buy food, but they bought toilet paper. And let me also bring this in. Just think
about this before coronavirus shit. Do y'all guys remember how much in the news, all that illegal
cannabis, all that booze, cannabis, all those cannabis carts, all that fake cannabis shit was
killing kids. Right. You guys follow. It's a huge trend because it's literally happening.
And this coronavirus shit happens. And then all of a sudden, all this news goes away. Like all of a
sudden, these kids aren't buying this counterfeit cannabis and this shit, cannabis products and
shit and all this oils, fake oil to concentrate from from spice oils mixed in with CBD. Yeah.
Yeah. Why am I bringing this conversation up is because so many motherfuckers are still out there
on the legal market buying it from so-called whoever. It's like, bro, that's why I'm growing
this seed is because you could take this seed right here and you could plant it and you don't
have to smoke chemicals that destroy your brain and blow your lungs out and then lead you to use
other chemicals that have to suppress that pain that you're not even noticing that you're
poisoning yourself with. So much of this cannabis use that I know of and that I see is just literal
poison, smoking poison, sharing poison. It's like, oh, my God, you guys, you guys will never
experience natural real cannabis, I guess, you know, and you guys don't know. It's kind of a
trip out late. And, you know, the reality of it is I have a First Amendment card for my cannabis
use. Right. And so a little touchy talking about my daughter, but like she literally almost died
on prescription drug overdose. Right. And so like she also at that point in time without any
interaction for me, I didn't supply it to her. She's been arrested twice for having a vape pen
at school. Right. Yeah. But like she tells me how like she can't smoke the shit that comes to her
because it makes her sick, gives her a headache and her sore throat. It does. Yeah. Right. It's
like you don't know what the people are after the money. Right. They're not helping you out.
It's psychology, man. Yeah. That's why it's so empowering to follow people like you,
because I think so much of this thought has just been developed over so long. You know,
permaculture. That's why I follow like Russ Branding and all these other guys
who have the ability to synthesize and to tie in ancient knowledge with new technology, which will
allow us to use these things more sustainably with more knowledge, you know, more sufficient.
Pay attention to people who went to jail for the plant. Yeah, exactly. Right. This is another one
who he did time for this. Yeah, exactly. He earned his dues. Right. There's no practicality in people
who stuck to it versus people who have acquired a whole bunch of information and regurgitated for
you. Right. There's a there's difference in the practicality and applications of what's being said
and the actual accuracy, you know, but there's tried and true stuff. And that's one thing. So
so back to your seed and why people might be interested in supporting what you're doing
and making a benefit for themselves and doing the same. I've grown what would be called a fast flower
and it was a scum fans. Number one cross to a root or Alice. And I did.
I planted them in May 15th here at 36 North and harvested them at September 15th for a pound
a stick and they were not given great condition. Right. And so that's what the one hybrids can do
for folks when they they can get these these things that they they're not necessarily all
going to have that fast flower capacity into them. But if you take that and you make a male and you
can you can reproduce that in over a couple of generations and it takes about four. Is that right?
I mean, to make a full auto. If you want to do that or just keep buying some of these F1s
he's throwing out there that are going to have amazing possibilities to them.
So we have a one to ask you about with this particular strangers and have you said there
was a lot of breeding done in Berkistan back in the day with the people. And sorry for my
pronunciation. I haven't. I know I'm trying to say it right. Sometimes my tongue doesn't want to
do it either. Right. The there's there's THC varieties as well coming out of there. These
primarily seed and fiber to start with. And how much are people looking at the possibilities for
THC content? Is that a huge thing? I know over time, like Ritterhouse, I won't touch my mentor
with huge. But I won't touch Ritterhouse. Well, I mean, everybody has their right to feel that
way, because I think a lot of people are uneducated about so much of cannabis use. And then on the
other side of it, so many people have a specific reason why they're using cannabis and come into
cannabis. So the varieties that we have tested that are coming out of Berkistan are primarily CBD
varieties. We have a couple of other regions that we have collected from, but we have not had
sufficient testing and we have not had any certificate of analysis done on them. But it is
my belief. The reason why so much of it is CBD is because the guys who were doing the breeding
projects back a hundred years ago and more, I mean, it is indigenous, but who brought it there
a hundred years ago or a thousand years ago? And when did that transition? From my understanding,
those plants were there for forever. People have always lived with the plants out there,
but they are CBD dominant. But the auto flower characteristic is very prominent in the F1s
because it just speeds it up and it allows it to have more vigor, more hardiness.
So basically the process of hybridization is such a fascinating process just to watch,
because the phenos that you get out of it will be leaning either THC or CBD dominant. And it is very
fascinating to kind of start to figure out that certain plants are dominant in one characteristic
over the other, just like in, I think, like people's genes, right? Certain genes are just
more dominant. So it is very fascinating to find out. But so far we have only tested CBD
varieties. And so it is such a powerful medicine for me to think about because I like the one-to-one
ratios and I would like to then to continue to develop on that platform. So for me, that is one
of the interesting aspects behind it, how to synthesize some kind of cannabis that will allow
me to grow it indoors and then take it and grow it outdoors as well with some THC in there as well.
Because I am a concentrate user. So a lot of times, you know,
making hash out of this stuff will be like such a great medicine, man.
I remember the first time somebody sent me a little bit of a sample of their CBD strain mixed
with THC strain as an extract. And we are sitting there like, what is going on? And I had never
actually even dabbed. My young pad one learner came over and brought a rig and taught me how to
do this. And we are going through them and it is like, well, oh, ACDC. That, oh, okay. This is like
putting your finger down your throat at an orgy. You know, you have to throw up and eat more food.
Oh, I can keep going was my first, it is like, but then I started realizing like, oh, man, that really
allows me to consume more THC, relaxing more muscles and not be dysfunctional or couch locked
with some of these replacement strains that I have developed. And that brings in an entire
different group of people off of pills and onto plant medicine. Right?
Man, I got issues with my back and with everything, man. And just like you were saying,
society. So yeah, I consume cannabis. And I mean, if it wasn't for cannabis, man, who the fuck knows?
I definitely, why? One of the reasons why I like Mendo Dope is because I think cannabis saved my
fucking life, man. I could have been one of those overdose users that just never made it back.
So much of my life had been down that road that I've just seen just the misery and the poverty,
and it just leads so many people just to a dead end road. And if you don't start,
so I mean, this medicine for me is a lifesaver, man. You know, it's like,
it really is a lifesaver for me, man, because yeah. So if I could consume it in a manner that
allows me to function, that's really the primary thing that really gets down to, because I want to
be a functioning, productive individual in society. I don't want to be an individual who's in pain and
who's not able to contribute. No, it's horrible. And I go through this on daily cycles as the
weather changes until we get our high pressure summers. Right? I literally, I have, my body's
fucked up. I have more parts missing and I got a buddy who's missing a whole leg, but I've got
a whole lot more, there's literally seven discs gone from my spine. And if I lay wrong on my bed,
I am not functional for the next two or three days. I sleep flat on the floor without a pillow. If I do
extraneous exercises for the day, my muscles get used out of whack. Me too, man. I've done that
for a while, man. It's been such a battle just with the sleep, man, in itself.
I woke up in the middle of the night this morning for muscle cramps and whatever issues. It's part
of life, but having a proper medicine besides, you know, luckily for me, I was at that private
high school where the priest saw me just being a dope idiot on, we didn't catch my neck had been
broken and they just gave me opiates and a neck brace. Thought I had a whiplash when I was 16 years
old and I was just taking the prescription and one of the priests in class, like, when are you
going to rejoin us? And I'm like, I'm here. And like, no, your body's here, man. You sure ain't.
I looked at my pills. I'm like, it says I got another prescription pill. He grabbed that bottle
and took it and threw it in the garbage and basically saved my life that day. I had opiates
after a surgery once after that. And I took it one day and the security guard at my mother,
where she lives in a private gated community golf course, found me rock climbing on my crutches,
doped out of my fucking board on a mild opiate. And that was the last time I ever took one besides
when they put me under for surgeries. I won't take them once I leave the hospital.
Yeah. And it is an option for so many people. I mean, I've seen people crawl out of the worst
possible situations that they got themselves into or that life had put them into. So it's such
a powerful medicine. It's such an inspirational community that we really get to live amongst,
like in Instagram land, so to say. Because of, yeah, so much hope is out there, you know,
and it's really affordable to anybody to grow a seed, to grow a plant, the relationship that you
start to develop and your ability to start to step away from substances and these people who
are getting you to continually use these substances, you know, sometimes it's really
difficult, but you have to break that friendship. You have to literally isolate yourself and focus
on yourself, you know. Point to Mr. Phelps, who has how many freaking gold medals, right?
Yeah, boy.
I don't often use my own self as an example for the good part of stuff. I show what the
fucked up things I went through was. I graduated from Cal Poly with basically a 4.2 in my major,
3.0 overall, right? And I stunk like a fucking skunk the whole goddamn time.
Back then I had knee and back injuries that I just like, because I missed my broken neck,
I just like ignored this stuff. But there was one day my brother found me passed out from pain
halfway in and out through the front door in the garage on the basement floor. Just like,
I was out, dead to the world, and he dragged me and closed the door and, you know, that was-
I think I've definitely been dead before too, man. I won't lie, dog.
I've had some overdose situations before, y'all. I hate to say it, but I've been there.
That was just a muscle spasm reaction when I went to open the door and I had a lunchbox in
this hand and my back went weird and it pinched the nerves, right? Because I was missing stuff
and I'm fine. And that was at 25 years old, right? They have no clue whatsoever, anything other than
the killer chronic indica that my brother grew helped me. And that's what life was.
Just quickly, we have about an hour before I gotta get ready for the 10am show. So I want
to gently nudge the conversation back to land race exploration. So do you want to set the table
by kind of talking about which regions specifically you've been exploring and kind of
like, bring back to- you're the explorer, like, bring back to all of us like what you've learned.
Well, one thing that I definitely want to say is, I mean, this is the path that I think,
if you're an individual and you're curious about this stuff, I think there's nothing that you could
do more than to say to yourself, there's no reason why I can't go and explore myself. That's
what I want to say to people. Why should I be the explorer? I think you should be the explorer. You
should be the explorer. I think everybody should. I mean, if you have the ability to, obviously,
I'm speaking to the people who have the ability to, but I mean, you could have the ability to
grow in your closet. So that's really the place where I think I want to bring it back to. It's
been such a wonderful journey exploring land race cannabis through Afghanistan, India, Pakistan,
and why not explore some of these northern regions as well, you know? The experience that I've had,
I think, is very similar to the experience that Heart of Gere has had here. It's like an intimate
experience with yourself, with life, with your family, just through growing. And the variety of
root aromas, I mean, so many, if we could, the conversation of root aromas could be like a course
taught at the university. We could talk about the science of auto flowers for a very long time,
you know, because it's so much of it is still developed and in development. And that's really
where I want to challenge people, you know, that's where I'm coming from. I'm trying to
challenge myself and other people. Why don't you take... We lost your audio. But I just wanted to,
yeah, I just want to challenge people to see what they could do with it, you know? That's really
where I'm at. I think so many people are feeling me on that level right there. They're like, well,
shit, let me see what I could do with it, you know? And I'm not trying to get anybody to do
anything specific with it and stuff, you know? I'm trying to do my own individual thing and trying
to learn from others. So let other people explore, man. And you could go to Russia, man. Let me tell
you all right now, you could go to Russia, you could go to China, you could go to India, you
could go to Pakistan, you could go to Afghanistan. Ain't nothing fucking stopping you from going
there and being 100% smart, incognito, being like a motherfucking, you know, being who you are and
just being genuine and not just trying to go out there to take shit, you know?
That's how. You just go and be a human being, right?
Yeah, exactly.
It's tough with... There's definitely a stigma in some places against Americans, right? But it's
like we are...
Anywhere in the world.
Be you. Be a human being. That's it. You're going to travel and you want to look for this stuff. Be
a human being. Don't be an asshole. That's what it comes down to. You're no better than any other
human. We've got seven and a half billion of us now, right? No agenda other than being a human
being and learning about other human beings and their culture. And you'll end up being treated as
a human being.
For me, that's what I think this whole Growing Cannabis is about. It's about cultural exploration
and cultural infusion and just human experience infusion. That's what I try to offer to the
Instagram and to anybody who is growing cannabis. It's like, don't you want to grow something
different and explore something different? Well, here's your opportunity, man. The world's
your oyster. Connect through us to the rest of the world and try to grow some of these
indigenous varieties that come from these places. You might be very intrigued about the experience
that you have with the plant.
Oh, and also hybridizing these one-to-ones or three-to-one, you developing these variations
with that's a whole other realm of medicinal experience.
And science and economy. I mean, so there is absolutely THC varieties all throughout Russia.
I am 100% convinced just because if you guys don't know, Pakistan and Afghanistan is on
the border of Russia. So the Russians have been smoking motherfucking hash varieties
for as long as time have existed. And they have brought in varieties from these regions
to all throughout anywhere they went.
Yeah. I got Ukrainian neighbors whose in-laws are production warehouse growers that brought
it with them. They were doing it in Ukraine and they moved here and they're doing the
same thing they did at Ukrainian mafia, whatever you want to call it. But yeah, people do that.
I have one, it's called Russian doll. I only have two seeds of it. I have not grown them yet.
But people are asking is it all root or Alice's and all the land races in Russia,
root or Alice's. No, root or Alice's is more of a Northern latitude and Russia definitely
comes down further South. And so there's definitely a mix of those varieties.
Yeah. So most of that root or Alice's is going to have that heavy CBD in it.
And that's one of the biggest interests for me is because I do see so much of the potential
for economy to grow around the ability for us to play with the ratios of the THC and the CBD
because of the ability for it to create all sorts of different medicines and compounds as well.
I believe the root or Alice's can be a platform for you to then, because it is, it's like a
building block for you to then, it's just kind of like Legos in a lot of ways. You could really
take the F1 and then you could infuse. And I have a vision of what I want to do. Of course,
I do want to grow kind of the Oregon style size. So 32 feet trees in Alaska and in anywhere around
the world, I want to make that a possibility for people. And I know that the root or Alice's has
that ability because we have seen with the root or Alice's THC varieties and with the hybridized
cannabis in California, I think it is built on these land race root or Alice's and Afghan and
Indian land race structures to be able to support 32 feet, 32 feet trees full of colas.
I mean, this is, this is mind blowing to me, you know, to think that you've got to have the soils
and you got to have the proper moisture and all that comes together. But you can breed,
you can take these components and breed something to your personal locality. That's going to be
maximizing and getting as close as possible with the soil and the moisture regime and
pH regime. Like I live in a super alkali environment here, just across the board,
right? Other places are very acidic and that change that affects things dramatically on how
but over long periods of time and selection, there's going to be those outliers in the gene
pool that have that say, Hey, I can do this in an alkali environment. And I can drive.
It takes a minute. We're 120 years behind all the rest of the plant breed.
Well, that's such an interesting thing, because that's really that's the point of exploration
where I would, that's where I'm at, because I'm playing around with soil. I'm making soil,
testing soil. Soil pH is like such a contributing factor to the success of your cannabis grow,
cannabis plant, right? So I had this last round, some plants that were straight up growing in four
or five soil, and you could easily tell which ones liked it and which ones didn't, but it was all
the same soil. So the, within just one phenotype or within one strain, if you grow from seed,
you could find a phenotype that likes, or that totally tolerates 4.5 soil at the root level.
Now that is incredible to think about, because if you look at what cannabis nutrient uptake is like,
you'll see that how can this plant successfully, but take on yield and produce THC in four or five
soil, you would think you can't. I live, my tap water is at nine. Yeah. My tap water is eight and
a half, nine. And depending on the time of the year and how much water is in the reservoirs,
and it rains, it can be like that. We get these alkali ash rain that really takes alkali ash
onto everything, right? And there's cannabis thriving in that here. Like I said, I have these
hemp plants that with very little water in this high alkali system last year,
put off incredible yields, right? Yeah. So, but you got to let those seeds grow and observe and
do the work for your locality. And it's everyone who has the passions responsibility to pull out
the stops and pro down. Absolutely. Well, what I'm trying to do is, so I'm trying to build a
platform, you know, for other users and for us as a community to just work on. Like Russ Brandon is
such a pivotal factor in like my career and development as the thought of what can be done
with cannabis. So he took the ruderalis and he infused it with the gorilla glue number four,
right? So now we're exploring that. So I'm taking a couple of other varieties, like double purple
and I've crossed that to the ruderalis. So we have another person who has taken that Siberian
GG4 and crossed it with a Mac. And then I was able to grow those out this last time.
And it was so fascinating to see out of those phenotypes, what you're able to gain every time
that you're able to build on top of one strain, you know? So the gorilla glue number four, what
is that genetic makeup? And I mean, obviously I get into the science of it because I am trying to
then have a database of what can be done based on the gorilla glue number four lineage crossed
with the Siberian. Or what about the double purple hope mix with the Siberian? So it's just all kind
of just building. I'm looking at it like a lifelong project, you know? So I'm just trying to fill my
data bank up in here and as well as share with other people. Because I mean, the development of
the medical industry around this is going to... And it's so potent. Just look at Russ Brandon,
man. Look at the amount of money and the industry ability that can be generated just like
showing what can be done with these plants, you know? And growing indoor and then growing in
greenhouses. I think that's going to be the future. It's unsustainable to grow indoors.
So if people are wondering why I'm fucking with Ruralis, it's because I think it's going to be
unsustainable to fucking grow indoors unless you're going to be in the top one tier percent
of people who are going to be able to afford it. Because they are going to come down with
the carbon taxes and with the future of globalization is changing, it's changing around.
That's why... Yeah, you have to start taking a look at what's happening in the world, man. With
climate change and with everything. So land-raised cannabis, I think, is the future
of our industry. Definitely. No one's going to be able to survive financially without incorporating
the root or Alice crop hybridized into their system, if not two. With having a full auto
flower to start with and then a fast flower and then having your regular photo periods,
finishing up your harvest at the end. It all comes down to the cost of doing business and
the cost of things. And that's why it's such a... For me, having realized this, I then quickly
realized that there's people who have known this forever, you know? And I'm just discovering this,
obviously. So it's a wonderful thing. I'm not contributing anything. People are just... People
know what's going on. People are developing this stuff and it's all good. The day we stop learning
is the day we're dead. Whether our body is not or not, we should be learning something new every day.
And being open to the fact that what you knew before might not be
accurate once you learn something new. Exactly. And so much of this knowledge has to be tested.
So I think that's where I'm at. That's why I'm doing what I'm doing. That's why I'm open platform,
open source, because I want people to test and see what they can do and what can't be done. I don't
know what the limit is and I don't want to try to constrain anybody. Who am I? I want people to be
creative, man. And the creativity that I've seen with the root of Alice has been incredible, man.
The adaptability of it. Just the same with the equatorial sativa. I'm so interested in them
because of the THCV and just the sativa aspect behind it is. And the raciness and the energy
that you get out of these varieties, man. That's why I'm a cannabis explorer and stuff, you know?
It's because I want to try these experiences, man. So much of this conversation in the back of my
head. You can see I've got oil paintings behind me here. And I literally. So like this is an early
one when I'm teaching myself how to oil paint. And this is like some of my later stuff. These
are literally standing there painting them. But this whole conversation, I'm just going in my head like
this is a painting of a skier, right? I'm like, you know, the same kind of thing when you're
talking about being artistic or creative with these strains. I literally, when I picked up the
oil paints again, I bought a bunch of low grade paint and threw it out on a glass palette and just
started mixing color. Right? Until I remembered everything I learned as a kid about how all the
color mixing and it all came back into my head. But literally was just making mud, throwing things
around and seeing what came out of it. And I ended up developing this amazing style that I oil paint
with now. Right? And that's kind of the same thing you can do with these. You grab some of these packs
of F1s that he's thrown out and throw them out and see what happens. And I'm going to create a
masterpiece out of it if you keep with it a minute. Well, you know, if you're if you're part of the
community, you never know what you have to offer to others. And that's one of the things that I
remember at first, I when I was coming into the scene, I used to think like everybody else,
Ruta Rallis, that just ditch weed. Don't you don't you don't not don't want that shit. And
obviously, that's the mentality that you're coming from. If you're a doper in a lot of sense, man.
Yeah, I don't want Ruta Rallis because that ain't gonna give me high. Why the fuck would I want to
Why the fuck would I want to fuck her? Why would I want Ruta Rallis and stuff, you know?
Well, I mean, there's so many reasons. I mean, so for me, the potential of developing this industry
and what this industry can develop into, there's guys who are taking and developing
hempicide out of cannabis, volatile compounds out of the oils. So that's 100 percent
eco-friendly. That's 100 percent chemical free way of being able to treat your plants.
How can you have that product if you can't lower the cost of growing this product to make this
product? But if I mean, if you so you have I'm learning about the agricultural aspect of it,
because so much of money has to deal with that because it comes down to literally you're saving
money by having these genetics infused into whatever kind of purpose that you're trying
to take this thing into, you know? Yeah. Any breeding project done proper is five
generations anyhow. With Ruta Rallis, it's literally you can get your full auto in four.
Yeah. So it's not even that, you know, and you can buy five or six generations,
you got a full auto that's comparable to your photo period in cannabinoids as far as, you know,
if you do the proper selection, especially if you have access to laboratory testing, right? You can
really see what's going on with your selections or help aid your selections. And I wanted to,
yeah, also let people know is like, man, you could do some of this stuff in a very quick manner.
I have a friend who had a midnight cover. You guys see this guy pop up on my page all the time.
But check this out. You could have a full auto in almost just a year.
How how can you do it right? You're like, well, how can I do a full auto in a year? Well, first
of all, you could grow an auto to be this big. So your breeding projects can literally be shrunk
down in terms of time, because let's say I pop a seed, right? I pop one of these Russian
root arousal seed. It'll take a couple of days for it to germinate. I'll give it two weeks of
veg time. I could flip it in two weeks. It'll start flowering and in its third week from seed.
So so you can you can actually turn it on a little earlier than like a naturally it's like a two
month and a half, two months of growth before it autos. Is that right? Or?
Well, this is the beautiful thing about autos. So much of it depends on the tap root. So if the tap
root hits the bottom, it will start it will trigger flowering.
So you can control by your your root ball size, your planter size, how large our plant is and
how long the entire cycle takes. Exactly. And if you focus on the pre flowers,
you could literally harvest that seed before that plant even reaches halfway through its maturity
cycle. You could take that seed, plant that seed and then continue the F2 project and then take
that pre flower seed, pollinate whatever selection you have and you'll have a ripe seed before that
plant is done. And then you could have a full auto within one year doing micro breeding.
And people are wondering, like, well, how do I know which one is a good selection? Is that
so you grow the plants out, you can you can do the pre flowers on five or six plants
and you can use them one or two different males and you can check each one of those.
You only need a couple of seeds off each plant, right? Exactly. So you run out and
after you've got those other those plants, the seeds are growing, they're still finishing.
Exactly. And see what the smoke result is and make your selection. You can call stuff that
didn't smoke the way you wanted it to didn't finish out and form you in. You can call it
after you produce that seed, but you can have that cycle rolling. Right. And really, when it comes down
to it, it comes down to numbers. So people are like, well, how can you do this? Yeah, you can't
do it if you're doing it in a bedroom or in the closet. But if you're doing it on a scale to where
the numbers allow you to find the gems, the unicorns, then we're talking talking about
something revolutionary because of the time compactness that you can achieve with the
outer flower, which is not achievable through any other means because of its ability to be triggered
through the taproot and through other means of stress like the light cycle or the nutrient cycle.
So many of these things can be used as a means to induce flowering. We got one.
All it takes is one, right? That guy ends up coming up with the taking these ideas and
run with them to where it's like, boom, you know, we did something that's going to last for
our great grandchildren having a better world. Right. So I don't understand that the value of
some of this stuff isn't necessarily that I'm going to buy my daughter new shoes.
My daughter's children are going to be able to have shoes. Yeah.
Can you talk for a minute about kind of your observations of what you've noticed in kind of
the two regions that I feel like you've explored the most, which are the Crimean Peninsula and
my butcher pronunciation, Bashkortostan. Yeah, no, you guys are right. It's so funny.
The and the reason why we have to use these terms, you know, we can't go too much into it other than
the obvious reasons. But one of the things that I've noticed is what it does is I think what I
haven't crossed and bred too much with Indian varieties. But what it really allows you to do
is to grow these monstrous double XL plants and to breed these double XL plants. So if you have
indica plant that's short and squatty and has a lot of density to its bud and a lot of trichomes,
if you cross it to a root or Alice variety, you're going to be able to find a full range in between
these indica phenotypes and then these root or Alice phenotypes. Now, the root of all this
phenotype can be a very dense plant that yields a lot just naturally natural flowers, you know,
big colors. So just depending on your phenotypes and the phenotypes that you could find within the
root or Alice. Genome are actually on the full broad range from the indica phenotypes to full
range, full broad sativa phenotype. So I've seen this with my own eyes. There's plants that were
three feet tall that were just colas. And then there were trees that exhibited the Christmas tree
structure that had big branches that had one apical stem, but it was overall just a big tree
size plant. So one of the things that I've noticed in it is the fact that the selection that we
really were hunting for was we did separate it into the small varieties, but what I'm releasing
mostly is the double XL varieties because what I've noticed is whatever you cross with it is
going to be able to speed up the flower cycle and it's going to allow you to have bigger,
more vigorous plants. And that's the number one thing that you're going to notice from
a crossing or from doing breeding projects with the varieties from our regions there.
And you're going to be able to infuse CBD into whatever indica variety that you're interested in
exploring. So there's some indica varieties that I love like the terpene profile with. So that's,
I'm trying to explore a lot of terpene profiles just because I'm a taste connoisseur as well.
So the flavor has got so much to do with what the effect is. And I'm moving more and more away from
heavy THC myself. It just doesn't serve me the way it used to. And it's more of the different
terpene effects that... Absolutely. One thing I find is if I take a couple of different varieties
of terpene flavored things and then I hit a heavy THC, that really destroys me.
Well, so with the Russian Ruderalis qualities, there is so much still to be explored, guys.
I have just barely scratched the surface. The primary reason why I'm on Instagram and I'm on
here is because I want to know more. There's so much that you could only focus on and learn.
There's still so much to be explored and found out. I think we're literally just uncovering it.
Like you were saying, we're potentially 100, 200 years behind because of the stigma and the laws
that have been surrounding this plant. So I don't know. My observations are so limited, guys,
unfortunately. So this is an interesting thing that I do want to share. So when you're crossing
Indica variety or polyhybrid variety with Landrace or Ruderalis variety, we have observed
consistently that the autoflower trait will be passed down almost 100% to the male gene.
So your F1s will have the majority of the autoflowers in the males. And it's so interesting,
almost all males come out with autoflower genes. It's almost like up to 70% to like 85%
consistently in the F1s. So by focusing on the male side, you can
really breed that autoflower characteristic into an Indica variety or into a polyhybrid variety.
So that question was kind of broad. I think it was asking things like, so you're leading into it,
you're getting the effects for sure. There's always a lot of variation at first, unless you have a
true Landrace to a true Landrace or two F5 and above, you're going to have great diversity in
great diversity in the F1 and F2 and a lot less when it's more inbred.
But you get what we call that fast flower expression in that first F1 in the females.
And then so it's about four generations and that thing's dominant across the field.
And stable and consistent. So everything's going to be there after four generations.
And so it's fairly dominant. And then the other thing that the end of that question was touching
on, I think what I was referring to my concept of a forever flower was crossing that ruderalis into
the sativa. And so is it long? So yeah, my theory is, and people I've talked to
say that you cross ruderalis into a long flower and sativa, it's going to just be a forever flower.
It starts flowering early and it goes on and it will keep on flowering as long as you keep it in
good healthy conditions. And that if I remember right, that guy was in Oregon and he had that
outdoors. It wasn't an indoor thing. And it went through the cycles of the seasons and kept on
flowering for like 18 months and he finds like, I need the plant count space or whatever it was
that he needed. So yeah, that's my, something I first dreamt up at about 87, 88 when I first
heard about ruderalis. And I already had a pretty good understanding of the different types of,
like the stuff in the equator is kind of an auto flower too, but it takes a lot longer for it to
automatically flower because there's only 11 to 13 hours of light. It's not a photo period. It has
more of a numbers of days that's gone through before it kicks into its flowering cycle. And it
stays there once it's there because the light fluctuation doesn't change. So it's really hard
to revert those to vegetative state after you've flowered them. And when you find one of those that
doesn't revert and you cross that to the ruderalis, you're going to have what I'm talking about, that
forever flower that's just going to keep producing that sativa for you. And then.
And that's, yeah. And that's really the, such an interesting thing to explore. Like we have a
plant with in our cultivation facility here as we call it Tundra berry, right. But it's like,
it's like golden strawberries basically. So this funny thing about naming, yeah, you guys will
touch that on another subject, but this one variety we have noticed, if you give it the ability
to have basically what you're talking about is ability for it to be while vegging and flowering
at the same time, it really produces a lot bigger colas and yield than other varieties because of
its ability to have that time to veg in flowering basically. Because while it's vegging, it's
flowering, but all it's doing is if you're using the proper nutrient regimens to support that
growth stage flowering, then you're really increasing that flower yield perpetually to
where it's not just flowering, like you were saying, and then you have to take it down.
It's potentially flowering and flowering like a haze does, right? Because a lot of the haze varieties
have that characteristic in them. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I remember some guy saying,
I experimented with it and I just kept it going. I was at 75, I was at 80 days, it just kept
flowering. And he was talking about a polyhybrid Indica dominant, but that's the same kind of thing
because those really potent things from the late 90s has a great component of all these regions
with the tropical... The diversity of these genetics. And I mean, that's one thing I haven't
mentioned this, but that's one of the primary drivers to what I'm doing is to just offer
diversity to the cannabinoid, to my endocannabinoid system, and obviously to the community. The
community is so diverse in what it allows to offer me that I just thought it would be like,
it's almost like a duty to really do what I'm doing because I'm just trying to do what
people have done for me, man. How do you start a new area search?
Like an area geographically, that's going to be where you have geopolitical access to,
or if you have family and friends, if you can travel to go visit your... That's a huge,
huge thing about getting into the land race in places, especially where it hasn't...
We're still in prohibition, is we're restricted by borders and laws. And so, internet has made
the world a lot smaller. And if you watch the last talk with the Itharian, we discussed how
we got through some of these difficulties to begin with and just travel. But back in the day
before the heavy push from Nixon to totally eradicate and illegalize globally, you could
travel like my mentor did, and he traveled around the globe and would go into the different regions
and meet the medicine men and the shaman to go out and collect. So, it's up to you how you choose,
I suppose. And with you going to... You visiting family in Russia, is that how you're making your
connections or... Well, there's so many things that I could talk about, but what I can say is,
yeah, how would you... It's really easy. I mean, our community is aware it's all at,
you just really have to connect to the community. That's the number one thing.
Okay. So, I guess I've read that question wrong. It's basically just reading science.
You plant some seeds and grow them and observe them. That's it. That's the most basic thing you
do is how do you say, hey, I got an idea I want to find, or even I just want to learn.
Okay. And that's what I was talking about with these artwork where I just went and bought a
bunch of cheap oil paint, spread it out and started mixing it to see what happens.
Right. And then when you observe like, hey, this is going on, this is kind of neat. This is like,
there's no reason to follow that direction. That's all muddy, but this is bright and colorful.
And it can be the same thing with the breeding, right. And whether it's a color or a flavor
or an effect. And you understand enough about the plant and you can have a choice as to,
hey, this is the direction I want to take things. Right. You look at a whole bunch of other people
who do the breeding, who do the selection, who are opening them up and see, hey, why,
how, what are these guys doing? Right. And why and how are they doing it? And with artwork,
we do a thing where we'll go and you learn your basics, right. And you can't break any rules until
you understand the rules completely. And that's the same thing we can do with breeding, but
we go and do workshops and you study completely how a given artist does their style and production
methods and the pigments or the colors and the chemistry that they're using. And you copy that
exactly and try and figure out that it takes a lot longer with planting and growing, but you can
study to these people who are expert growers have been doing it for a while and see how each person
operates and you say, okay, well, that system is going to work with what I think I can do or my
space and my finances. And that's the huge part, right? Like I went to college in the 90s with the
intent of like, I want to be able to do this. It was long before it was legal and there was no
schools. Now there's, you can go to college and learn, right. And so I was studying forestry
about how to run forestry greenhouses and stuff. Yes, things, definitely things more,
there's huge changes. You can take, you can take temperate Afghanistan type stuff and take it into
tropics. It's going to look like a sativa. You definitely move in that. Something is already in
the night that I touched on last week. When you move things around bio regions, they change their
epigenetic expression and that's bound by its genetic package though. And then it's full
understanding of life and where it originated and how it can adapt in the, in the variabilities.
And the soil relationship with the microbes is such an important aspect of it. You know,
indigenous microbes. So all these things apply to where I was going to actually. So like last year,
I was shut down thinking I was moving to California to run a 10 acre green facility for a large
company that grew up out of a family farm that now has, that they provide organic seeds across
America. And they're one of my Santos seed competitors, like on a major scale. And that
was just through some other company. It didn't happen, but that's kind of like, like the biggest
level of it. Right. But when I was a kid at 15 years old, my brother and I had 200 brick seed
and we popped them all and observed them. And we had a couple of books that we had access to. We
had to ask Ed articles in high times every couple of months. And that was, you know, that's the
dichotomy of like how we had, we wanted to recreate skunk back in the seventies or eighties. And we
already thought it was lost. And so we went to land race and start, that's where it was originated
from. So yeah, they have having a plan and understanding the plant and like you might
be listening to this as a new grower and have a deep passion, like, oh man, I got to do this.
It's baby steps, learn how to grow, but we're right ahead and start diversifying in what you're
growing and seeing what you can do. Eventually you become a breeder.
You know, it's so funny. Yeah. If you're a cannabis consumer and you enjoy it, you know,
all you got to do is find one of those strain hunter documentaries. You know,
there's lots of opinions about what's happening with land race cannabis and a lot of opinions
about diluting genetics and taking genetics from one region to another and the implications, the
broader implications that it has. Now that's a interesting conversation to have because you
want to preserve genetics, right? But at the same time with the globalization of the world,
it's very difficult to preserve a genome and its purity. So there's a huge argument, you know,
within that, but outside of that, for me, I think the human experience is just so much more valuable
about exploring these different regions. I mean, we, the strain hunter guys, the reason why I wanted
to mention them is because they were such a positive inspiration and influence to me, because
before dwelling deeper and deeper in this, I knew that there was hash regions of the world,
that there were ancient cannabis cultures and that cannabis use was indigenous to some of these
civilizations. So that's really, that's kind of where the starting point for me was, you know,
in my development and understanding just like, oh, well, how does this relate to like modern
cannabis use, to my modern cannabis use and stuff, you know? So retracing the historical
context of cannabis use in India and in Kazakhstan and in Central Asia was, I think, the primary
beginning to just this idea of why is this such an interesting wealth subject, you know, and just
why is it worth exploring? And, you know, I was born in this place called Kazakhstan,
right there on border of basically Kyrgyzstan and China. And basically this place is not far
away from Chu Valley. So that's what I grew up with. Like when I was a kid, my dad told me about
the Chu Valley, about the hash valley of the fucking, there was no place like this in the
world, basically, you know? And the stories that they talk about is like, there's valleys
full of cannabis. Now you got to go down to the bottom right and there's a lake over here. Yep,
yep, yep, yep, yep, yep. You got it. Yep. So it's basically in the middle around these regions.
Now the Chu Valley, now there is the Tianzhen Mountains around this region. Now I've been to
this lake right here. It's awesome. As a little kid, this is my stomping grounds right here, man.
So these hash valleys inspired me so much as a kid, like way before I knew what cannabis was.
Basically the myths and the stories that come out of these cultures go something like this.
Back in the day, people during summertime, when cannabis was in bloom and then flowering in its
ripe stages, they would rub themselves with oils and then they would get naked. And then they would
go running through the fields and allow their bodies to be covered with trichomes and with
hash. And then they would scrub and they would rub this hash off their bodies. And it just gave
me this crazy, stupid, wild idea in my mind, just about utopia, like a cannabis type of thing.
And it's just like, that's kind of what inspired me to continue to just explore
cannabis in the way that I'm exploring. And it's full diversity and it's a holistic approach.
You just pointed out, land-raise isn't just cannabis. It's everything that we have as
plants that we cultivate. And man, the magic stories of the mystical valleys, for me as a kid,
it was the Emerald Triangle, right? Where all the chronic came from in Northern California.
Yeah. Those hippie stories. And I think that's where the cultural revolution
lies in a lot of the sense now, there's still a lot of war that's happening all around the world.
So much of what I'm doing is driven by non-violence and the movement that the
cannabis industry is really a part of and stuff. So much of this is part of the heart and shit, man.
Hey, time check, Pete. How are we doing? How are you doing?
We got plenty of time.
All right. Cool. Cool. So, anyone got questions for us?
So the thing behind that is, man, you guys, if the realseedcompany.com, this guy is a wonderful
reference to basically land-raise cannabis from all around the world. Like what a wonderful person
to have worked with and- Sorry, who did you just mention?
The realseedcompany.com. They're on Instagram. He's definitely one of the main players that's
brought land-raise to the forefront of the cannabis community over the years.
Yeah, absolutely. Apparently, he's done quite a bit of work with the science of
how cannabis actually moved with man and naturally and how it went feral and came back into
cultivation, different regions and stuff like that. I haven't had a whole lot of conversation
with him because we have contention with, I insist of my understanding-
I know. ... understanding about
land-raise being wild as well. And he's very adamant and has a high energy level about there's
no wild land-raise. So that kind of ends our conversation, unfortunately. But what I understand
is he's got a lot of really good science about how cannabis moved around the globe and land-raise,
cultivation, wild, feral, back and forth and things like that through genetic monitors.
Absolutely. That's the furthest end of like,
wow, that's cool. Yeah.
And I mean, really, this is what the ruderalis is a huge part of. This is the family that we're
talking about, guys. This is the ancient cannabis, one of the most ancient cannabis genome out there.
I mean, so learning and having been from Kazakhstan, you know that man, cannabis moved from
India up through and Central Asia. But where did it necessarily originate? It's very, very difficult
to say, but it is a hundred percent. I'm a hundred percent. Man, this is why you guys got to study
Buddhism. I mean, I hate to say that, but I mean, the origins of so much is inside these cultures
that preserve the knowledge. Tibetan Buddhism and Buddhism is so special in its ability to preserve
knowledge, information and literature and medicine. Medicine like Tibet in the ancient world. And
still it is the Mecca of medicine, science and the science of the mind. And these guys have been
studying these plants for ever since. Pretty neat how quantum physics is coming around today to show
us that the ancient knowledge of these old cultures and religions, whatever they've come to today,
versus that ancient knowledge, that the basis of what the mystics tell us from these cultures,
is synonymous with what the scientists in quantum physics can tell us about the nature of reality
and the universe and who and what we are and why we're here as human beings with consciousness.
Absolutely. Yeah. I think plants definitely have a consciousness and it's a loop. It's a feedback
loop of exploration and of the world, that universe trying to understand itself through us
and through plants, you know, and it's just an evolution of the mind. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No,
we study the actual what DNA is and how similar it is throughout all life. And then you talk about
what the shamans in South America who communicate with through the different DMT concoctions.
Exactly. The plants told them, the plants taught them, right? This information, this knowledge that
they have about various things, different medicines, different ways the earth works and how
the human body works and how the mind works and how they can heal people, right? Yeah.
That's, oh, and this is where when you hopped in, I was going into, and this would be a great
swing around here was, was as a child, I abused tobacco. And the more I learned about tobacco is
actually there's tobacco shaman who forced their bodies to consume huge quantities of tobacco and
they have enlightenment and able to have this clarity of mind and universal knowledge or
tapping into that Akashic record through consumption of tobacco. And it's kind of weird
as I learned more and more and more. It's like, uh, it was, uh, I was smoking in vitro. I was
three years old when I first put a tobacco cigarette in my mouth. And, uh, at 16, I would
be chewing tobacco in two different forms and smoking a cigar at the same freaking time.
Right. And I never thought it was anything good about it, but I've started to realize now that
that was part of my clarity of mind was this over ingestion of that tobacco. Is that a huge part of
that entire culture that there's originally, and it's used in the rituals of so many of our
shaman here in America. Can you see that? What you got? Look at that.
Those are, uh, that's, that's all tobacco seeds. Oh, Oh, wow. Oh, excellent. Yeah. Yeah. No,
so it's, it's actually very potent, uh, sacred medicine as well. And, but just like all these
other things, when we go to abuse them, they cause issues. They create cancer. It's when you
take things out of balance, it's, it's, uh, that's like, so, so we have the use of these,
these shamanistic tools and we have the recreational abuse of them. Right. But there's
also, even when somebody is recreating and a bunch of mushrooms, they can, their party and they're
having these experience friends, they might not be expressing that it's going to enlighten their
mind and give them an entirely, um, different perspective of humanity and whatnot. And, uh,
all, oh yeah. And the canvas is quite often just that gateway. And it's funny hearing, I think the
Duchess was joking about it. They use that word, but it's like, Oh, it's actually a gateway drug.
Yeah. Gateway medicine. And, uh, to these, these higher consciousness, uh, platforms that, um,
when you've gone there, it's, uh, you, once your mind is expanded, you cannot compress it into the
smaller space at once. Well, that's the nature of the beast. It's, uh, and you don't, you know,
you learn stuff there. You don't necessarily need to dwell there. Right. That's the concept
of the shaman is the person who's been set aside from society who does dwell there.
Well, I mean, it gives you, it gives you a point of reflection, right. And, uh, and, uh, perspective,
because if you don't step outside your own body, you can't really see yourself, you know, and you
have to look at yourself through not only other people's eyes, but you have to also train your own
ability to step outside of yourself because you can't always have somebody there reflecting back
to you what your mind is sounding like. And you can talk yourself into a craze, insanity,
depression, anything. Right. So the ability of having the function identified and used in your
own mental health and development is pivotal. And I, that's where cannabis comes in for me, for sure.
You know, the ability to be aware, exactly. Shut the static off. That's what, uh, of course.
And that's what we're talking about, man. We're the descendants of these guys. And I mean, this is
the exploration of our roots right here, man, being born in that side of the world is just
reinforces this whole idea. Like if you study history, that side of the world, why is this so
important? Because we're living in that world where we are the descendants of the sit-ins.
And if we don't recognize who we are, we're just going to repeat the same cycle. Those guys
repeated, but it was a blood bath, that whole region. And this whole world is just full of chaos,
you know, and people are just constantly fighting over resources and money.
Yeah. No, and it's fear and greed. Yeah. Fear begets the greed and the fear of death
because we have this ego mind that we have a hard time transcending. And, uh, if we don't really get
into taking that look at ourselves as to who, what we are and why we are what we are and where we came
from, where things are going to go. Right. And we start realizing it's like, I am just one thread
in this one song they called the universe. I'm not, you know, there's a lot of us and I'm no
more bigger, better or important than the insect out there that's in the soil that provides my food.
Yeah. If you, if we can't, if we can't understand it. So, so that goes back to the entire consumerism,
right? We've detached ourselves from nature, from the earth itself. We've detached ourselves
from weather, from, from food cycles and, um, and all of these things. And, uh, that,
that makes us not really be human. And then we don't, um, scientists say that human, this change
from not human to human is when they found a femur bone that had been broken and healed in a community.
And they said that that was when empathy occurred. And they said, we've taken this person
in our community who would die if we did not care for them. And we fed them and brought them back
into our community. Right. And that was the change from when we were, when homo sapiens became a
human being from not human being was that, that community interaction. And the fact that we had
empathy is a cognizant being that we know that that is an important to us as a member, you know,
we're not going to have more when that person's gone, that person's the vital element to our
contribution to our own survival. And that's how we just think about creation that brought us to
be able to be human beings in the first place. Yeah. Just think about how each individual
mattered. I mean, just like how much elders mattered back in the day. I mean, so much of
that, uh, continuation of knowledge is like, it's, if you don't fight for that, that, that is
literally going to be your own death because knowledge is so pivotal to survival just the
same way as information. I think so much of what it all comes down to is so who, who are these guys?
Who are the Scythians? I mean, it's a, it's, it's a, the subject that's worth absolutely exploring
just the same way it is with cannabis roots. That's why studying and growing root, root
arousal, you're growing and you're literally educating yourself about the cannabis history,
the cannabis plant, you know, the cannabis genome and having that experience, I think makes you
just such, such a more knowledgeable grower and breeder. I think it's absolutely essential,
especially if there was something like some of these problems that we're faced with in the world,
there's a lot of solutions that can be generated within our industry through the use of cannabis
cultivation. Like China is growing so much cannabis. I don't know if you guys know how much
a hemp China is actually growing. Are you guys aware that China is providing 70% of hemp in the
world? I've seen personally, like if you, if you look at like there's small farms that are like,
I'm in a small farm machinery and I really was for a minute where I really wanted to kick in
production for small farm machinery for sustainable small farms here in the USA.
And I would still love to, there's, there's old designs from the fifties that we can adapt to this
kind of stuff today, but looking at many decorticators, it became quite obvious that
there's quite a bit of canvas hemp being produced throughout China. And we consume quite a bit of
hemp fiber here in the United States and none of it's produced here. It comes from China.
So this is the thing that I want to just, I want to make sure that I communicate with people out
there. So this is the thing that really blew my mind a couple of years ago. And just, just more
and more as I go, there is a mathematical, I mean, everything's mathematical in the sense,
right? So we know how much land there is that we could cultivate in America for hemp use.
And we know how much of it is being used for hemp. So if you just look at those numbers,
then you will quickly find out that there's about 95% of land for hemp use that's still not being
used by hemp and is not used by any other agricultural crop that can yield as much and
be as cheap and as abundant in what it offers than what canvases does. So there is so much farmland
that in the next hundred years is going to be converted to hemp use. It's ridiculous. It's
going to be literally us Americans trying to take back the agricultural control of
all these things. That's what made America great in the first place was an agronomy. I said that
in front of the California governor in 1992, make America great again through agronomy.
That's exactly, it's kind of weird when that came back up again, because I remember like,
man, I literally used those words 30 years ago, trying to get cannabis hemp legal in California.
And they wanted to oil drill off the coast. Right?
Yeah. Well, I mean, that's the whole thing behind it is, I mean, if you guys, that's why so much of
what I'm doing is paying attention to the stock market, man, is because that's literally one of
the heads that's leading this industry. So paying attention to where this industry is going, man,
it's so fascinating. This stuff is blowing up in its popularity and its economical drive. And the
cogs are starting to pick up. People are starting to exploit it again and stuff.
I tried to use the analogy of Mulholland bringing water to Southern California.
Right? You might only know the name from the boulevard in Los Angeles,
but that guy had a vision. He's looking at a semi-arid, almost desert.
Exactly.
And this is going to be the heart of the world. Right? And now it is the seventh largest economy
of the world where he brought water. Right? And I try to explain to people, it's like,
if you have the fourth wall to see him for what's coming,
exactly, that's in the infrastructure. And that is the number one limiting factor right now for
cannabis being the true return to what it should be is people investing in this infrastructure.
And it's literally...
Which the oil industry has and has had for a hundred years. So they've built out the
infrastructure to convert oil into every derivative form factor and to push it all over
transportation. Right?
Literally, it was the invention of the correctation machine that drove the
illegalization because they saw that all of a sudden hemp was going to destroy their virginy
and petroleum industry. They were all becoming multimillionaires from. Right?
Have you guys ever wondered why some of these countries are still having the laws that they have?
It's because of American subsidies.
But we just struck on the subject is because of the petroleum industry.
Right. So, for sex, correct.
Yeah. No. And that all comes from right here in the US of A originally.
Or Russia where they're pumping this fucking oil or the Middle East where they're pumping
the fucking oil. Or China where they want to control everything with everything else.
Sure. But it originated with our oil industry in the early 1900s.
Then the rest of the world wasn't developed to the point where they had cars like we did at
that point or was moving forward in industrialization. Right? And that all spread out
from here eventually. But that and also that we definitely... After World War II, we had the world
dominance and imposed the world these sanctions. You got to legalize cannabis in your nation.
And so, it's stuck now. Right? And hopefully we have the influence now, like you're saying,
that we push it out and say, hey, freedom. Everyone should be growing this plant. It's
sustainable. This is going to save the world. It's going to save your country. Right?
And the lights were coming on slowly. Slowly but surely. It's like Virginia just legalized.
That's huge. When we see Idaho, it's a green light for the rest of the world.
It's interesting, man. This industry... I watch you guys. I listen to you guys. So much of
everything that's happening. We're literally writing our own fate. We're making our own
destiny right now. And it's just so crazy. So many people in the industry might not know their
pivotal role in this, but everything that I see is just people building on top of other people's
experience and knowledge. So everybody matters so much. So whenever you're thinking you don't
matter or what you do don't matter, that's not true. It does matter. And what you think matters.
And your ability to have awareness of these greater issues and implications about how
culture is tied to inevitably our own welfare in being. Because we're living in a society in
the world that's tied together. This explicitly interchangeably through economy, through
everything interlinked. So... First law of thermodynamics. Every action has an equal and
opposite reaction. Yeah. So, man, I just want everybody to know how much they matter and how
grateful I am to have everybody in the Canvas community have done what they have done. And
everybody who I follow, it's been such a wonderful, awesome inspiration to just to really be here.
And to be here with you guys, man. I wanted to just make sure that I communicate how much is
meant for me. It's literally revolutionized my mind, my whole life and stuff, man. Just becoming
and being part of this community and stuff, man.
And I love everybody. I love you guys. You guys are the best, man. If I could,
I'd bring everybody together and just hug everybody, man.
The Alaskan road trip. We'll get the Winnebago. I'll pick Alex up on the way.
I haven't been up in 20 years.
Yeah, that'll definitely be a summertime trip, not a...
Yeah. At least my first Alaska trip will not be a wintertime trip.
I think it was 3,500 miles in 72 hours when I drove up there.
But we'll continue this conversation later. We can weave in some of the cats you had mentioned
when we were on the phone. Bring a variety of perspectives on... I like just kind of hearing
what different people are researching and focused on and caring about and exploring.
When I said the explorer, we're all exploring, but we're all exploring different stuff. So it's
interesting to hear what you've been researching or where your mind's been at. And then you bring
it back to the rest of us. And then Alex goes off and comes back. And the next person goes off
and comes back. And it's like, all right, I did a deep dive into Crimean Peninsula land race
genetics. And here's what I found. And maybe someone else can take it to the next step of
understanding its importance or its place or its role or its history or whatever.
That's the key. We got a bunch of information. And I've said it for years, information is power
when you share it. But my new epiphany is information is most powerful when it's shared
freely. Because we have the highest mind capacity now and the places we'll take it. When we have
this vibration in the harmonics, things become one person plus another person is more than one
plus one plus two. You have the synergy of that action. And the synergy from these conversations
and the places that this information will go, it might end up on Mars. All right.
Thank you so much from the intergalactic community.
No problem. I get it. So sadly, I realized this morning that I ran out of half and half. So I had
to use milk in my in my coffee, which was very unsatisfying. And I was like, fuck, can I get
to the because I've I drink two cups in the morning. And I was hoping to sneak off to the
grocery store before cup number two. But that's so I'm going to it's going to be back to back
milk in my coffee. Thank you for sticking around. I'm sure the consciousness appreciates that
you guys are absolutely correct, man. Perspective, diversity, sharing information.
It wouldn't be possible for the industry to be where it's at if it wasn't for minds like you
guys bringing us together and just basically sharing, you know. Does anybody disagree with
this comment? No, there's definitely people who call themselves breeders who have very bad
practices, people who have like setting up in other people's backyards with multiple males
in a garden. And it's just like, what? No, this is not how this works. It's you really need to
isolate things and keep where Bill said with the old school references. He had Wonder Twins and
Thundercats, although I can't find the other bits anymore. But I fuck it. Yeah, absolutely.
All right. Well, I'll check in with both of you guys later. We'll regroup with
some conversation topics. I'm glad I'm glad. So the challenge with the two of you is one of you
stays up all night. That's right. And the other one wakes up super early. So we have to find
overlapping, overlapping time slots. Yeah. I mean, can you guys just imagine what a wonderful thing
that we're offering to the world, a platform where you could freely think and express just your
thoughts and your experience with cannabis is really hard to find places where you could have
freedom like that in the world. The world is not necessarily free at all. It's only through the
creation of this show. We're able to openly talk about it. You know, got an inspector gadget
reference. Yeah, there is a living. So that's actually why we got to stop this one, because I
got to eat some breakfast and make my sad second cup of coffee before
the next two hours sitting in an uncomfortable wooden chair in my garage.
I sit here being like, damn, I need to invest in like an Aeron chair,
just something fucking. I got a really nice blanket that I fold up and fluff every time
before I take my seat. Otherwise, I'm so harsh. My my upright wooden chair that I've
logged thousands of hours in. Who's over there? What communist household are you?
Yeah, I need to upgrade. Great conversation, guys.
All right. Everybody has a blessed day. Alex, you've inspired people to hit the
hit Utah. You know, yeah, you talk kind of nice. There's there's definitely things about it that
aren't you. But it's it is what it is. You are where you are and you do what you do. But it's
extremely beautiful. Some people say like nice backdrop. There's nothing else. And if you guys
ever get tired of those other states, you guys could always come up here to the north. You know,
we we're not really bothered by Canada much or Russia. So you guys like the one you have.
I was actually one of my when we found out my daughter's mother was pregnant, I said,
all right, marry me. We're moving to Alaska. I know where there's gold.
And then but then she like realized that she was pregnant with a ski bone with a blown knee.
You have no job. I didn't hear from her for a couple of months.
That's good. Yeah, it's been two decades since I've been up myself.
Absolutely. Mahalo to everybody. All right.
On your own. Grow on. Have a great day.
And I'll be back on. I'll be back on Channel one
at 10 at 10 a.m. which is in 23 minutes. So with that,
all right. Thank you.
