Loyalty in the house.
What's up everybody?
Just kind of behind schedule here.
Getting my shit together.
Tell you about.
Brazil.
I got a computer on.
Transition. There we are folks.
Good morning.
A little morning song perhaps.
Nice.
I love playing just little shorties like that.
Kind of get your day going.
That's been something I've done for a long, long time in my life.
And even before I met Hardcore.
And so I was thinking about,
there's a couple of things as I continue this show,
I wanted to hit on.
And part of why this entire show started,
Is because.
I think it has to do with.
Dry farming and stuff and a completely different reality for,
for how we look at.
Cannabis.
Looking at it as a medicine more than just THC and things like that.
But also.
Is a real resource.
For.
And.
How we can separate ourselves from destructive agricultural
processes and move into more.
Sustainable and literally a regenerative processes, right?
Concepts touching on to walk.
transporting crap from around the world or different states or whatever to put into your
growing systems, then you're growing locally. And growing locally is the most sustainable thing you can do.
One of the ways we can do that is through dry farming, and you can still
amend your soils with local inputs to create that local flavor of the earth.
Tewa. There's no other proper translation for it. It's the flavor of the earth in a given locality.
Okay, so this is a story of true Tewa.
On a whole sacred level,
concepts driven from shamanistic prosthetics is practices of, for instance, the Yanomamu,
who practice ritual cannibalism.
The Christian faith practice ritual cannibalism.
Okay, you take the bread and you drink the wine.
It's the blood and the flesh.
This is ritual cannibalism, okay, and it's a way of remembrance of bringing...
In the Yanomamu, they would literally take the cremated
remains, the ashes from the fire of the cremation of their deceased, and they would make a
concoction that they would drink. Okay, and bring that.
So it's more than even a ritual cannibalism. It was a form of actual
sacred earth, sacred plants.
So,
see my laughing face, and then I just real quick came up with this
concept here right before I popped up, was to tell you about my buddy Hardcorp.
It's the only photo I found real quick online to throw up, literally minutes before I started.
I got some other photos of him somewhere, but I didn't get a chance to bring them up. Maybe another time.
I'm going to show you some pictures of him skiing.
Literally, there's a lot of why I got to be the artist I am.
Definitely, I got to become the skier I got to be,
partly because he was standing there next to me every day. That's how we met. That's how I met my buddy Cory.
I don't think we spoke for the first 20 times we encountered each other.
Just show up to ski, and both of us being like
fed up with the human race.
It's just like, let me ski. Let me do my thing.
He grew up on a farm in Idaho and traveled around.
I got to know him. He had been a patroller at Mount Baldy in Southern California.
It just has some of the craziest north-facing ice shoots you can imagine.
He was skiing those on long skinny skis back in the day.
I could never keep up with his ass. I always thought it was because he had 30, 40 pounds more muscle on his mass than I did.
His frame was much larger. He had several inches of height on me.
When he passed, I inherited his skis. I found out it was the double titanium top sheet
on the Stoically Storm Riders that made the speed.
It literally would...
Oh, the Hot Rod Lincoln song?
That's these freaking skis.
It doesn't matter. I can't go slow on them.
I can get over 90 on a pair of all-mountain skis, but I'm going 120 on his skis.
We would show up to ski, and he would be like,
He always got there for the very first chair. That was always my thing.
If I'm going to go skiing, I'm going to ski the whole day and spend the whole day on the mountain.
The cost of it, give my dollars for an hour or whatever, it's pretty expensive.
Growing up, it was only a couple of months of the year there was even snow,
where you had to travel pretty far for it.
I was always like, I'm going to go skiing. I'm going to ski the whole day and spend the whole day on the mountain.
The cost of it, give my dollars for an hour or whatever, it's pretty expensive.
To me, it's a waste of a life to go to a ski resort and not ski.
To be sure, I start work on Wednesday at the ski resort again.
This happens on Wednesdays from here on out.
It's going to be early in the morning and earlier, if at all.
That's part of what brought this on, was the fact that
I was just having remembrance of how it once was with my buddy and catching that first chair.
We literally get there, the resort opens at 9.15 and we'd be there at 6 in the morning,
standing there waiting in line.
People would tell me things like, I've never seen you out drinking.
I'm like, I don't mind drinking, I don't like being drunk because I can't get up in the morning and go ski.
Truly, white powder lines, shoot them up.
If you haven't seen on my channel, I've got some recent,
a first selfie of me powder skiing as an old man here.
Me and Corey would go early in the morning and the old chair,
and you'd wait there and you had to get off one chair and go down to the next one,
get on another one, get to the top of the mountain, and whatever.
Eventually, one day though, we met up on top of a cliff on the far side of the mountain,
mid-morning, after they opened up the avalanche control chutes.
They've got to throw bombs and stuff and ski cut and some pretty steep and gnarly stuff.
I'd been there for a while, and I remember,
I'd been skiing and some pretty steep and gnarly stuff.
I'd been seeing this for nearly 20 days, when it finally snows a little bit.
I go skiing on into there and wanted to get myself some technical terrain to ski in.
I'm on telemark gear. Again, if you don't know what that is, it's just my toes attached to the ski.
Corey is skiing alpine gear.
We literally both ski up to the head of the chute, and we're standing on the opposite sides,
10 yards across from each other, across this avalanche chute, staring at each other, smiling.
He says, hello, and we start talking to each other.
I ask him about the chute and stuff. He says, I want to see you ski it.
I'm like, well, I'd like to see you ski it, so I know how this run goes.
He's like, go ahead.
He tells me where the shark's teeth are and has me ski it first,
which is a total freaking honor for somebody to do on a powder day,
especially somebody who's hardcore about powder.
I ski down to the bottom and wait for him to watch him ski through.
He just keeps on going. He's like, well, if you can keep up, let's ski together.
I managed to keep up, and we skied together for every day, 10 years, until I had to stop skiing every day.
Cory and I would hike around in the summertime when I had to quit firefighting.
I took Cory out for his very first backcountry ski treks.
Took him on the hardest, gnarliest place you could possibly skin up.
Had him cussing and pissed off the whole freaking way, and we get to the top,
and I told him, OK, it's never going to be that hard again.
He got into backcountry skiing, and that's actually so.
He went missing one day.
Here's one of the paintings of the place where we found his remains,
or parts of his remains, several years later.
See dyslexia and reverse camera screening.
There.
All right.
This one here, I can't remember.
This is painted over another painting. I did this in the studio one night.
This is Hellgate in Mount Superior up in Alta.
This is a little line you can ski through, but we don't know exactly.
I think where this hand is is actually a little bit over kind of wherever my beard is
in the whole terrain set where they would have found him.
Or they never found him, actually.
They found him three years.
It was May 20, 2012.
His son, his girlfriend, and him were here in my house,
and he was dropping off an oil painting that I had done of him skiing.
He helped me get through a winter where I had no money, a new Christmas even.
It was this same image pretty much, except for five times bigger than this.
We call this Dia de Huemertos, is the name of the painting,
because November 1st we're skiing deep powder snow.
I've gotten a lot of money for renditions of this painting.
I put my heart and soul and passion into it when I'm painting it for several reasons,
because it's my best friend ripping it.
That powder is amazing, right?
This is literally 2004, a few months after my ACL replacement surgery
and a few months after my daughter had been born.
Cory introduced me to my daughter's mother.
The only time he ever let me take pictures of him skiing, though,
was when we'd go hiking in the backcountry when it was in a powder day inbounds,
because the addiction and the thrill of just, like I said, the day we met,
it's a very rare thing for somebody to stop and talk to you like that
and not just right in front of you.
Anyhow, some hikers were cleaning up garbage underneath the rock climbing cliffs
under that cliff zone, 600-foot cliffs there.
They came across a shoe they threw in their garbage bag, and they got home.
They were separating out hippie-dippie style, putting in the recycles and the garbage.
They looked inside the shoe and, like, what is this?
There's a foot in there. Whoa!
So they called the sheriff, and the search and rescue came back out,
and they found a few more bones.
We never found his skull. We never found his clothes.
We never found his other shoe.
You can keep looking.
I think a couple of vertebrae, a long bone off an arm, a couple of ribs.
And the weirdest thing, though, it was weird because they found his Costco card
and a debit card or something, but his wallet and everything else was left at his house, his shoes.
His phone was plugged in. He was moving out of the apartment.
His vehicles were packed. He had moved out.
He brought that oil painting over to tell me,
I'm going to have to get photographs of this for your prints because I'm never getting rid of it again.
I love this painting.
He actually had one of the largest collections of my artwork because sometimes he was such a good friend.
If I was desperate to come up with the money I needed to help support my child,
I could show up at his house with an object of value and say, bro, you just bought this painting.
Right? So he bought a few paintings from me.
And he worked for a billionaire who paid him well.
He was a billionaire's manservant. And that's all part of the weirdness of the whole thing.
When he disappeared, he had gotten in a fight with his rich employer and they kicked him out of the nice housing.
And he went for a hike and never came home.
And a lot of people think he has said he was an angry person.
You'd never know that the two of us were best friends because he seemed like such an angry person to the outside world.
But he just fed up with folks and just cold shouldered everybody.
He had a hard life.
He wouldn't boil out his anger on you unless you pushed him.
But karma would smack him right back.
People hated us because we always had the very first chair in line.
Nobody could beat us to the first chair between the two of us.
We would be there at opening day when they put a new chair in.
We were the first ones standing there to get on it in public.
When my daughter was born, he would go get the first chair.
So they closed the road. And this is all illegal now.
You can't do any of what I'm about to describe because of people trying to do these crazy legendary shit that I used to do.
People didn't have the gumption, the go and the physical stamina to get up at four in the morning,
drive up there and hike up over the avalanche fields.
They have a program called Interlodge.
They shut down everyone.
It's illegal to go outdoors because of the avalanche danger.
So you stay within the lodge.
Then they have super interlodge and maximum super interlodge.
That means you go into the fucking basement and pray because there's getting cars thrown through the top of the building for massive avalanches.
Avalanches here are extreme and they're very real.
We lose people every year to them.
So far this year, it's pretty amazing that there hasn't been any in the local backcountry.
I would go up before they closed the road in the morning.
Because they closed the road so people wouldn't be driving up and they could start shooting the howitzer guns.
These artillery rifles, 40 and 70 millimeter artillery that they'd shoot the side of the mountains.
Again, this is illegal now because people were trying to do this and they'd get up there and they'd be shooting the guns while these people were hiking.
They'd be calling out the central saying, dude, dude, I'm on the side of the mountain. Stop, stop, you're shooting at us.
I would get up there and I would go up over the ridge that they shoot artillery at before they would call interlodge.
At 6 a.m. I would already be on the other side of the ridge.
I'd be skiing in the dark and the deep powder.
I'd do my own avalanche control work on these zones and such.
I'd have a boot pack set and every day I'd run up that freaking ridge up the nose, up over the side and drop in.
I'd ski until they're done launching artillery at the mountainside and they lift what they called interlodge.
Then I'd come over and ski the front side until it's time to go down and hardcore would have first chair waiting for me for the lifts at Alta.
I would hop on the chair five to ten minutes sometimes before they opened to the public.
There'd be a thousand people standing there just like, what the, we're in your bed.
I'm just covered in snow, cracking the clouds and I point up like, ah.
This is after my daughter was born.
He said it to me a few times, he's like, man, I'm so sorry.
I didn't mean for you to get pregnant.
I just meant for you to have some fun.
Anyhow, I love my daughter and it's all good.
Getting this job, I didn't have to realize I get a cheap pass for her too.
So we get to ski together. It's gonna be awesome.
Yeah, so I'd ski a couple of runs and go down to get my daughter from her mom and let her go to work.
Then I'd go ski at night again at Brighton and get up in the morning and do the same thing.
Yeah, Brian daddy over here in chat.
I live in Utah.
I have a most unusual First Amendment stance and gone through the federal courts.
There's an actual act of Congress that I'll do a show on that whole deal another day.
That all happened though because skiing it out.
No, actually I met the guy who I call my mentor who was involved with the whole,
he paid the legal fees for all these lawsuits that established my First Amendment rights.
He's passed away too now.
But I met him through Corey, no less standing in first chair.
And this guy would come from Virginia.
Usually the beginning of January to live and ski for a month or so.
We got to be pretty tight.
That's how we'd have to take our morning medicine together.
We'd show up at 6 a.m. and start at 9.
We'd take little hikes off into the trees and medicate.
Take breaks from the day of exercise and medicate.
Pray in the trees.
We have a place called the church where we'd stop for medications and stuff.
So yeah, this stuff is all real.
It's not something just anyone can just go and say, hey, I'm this.
But you can.
You start, you visualize, and you move forward.
But it just happened to be that this is just how and what I am.
All this stuff came together.
Hardcore is part of why I'm able to do all of this.
We didn't hit it off.
We didn't jive.
Our harmonics didn't flow.
People are like, dude, you're like super karma guy.
Beginning as soon as they open the list, it's like let's go skiing, let's have fun.
Everybody have a great powder day, good karma powder day.
Remember, karma is instant up here on the mountain.
That's how it would start every ski day, is trying to get everybody to be uplifted and have a great time.
Because literally up there on the top of the mountain, it's a crazy thing up on the mountain there.
We have, you know what the Earth's ley lines are, right?
And all the power points and the pyramids are built on the cross lines and the ley lines and shit.
Well, there's one of these cross lines out in the Salt Lake that's now exposed.
But there's a very two tight, close lines, power lines run right through the freaking ski resorts up there.
And so you truly have this whole different vibration that occurs.
And you're up to 9,000 to 8,000 to 11,000 feet up in the atmosphere where there's a lot less static of society, et cetera, going on.
And so, like I said earlier, Corey would get upset about people yelling at us for having the first chair.
And he'd get mad and yell back at them.
And he'd have all this anger and get off the lift into the deep powder.
And his ski would come flying off and he'd fall off the fucking traverse.
Instant karma.
You get people on those traverses and they're yelling and they're trying to punch their way through and get ahead.
Because they got the, give me that addiction, that dopamine, the ski and the endorphine and the adrenaline and everything.
It's a pretty powerful drug.
I don't joke about that.
It's a very powerful drug to go and you get addicted above and beyond.
And you will ski with injuries and you will ski to the loss of your income.
And, yeah, so it was pretty awesome to teach him that lesson and point that kind of stuff out when it would happen.
And just like breathe, breathe.
And he was pretty good about like when he worked for rich people as a restaurant server.
And he would do side, table side chefing and stuff.
And he was a master at what he did.
And he knew how to kiss ass and he would go into the back of the restaurant and punch the locker instead of getting pissed off at the fucking rich people who he had to kiss ass to.
But sometimes standing in line when you got a bunch of jmoker kids who've lived on the freaking mountain yelling at you.
He'd lose it.
And we all do.
We're all humans.
Right.
Corey is my right arm when I have my tree service.
Right.
I could always depend on him.
He was very strong.
He made me look like I was not strong.
Ten years my senior and way more strong than I am.
Yeah, it's kind of an amazing relationship we had.
But he ended up going to work for the billionaire at the ski resort who owned another ski resort.
I was friends and acquaintance and ski buddies with the billionaire for many years too.
And so we came skiing down together.
I'm in the front and we've hit these soft slabs and we break loose all these soft slabs and then the guys behind me are like pushing the whole flow down and we come on to what's called the high traverse.
And standing on the high traverse looking up is the billionaire with his party of skiers and we literally like knock them all off.
And so we came skiing down together.
I'm in the front and we've hit these soft slabs and we break loose all these soft slabs and then the guys behind me are like pushing the whole flow down and we come on to what's called the high traverse.
And standing on the high traverse looking up is the billionaire with his party of skiers and we literally like knock them all off the high traverse.
And that's how I end up meeting the billionaire myself.
But he would invite me over for many night football.
We all sit around watching and drinking two or three hundred dollar bottles of wine and stuff in his twelve million dollar homes.
It's kind of interesting.
But the way I went to him and asked him about, I had read The Richest Man in Babylon and I had to lift one day and I asked him about,
Hey John, can I get some advice about how to make money?
And he looks at me and says, you know Alex, every day, every day, all day long, people ask me for money.
Nobody's ever asked me for advice about how to earn their own money.
Come over to dinner tonight, we'll talk.
So we got to be acquaintances.
But in the end, I've learned who that man truly was when other friends were working for him painting his houses.
And this is after Hardcore demised.
But he was painting, they were all painting his houses and they were trying to help me out and get me some work as well.
And he says, no, that guy's body's all fucked up.
He'll end up having an accident at work at my house and I'll end up paying for him the rest of my life.
And that's the mentality of somebody with a billion dollars.
And as you all might know or might not know, I don't even do Obamacare or anything.
I broke my hip last year and never went to a doctor for it.
I came about 11 months out from that immediately.
So that's just the whole dichotomy of who, the what for not and everything.
But Hardcore worked for that guy and raised his kid basically as the man servant and bodyguard and driver and whatnot.
Let's see more about Hardcore. Here's one.
So you all know I'm an artist, right? And I like to paint outdoors.
This is literally my very first outdoor oil painting on snow where I skied with what became my invention.
Let me grab that real quick.
My prototype for this guy here, which was made in a Chinese factory by a large corporation.
And I manifested all this utilizing the basic tenets of...
put forth in the law of... it's called the law of attraction.
And a whole group of occult knowledge or hidden knowledge, not cult knowledge, but occult knowledge.
Now, occult, definitely a ski cult member, right?
But that's a whole nother... so words have different meanings, right?
Occult is hidden. Cult is like you're following a particular obscure thing with a deep passion.
But anyhow, yeah, so this is Cory's line.
And this is just like a little teeny stash and you got to hike up above one of the high lifts to get to where this is.
And this is one of my very, very, very first on snow oil paintings I ever did.
And I didn't even have my palette figured out back then.
This is done in completely... I did not use a brush on this.
This is all done with knives.
Okay, I hate... I'm being dyslexic and trying to show these pictures.
Anyhow, that's Cory's line from 03.
So you can see how intertwined my life is with this guy.
And why when he demised and I came to my mind that I wanted to dedicate to him a genetic.
And how I was going to go about doing this.
A ritual cannibalistic consumption of sacred plant medicine grown on the ground where his body decomposed.
I don't know how else to put it other than straightforward.
That's sacred or a sacred plant medicine.
Okay, and medicine there on multiple levels.
So under my First Amendment rights, the word medicine means both sacrament as well as a healing agent for physical and mental ailments.
Okay.
But the area under that cliff was just too dry once I accomplished the task.
I had been searching for a while.
Someone's asking me to recreate a Bob Ross episode.
You know, I've been trying to figure out how to...
Literally, I tried to record myself doing...
I did my first self-portrait in a year.
First time I've been in an easel and doing any art on paper or ink, whatever, besides the digital stuff for the past year.
It was literally two a week.
And I'm trying to figure out how to get camera angles and stuff.
So we'll get there.
So, but when this was going down and I started thinking about this, I was interacting with...
On Facebook, I had the Land Race Traders group going.
And I was interacting with Zarian.
And asking him to...
Because he was traveling up into the southern Himalayas and in the high...
Going up in the Nanda Devi and places upwards where...
Near Malana and such, where they were going up over 12,000 feet, 18,000 feet and collecting seeds.
From land race, Sharas genetics from the origins.
Up on the edges of the Himalayan Plateau across the Indus Valley from the Hindu Kush in Pakistan and stuff.
And the upper northern...
Oh, I wanted to have it set up to look at maps today.
But we didn't.
Anyhow, so...
We were realizing just like talking about where I was and at 8,000, 10,000 feet, 8,000 feet, 5,000 feet.
Where I'm at, it's snowing way before when it's snowing at 8,000, 10,000, 18,000 feet there.
And, you know, start...
It's really, really seeing the true effects of your latitude, longitude, elevation effects on seasonal regimes and things like that.
And land race.
I'm trying to match...
Coming up with the entire concept of trying to really match the land race to your local genetic.
As close as you can type of thing.
To do a...
What I call a feral or a dry farm application.
Where...
And the whole process I put forth with this.
And it ended up right at the same time just realizing that those seeds probably weren't going to be the ones that were going to work for me.
Because that whole elevation and temperature regime was completely different.
Came to me at that time was the New Mexico land race, land grant.
And...
So...
We got...
Just seeing Greg.
I don't know what you're talking about, dude.
Can you drop it?
We don't need that on here, buddy.
Oh, shit.
Yeah, I'm talking about my buddy Hardcore.
Not any Marines.
He wasn't a Marine, but he was a farm boy.
And a ski bum and a ski patroller.
Sorry.
So...
Comes to me as the New Mexico land grant.
And I realized that was the particular pollen donor for...
I had been testing several colognes that I had grown off a seed and ran out.
I think I had six or seven different at that time.
I had been getting seed and trade for land race and such.
It was just coming to me and I was going ahead and growing them out to see what would come from them.
None of them...
They're all like tertiary seeds.
But I was getting some really amazing stuff.
Nothing...
Things I could compare, but not exactly hold up next to the candle or light of the new...
I'm sorry.
Dr. Dream all cure.
The one that was really hitting it though and survived...
I found some springs up around 9,000, 8,000.
So those cliffs run...
They're 600-foot shears, but the area that Hardcore went missing in, that runs from around 8,000 up to 10,000 feet in elevation to the top of the minor peaks there.
And the bottom of the cliff to the road.
And so I was looking for stuff that's going to grow up at those elevations at my latitude.
And so I took clones and through my years and years and years and years of experimentation through the past, growing up in California and trying to do this and literally here in Utah, traveling around and throwing seed out in different places and trying to figure out what would work.
Greg, drop it, man.
Seriously.
That's not what this chat's for, dude.
There's...
Clones aren't going to do the same thing the taproot's going to do from a seed.
Things you can do, looking at your local area, looking at different plants that grow around there, throwing out sunflower seeds, a great indicator as well.
If you don't have a whole bunch of cannabis seeds to test, hemp seeds, a great way to test to see when things start sprouting in your early season.
And I had a revelation today looking up and seeing when making sure when his demise was, it was May 21st is the day he went for his hike and went missing, which is a great time to really kind of throw down for those early season moist soil still.
But like in California right now is when it rains through now through the end of March.
And so you'd want to put a seed in the ground, but you could do a cologne in some of these areas that have more moist soil.
And I've heard of people doing it in Colorado as well where they will dry farm the cologne with the water in a couple of times and let the roots drop and dry.
But you have to do it when there's moisture in the soil.
And so some of the things I was doing was I took several cuts of each of these five or six I was testing out.
And there was a springs.
I found three or four different springs up around 9000 feet.
And did note about him hiking.
I range the mountains.
I literally I'm a ranger.
I walk all over the fucking place and ski it when there's snow.
And so I stuck these in at different intervals to the distance of the of the because we know depending on how much water there is rain that the point source area of a spring can dry out on the edges.
If it's moist here in May by September, it's only moist here.
Right. And so if you can check it out where it can follow.
But it also might rain a whole bunch.
And that spring will be recharged or the surface flow near the spring.
Right. And so so I did I did several of these and I go up and check them and stuff.
And it's.
And where I'm at and everything I do what I'm doing is pretty fucking sketchy.
You get some adrenaline and just on the side of the mountain.
But what I learned is if you're not stupidly obvious about stuff.
No one really notices. And so just being a little stealth and one of the scariest things I was going in there and it was deer and moose bedding in the whole area.
And so you go in there and scare up a critter that wasn't so happy you would just startle its child coming after you.
And I finally got to a point where I had a pretty good idea after it froze a few times midsummer.
What was going to be the best? What was growing the best in what rooted in the best in the moose and deer.
They were chopping the tops of everything and which ones didn't get ripped out because they were able to grow roots.
Good enough. Right. So I had a pretty good idea and it ended up being this cookie rack.
If I got it right off the top of my head was platinum cookies crossed by train wreck.
And so I had that and I took the New Mexico land grant when I ran them out and hit that with the pollen of the New Mexico land grant.
Right. And so that the New Mexico land grant. Right. It grows wild on the side of the mountain in New Mexico and has for as long as the old man in the 70s who is the steward.
Can remember his ancestors saying it was there. So we can presume it came with the Spaniards in pre 1700 when it was granted.
They are actually in the area in the late 1500s. Right. So we're talking three to four hundred years of naturalization possibly in that location.
I've given it some thought recently and you really need to do the genetic testing to see what relates to the most.
But it looks I started thinking about it and said well when did you get the Spain with the Spanish brought it over and then there and there are monks.
And because the brown robes were made from hemp and like what time was it kick. You know the Moors bring it over to Spain when they invaded or was it there before that.
We know it was in Wales and England and Ireland a thousand years ago and Spanish Armada washing up into the southern shores.
Is that how it got there. So there's there's a really neat neat things to think about. But anyhow that's that that's a sidetrack of meditation on the hard on how this hard course came to be.
So I have I have my my parents stock that I know survives.
Well. And I've brought them together and then I ran out I don't know probably 30.
I don't remember honestly. When I got the first time it's probably 30 it could have been 72 in a tray and did selections and I did.
Seed increases twice. And I went out and started throwing throwing seed off the cliff is the first thing I did.
I went up and took a couple thousand seed and sat there on top of the cliff above where we found what remains we found to the hardcore and started literally spitting them off into the wind letting them land where they may.
So I have no idea. I've never found anything under there but I think it's just way too dry once the sun hits that south facing desert Alpine cliff zone for the season way too short up to that elevation for anything to really get around to.
I am not enough light where there would be the moisture underneath the willows and things like that.
So the after making a couple of these seed increases and realizing that I ended up finding a spot where
free style episodes and one of the things that's always floated my boat in college we used to go do field labs when one of these things would happen where a massive landslide would occur and you go examine the forces and you do the math the seeds and you go
how did the boulders the size of a house get up on the other side of the mountain like it doesn't how and you do this math on the liquefaction of mountain sides and see how literally how size boulders can float on top of liquid soil.
It sounds weird. If you ever pan for gold you understand that you can put rocks into solution.
Right. So literally air becomes the liquid carrier and liquefaction liquefaction. There's different ways this can happen with the side of a mountain too much water earthquakes freeze off factors and that's what occurred here with this house size boulders.
Granite got pushed off the whatever forces were holding it in place it released and exploded like several tons of TNT across the side of the mountain.
That opens up the canopy allows light into a north facing slope a lower elevation.
And everything just kind of came together just right when I
perceived this as being the Holy Grail of space I've been seeking in time and space for
naturalized
broadcasting of seed. Again I've been trying to do this
at that point for over 20 years trying to figure out how to make this work.
All the knowledge that we have is in the ground.
All the knowledge of my agricultural science and forestry fire all the years spent digging through the side of mountains firefighting all the years running ranches and farms.
Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of cycles of producing my own medicine.
Utilizing techniques that I prefer not to exploiting energy production systems that create waste streams and pollution.
And I was able to
get a lot of knowledge and a lot of experience from this.
And I was able to
establish a great crop. It was kind of kind of crazy at first didn't think anything took.
I probably threw 2000 seed out on the side of that mountain that was exposed to
it was just snow melt. It was well churned highly aerated.
I can't remember how many times I've been in the mountains.
And I've been able to get a lot of knowledge from this.
And I've been able to get a lot of experience from this.
It was just snow melt. It was well churned highly aerated.
Keep this in mind.
Cannabis is like
alfalfa and then it likes a well-drained highly aerated root zone.
It does need enough moisture.
But
just like alfalfa
it will survive and produce a nutrient-dense plant without giving it an inch of water a week.
And then the other thing is alfalfa
that highly
aerated
drainable soil that it likes can retain sufficient moisture
subsequent to organic matter integration and mulching.
Okay, so you can grow dry farm alfalfa on if you get 30 inches of snow melt
and then apply mulching without organic matter to it at a rate if I don't
If I got it right what I was just reading it was something like a 10% increase above
this natural, for instance, out here in the desert soil.
Okay.
So there is all of these trees just got exploded. There was all the brush that was there.
There was decomposing forest soil. There was decomposed granite.
Pure, pure decomposed granite
decomposed granite
30,000 years since the glaciers or 70,000 years since the glaciers pushed through the bottom of the canyon right there.
And snow melt
and then maybe five thunderstorms through the summer for a total of
maybe 10 inches of rain.
But it was also hitting the rocks above and washing down in.
So it was a higher quantity of rain at that location possibly.
Down here in the valley in the sand in the valley I've had hemp grow
with literally two inches of rain in the valley after snow melt for the whole freaking summer
and grow with two fodder cuts across the bottom.
And ended up with a nine foot plant that I had all splayed out
and pull a seed at harvest before it rained again.
So that's in sand here. Truly.
I live in a town called Sandy because it is
I can't dig past the sand. It's hundreds of feet deep here from ancient
the Bonneville
Lake.
There's a couple of different massive flood events.
The structure of the valley here.
One of them was the release of the Bonneville flood to the north.
The other ones was massive floods coming through the south that formed the southern deserts.
But coming off of I think it was like the Teton basin there
broke from massive ancient ice dams.
So there's several but we have we have here there was
what you would have the bottom of a river except for on a massive scale
20 miles across going across what we call the point of the mountain here
and dropping sand in huge huge area.
We still have I know one thing that I've never gotten actually interact with Layton directly
and one of the things that he talks about is is like birds and things and winds
or moving nutrients around and stuff and and we definitely still have huge amounts of
wind transported micro
particles of soil however you want to call it and a lot of it's alkali.
But there's all sorts of crap.
You know every time it rains here you have to wash your car afterwards because there's so much shit picked up in the air and moved around.
So let's see I'm at 10 minutes left here.
All right.
So we have sent out around the world are the seeds that came from the open pollination from the first and second years on the side of the mountain there.
And so that's four and five generations in on the hard core.
It's all open pollinated after I don't actually remember if I used multiples on that first run or not.
I don't I still have the habit from having my nose used against me and evidence I just destroy all my old notes.
Anyhow that's that is the origins of the hard core.
And so but I had recently there was stuff that was three four years old or more and just sitting in fairly seedy.
But it was really nice to.
So I just took the most of that and washed it as I'm perfecting the ice cream tech.
And it's had a few weeks curing and blocking it's it's nothing wishy-washy but it's definitely melty melty when you hold the flame to it as hard as a rock is after it's been pressed.
And I press it to a rectangle because it was so stiff but test run the other day with my pad one learner.
And we experienced the truest of Teowab.
Now I've to exploiting one of the craziest experiences.
No I haven't seen Symphony of the soil I'll look for that Temple on us.
Thank you.
We're smoking some hardcore and some of ski buddies first of the year.
We've lost a lot of I got a lot of dead friends.
My daughter gives me a lot of shit sometimes that all my friends are dead and this is one of the reasons I went back to work.
It's like I could use some new friends.
So going back to the ski resort full circle here but a couple of seasons back in the beginning of the year we had ran into a buddy and we stepped outside into the blizzard outside the ski lodge where there was multiple pinon pine fires burning.
Right and we stepped to the smoking section where people stand outside the fireplace and we're smoking a stick of weed and getting his medication on.
And it was literally people sticking their head around the corner of the chimney like coming out to smoke tobacco like what's wrong.
And like we're just making sure there was a real skunk out here.
And then the manager of the lodge comes out yelling at it.
You guys stuck the whole freaking hotel up like a skunk.
So you know and then that's that's the reality of the hardcore is some of those he knows will produce that serious skunk.
Not all of them.
I just did a major you know hunt of like 70 for both generations or whatever it is but it came out to like six or seven females and three or four males that I did into an inbred line and then I feminized some.
But the terroir really comes to reality and when we tasted this 150 to 90 press and not rosin but hard hash and I heated it up and it melted like water next to flame.
I thought it softened in enough but it wasn't.
My thumbnail ended up like shearing shattering off a chunk like you would a shard of glass and I broke that and placed it in.
Gave it to the pad one.
Pad one learned.
His eyes lit up and he didn't pass it.
He took a second to be sure.
And it was quite amazing that we both experienced this incredible overwhelming relaxation relief.
Back up the side of the inside the head inside the skull and this massaging the brain inside the back of the brick.
But both of us are just like this is like mentholatum.
The mouth the terroir came out stronger than anything and I do get a lot of mentholatum and things that I put them in the earth but this was just like beyond comprehension.
I don't know.
So I mean you've seen me post up some pictures of another I'm not gonna bring it up right now but from somebody sent me a note on IG thanking me for helping their friend when he handed them the gassy fuel phenol of the hardcore that happened to kick his palsy back 20 years.
So I'm grateful that hardcore has inspired me to help other people around the world or help themselves etc.
Self-determination one of the things he was all about like I said grew up on a farm in Idaho walking around killing his meals with a small boar rifle at times.
We both moved a little bit of hay in our youth and I did it as a punishment but he did it as a lifestyle.
He had a harsh life harsh parents but when I told him my story he said my life was nothing.
His life was nothing compared.
We I don't talk about things that I've gone through because it's not really relevant.
We move forward move move onward and upward and excels here.
I hope that you can hear the bigger story I'm telling here about breeding finding a local terroir finding local genetics or matching your genetics to your local situation.
Understanding how we all intertwine into each other's lives and make the world a better place and how some people like I said perceive hardcore as being one of the worst people in the world because they didn't know him or understand him and they never really could because they're in their own material world and have a completely different.
These people getting angry at us because we didn't let them have first chair when they literally lived a couple hundred yards of Canyon and had to get there right.
It's what he is your desires and what is your choices.
Okay you can get up and make something happen for yourself.
You know of course another one of these people who had I known there's a lot of speculation whether he had an accident or whether he killed himself.
He spoke about killing himself for a lot to a lot of people over the years and even if it was just depression.
There's cannabis treatments that can they can work with that but there's there's I learned later on that he had possibly been having severe gut bleeding issues and then bleeding uncontrollably for some time.
And again we now know that there's there's raw leaf extractions that make a difference and I always thought that if he had ever way he told me those stories.
He was going up the river and no return and slipping in somewhere up there.
He always said we'd never find him and we truly actually haven't we just found parts of them so I keep looking.
You can see you can see videos on my channel Alex Hardy here on YouTube the six-figure ski bum.
I got videos looking for hardcore you can go up and see all this train and stuff you can see in the background of my ski videos.
You can see what inspires me to be and how we got to where I'm at here and stuff.
So again I'm not sure if I'm gonna be doing the Wednesdays I know I'm supposed to report my first day of work on Wednesday this week and I'm not sure what time I'm heading up there so maybe I'll be doing these earlier or maybe we'll just be doing them one a week or whatnot.
And yeah.
Let's see.
Let's see.
Meta you know someone over here saying get into the metaverse with the drawings plus can so I like I'm not making any money with this reading at all it's not paying the cost of doing it.
I still have this passion to do it I'm trying to solve the equation and so literally yes I am going to be transitioning into and I've been teaching myself digital arts and how to make all this oil paintings turn into right now.
I'm going to be generating NFTs non fungible tokens that's one way you'll be able to support me and I'll be announcing how that stuff comes around.
But photography I have I used to shoot 10 to 20,000 photographs a year and a percentage of those are extremely high quality and part of my entire.
I never showed those online for sale because I always like people to steal these right but now that we have NFTs people can own these as well as steal them right but you can invest in and gain to become this is really neat thing that I'm understanding I'm going to see if I can't figure out how to make this work with the graphics for seed packs and have limited edition seed releases that have a redeemable value for the seeds on a whatever short two to three year time span or something like that the make sure the seeds stay very fresh.
They're not going to be viable for whenever they get redeemed right but if you buy an NFT of the graphic and then you can it can get traded I can retain a small percentage of income from that.
So I'm looking at all this kind of stuff I'm also about to start blasting off t-shirt series and stuff I've been teaching myself how to do that shit for about a year now and really trying to fully understand how and why and then acquiring the equipment to do it with you need the hardware as well as the gumption and go for it.
So, let's see.
Any other chat questions over here.
Shout out real quick. It's nine o'clock. Anyhow, Greg, I'm shouting out to Greg you've been here. Blasting all sorts of naughty daddy Laura camp banana bill town plan is terpens squishy mirror gumbo.
Brian daddy soil born and over here on the personal I got ponytail Joe's sad mo it's blasted puffin loyalty. All right, folks, we'll catch you on the next one. Appreciate you got do good life.
Stop streaming.
Yes.
