Okay, so today I'm going to be sharing with you the first of many tips, just little things
that can save you time or make your life a little bit easier.
Some of you may know these things already, but for those of you who don't, you'll see
it and you'll facepalm because there's a lot of things that we can do that save us a lot
of time, that make life easier, that are common sense.
But you don't know until you know, so that's the point of these tips.
So today what I'm going to do is show you how to make transplanting a little bit easier
on your life.
I've already started, we're going to be up-potting, and I've already started with a new bucket.
I call them buckets, they're containers, they're pots, they're whatever they are.
I call them buckets.
And I've also pre-filled a little bit of dirt because when you put your existing plant and
root ball in, you want to make sure that it's sitting at about the same height.
You might be able to bury a little bit of stem if you need to in the earlier ages, I'll
show you that in a minute.
But for now, we would typically be up-potting something with a decent sized root ball, and
we want to make sure it has some extra soil to go down into.
I'm going to leave it exactly like it is, it's at the nice height, good equal distance
all around it.
So let me just start filling in the soil for you.
And I use a little tray underneath, try to prevent it from getting all over the place.
Obviously if you're on a concrete floor, if you have a tarp, that makes life a lot easier
and clean up.
I've got a broom, I'm not too worried about it.
And I'm just going to keep filling it in, and if the soil goes into the middle pot,
don't worry about it, we'll take advantage of that later.
OK, so we're getting close to the top of it.
I'm going to just smooth it out a little bit, and I am going to give it a little bit of
a push down, just gently, kind of make sure it binds against the side of the pot, you
know, solid wall.
You don't want to push it down too much, you don't want to create compaction.
A good root zone needs oxygen, if you just push it all down, you're not doing yourself
any favors.
So just go gently, but do get it a little bit tight.
OK, looks good to me.
I have all this stuff in the center, I told you not to worry about it, and here's where
it kind of comes in handy.
You can take it, and you just scoop it to the outside, and that kind of fills it in
and brings you to the level that you are going to need.
So nice and simple there.
Again, it's going to bring that to the level that you need.
Nice and simple, life is good, happy little pottery, potty pot pots, happy little perlites,
and soil clouds for microbes, good stuff.
OK, so what we're going to basically do is give this a little twist and a shout, and
we pull it out, and now you have a perfect hole.
So when you take your pot, or your plant, out of here, and you're going to plug it in,
boom, you've got something perfect to plug it into.
And again, it's not super tight, we want that oxygen, we want that air in there.
We'd get our new plant, we'd plug it right in, maybe give it a little bit more of a
tamp down, maybe put some extra topsoil on top of it, give it a water, and you're good
to go.
And now that we've covered the big pot, we're going to do the little pot.
This is typically my progress of potting.
I like to start all my clones, all my seeds, in a small 4x4 tray.
I typically will then move them up to a gallon pot, and finally into a 3 gallon pot, which
for the size of the tents that I'm growing in, is really the maximum size that I want
to get.
I could use larger pots, but I'm going to get a lot larger plants.
And while larger plants sound great, I don't necessarily want that because of the amount
that I have and the space that I have.
So, plug that back in there.
We're going to walk through this just like we did the other one.
It doesn't fit, so I need to add some soil in the bottom of the pot first.
Alright, let's do that.
I'm going to say that that is a little too much.
A lot of times when you put a seed in there, it'll get a bit of a stretch, so the cotyledon,
which is the very, very little first leaf, not even really a leaf, but let's not get
too technical, it will stretch up.
So oftentimes you can bury the stem up to that.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to take a little bit, back it out basically.
Let's do that.
So that actually looks like it's going to be perfect.
And it is a tighter fit.
So again, this time, like I said last time, if you spill the soil into that middle container,
don't worry, you'll use it at the end.
It's actually very useful.
So let's fill it up again.
And now I'm just going to take the stuff from the middle, fill the outsides, and make it
perfect to my heart's desire.
Yeah.
Okay, that looks like it's ready.
So just like the last time, a little twist and shout, and pull it out.
And you got your perfect hole to put your seedling in now.
See?
Bloop!
I hope you guys enjoyed.
I'd love to hear any tips you guys have, and we will be doing this every show.
Thank you for tuning in.
I'm Chad Westport.
