How's it going future Cannabis Project community? Lobster Fam Farms here. Today
I'm going to be going over my low-tech home-grow strategy on collecting male
pollen from the cannabis plant. So this will be my first time intentionally
pollinating female cannabis plants. There's a lot of things in life. Necessity is the
mother of invention. So something I'm looking for that doesn't quite exist yet
or that no one else is trying to create. So it seemed like a worthwhile goal. What
I'm looking for is something that's very flavorful, very energetic, and it's going
to be a type 2 variety that's going to be very rich in minor cannabinoids. To
anyone making a living off of seeds out there, it's not my intention to sell them.
This is just to learn more about the plant. Initially it's just going to be
something for me and the squad. If it turns out to be something nice and fun.
And eventually, hopefully, it'll make it to patients if it's deemed worthy. Let's go.
Let's see what's doing. So these are some of the strategies I set up. I feel like
most people could replicate this in any home environment that also has a
flowering room close by that could be vulnerable. Even if you had to use a
sheet or just something simple. So I have this closet door open. I have the
humidifiers cranking to create this little microclimate. We got it at 75% humidity.
So my intention and hope is that anything that creeps out of here, it's
just gonna be made non-viable if it does, when it creeps out, not if it does. And so
my next step is gonna be to use the pump sprayer and I'm gonna spray all around
the door. Forgive me house, but I'm just gonna drench everything and I'm gonna
have to tune out for this. I'm gonna try to stage all the stuff I have to bring
in and then we'll rock and roll. It's rock and roll time to creep in here and
creep out all stealth style. Bing bang bada boom. Let's go.
Alright, we're in. Let's see what's going on in here.
So the temperature and the humidity. Temperature is a little bit warm for a normal garden, but I'm more stoked on the low humidity.
So I think the pollen that I collected yesterday is gonna be good to swoop up and store.
This is what I scored yesterday. Not a whole lot, but from what I've heard, a little goes a long way.
Now yesterday I collected this on parchment paper in the same room that
the males are in. Now I think I can improve this after my first time. What I
did was I set the dehumidifier in this room and after I collected the pollen I
tried to spray everything down and that jacked the humidity way up. I think I
could be more effective by just tossing the dehu into the closet, keeping out
here very humid. Not very humid. Keeping out here as dry as it is now. Collecting
my pollen in the closet. Closing the closet behind me with the dehumidifier
inside there and then using my pump sprayer just spray everything in here
down. Jack the humidity way up. Spray myself down. Let's see how it goes.
So I've got my business card, my storage container.
Lightly sweep it up. I got a little bit of soil mixed in there on the first batch.
I don't think it could be that bad as soil typically found out and about, but
not too often in the air or on the female pistils.
I'm hoping that that little bit of soil in there doesn't make too much of a
difference. Time to pack it up. Looks like some pollen in the vial. Not too much but I think it's more than
enough. I'm gonna gather some more today. Let's do that. Now I've got a new setup
in the closet. I'm gonna bring the plants in here and shake them. Now we can shake some pollen off.
What's interesting about these plants was that I never flip them to 12-12. They
started showing full male maturity under 18 hours and I asked, big respect to
Sapo, I asked him if like what the variables could be for that and he said
it was sometimes when inbred lines were veg too long in small containers. So
appreciate the knowledge. It seems like both those variables were present. I was
insured that the pollen would still be viable which is why I'm collecting it
and even if it's not, good practice. I got some protocols in order and if it is
sterile there's no risk to the rest of the garden so just doing it.
This one smells very very good. I'm gonna keep this one separate and collect the
pollen on its own in a couple days. Now it's time to swoop up any male flowers
because they might contain moisture that will make the pollen non-viable. It's kind of
tedious. Gotta be done something now. So I've got everything separated, all the
plant matter out. That's what pollen I'm left with. I learned a valuable lesson
not to hold your forehead over it if you're sweating. There's a little puddle
of no good in there but work with it. Then I'm gonna leave this here in the
closet. I'm gonna set the defu on to 40% humidity, relative humidity and then
I'm gonna creep out and start spraying these plants. So we're up to 40 and up a
little warmer since I've been up here so it won't take too much but I'm gonna
give them a squirt. Now my logic here is that I can try to neutralize any pollen
that might be left on the plants or in the air and then if any what does creep
out through the door will be neutralized by the little humidity zone out there. If
not there's a couple more doors and attempted barriers but I know this stuff
finds a way so I'm gonna spray everything down. Forgive me room. Got
everything sprayed down. Got the closet quarantined. I'm gonna sit in here and
smoke one. Let the humidity jack up. Then I'm gonna take off everything I wore, put
it in a pile, spray that as much as I can. Any tools that I brought in here that
I'm bringing out including my cell phone I'm gonna give those a spray down. Then
I'm gonna bring me and all that stuff right to the bathroom. Even the sprayer
even though it was spraying water I imagine there's some pollen on there. So
I'm gonna rinse everything including me right after the humidity gets to about
60-65 in here. Then I have my little buffer zone out there that's like 75 and
then it's right to the bathroom. Start throwing water on everything and that's
gonna be too hot for TV so I'll check you guys in a little bit. So I'm out of
the shower. I tried to rinse everything that I brought back out of the room and
dry it off and maybe take this time to do a little outro or some closing
thoughts. So while I do think there is some skill in gathering the pollen and
pollinating the female plants I think the real labor and time is going to be
through running through the generation the next generation of seeds. I think
that's going to take a lot of time. I don't know I've never done this before
but I know just from you know running other people's stuff it takes time. So I
imagine this is gonna be a long while but I'm rather excited. I don't think I
mentioned what plants I'm using the whole time. Maybe get into that now. The
males that I was collecting pollen off of were Mendocino pineapple. I believe if
not bred popularized by Ringo. The ones I got come by way of Ital Foundation.
At a Mendo. I believe they were labeled Island Paradise but I think they're F4s
of the Mendo pineapple which I've never grown myself. I have some friends that
have worked on farms in Mendocino that have told me about the plant. I've
definitely ran through a bunch of it and we always dug it. We always really liked
it. I did not know that it had so many minor cannabinoids in it which is what
truly interested me and motivated me to try to collect the pollen and throw it.
It seemed like it would be a little bit easier of a learning curve. It being an
F4 and pretty stable and when I asked Ital about it he was kind of saying
that like you know any male will be the pineapple which was very encouraging and
maybe it will limit the amount of population I have to run through to look
for what I'm looking for if it is in there. The female that it'll be hit on is
an early flowering Northern Lights number five haze which is donned the PC3
by Piff Coast Farms. This is something that I very very very much so enjoy
myself. People around me very much so enjoy it. I think that in itself has
medicinal value. I haven't had it lab tested yet. It's gonna be lab tested
within a month or so but I feel like both of them together could really be
something. First and foremost I want to try to combine the flavors because I'm
very flavor based with my consumption. So the way I envision it and again I do
not know what I'm doing. This is just the concept in my vision. We'll see what
comes of it but I would love if there was a nice pineapple inhale and then a
nice hazy piffy exhale. If I could find something in there with that I'd be very
very very happy. I think the energetic nature and just generally soaring good
vibes of the PC3 and kind of like the no ceiling high on it. I think that might
pair well with the pineapple as well as the pineapple is kind of more like a
feel-good mellow buzz so I think that they'll marry well. I don't think that at
least for me and my crew. Most people that like the hazy ones are usually not
super discerning on THC numbers so I think that's one thing that's cool too.
If it does become something fun and worthwhile to like run and share I don't
think people that were looking for a type 2 variety would care too much about
high THC and I don't think too many haze heads are ever concerned about that at
all. I think it's just a bonus if it tests like above 20 or is kind of like
you know some interesting numbers. So I'm very encouraged to do it and I'll be
making seeds. I just put the the couple PC3s into the flower room with the
males. They're not on the same schedule but I'm just gonna start there get their
hormones going 12-12 now and so it'll be about 10-11 weeks until they're
harvested. I'll be popping seeds immediately after that and by then it
should be close to springtime as well so I can see what the first generation F1s
are gonna do out in Maine sunshine and also what they'll do in an inside
environment so I'm very excited about that.
And thank you to everyone who's anyone who's ever shared knowledge about this
stuff. Like most things I kind of take what I like like a salad bar of
information try to formulate my own strategy but a lot of these concepts
being implemented were suggested or talked about by someone else. Can't thank
you too much more. I'm very excited. I hope to document the process some more. I
don't know if it'll necessarily be here on FCP but certainly I'm gonna keep
track of it. Very excited. I'm gonna go collect the rest of the pollen I grabbed
tomorrow let it sit for like 12-20 hours in that little dehume environment. I
threw the pollen that I did collect directly into the freezer. After
collecting it I was a little nervous about the little bits of soil in there. I
imagine they're holding a fair amount of moisture so my logic was to put it right
in the freezer and kind of just get everything real cold before too much
moisture could move around. I don't know if there's any logic in that but when I
gather the batch tomorrow I'm gonna try to be a little bit more cautious of not
leaving any little bits of soil in there. There was one that smelled very special
as I was shaking them all earlier. One of them and it wasn't so pineapple-y. It was
like a deep note like it wasn't sweet it was like a low-end kind of funky note.
I thought I was just imagining it. I gave it a little stem rub and it
was very very strong aroma. So I have that one set aside. I'll probably let
that one flower out a little bit longer and collect that pollen individually.
Maybe put another female in there a week or two behind it after I've sprayed down
the room and jacked the humidity. I'm very excited. Thank you Future Cannabis
Projects for all the knowledge. Thank you to everyone else who's kind of like
open-source with their stuff. Much respect and wish me the best. I really
don't know what I'm doing. I mean I know what I want like most of us do but as
far as how to get there, only one way to start. We'll see where it goes.
Appreciate everyone.
