All right. And one of these guys did not get the memo that it's a masked conversation.
Yeah, I'm joking. So I'm going to throw it away from a Batman mask. Don't tell me. Well,
no, it's funny because Gabe, who I don't know if you've seen him. He's here in L.A. and
he'll like put sunglasses on as if you can't recognize like who it is behind the sunglasses.
It's kind of like the like any superhero where they just have the just just just over
the eyes. And people are like, I never knew it was Clark Kent from who worked one desk
over for me. But anyway, I'll be back. I'm dealing with little kids making a mess in
the kitchen. And my wife's not happy that I was like, I'll be back in 10 minutes. So
take it away, Cam. And I'll be back. You got it, man. Well, speaking of little kids, so
that's actually I literally just hopped off the table from an hour ago, but one year old's
birthday party all day, which brings me to a fun point that Heavy Days is so formal with
all of his beautiful podcasts and he's getting to be a part of a future canvas project, which
is very informal. Well, so we're very thankful to have you here, Heavy. It means a lot for
you to be a part of this. And, you know, your platform has given a lot of us really a segue
to really be a part of what we're doing now. So, again, thank you so much for being here.
I know a lot of people are super excited to pick your brain tonight other than myself.
Oh, man. Thank you so much. That's very generous of you. You know, always humbled and grateful
to be among my contemporaries and really cool to do like a live format. I don't think I've
actually ever done an interview where like, you know, there was like the live chat and
people could sort of chime in. So, yeah, excited for the format. It's a pleasure to be here.
Yeah, absolutely. And I think that's what kind of makes this more of a collab is just
that you haven't been able to essentially talk to the people that really want to sit
here and hear the things that you have to say. And that's what makes this super fun
is that not only the questions that they have, but literally the conversations that we have
together, people can kind of chime in on those particular subjects. But let's go ahead and
kind of start with some of the questions I got, because, man, I got you almost about
a half a book here. Oh, shit. I love it. I know, dude. I'm a huge fan. And as promised,
I know we're both ChemDog fans. So I wore my ChemDog glass shirt. Shout out to Bruce
and his wife. Love that. I got to do the obligatory. I got my crickets and cicadas. Shout out to
Mr. Bolden Hannibal. Yeah. And also Sticky Blooms. I love my face mask. Shout out. Sticky
Blooms is a cool Australian dude. That's awesome, man. It always feels good to support people
within our culture, man. Dude, so, you know, I got to ask one of the questions you always
like to ask people. What are you smoking on right now? Oh, good question. OK. So at the
moment, I've been really lucky to be smoking on two different strains. I was gifted from a really
killer grower who I've recently linked up with in my area. His name's Grodac. Shout out to Grodac.
We've actually done a cool little hybrid strain we've released recently, which is his cut of
Daddy Mac cross to the Jelly Breath BX1 male. I'm sure we'll talk about that later, but he was kind
enough to gift me some herb of two different clones he's been growing. One of them is Biscotti
cross pancakes by Tiki Man. Beautiful stuff. Real OG leaning coming from that biscotti, I'm assuming.
Just beautiful, you know, just a beautiful OG representation in seed form. So really all time,
all times of the day is a good time to smoke OG in my opinion. And the other one is I'm super
stoked. I sent him a cut of dog jelly, one of the dog jellies. So dog jelly is a strain I made
featuring the work of none other than Duke Diamond. So maybe we'll touch on that in a little
bit. But I used a male I got from Duke, the ChemD cross to local H. I found a nice male out of that,
cross that to the Jelly Breath, which is like a clone I found. I'm really proud of it. I didn't
make it. It's just a phenomenal plant. Made the dog jelly. Did like a 40 female pheno hunt and
found like six or so different keepers. One of them that we really like, we call the Khalid,
you know, DJ Khalid sort of thing. So basically I sent that to him because it was one of the
standouts. He grew it. It was phenomenal. So I've been lucky to be smoking on that. And it's always
cool because it's nice to smoke on your own work, but it's even better when you smoke when someone
else has grown it because as everyone knows, you know, the same clone in two different environments,
you get a different result. You know, the, the, I always think of it as like the, the love and the
conditions and the attention affects the way it comes out. And it's like, you know, it's almost
like a remix of a song you made, you know, their little twist on it. So Indica dominant stuff,
super beautiful. I'm actually not, I haven't smoked this morning because it's about midday
Australia time. But at the end of this interview, I'm planning on sparking up, but I had some of
that last night and it, it melted my face. So I've been, yeah, really grateful to be smoking good.
And a shout out to grow deck for getting that to me. Oh, dude, that's killer, man. I love to hear
that. And you know, what's cool too. And like, this is someone that like, you know, you're,
I can kind of skip a lot of the bullshit questions when it comes to like growing and, you know,
like the basic stuff when it comes to what's your opinion on growing an OG, do you think from clone
to seed, do you think that you get a little bit more of that vigor that people are missing in
that clone version of OGs that you, you know, everyone kind of complains about? Do you find it
a little bit more in the seed version? Cause I also have kind of noticed that where you do find
like the biscotti has a little bit more of that ranky OG kind of stick like thing to it when it
comes to outcrosses. I was very fortunate to grow the, the luxury from exotic Mike. I don't even know
if he, he released it. He just dropped a couple of those off to some people and those got out just a
few of us. And man, I'll tell you like, it really was just super OG in the sense that it just let
that, that rank danky off that almost smells skunky in a sense that people, you know, like a
humid condition kind of make it smell skunky anyway. So what do you, what's your thoughts on
that? Do you think that, do you find a little bit more hybrid vigor out of those OGs from seed form,
do you think, or is it something that's just kind of lost? Yeah, good question. I have to preface
it. You know, I don't have any of the the USA clone only OGs down in Australia. I have, you know,
spent some time with some people in the States, seeing how they grow. But I think I can answer
your question because many years ago I grew out a seed from DNA genetics. It was called Florida
lemons, I think, no, Florida gold. Yeah. Florida gold. And it was a cross of flow rider, which I
think, I don't think they had the real one. I think they just had TK. TK crossed to the Jew gold,
you know, the infamous parent of Kosher Kush. And it came out exactly like the clone only OGs,
like the super spindly, you know, needed lots of support, lots of staking, really needed to
be mothered. Beautiful smoke came out like, I think probably more leaning to the Jew gold
side of things, real gassy nose, more so than what you get out of the TK. And I did find a lot of
those downsides people talk about with your clone only, you know, it's a bit slow out of edge.
It really had horrible structure in terms of like spindly is the best way I can describe it.
Grapey, grapey is how some people say to me, it's kind of viney, like a grape plant, really.
I guess. Yeah. But hugely. And don't get me wrong. The smoke was worth it. It was beautiful. I kind
of wish I still had a cutting of it for sure. But at the same token, I wholeheartedly agree
with what you said about the biscotti. And when I first smelled this, the biscotti hybrid, sorry.
When I smelled this biscotti cross pancakes, I thought to myself, wow, this has got like a lot
more grunt than like most OGs have. And I just sort of thought maybe the pancakes is bringing
some of that. I don't know. I've never had real pancakes. But yeah, it fully aligns with what you
said. You know, I think the hybrids and more specifically the biscotti hybrids bring a lot
more to the table in terms of they seem to have fixed up that structure, giving more of that gas.
Because it's interesting when I talk to a lot of people in Australia and they often ask me for
genetic recommendations, you know, they say, hey, you know, I've never been to the States. I've
never tried these things, but I'm looking for something that's real gassy or real fuely. Should
I get TK? And often I have to say to them, hey, TK is one of the nicest smokes you'll get, but
it's actually not that gassy to be honest with you. Yeah. And so I think that we've sort of
improved in many aspects that when people think of an OG nowadays, probably getting something like
a biscotti hybrid might be more in the vein of what you're looking for, because it does have,
it's corrected a lot of those issues people have, like when I was talking about the Florida Gold.
So yeah, I definitely think there's some improvements to be made. Biscotti is a cool
strain and you can tell because there's a lot of people like, you know, like the shirt I'm wearing,
Crickets and Cicada, they've done some biscotti hybrids. And if you look at the longitudinal
breadth of their work, it's not exactly a strain you would expect to pop up in their repertoire.
And I've spoken to Mr. Bob about it and he says, you know, it's a good strain, it's a good
commercial producer, it's very consistent. And so I guess, you know, sort of by like that vouch,
you get just by virtue of their using it, it sort of gives you a bit more confidence that this is
probably what you're looking for if you do hate the way the OGs grow or that, you know, that they're a
bit finicky. So yeah, hopefully that's some kind of answer for you. Sure, sure. Well, that's the
answer I needed, a good conversation, right? But Jelly Bread Man, so I know that that's gone a
little bit into the work that you're talking about with the Jelly Dog. And then also, did that go
into your Raspberry Mama, I believe as well? Is that a part of that as well? Almost. So I actually
made the Raspberry Mama first a few years ago. So what I did was, they're sort of two separate lines,
but I've combined them together to make a strain called Chromatic. And that's sort of what I'm
looking to focus on to an extent going forward. So you sort of predicted one of my next moves.
The Raspberry Mama is, it's actually an F2 of Ken's GDP. So that's the company,
which people probably familiar with. It's Phantom Kush. I took a pink champagne leaning mother and
father. So the Phantom Kush line is made of pink champagne, across to Ken's GDP. And there's a bit
of ambiguity around what Ken's GDP, sorry, the Ken's Kush is. My apologies, I'm tripping over
my words here. But I spoke to Eric from Dungeon Vault Genetics, and he was the breeder at the time
doing the breeding for GDP. And he said that it's male GDP across to sour diesel. So you've got sort
of GDP, sour diesel across to pink champagne. And pink champagne is a clone that went around sort
of the Bay Area, the NorCal area, around sort of 2000 to 2005. Came out just before cookies,
actually. So a lot of people in the Bay Area have sort of fond memories of it. But I think
cookies came out not too long, maybe let's say a year or so after it did. And sort of a lot of
things got pushed to the wayside when it was causing its... Overshadows everything. Yeah,
fully. But it's a beautiful strain. To me, it's very similar to cherry pie. It's got a lot of
like this sort of baked perfume, really effervescent quality to it. Really nice stuff. If you like your
blueberries, your lavenders, you like floral, perfumey sort of stuff, it's very in that vein,
in my opinion. And so I basically took the F-buns of this Phantom Kush, found the most pink champagne
leaning mom and dad I could find, bred them together, made the F-2s. From the F-2s, I found
the Raspberry Mama. Admittedly, and I have no shame in mentioning this, one seed. I popped one seed.
And it speaks to the idea of this other point that I try to always mention to people,
don't let numbers hold you back. I live in Australia. It's illegal to do shit here.
And so I'm limited by numbers. I can't run the numbers I would often like to.
And yet over the years, I've still managed to find some stuff that I think stands up to many
of the clone onlys. And so that's sort of my anecdotal way of saying, what you're doing is
valuable no matter what scale you're on. Of course, with more numbers, you're more likely to find the
next slice bread, but there's no reason you can't. Because what I often think is, let's say you pop
one pack of 10 seeds, something like that. And you think, oh, I didn't find the keeper.
In one of those 10 packs, there will be the keeper. When I run 40 females,
the ultimate winner plant could have been in one of four 10 packs, if you get what I mean.
And so there's no reason you can't, through happenstance, get that seed. Again, more likely
the more numbers you run, but don't be discouraged by anyone who tries to mock you or say that you're
not running enough seeds. It's still valid. It's still valuable. A lot of killer stuff has been
found from a very small number of seeds throughout time. So yeah, definitely encourage everyone to
pop some seeds. But basically, yeah, the Raspberry Mama is this Phantom Kush F2.
And then I managed to lose it through the usual story. You give the clone to two friends thinking,
yep, cool, it's safe now. One of them accidentally kills it. The other one accidentally kills it
thinking someone else still has it. Someone's still got it. Right. The usual dilemma. And I've
now learned, I actually don't get angry anymore when that sort of thing happens because I
realized if I want something to stay around, I need to hang on to it myself. It's just that simple.
You can't expect someone to do that sort of thing for you or you can give it to them and ask them.
And if they do lose it, you just have to acknowledge that was a possibility.
So yeah, the Dog Jelly and the Raspberry Mama have met together to make the Chromatic. And the reason
why I gave it that name is because the colors on both of these plants are so beautiful and they
have this sort of pinky metallic, you know how you get that sheen off certain like of titaniums and
chrome and it gives you that sort of spectral color. So getting a lot of that off and which I
really love. So stay tuned for some Chromatic Hybrids. Hopefully, a fusion of my two passions.
One being that the Raspberry Mama is not a super duper knock you on the ground strain. It's more
of like a relaxing indica. Really nice any time of the day. It's going to take the weight off
your shoulders but not put you down for the count. And then the Dog Jelly is on the other end of the
spectrum where it does put you down for the count. Some very strong stuff. So yeah, hopefully a bit
of everything in there for everyone.
Sure. And you know what I'll say, you know, from being on the other side of the microphone,
you know, I don't want to blow a whole bunch of smoke up your ass tonight. But unfortunately,
I think that's probably going to happen from a lot of us. But man, I'm going to tell you,
when you tell us that not having to pop a bunch of seeds can actually still lend you a good product.
I think that's fantastic, man. That really means a lot to a lot of us growers because I also live
in Prohibition Land. I live here on the eastern, basically mid Atlantic. And I don't have clones.
I don't run clone only. And for a few reasons, because A, it's not available to me. B, I don't
necessarily trust everyone. And C, it's just, you know, a lot of these viruses and, you know,
types of bacterias and fungi that are going around, we just really don't want with our plants.
So it's an interesting perspective for people like us, because some people would look at it
almost like a negative thing. But I think it's really cool because it gives people like us
perspective where we actually get to phenohunt a lot more. It's almost like a necessity. It's
almost like we don't really know anything different, you know what I mean? So it always
gives us a unique perspective and plants that are pretty unique to, you know, at least what we're
looking for. With that being said, what is the most unique thing that you've ever smelled?
I know you've smelled a lot of things. So I would love to hear what you've smelled. That's just
really like, you'll never forget it. Yeah, good question. I probably have to give you like two or
three examples because I don't have a definitive one, but I got some good ones. I definitely think
if I had to give you one single one, it would definitely be the Ars from Bodhi, which is,
I think is short for American Skunk Selection. And it's just A-S-S. And he made that with,
I think it's Pirate Sweat, Sterling Skunk and something else. And basically, I was at,
so like in the past, I would always come to the States in December. I would go to the Emerald Cup
and usually I would fly back home shortly after that. And most of the time, the night before I
fly home, I'd go to Bodhi's house, I'd stay at his house and we'd just stay up smoking weed,
smelling perfumes, having a great time. He's super into perfumes. He's got me so passionate
about perfumes. I love it. Trust me. I have like a couple of Bodhi questions over here about that.
We're going to dive in. We'll get there. But anyway, Bodhi has this beautiful habit of,
he's got like more weed than you could ever imagine because he's always testing everything.
But like myself, he doesn't, and he inspired me, he doesn't smoke all that much. He just sort of,
you know, smokes at the end of the day. And so he accumulates lots of weed and he'll just pull
stuff out of jars. And like, there's not even names on it, you know, like I can't even try to
glean what it is, but he knows. But so he gives me this bud and he says, this is called arse and
tell me what you think. And I smell it and it truly smells like an arse and like, really putrid.
And I remember just like smelling it and just bursting out in laughter, just going like,
yeah. And I was just like, I can't smoke this man. Like I will literally throw up. It smells
like arsehole. And he was like, oh no, just give it a go. And I was like, is it going to taste
like that? Because if I hit a bong of this and it tastes like that, I will vomit in your bong,
like straight away. And he was like, no, you'll be fine. You'll be fine.
Oh man. I'm telling you, spend a whole summer in America. I'm telling you,
they'll make your taste buds change. Just fucking kidding guys. I'm just kidding guys.
But basically I took a hit and thankfully the smell, oh hello.
Hi.
That's very cute. Basically, yeah, I took a hit of it and it didn't smell,
it didn't, the taste didn't translate, thankfully. Tasted nothing like it smelled.
So what was the exhale like? Would you get on the back end?
It was sort of like cushy, to be honest, like very sort of more earthy. Didn't taste like any
one thing specifically, but much more tolerable. And trust me, this is one of the few situations
where I didn't want the nose to confirm the palate. Yeah, you didn't want to transfer him
over. What makes you wonder what's the concentrates like? Is Woody pressing that one?
I think he's giving it out and there's some people doing some cool stuff with it.
So definitely the ass is up there. But if I had to give another shout out, I would definitely say
that, see, there's a few that are really good. Like I really like some of the more palatable
stuff. Like some examples of some blueberry lines I've smelled have been very memorable because
they're just so bang on. I always say to people, there's this cognitive dissonance around when you
smell a strain that's exactly like something else because you're smelling it and you're like,
this smells like blueberries. But there's this miscompute in your brain because you're looking
at weed and you're saying, I'm looking at weed, but I'm smelling blueberries.
And there's something about that miscompute, which I think really makes things more memorable
or more impactful. And I can't remember who said it, but someone out, they really sort of
expressed the idea perfectly in that a lot of people who don't smoke weed, you give them a bud
to smell and they say, it smells like weed, dude. And they can't articulate the finer notes that
us weed heads will often be able to. And every now and again, let's say you've got some Tropicana
cookies, something that smells bang on like something. And you're like, yeah, this smells like
a Clementine or a Mandarin or an orange. And you give that to the person who doesn't smoke all that
often. And they'll say, kind of smells like orange. And you can see the cogs in their head start to
turn. And so I always have this fond spot in my heart for strains that smell exactly like a mango,
exactly like a lemon, exactly like blueberries, because for me, they're tools to help get people
passionate about cannabis. I've got a lot of friends who kind of enjoy cannabis, but not on
the level that we do. And I think these things can help get them over the line to being a bit more
curious and being like, oh, that's really interesting. But one last strain that's truly
different, I'll give a shout out to many, many years ago before I really knew what I was doing,
I was growing a strain from Devil's Harvest Crew, got it from Attitude Seed Bank, shout out Attitude
Seed Bank, helping a lot of the newbie growers. And it was Shoreline S1, the scum. And this plant,
it was truly metallic in a way that no other plant I've ever grown has been. It truly smelt
like a mixture of a can of spray paint and a metal workshop, very metallic with a bit of
fruitiness on the back end. And I was lucky enough to smell some Shoreline from Wick when I was
visiting Mr. Bob recently, Wick Family Farms. He's a cool guy, about to do some seed projects himself,
highly recommend everyone keep him on your radar. He has a lot of cool old clones and he had the
garlic bud, he had the Shoreline, he had some real haze. And I got to try all these ones. And
what was interesting about trying that Shoreline was that it was a bit different to the S1 I tried.
And so it got me really interested in maybe trying some Shoreline S1s again.
Look at that, full dab duty there, I love it. Now you got hummus in the eyes, buddy.
That's super cool. So now knowing what you know as an experienced historian and can of
soar, what do you think that has some sort of haze in it with all that kind of metal taste
and sort of some of that fruity back and something maybe equatorial you assume?
Yeah, well, look, here's the part that I've always thought about is I really want to
hopefully talk to Dave Watson at some point in the future because I'm hoping,
I think, trust me, I'm going to come around to answering your question,
but I'm going to deviate for a second. The problem with Dave Watson is that
it's not a problem with him. It's a problem with the fact that people,
I love these little pop-ins. The problem is that people have sort of tried to do a lot of
I gotcha moments with him over the years. And as a result of that, I think he's very
And as a result of that, I think he's very naturally defensive slash has his guard up
when he's talking to people about historical things, especially big ones related to haze,
related to skunk. And what I think is that if I could eventually get him on for an episode,
it would probably be like Chimera, right? It'd be like a six-hour episode.
At some point after the four-hour mark, he will naturally become a bit more comfortable.
And hopefully, that's when we can start to get some of these questions answered.
And to bring it around to your question, I don't know if the shoreline has any haze in it because
I didn't necessarily see that in the structure, but what it does definitely have is the same
Columbian that was used in the haze project. If you consider the stories that go around online,
the haze that was, sorry, the Columbian that was used to make skunk was the same Columbian that
haze brothers used, at least one of them. And so, I tend to think that is possibly where
some of the similarities come from. But that would also be, there's a lot of assumptions in
that statement. A, what I said is true and B, the shoreline skunk is an early skunk,
no outcrosses, just straight skunk from the early releases. So, I'm not saying definitively,
but that's sort of where my mind goes when you mentioned that. And I also wonder,
I don't know for sure, but the Calio also uses a Mexican in it. And I wonder if that had any
similarities to the Mexicans used in the hazes because there's a lot of citrus in skunk and
obviously, Calio has a lot of citrus in it. And I wonder if that traces back to like either the
Mexican or the Columbian that may or may not have been the same ones because as the stories say
online, the haze brothers were a part of that sort of sacred seeds crew in the Santa Cruz area.
So, I don't know for sure, but it would be certainly interesting to ask Dave.
Man, so that's great that you could kind of segue into, I'm going to use one of your,
that segues perfectly into one of my questions here. What do you believe that haze was made up
of? From all the stories you've heard, I know you've heard so many fantastic people. I think
Todd had a really good idea on it and a few others. What do you think? What's going on?
What do you think is in the genetics of haze, man? I mean, I know you just mentioned there the
Columbians potentially. Do you think it was the three-way Columbian like most people think? Or do
you think it was that more people consider that three-way Columbian plus what they started to add,
like the ties and the corollas and things like that to actually be considered the hazes? Or what
in your mind do you think was really the haze that people remember today?
Sure. Look, I think that I'll preface this by saying that over the years, my thoughts have
changed and it incorporates many of the things you just referenced. Undeniably, for Sam to have
taken seeds to Europe and offer them, there had to be some sort of outcross to produce lots of
seeds. And I think that's where the tie comes into it for sure. So I think when we're talking about
the Haze Brothers in Santa Cruz offering the blue haze, the silver haze, the purple haze,
I think all of that was likely a mixture of Columbians and maybe a Mexican. I don't know
if there was an Indian in there. That's the one I've been most interested in is like,
where does Indian fit into the picture? Because it makes sense to me that it was just Columbians at
first. And then maybe that's where like old-timer got some stock from around that time because his
haze is noted to be probably just Columbians. And then maybe Sam was in the picture around that time
had some tie or someone had some tie. They were able to make a large amount of seeds or some
amount of seeds from crossing this tie mail they find to what they already had as haze.
And then he can go to Europe with those seeds, offer them to Neville and whatnot.
But my question is, when did the Indian come into it? Because there's lots of stories that people
can corroborate about it being maybe just a mixture of South American sort of strains.
However, no one can ever say, and this is when we crossed the Indian in. And what I always probe
deeper in is like, all right, no one can tell us when the Indian came into it, but is there anyone
who can corroborate that I've grown Indians and I see these traits in haze that make me believe
there is Indian in there? Maybe that's the best we'll ever get. And I think Tom was the person
who I was hoping to get that advice from because he notably has the Northern Indian line.
And he basically said, look, I don't really see a lot of Indian in there per se, but I don't
necessarily doubt it because, and this is true, the story has always been the Indians in there.
You know, it's not like a recent thing where it's been brought out more recently. Like it's like,
for probably 40 years now, they've been saying, yeah, there's Indian and Thai in it.
So there is a part of me that can see that point and be like, yeah, like if they were lying about
it, they had to have been lying from day one and it almost makes no sense. And I don't like to
think of it as lying because I don't think that anyone for the most part consciously lies about
things, you know, and this ties into the chem dog story. A lot of people try to say there may or may
not be discrepancies between what chem dog said happened and what really happened. And maybe that's
what it is. I don't think he's ever lied about anything. I think he's always told the story that
is to the best of his recollection and what he believes to be true. And there have been times
when someone has maybe presented some evidence saying, oh, you know, I was actually talking to
you at that time and you'd said this to me. And then he'll maybe go, oh yeah, that's right. That
is you're right. I was mistaken. And I think that that's very natural for humans to do that, you know,
over such a long period of time. I don't think it's unreasonable that people have, you know,
little blips in their memory and not everyone has a photographic memory. So yeah, in terms of the
Hayes, I think that it was likely just a mixture of Colombians and maybe like a Punta Rojo
in terms of what we know as it. And that makes sense because the Hayes brothers always spoke
about that, like the different Hayes is the blue, the silver, the purple, all that. They were mostly
an artifact of just different flowering times, you know, certain phenos would, you know, harvest
earlier and they'd have different crops and they gave them, you know, this phenotype finishes the
quickest and it's the blue and this one finishes next and it's the silver. And then the latest
finishing is the purple. And I think they as a group were what we probably call Hayes. And then
later on, the stuff that the world got introduced through Neville was much more Thai dominant. And
that makes sense because, you know, theoretically Thai is 50% of the gene pool if it's outcrossed
to that and all those Colombians and Mexicans collectively are just making up the other 50%.
So if you actually look at the math, the original Colombian in Hayes is like 12.5% and then it's
like 50% Thai, you know, theoretically 25% Indian if you believe the order they give it. So as to
the specifics like that, we may not know. And I want to acknowledge, you know, obviously I wasn't
around then. I've only smoked limited representations of Hayes. My Hayes experience is much more within
the realm of like NL5 Hayes, Super Silver Hayes, all those things that a lot of people have
experience with. But I have been lucky enough to try some of these original strains. And like when
I referenced earlier being at Mr. Bob's house with Wick, he gave me some original Hayes. Like
he calls it, I think it's Golden Hayes. But he says it's pure Hayes and it goes for like, you know,
16 to 21 weeks. So I sort of believe it. And that struck me as a very Thai sort of dominant. And I
have always gravitated more to the C5 side of things as opposed to the A5. And I think that's
because I like that really uplifting sort of zippy sort of effect. And those floral terps, like
I'm fine with. Some people, it sort of reminds them of sort of, it's not terpenoline, but it's in that
general direction. And I know a lot of people aren't into that. And so maybe because of that,
plus other reasons, they prefer the A5. But for me, I've always been like, get up, let's do
something. That's my preferred sort of effect. Man, that was a killer rundown. You know, and the
reason I ask you, and as I know that you don't have a ton of experience with the Hayes itself,
obviously, you know, it's a totally different timeline. But I think if anyone's ever talked to
anyone that could actually put all the pieces together in a lot of these situations with a lot
of these cultivars, it's been you. And that's been a really cool thing for people like me to sit back
and see, because a lot of us don't have to ask the questions. You know, we're very fortunate that
people like you know the right questions. Which brings me to one of my questions, like, how long
does it take you? And where do you kind of formulate these ideas and things that you're going to come up
with these guests? Is it more of a like, you already know what you're going to ask them before
you bring them on to the show? Or is it more like, you line them up as a guest, and then you do
research kind of thing? Yeah, good question. I have always said that, so it's probably more a
case of I'm curious about the guest first, I invite them on. And then if they agree, I do a
bunch of prep for it. However, some people I've prepared the questions ahead of time, because I'm
just generally curious. And I think that something I've always said to people is that what I said
firstly about I have to be genuinely curious about the guest, that to me has been really the only
golden rule, so to speak, about the show. Because there has been one or maybe two episodes where
I got people on because they were highly requested. But I myself like probably wouldn't have
necessarily invited them otherwise. And I felt like those weren't the strongest episodes.
And to me that helped me realize, and more importantly, I found it really challenging to
come up with the content to generate the questions. So, I think for me, a part of the recipe
that makes it a success is having that very real curiosity. Because the show itself legitimately
started just as a way for me to be able to ask the breeders all these questions I personally
wanted to ask them. It very much was like I started the show when I was just getting
my feet as a breeder. And I was like, I would love to be able to run some of these ideas by
some people who are established in the industry. And are these ideas I've got weird or
is it congruent with what they believe? Does it make sense to them? And so, I quickly
realized you can't just barrage someone with questions that are for your own personal gain,
because it will just very quickly feel like an interrogation. And so, I then realized, well, okay,
well, if I've got these curiosities, chances are other people do as well. And if I record it and
turn it into like a package in a way that it's like, you know, very palatable, then people will
be more open to having me grill them for three hours. And so, that's literally what it is. In
my opinion, the show is me interrogating someone in a sense for like three hours for my own gain.
And then, it's just fantastic that other people enjoy it as well. So, I will be honest, that's
sort of where it came from. But yeah, I think the more interested I am in the guests, the easier it
is to generate the questions. And sometimes, it's like I can't write down the questions quick
enough. My brain is jumping to the next one, to the next one. And yeah, and that's always a good
sign in my opinion, because if you can do that, it means other people will almost certainly have
similar questions. And I think for me, one of the most rewarding things is when you ask a question
and a certain question and the guest is like, oh, that's a good question. I've never thought about
that. Because those are the questions where you tend to get good answers and the viewers also
tend to really value those questions and think, oh, that's, you know, I would have never thought
of that question myself. But like, oh, the answer is valuable. I really am glad we asked that.
So, that would be sort of my general gist on it. But the way I would generally sort of allocate
time-wise to it is when I first started the show, it was very different because you know, you're
learning how to edit things, you're right, everything takes way longer than it would say
nowadays. But nowadays, I probably spend, you know, 2 times. So, let's just say an episode goes for 3
hours. I probably spend 2 times that preparing for it. So, maybe up to 6 hours preparing. And
overall, I'd say about somewhere between half and two-thirds of the questions are pre-planned.
And then, the other half slash one-third on the cuff like responses like, oh, hey, you just said
something interesting. Let's follow that up a bit. And then, again, at least 2 to 3 times that
post-production. So, 3 hours at least between 6 and 9 hours in post-production. Because this is
something I don't talk about all that much. But any of the music you hear in the show is just
stuff I've made myself. In my spare time, I like to produce music. And so, I've got this background
in audio production and that allows me, I believe, to create a decent end product. And I think that
that's really important in the longevity of a show because things are really good now but I'm
interested in this content still being good in 5 to 10 years time. And I think high-quality,
high-fidelity audio is a really good way of doing that. So, because what I can say for sure is that
there's a lot of like great apps like Zoom, like StreamYard that have drastically improved the
audio quality just from say Skype. So, if you listen to some of my earlier interviews, the audio
quality is not as good as what a lot of podcasts are putting out today that even aren't necessarily
doing a bunch of effort in post-production because the software itself is getting far superior.
And so, I think to myself, alright, if I want this in 5 years time, there'll be another jump where
the software will be doing all this post-production I'm spending 6 to 9 hours on. And so, if I want
the content to still be listenable, I need to try to make it really good now so that in 5 years time,
it can try to at least stand up to the more stuff that's coming out at the time. So, yeah, very
long-winded answer but that would be sort of the breakdown of how I do the show.
Trust me, that's what we're here for, the long-winded answers, man.
And you know, it's funny because I had a feeling you made that music because all the things that
on your SoundCloud that you like or repost, it seems like are all kind of musical-based things.
And I know that there's some people in those chats that are probably guilty as well as we'll
click on them, we'll kind of check out and see what you're into, you know what I mean? But...
I love that you referenced that, man, because that's my little Easter egg to people is that
I primarily find my new music I'm listening to in everyday life through SoundCloud. I'm a bit
of a hipster like that. And so, if you want to ever know what I'm listening to or just the music
in general that I like, go to the Like section of the SoundCloud page and there's like 5, 6 years
worth of just the tunes. And every day I'm listening to those tunes. So, if you're ever
interested, check it out. It's my little present. Heck yeah. So, I've got to ask because I've noticed
this question comes up in a lot of your interviews and I'd love to hear your take. When you're in the
States, what's been your favorite OG? Oh, good question. So, it would be a tie,
a tie between the TK because it's undeniably just the effect is almost unparalleled. In fact,
when I really... The very first time I went to the States, Duke was kind enough to say,
you know what? Let's try to ship something back to Australia. This was in like 2015 or 2016.
Before Hoplite and Virus, before anything too concerning. These days, I wouldn't attempt to
ship anything back just because I'd not want to possibly be the guy who brought that into Australia.
But I was with him and I was really painstakingly trying to figure out, you know, I can send one
thing back to Australia. What should I send? And I ultimately ended up on the TK because I was like,
it's just such an all-rounder, you know? My heart wants me to take one of the Chemdogs or whatever.
But the reality is TK, I think is probably a better all-rounder than even the ChemD which
that was my second pick was like the ChemD. And it's funny because, you know, in my heart of
hearts, I obviously want to take the Chem91. But the reality is it's... If I'm thinking about
from like a utilitarian point of view, like the greatest good for the most people,
I think the ChemD or the TK was the better choice. And then I went with the TK because it's just
undeniably just such a luxurious smoke. You know, as I said, it's good at any time of the day.
If you have the ChemDog in the morning, you might turn that into a very unproductive day.
Yeah. Whereas the TK, you still have, you know, the beautiful effect, but it's functional.
Everyone likes it. No one's going to say this is too much. Good yields. So the TK is definitely
up there. But I would say that it's probably tie with, and this might be, I don't think it's that
edgy of an opinion, but the headband that Duke and Mr. Bob have, it's not actually a headband.
It's just a OGS one. A lot of the heads are very much on the same page about that, but it goes
around as headband. It's also known by the name, I think NotSoDog gave it to it, the 56, which is
because it's always harvested on day 56. And it's definitely called headband. You know, you can find
it in a lot of stuff, but for me, it's an OG, no doubt. And it's a beautiful OG. It's like in that
same vein as the TK, except it's got more flavor to it. It's more of like a lemon pledge. When I
think of OG, I don't think of the earthy TK. I tend to think more of something that's got a little
bit of lemon, a little bit of gas to it. And it definitely fits that picture nicely. So if anyone
out there is really fond of like Faceoff, of XXX, of any SFV, any of those ones that have got a bit
more flavor to them than the TK, I would say the headband I'm referencing is definitely going to be
up your alley. And it's up there for me. I'm always very pleased. I somehow serendipitously
always managed to get given some from someone, you know, either I'll see Duke, he'll give me some,
or I'll see Bob, he'll give me some. And that's when I feel like I'm truly in the States is when
I'm like puffing on that headband. Well, that's one of those plants then too, that obviously has
to speak to like you, because it seems to gravitate towards you somehow, right? If it keeps getting
its way towards you. But man, I'll say I'm a sucker for the Irene, man. I don't think enough
people have really got to try a good bit of the Irene. She is terrible to grow. I'll be honest,
it's probably the worst thing ever. But man, as far as smoke goes, I love it. TK is definitely
probably right there with it though, man. And it's because I really only knew things from that TK
realm for so long. I actually only knew OG is like a very piney kind of earthy thing. I didn't
really know it as a very gassy thing, only from like when I would get out crosses and things like
that, I got a good couple of bits of Hells, which was like my first real introduction to like a
gassier kind of an OG. But man, the TK really is kind of in a lot of the things that I like myself
kind of run. I just really like that more piney kind of earthy thing. And I do, again, I think
that kind of goes, speaks to what we were talking about earlier, where it's like, I'm not really
running all these cuts from, you know, like Dark Heart or from, you know, my buddy who's had the
Irene for 10 years or whatever. But, you know, we get to run things from seed. So we get it as an
outcross or, you know, we could try something that's a little bit different. But with that
being said, what's been your favorite chem dog, man? Come on. I know you just said the chem dog D
was like the one you would want to grow, but we all like to smoke the 91. So what is it?
Yeah, good. Great question. And I guess it sort of depends on what you mean,
favorite, because they're kind of different for different reasons. Right. But I'll answer it on
face value. I would say that, look, I would say the chem 91 for me is too strong to be
an all round. It's got a very specific use, you know, I've just as many times as I've smoked it
and felt like this is heaven. I've smoked it and felt like this is too much. And so for that
reason, these days, you know, I'm working more these days. I've got a family now. And so I can
start to see the point that sometimes things are too strong to be like an all day driver.
I think the chem 91 is the best of them from a non-smoking point of view, because there's so
much law associated with it. It's led to the generation of so many strains that it's undeniably,
as Skunk VA says, the queen of contemporary cannabis. And it's such a mutant, you know,
it's unlike the other chem dogs in a sense, you know, as far as we can tell, it's not related to
OG, but fuck it looks exactly like it. And the stretch and everything too. Yeah.
It's really interesting. Whereas like, you know, the chem D is like this stout,
Indica, Afghani, like the story totally matches it. And then the four and the one are more like
NL5 Hayes sort of things where they're long baseball bat colas. But if I had to definitively
answer it, I would, I'd probably have to go with the chem D just because it's like an all-rounder,
right? But in my heart of hearts, you know, the chem 91 is the queen and it's just not something I
feel I could smoke on as much as I'd like to. If you asked me five years ago, when I was still
studying and I was, you know, waking up smoking bongs for breakfast, chem 91 all the way, you
know, because it was just, it was conducive to my lifestyle. These days, I would say the D is
probably a bit more up my alley just because it's a nice balance of flavor function. And,
you know, I'm not the first person who says the chem D is the goat, you know, people like P-Bud
and Chem-Dog, there's a reason they rep that sort of more than the 91 because they're probably
coming from a similar place to me. But I want to give a big shout out to Skelly Hashplant. You
know, I know that a lot of people are still sort of not entirely decisive or still a bit on the
fence about whether it has any relation to the Chem-Dog. As more time goes by, the more I think
it very well could be the mother of Chem-Dog. What I can say definitively for sure is that
Duke gave me a butt of the 91 to smoke, then he gave me, like within the same sitting,
he gave me a butt of the 91, I took a bong hit, he gave me a butt of the Skelly, I took a bong hit.
They are the exact same flavor and well not exact but almost exact to the point where you can taste
it and you're like, oh yeah, that could be the mom. And then more importantly, the Skelly has
the effect that the Chem-Dog has. It's not quite as potent but the type of effect is in that vein.
And having been able to do that sort of A-B testing, that was what really sold me. And that
was the first time I went to the States. And I can also give you a bunch of reasons why I don't
think it's the mom. You know, the structures are so wildly different, it's almost impossible. It
would almost like be saying, here's Deep Chunk, here's Hayes, they're siblings or whatever. You'd
be like, it's just too different. It just doesn't make sense. But more wild things have happened.
And as time goes by, I believe that the Chem-Dog clones that we have nowadays,
the more I think they're lottery tickets. Skunk VA famously said that nothing is like the Chem-D
except for maybe hybrids made with the Chem-D. You know what I mean? Before the Chem-D around,
there was nothing like the Chem-D. And these days, when you smell something and it smells like the
Chem-D, it's because it's an offspring of the Chem-D, not because it's anything else. And I
think that's probably the case with a lot of the Chem-Dog stuff. Just simply put, it's like a lot
of ticket stuff. And even if we knew the... I say it's akin to the GMO, right? Mimico seeds,
he still actively makes the GMO, the garlic cookies cross, you know, Forum Cut to Chem-D.
People are popping those seeds like mad because they know that's where the Chem-D came from.
Sorry, the GMO came from. And yet no one has really found anything like the GMO. And what
that leads me to believe is that the GMO is like the Chem-Dogs. It's a lottery ticket. It's a one
in a million. We could hunt through hundreds or thousands more of those seeds and we may not ever
find anything like it. And the same thing can be said for like Mac1 from Cap, you know, he found
this clone that like, you know, changed the industry and he sold seeds of it and no one has
really found anything like it in there. And it might just be the case that it's just a lotto
ticket. It's like, it's the one in a million that's won and we may never find it again.
And so, yeah, very long-winded answer, but I would definitely say that. And I just quickly
add a caveat. I want to try more Chem-4 samples because I've only really tried two and they left
a very lasting impression on me as being quite different, you know, like the effect was different,
but the taste was way different. It was very like iodine. I don't know if the brand is the same in
the States, but there's like an antiseptic wash you can use in Australia called Betadine.
And yeah, Betadine, iodine-based antiseptic washes. It reminded me like that, like
pine iodine, really interesting stuff. So yeah, I'd love to try more Chem-4.
I was getting a little worried there. I thought you were going to say the 91JB. I was like, oh,
no, but funny enough, you know, it's really funny to say that one of the first crosses I did was
dog patch to the local skunk, which the dog patch is the Chem-D to the Chem-91BX2 from Skunk BA.
And then the local is, it's basically diesel onto a sour diesel IBL to the Skelly to the
Cuddle Hash plant to the Skunk 1 is what I think it was. And there was a couple of shorter plants
that came out that were very hash plant dominant. And I kind of attributed them more towards the
Skelly. They very much came out like my Chem-D dominant in the dog patch plants, very short
stout plants, actually very similar leaf structure. They have a very overlapping,
not like a duck foot overlapping, but very much like at the base, they overlap. Anything that you
could tell was more sour diesel or Chem-91 dominant had that more maple leaf towards the base of the
actual leaf or it almost canoes and has a round point to it before it starts to get into the
serrations. So it's very interesting that you bring up about the Skelly, man. I could totally
see something like that where there's a relation. But anyway, less about Skelly and more about you.
It's always cool to talk about Skelly. It's cool you growing that cross. That sounds like an
interesting one. Yeah, I made that one a few years ago. I've taken it to F4 now. I call it the Port
Dog, named after my dog, Portugal. But it's one of my favorites. It's one of my favorites, man. It
basically just comes out very Chem-D dominant a lot. It's very piney with a little bit of that
kind of lemon. It's so piney that it's almost lemon pine, you know what I mean? But man, the potency
is all God. But anyway, man, I almost hate asking you this because I've had three people at this
point let me know it. And I almost think it's a racist question, but do you have any experience
with Australian bastard cannabis? Oh, good question.
Look at Peter laughing. He was one of the people laughing at the question.
I'm actually, I have it growing outside. I had it growing last year and this year because nobody
knows, even my wife, who she'll walk past it. It's like five feet from the sidewalk that everybody
walks by and nobody has any idea what it is. And mine has a really grapey smell to it.
Beautiful.
The grapey thing, I ran a bunch of the freak shows a few years ago and that's all I got was
grape and berry, man. It's cool that you're kind of getting that same berry thing out of that.
Yeah, look, that's really interesting. I'll preface this by saying I've never grown it out
myself, but I've been to a few people's houses who have been growing it. Look, from the historical
point of view, it very much served a purpose, right? It was valued for the years that it was
growing. It was valued for the incognito part of it. Historically, it was always known to not be
the highest quality high. I think in Australia, it sort of had this moniker. It was called Bindi,
like B-I-N-D-I-I. That was sort of what people would sell it as, like, yeah, I got a bag of Bindi.
And whether it was because it was harvested early or because it was just inherent to the line,
a lot of people sort of felt like it left you with a bit of a headache after smoking it. It
was not considered like a premier smoke. But I'll also acknowledge that there's a lot of just
outdoor bush in general that can do that in Australia, right? So it sounds like now that
it's being grown more widespread in people's gardens, they're getting better results. And
I, there's a guy who's a cool Australian dude, part of my Discord. His name's Bin Chicken,
shout out, homie. He's doing some cool work, you know, breeding it forward generations,
combining it with freak show hybrids and using even like some of the hybrid CSIs done with it,
like say, I don't know if this is exactly what he's doing, but like cookies, ABC, crossing that
to freak show something else, you know, so sort of like these interesting polyhybrids and just
selecting for phenos that still retain the really unique morphology, but at the same time, have
better high, better smell from those additional genetics in there. So basically I think that it
definitely served a purpose. It really is one of those plants that seems to have gotten a really
nice second wind, doesn't it? From people like CSI and Painted Forest Farms who have given it a
second life. Now the origins on it, I'm just going to caveat it. I'll tell you what I think,
and then I'll tell you the backstory of what people say. But I think it's just like the freak
show, right? The freak show really solidified this in my mind in that freak show is a pack from
coastal seeds. It's the Puna Butter crossed to Banana OG from memory, something along those
lines, maybe an F2. And you get this really unique morphology out of it. And to me, what that helped
me to know for sure is that the historical wives tale you hear is that ABC comes from some sort of
chemical mutation. Often you hear the word culture scene thrown around. And I think that
that's just not true because the freak show has shown us that these things occur naturally.
And what we know for sure, and this is just as a general point, if we have found a plant that's as
strong as the Chem 91 before, what that shows us is that as a human history, we would have found
thousands of these plants and we just never cloned them, right? That's what I always think.
If we've got some cutting of something, it means we've seen it before. We just didn't keep cuts of
it. So I have no doubt that the ABC, that freak show, that these really altered morphology plants
have existed before. It's just, they weren't valued enough or they were grown one time.
Like heck, could it even be someone like, who's just the first time grower, who isn't at the point
in their growing sort of career where they keep cuts of everything and things just got grown out
once and lost. So that would be my speculation is that it's just a naturally occurring mutation.
Now, the actual story you hear, and there's part of it is true, is that when Australia was colonized
by the English, they brought over hemp with them and they used it as a production crop,
mostly for fiber, for the agricultural sort of purposes it brought to the table. Now they were
growing it in an area of New South Wales called the far Northern rivers and the Hunterland.
And basically after a number of years, let's even just say a hundred years, when, you know,
prohibition became more of a thing in say the early 1940s, 1920s, something like that. I don't
know exactly when. They started to be more of an idea of like, maybe we shouldn't be allowing this
stuff to grow wild. And at a certain point, maybe fast forwarding to say the sixties, the seventies,
the eighties, there actually became an active effort to eradicate what had been regarded as
wild cannabis in these areas because they'd grown it there for years and it had literally become
acclimatized. It would, seeds would sprout on their own in the way that, you know, all natural species
do. And the next year some seeds would sprout elsewhere because, you know, the wild cannabis
had reproduced. So you would inevitably find that it was essentially indigenous to the land.
It wasn't, it didn't evolve there, but it had acclimatized to the point that it was now a
natural part of the flora and fauna. And they tried, they spent a decent amount of money trying
to eradicate it from these areas and they never could. They never could. It was just so well suited.
And it makes sense, right? Like the areas that I'm talking about are not too south of, they're sort
of bordering the Tropic of Capricornia, which is where you start to get to that more sort of
tropical region. So the conditions were like very conducive to growing cannabis. And so as a result,
despite their best efforts, they basically could never eradicate it. And the story that you hear
from people who have ABC is that it comes from this very region, the Hunter. And it's essentially
supposedly found on this block of land where like four blocks sort of intersect. And
sort of around that general area where the four blocks intersect, there was like four sort of
patches with like somewhat distinct phenotypes. And if you go to CSI's website, that's what it's
referring to, where it's like, this is from site number four, this is from site number three.
And they're all very ABC-ish, but you'll see based on the photos, there's a bit of difference. And you
can see, oh, you know, these ones are a bit more stretchy. These ones are a bit more stocky.
And that's the story you hear. And then you also commonly hear that it was, they tried to use
chemicals to wipe it out and they were, you know, maybe spraying it from helicopters or something
like that. But to me, that just doesn't make sense because the amount of like, they didn't have
glyphosate back then. So if you were to use Colchicine, A, it doesn't make sense from a
commercial point of view. But if you were to do it, you would have like just an insane amount of
volume, like, you know, thousands of liters of Colchicine in a helicopter spraying it. It doesn't
exactly make sense. And if you did, you would also expect there to be other mutations, not just
cannabis. You know, there was lots of other flora and fauna there. Why don't we see any
10-legged kangaroos, you know? That's like a bad joke, I guess. But the idea is, it just doesn't
seem true to me, given that we've got other documented examples like the freak show, which
have occurred naturally in the absence of any sort of teratogen or mutagen. So, yeah, that would be
my thoughts. And I'm interested to see how it goes forward. I'm not entirely sure that it'll ever be
super commercially successful in the sense that like in 10 years time, everyone will be growing
these very incognito plants around their house that just go unseen. I think that's like a cool,
very cool novelty for someone who is a grower and is used to having to be so vigilant about
hiding their plants. And it's just kind of fun to hide something in plain sight. But I think it
might be a bit like the autos of you at the moment where it's like, this is cool, but I don't know if
it's ever going to supersede the original photo period, so to speak. Yeah. And I feel like I can
agree with that sentiment. Like for me, it wasn't like I was extremely excited to grow out a freak
show, but I'm more than anything, wanted to breed it and put in seed form just in case someday I'm
able to put it outside for whatever reason. You know what I mean? It's one of those ones where
like, you just want to kind of have it around, I think. But man, there's two great directions I
could go with this. You're just like, you're so fucking awesome to talk to, man. I'm just telling
you right now. With that being said, you had a really good sentiment that you had talked with
Tom Hill where he talked about a little bit of magic and being in the F2s and what you just
mentioned there with the freak show being a part of an F2 line that just kind of popped out.
When it comes to filial breeding, do you think the F2s are kind of that magical
filial generation where you can find a lot of the hot stuff? And obviously, that's pretty
subjective to what your goal is. You know what I mean? If you want to have a wide open
preference, that's mainly go to F2. But if you're looking to kind of keep male and female,
you can F1s awesome and stability is three and four and blah, blah, blah. But do you think that
F2 is where you're kind of finding a lot of that magic that you hear people talk about?
Yeah, I think so. And I want to caveat this because I spoke on the Dude Grows show not too
long ago and I was reading the comments and I think maybe I didn't do the best job of like
laying down the ground rules that would then lead to what I say being true. So what I mean by that
is it's a very complex discussion to talk about because there's a lot of assumptions being made.
I'll try to explain it as best as I can without getting too tongue-tied. Okay. So I personally
think that the most innovative and interesting breeding comes from when you breed something that
was unexpected, right? So you cross strawberries and chocolates together, the two parents, those
are their flavor profiles and you get something that smells like gas. It's like that was not an
expected outcome. I was sort of expecting a chocolate strawberry vibe but maybe something
close to that but this is very left of field. And to me, that's innovative because for the most part,
that's what injects new blood into the scene is having this whole new thing that was not really
represented in either of the parents before. Now, of course, you can improve things. You might get
Tangy and breed it to cookies and make Tropicana cookies and that's viewed as an improvement on
Tangy. Now, that's cool too, right? But to me, what DJ Short did is more impressive. Spinning
four strains together, none of them smelling like blueberries and creating something that
smells like blueberries. So I think the F2s are better for that because in the F1s, you're going
to generally speaking have a much more interesting and more interesting relationship with the
F1s. You're going to generally speaking have a mixture of dominant and recessive genes. And when
you cross those together, the dominants are more dominant. And so in the F1s, you tend to mostly see
dominant phenotypes being expressed. But in biology, you've got two alleles of each gene for
the most part. We'll keep it simple. Some things in plants, they've got more but in humans, for
example, we'll just talk about humans to keep it easy. You've got two copies of your autosomal
genes and so you've got two alleles. One's dominant, one might be recessive, it might be
dominant, but the dominant one is going to overpower the recessive. But it's still got the
recessive there. So when you cross those F1s together, most of them are going to end up getting
one of the dominants through one of the two parents. But just by chance, you might get those
two recessive genes lining up and getting put into the same offspring and then you get a recessive
phenotype. And that can allow what I said to occur where you get this totally unexpected thing
because it's a trait that was totally squashed by the dominant gene and now it's able to be
expressed. So from that point of view, you can certainly... And that's the reason why you see a
much wider breadth of phenotypes in the F2s, generally speaking, okay? Because you can get
that phenomenon I just described occurring. Now for future generations, I'd have to explain exactly
if you want to breed, if you want to find two plants that have both of those recessives aligned
up, you could get an F3 that is also recessive. But if you pair it with even one of the two parents
that has a single dominant allele in it, that's going to then start squashing and stomping it. So
it gets very complex in terms of the permeations and combinations very quickly, okay? So I'm going
to try to avoid giving blanket statements because I think that's what people were a bit confused by
with my Dude Grow Show interview. But what I would say for sure is that getting those recessive genes
to line up in a plant, in my opinion, is certainly what I was able to do with the Raspberry Mama. And
it led for a very interesting outcome because I was really curious when Mean Gene started talking
about how he had a pink champagne S1 he was working with because part of me was like, oh,
fuck, is his going to be like a better version of my sort of Raspberry Mama, which is essentially
a pink champagne. It's like an homage to pink champagne. And what was really neat was to find
that it was very different, you know, because A, they're not the same genetic combination at all.
There's a number of different elements. But his is more of like this beautiful apple sort of smell,
really unique, like green apple in a way that I've never smelt before. Truly cool. And it was
also cool because it highlighted to me what I'm talking about right now, that you can get these
very unintended permeations coming out of it. So I don't know for sure because I haven't really
spoken to him too much about whether he considers that apple phenotype to be one of those rare
recessive phenotypes out of the pink champagne because the pink champagne, generally speaking,
is more of like a strawberry, tart champagne, baked, I call it like, you know, Turkish bakehouse vibe.
Yeah. So it's really interesting and you get different varieties out of that for sure.
But at the same time, there's value to making F1s and it's just all dependent on what you're doing.
You know, I think ultimately Neville sort of came to the end conclusion that it was best to,
like F1s were what he thought the money was. But yeah, it depends what you're trying to do.
Oh, ahoy, ahoy, Minjin. Speak of the devil.
Look at that crisp internet connection. We'll see. I got a little obstruction up here. My trees
are too big, you know. We were just talking about, oh, I was talking about how I was enjoying your
pink champagne S1, the bud you gave me. It's really nice apple sort of vibe. It's good. It's
strong weed too. That's one of those ones that like I like, but then I'm not sure what people
think about it. Cause it could be, I don't know, it could be considered more on the plain side
cause it's not like a real sharp smell or anything. It's that kind of, it's kind of rounded
off and almost creamy in a sense, but it's really good. And everybody that I give it to
winds up really liking it, you know? And I got that from a guy that's on Instagram,
Instagram as Eastborn Westgrown. And I've known him for now for probably almost about 10 years.
And he gave that to me years ago and I grew it a little bit. And it was just one of those ones
that was kind of like, I had it and I tried growing it and I didn't know what other people
would think about it, but it's strong and it's really good smoke. And funny enough,
it kind of outdoor, it kind of has the look like my old, old Northern Lights hat where it's really
kind of light green. It's the real, real light green with really heavy resin on it. So it looks,
it doesn't look outdoory when it's outside. It looks really shiny and bright and light and nice.
And people, every, everybody seems to always really like that. And it was cool to see.
So I was like, well, I don't know. Sometimes you like something and it's just like your thing and
nobody else likes it. But that one's kind of a crowd pleaser after over time, you know?
Oh, that's killer, man. Like, well, it's the other segment that I was going to run off into
was you were talking about the culture scene thing. Like, I know you talked about that with
DJ before and something I kind of noticed is any of the work that I run that has kind of blue area,
any of the flow into it, I can kind of get that variegation that you guys were talking about that
maybe potentially linked to those two things. What do you guys think about that, man? Do you
think that's something that's actually linked? Do you think that's like, you know, those Afghani
Highland ties have, you know, potentially, I don't know, me and Gene, if you've heard,
essentially before, have you talked to DJ about like, he has a lot of variegation in his lines,
especially the blueberry lines. And they think that might be linked to this culture scene process
that had been going on in Thailand at some point. And this is, I guess, the process is they
used to breed, what, watermelons or something like that is, I think, the way you guys were
explaining it or something like that. Or maybe that's some of the variegation that you see in
watermelon crops. I don't know. That might have been my own research I'd done on it or something
like that. But anyway, what's your theory on that? Do you think that that is something that's
actually linked? Or do you think that's just variegation something that, you know, kind of
like freak show, like, where it's just like an F2 cool thing that just pops up, you know?
I know I saw it. I did some old. Damn it, what are they? One of those things, blue velvet.
And some of the plants have it so heavily that they don't. It's like not, it's not even a plant,
really. Like you try to grow it and it's just like, who and I know you could probably maybe
fix it with with giving it the right nutrition, because it is something that they can pull out
of a little bit. The other plant that I saw that did that really heavy back in the day was the
Salmon Creek Big Bud. And it did it so heavily that it was just insane. And the only thing that
had the exact variegation that that was was the old big skunk, big bud skunk seeds that I got from
AK Bean Brains. And people were like, Oh, there's no way they're real. And I'm like, well, it'd be
pretty strange that there's this, you know, and it's a that's another weird thing is that they
say that Salmon Creek Big Bud is not big, but it's really like it too, they said was I can't remember
what they say. But there's people who say, Oh, we know what it was. It's not big, but it's just
called that because it has really big buds. But it's trippy because these, these seeds that I got
from Bean Brains, they have the exact same thing when they grew it just it gets to a point where
you start to think the buds not even going to grow. And then it does grow and it almost grows
more resin than it grows buds. So it winds up being like bad for production, but good for
resin production. And it's really neat. But that was the heavy variegation. And then the only other
thing that was as heavy as that, which was even worse was those blue velvets. And I got those,
those were from from on Instagram, he's ginger 1010. And he had he had an old original pack,
and he increased them once and he gave me some, and I made a little bit of seed off of them.
And it was just crazy to see the way that they grew like that it was so impractical as a plant
to grow to try to get butt off of it because as it as it grows, like some of the leaves wind up
just being like the veins and there's no actual solar panel in between to do anything. It's just
this weird little twisted thing and then you feed them and they kind of get a little better. And so
from seeing that I was like, Okay, well, maybe if you really nailed it, give them the right,
you know, probably like some kind of trippy like maybe like, like some of those like,
I don't know what is there. There's like a camera of what it's called see grow or something that
has all the crazy micronutrients, just tons of different stuff in small amounts, I think you'd
probably snap out. But um, but it was trippy to see. And I don't really know, like, I was told
back in the day in the 90s, that there was a clone up here. And this is one of the most used names,
there's tons of clones, nobody's talking about the same one, in my opinion, when they talk about it
in small circle.
What is it? What is it? No.
But it's one of those ones.
Wait, so Jackson, you froze up for a minute, just when you got to that cliffhanger. So if
you want to back up like 30 seconds,
What is the name of the plant?
Yeah.
Yeah, we lost you for a second.
The one that people call Elvis. So it's basically, I actually have a thing, I have a thing here
that'll show me when my stuff's about to drop out. So let me look at it right now. Um, there's,
there's like people talk about that. There's this, you know, there's like, there's one that was from
the East Coast. There's ones from SoCal as these different Elvis's. And, but I was told about one
in the nineties, and they said it was like so good. And the story was that they had used
colchicine and that's what made the plant so special. So yeah, see Elvis is an NYC legend.
This ain't the one, that ain't the one. This is not the one I'm talking about. Elvis is such a
name that people were like, this strain is the king of strains, you know, they call it Elvis.
So, uh, this was some little local thing around here that was supposed to be so good. And it was,
they were like, Oh, it was made with colchicine. And I was like, everything I read about colchicine,
it seems like it basically causes, I mean, it does cause like ugly leaf mutations. Um, I've
never seen anything that said that it made it produce higher drug content, bigger buds. Everything
is like, it kind of does weird biomass shit where you get more stem, you get more leaf, you get
giant leaves, you get things that want to die and all that. But, um, when you treat seeds with
colchicine, they say it also kills a lot of them when it gets to an effective range. So, uh,
colchicine, uh, is, is, is like, uh, they use it for gout medicine. You can get it as a
pharmaceutical grade as a pill, but there's also little bulbs that are called meadowsafron
that look like what you used to get saffron from. They're these little, uh, they're like a delicate,
they're like, if a tulip was more delicate, um, it's a little bulk and it's a pale, it's like a
pale lavender pink color. I used to have them at my house. I got rid of them cause they're
poisonous if animals eat them. And, um, I wasn't interested in doing any of this weirdness that
colchicine, that's the right spelling popped up there. But, um, they basically, they say it's
likely, I'm not sure a hundred percent, but I think it's a carcinogen. It causes mutation in
basically anybody. Um, it poisons just regular old poisoning, stomach poisoning. It'll poison
livestock. They eradicate them, um, when they grow around cattle, but they grow out in meadows and
they have these really pretty flowers. They're beautiful. I have two other types of the same
bulb that are growing out there that grow like saffron, but they're not the same one. And you
can tell when you see it, it's more delicate. It's this pale pink lavender color. Um, and, uh,
you basically soak seeds. You take like a thousand seeds and you soak them and you hope to get a few
that survive going through the effective level. You could of course use lower levels, but they
don't cause mutation. So it gets to the point where it causes a mutation. It makes things go
weird. I'm not sure if it causes weird, I'm pretty sure it messes with the ploidy. It causes
polyploids to pop out. So then you get, um, you get things that have multiple, uh, I mean,
additional sets of chromosomes. So all of a sudden, instead of having two sets, like something normal,
you all of a sudden have, um, I mean, at this point, even three and five, and there's like
stuff that's a little more normal people are messing with, um, or even, even single, but,
but it'll do weird random stuff and that'll cause things to just go totally haywire.
And in doing that, um, it can cause all kinds of trippy stuff. It would make sense that one
of the things that could come from it could be the weird variegation, since it does tend to cause,
like, that's more of like a biomass issue. That's not like, Whoa, this weeds incredible now. And
I mean that, that weed too, it's not known for really like high potency. Um, it's known for
being unique, which I could see that could come like, okay, well, nobody's ever really noted any
real increase in potency or resin production, but it's weird weed. You know, like everybody
says the blue velvet, I still have it sitting with the seeds in the very middle of it. And I keep,
I need to smoke some of it. I cut it in the fall and I haven't tried it, but I want to try it just
cause it's supposed to be that high ceiling weed. You smoke more, you get higher trippy,
it's low THC, but you know, high THC is funny. Cause you go, okay, oh, it's 30%. And it's 5%.
It's like, okay. So you take one hit at 30% or it's 5%. You know what I mean? You take additional
hits. You go, okay, I'm going to take six hits. Now we've reached there, but where the 30%,
it tops off at a couple of hits and the effects don't go higher with some of this high ceiling,
low THC weed. It's like, well, you took 35 hits, you smoke two joints of it and it continued to go
higher and higher. Whereas the stuff we're used to, it's like you smoke OG, smoke a half joint,
you're kind of as high as you ever get. You can't really get any higher than that.
And, but that's associated also naturally with Ty. So does it mean that there's anything weird?
It could, it could all just be, you know, I there's, there's no way to know, but that's the
deal with Colchicina. No, one's really proven that it does things that are good. They've proven
that it does things that are bad. So most people abandoned it and the weed will be poisonous. That
grows from the seeds that you treat it with. Like it's likely, I don't know, I don't have proof of
that, but that's what people say. So then you use those things to breed or to clone it for a long
time to get rid of it, to dilute it, you know, in your plants. And then I don't know what heavy
heard from talking to DJ Short, but now I'm curious about, about that. Cause that's the only
hands-on or like a closer link. Like I took something, they did that, you know? So what was
the story you got from Short? Oh God, you're pushing my memory now. I think it was largely
what Cam said that he remembers when he got those Ty seeds back in the day that it, they were doing
the culture scene stuff around then. And I'm sort of with you, I'm not entirely sold that it like
your variegation comes from culture scene. Certainly it seems to be a very large percentage
of it in DJ Short's work. Right. But in terms of culture scene, like you totally nailed how it
works. It's like, it's an antimyotic agent, which means that when you have like cellular division
and the cell replicates its genome and then is in the anaphase and it's about to split and become
two distinct new cells, it causes the mitotic spindles are what pulls the chromosomes
after they're replicated to each cell. So it disrupts that. So one of them might pull more
than what it's meant to. And you get exactly what you said. You get the polyploidy and you get more
chromosomes, like you get an uneven split. So one of them gets like no chromosomes and the other
gets four instead of two. And it's exactly what you said. And then just as a random side point,
you might be thinking to yourself, well, how does it work as an anti-inflammatory then for like
the gout and stuff? And it just so happens it also in the human body, it inhibits the migration of
neutrophils, which are like your basic white blood cell unit. So you might have gout and you take
culture scene and you've still got gout, but it just stops your immune system honing in on the
gout and then causing this big inflammatory reaction, which is where all the pain comes from.
So really interesting drug with a lot of different uses. And it would be cool to see
someone do exactly what you said, where people sort of lean into the culture scene. Let's
see what comes out of it. Because it could be really unique stuff for sure. But that blue
velvet, man, that sounds amazing. It was pretty. It does have pretty blue colors to it. It had good
resin on it. Like I said, some of them don't bud very well. I myself didn't use the males that were
the more variegated ones because honestly, they didn't even really want to grow very much flower.
And I was just like, yeah, it just seems like such something to battle against. Luckily, I'm not the
only one who had that wave of seeds. The dude I got them from, he has them. He wasn't too worried
about it. And so I basically let it make a little seed real early so that I could just have it be
separate from every all the other work I was doing and know that, OK, these will have, you know, 30
seeds up the middle of each plant. And then if I really want to mess with them, I can mess with
them. So it was just a couple of males. And I think maybe there was six females or something.
And some of the males were really funky. And I think I had one female that didn't really
produce any flower, just had a bunch of weird twisted leaves. And I thought at first, like,
oh, this is the late one, because there's supposed to be a lot of tie in that one. That's supposed to
be a tie heavy short thing. And I was like, oh, it's going to kick in. It's going to kick in.
And eventually it was like, no, it's just it's doesn't never going to produce any bud because
like the big bud used to look like that. You'd be like, oh, this thing's never going to do anything.
And then you get these giant buds. But it was like the leaf wouldn't form and the flower would form
we weird, but the resin would just stay on track. And you'd wind up with this crazy like rock candy
weed where there was just so much resin. The resin ratio was way higher than it naturally would have
been because it kept the resin thing and not producing the regular vegetative biomass inside
the flower. So it was like a really neat, a neat thing. And it was it was like, if you cloned those
ones, they would want to lean into it. And if you didn't, so it was like, some people wouldn't have
trays of clones that would have that. And then there was like, people would kind of put different
names on. Different names on what? Oh, no. I think he's doing it on purpose at this point.
No, no, no, no. But where did I I was just I was just saying that some people would think
they were two different kinds of weed, you know? And they weren't.
Yeah, that's interesting.
With the variegation thing, I got a fun cut of it's called Lucid Dream. It's from like those
gauge guys. It was the Santa Cruz Blue Dream to their I think the grateful breath. Yeah,
the grateful breath. And I found one man that was just like super variegated like it was crazy.
It's basically just like a tie dye plant. And what I did was I actually took all the cuttings off of
the variegated sections of the plant instead of the healthier looking sections of the plant.
And I kept a lot of those moms around for as long as I could, but they would not grow. Man,
it was crazy. They rooted, but they would not actually take off for growth. And like
I had one of them out of six that actually survived the whole process. And basically,
all I did was I started dumping a bunch of mushroom compost on top of the pot
when I was doing my top dressings. And it seemed like that was the only thing that kind of kept it
from dying out. But it really wasn't taking up any sort of nutrient plant. And I wonder if it's like
that kind of, I don't know, it's almost like an albino when it's at that point. But I have a
really cool picture on my Instagram where the plant actually was almost completely white because
of it. And I've seen some of his the Valley is about here, but I don't know how to pronounce
that line that he has where they actually have some albino plants coming out of it. But I wasn't
sure again, like how if any of that linking wise you've seen in other plants, if you were able to,
I don't know if I can get out of that too. So it's cool to hear that you guys are both
kind of seeing it too, man.
Yeah, I out of curiosity, mean gene, do you see any variegation in your pink champagne as one
because I see a lot in the raspberry mama and her offspring and sort of channeling that pink
champagne vibe. Just curious myself. The plant itself stays really nice. It's definitely like
a very Afghani plant. It's beautiful. It's squat. It grows little kind of like little pyramid
bushes, you know, really big leaves on it. Light doesn't shine real far down into them.
But it's really normal. And I haven't seen out of that particular one. I haven't seen any of
that pop out. The things that I get variegation with my grape soda skunk, I get that.
And that's true. The wrong inbreeding, if I've locked in some, you know,
basically just like metabolic funk where it's just like, this is not,
I can't I can't get nothing, you know, like it's just struggling to.
It's but but it's easier than these other ones. It's easy to feed and have it kind of come out
of it, it seems. But it's not. And I think it's just like, you know,
it's easier to feed and have it kind of come out of it, it seems. And then and then my pina and
the pina and the grape soda skunk, they both share that old dirt perp stuff, which is like
Afghani and some kind of some Burmese and some type of Afghani or Paki or something.
And then another Afghani. And so shared heritage and those those plants did the crazy curl
and the blueberry does, you know. So probably, you know, they both probably have like
like Mazar or something like that in them. And based on like the recent like I got fresh imported
Mazar and I grew it and I was like, oh, it smells just like dirt, like what we call like what was
it has this like honey, honey sweet, like where a lot of the smell of my pina comes from.
It's just like very sweet and you smell it and it's that smell. It's like it's one of the smells
that when we went to Tom Hills, he goes, oh, this is where all turf profiles go to die.
You can take 30 times a week and put it in a bag and put a gram of like that kind of
kind of sweet in there and it'll just take over the whole bag and it'll do that in a gene pool
to an extent, but not as bad like terpenelein heavy stuff. But anyway,
those ones they have that common ancestor and those both show trippy variegation. And
they also have very sweet Afghani smells and blueberry has sweet Afghani smells.
So DJ Short would know better like, oh, no, that came that wasn't the Afghani I used that came
from the Thai side. But I wouldn't be surprised if it turned out that he was if you ask him,
he's like, oh, no, the Afghani did that, too, since I've seen them do that. But I mean,
if he's saying it's from the Thai, he had them separate, you know, so you would he would have
a better idea, you know, and then. I'm trying to think, I guess both of those sides would have
a Burma in them, so maybe the variegation that I'm seeing comes from Burmese, because it's like
when you see the cresting, the fasciation on trippy stuff and at the top of the bottle,
we shaped like a snake or an ass or something like that. It's all crested and flat on top.
In Jamaica, they call it Coxcomb because it looks like the top of a rooster's head.
That came out of like all the different South Africans that I planted, which was like a couple
of swazis that were like recently collected from there and then Lesotho, which is from this just
like the right next door. So it's kind of the same stuff. And it's like, OK, well, these these this
general gene pool carries this type of trippy what you can consider a mutation because it's not
right. It's a sport. You know, it's like going off in a new direction. So like I wouldn't be
surprised to find out like, OK, so it's not I'm thinking of it as an Afghani because it's so
Afghan based, but there is Burmese in both. And maybe it's a Southeast Asian thing the same way.
Where was I? My back. Oh, there you are.
Yeah. I'm just saying like maybe it's a regional thing, you know.
Sure, sure. Instead of it being like some sort of chemical thing or some sort of reaction,
that's cool. That's a good thing to think about, too, because it does make sense. You got all
those Afghanis. Yeah, there it is. Yeah, there's the weirdo. Yeah. So I took it from a variegated.
Like I said, there was one out of six that actually just made it. You can see I kind of
just kept up dressing it with a bunch of mushroom compass. But you actually still have this mom
today. The only time she shows me variegation now is when she's actually super heavy on nitrogen,
the opposite thing. Interesting. So if I go heavy on like a blood meal, I'm super organic. I mean,
amendment wise, I go so blood meal wise, dude, like she'll start showing it to me immediately.
It's kind of cool. But anyway, I was like, what did I just had a good question. Oh, so
on all of your trips to the States, heavy when you got to go over there and did you go see
Jean's farm when you were? I think it was that what, 2007, 2018 is when you had a bunch of those
walk arounds where you saw some cool people. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think it might have been
2019, maybe. I don't know. Maybe maybe Jean can correct me. But me and Mr. Bob went and paid him
a visit, his beautiful farm and got to see, you know, where the magic happens. It was super cool.
And I remember there was a bunch of strains we smoked at your house that very lasting impression,
we were smoking them through joints and like, I don't normally smoke joints. So for it to leave
a lasting impression, it has to be good. And I just, I can't remember what it was. I'm sure if
we listened to the little bit we recorded while we were there, it says it in it. Oh, that's right.
It was the grape soda skunk crossed to, it was just the F1. What was the male you used to do the
BX1? Because it was that I remember. And it was super. Was it great? We were doing grape lime
skunk maybe. And then we were smoking that cherry west I remember too. Yeah, the grape soda skunk
crossed the lime, right? That was what you. Yeah, I think maybe we, that was one of them. Yeah.
And was that the sister to the, do you remember that bud you gave me that was like
real skunk, like blood and metallic? That's the same one. Yeah, that's the same one. That's the
grape lime skunk. And it's grape lime, but it came out so much more. I mean, it's grape soda
skunk lime, but it came out so skunky, you know, and those have been cool. But
you know, they're interesting. There's just one of those, one of those things where it's like
some super on ball, old Afghani based skunky, skunky weed. Definitely what in back in the day
and in the early eighties, when people made the transition from Mexican Columbian tie to all of a
sudden having broad leafs, it was all skunk to them. It was like all of a sudden this weeds acrid,
whether it smelled like what you were talking about, the, what you were talking about, the ass
or any of those weird things. Like as soon as you go from having weed that all smells like fruit
and like terpenelein and these high floral notes, and somebody shows you anything that's that deep
musty Afghani, you're going to be like, oh, it's skunk bud. It makes your house smell like skunk.
Whereas the other weed wasn't particularly, didn't really do that, you know? And it's a good example
of that kind of weed, but it's not, you know, I don't, I don't say like it smells exactly like
a dead skunk, but it's definitely a good, you know, it's a good, good version of acrid. You
know, it kind of has like, some people say like nail polish remover or, you know, it has that,
it has that funk to it. And every time I find it on my, if I have it hanging on a line and I'll be
like, oh, what's this one? And I'll smell it and I'll be like, ah, damn that's skunky. And then
I'll, and then I'll, I'll think about it for a second and I'll go, oh yeah. And then I'll check
the label and I go, yeah, it'll say GLS on it. Grape Lime Skunk. And then the Bat Cross wound
up doing good. And they kind of all, they're kind of all in that vein, you know, but you know, it's,
it's that kind of weed. It's like, I'm not going to try to, like a commercial grower doesn't want
to have a hundred units of that sitting because somebody is going to go, what the fuck is this?
This is an 80s weed, you know? But if you want to see what that is, that was good. And then we
smoked the Cherry West and that was the one that got us like super high when I didn't even expect
it. And Mr. Bob was like, oh, that's, that's kind of trippy. You know, I think too much turps and,
you know, higher THC than it looks. Was this the first of the Cherry West or was this the
Bat Cross that you had done? Oh, what was that one? That one would have been,
um, that would have been the first Bat Cross, I guess. But it's, it's one of those ones that
plant is, it's a really neat plant because in the initial cross, it was super rare. And I got one
and my mom got one and I think she grew maybe 20 or 30 of the females. And I grew a row of them,
maybe trying to think of how many I had. I had a good little amount and, uh, I had one and she had
one and hers was early and mine wasn't. And she cloned her, but it was budding because it was so
cool. And she re-vegged the clone and captured it. And that's the one that I've kept since then.
And that's like 2011 or 2012 or something, maybe 2000. Uh, it's just like a cool, it's a cool one
because when you make seeds with it and you just get tons of it. Whereas it was like, that's, I
try to explain that to people. People ask like, is it recessive? It's like, well, you would think
so when you plant 40 females and you only get one, right? Of that type. But as soon as you breed it,
recessive and dominant, isn't necessarily about the frequency of it popping up. It's about how
it behaves when you breed it. So when you breed it, even though it's very infrequent and rare,
you find out all of a sudden that, Oh shit, it's fully dominant. So as soon as you breed with it,
you get almost all of that particular plant. But in the initial cross, that wouldn't have been the
description of the cross at all. So you would have thought, Oh, it's super recessive. It's
really rare. It's going to be hard to breed it. But as soon as you clone it and breed it once,
it's like you can, you can out-cross it with anything and they'll all smell like that.
And that's how you discover that it's dominant, even though it's super rare.
But like people always ask, like, is this, you know, like lime is like that too. Is it dominant?
Yes, it's dominant. But in the initial place where I found it, it was unheard of. You couldn't get
that out of that seed. And then I seeded one plant and I got more. And then when you see that type,
again, it turns out whatever genes are, are, are there, whatever is it, the combination of genes
on one chromosome or whatever, when you breed that all of a sudden, it's just like, it's all
over the place, you know? So speaking of dominant, man, that damn pina takes over everything. I
actually have a demon sweat cross to some pina over there now. The demon sweat was from alien.
That was that a sour apple IBL line. They dropped a while back. I picked up, it was the hell's
angels cross to that. And then I took it to the pina to kind of really throw some more apple into
that line. Cause sure enough, dude, you open that jar up, man. It's like an apple Christmas,
like caramel candle or something like that. Every time I pop a jar of pina for someone that like,
it smells like fucking Christmas. Like, like some of you would drink at Christmas anyway,
I guess. For sure. It reminds me of apple cider. It's fun. Years and years, we called it pineapple.
And one day I smelled it and I go, it's not pineapple. It's like apple cider. It's really
cool, but it's very apple. And that I pulled out a butt of that when me and heavy went up to
have a barbecue with Tom Hill and he smelled it and he was like, yeah, whatever. He's all,
this is where all profiles go to die. And I was like, it's kind of true if you mix it with
everything. But it was funny. Cause I really love that smell. It was kind of the first thing that
was ever really, when you show it to people, people are like, Whoa, what's that? And interestingly
enough, there's something about it that makes it to where typically as a generalization,
men won't like it as much as women. When women grew grow that they're like, I just want to grow
this or smoke it. They're like, where's more of that weed. And I think there's something maybe
chemically that is just a little bit more, it resonates more with like the feminine energy or
something, but I've just always thought that it was super cool. But when Tom Hill said that,
I was like, I can't deny that. I have literally peeled apart bricks that my buddy carried across
the Mexican border and smelled them. And in those bricks was two predominant smells. And what they
were was like Jack wreck and vaguely Pina. And so in him saying that I was like, well, this dude's
hitting the nail on the head because they are the two things that will just completely take over.
All terpene profiles, nothing can compete. And even just breeding wise, man, it's literally
like it just the plant itself, man. I guess it's what I think I got it from you. It was like an F3
or an F4 or something like that. So it was already pretty locked down, but as far as it goes, man,
oh shit, I was going with that train of thought there. Let me jump in quickly because I got one
I wanted to ask a few things. So firstly, that grape lime skunk, I just want to throw it out
there. I showed skunk VA a nug of that. And he says to this day, that's the only bud that has
ever truly reminded him of the actual super skunk. He was like, you know, all these people talking
about, I got skunk, I got skunk. He goes, that nug from Mean Gene was the only thing that really
made me think, fuck, this is real similar to be honest. So I think that's like a mad testament to
that for sure. And just as a related side point, I wanted to ask you with the Cherry West, you know,
the one you've got and the pink champagne S1, will we ever see those cross together? Because
whenever I smell pink champagne, I always feel like it's in that same vein as cherry pie.
Have you ever thought that slash wanted to pair them together or that is sort of not on the cards
at the moment? So thinking about it now again, I did I did the gelato cherry limeade with the
pink champagne, and it wound up being one of the better, one of the better mixes.
Out of that, that was one of the ones that when people grew them out, they, that was like,
the more loud, fruity, unique, cool, like it really, it really did work, you know. So I dropped some of those
and, you know, we'll see what people find in those, but that's the closest. But the Cherry West
would actually be a really good, that would actually be a really cool cross. I haven't done it yet,
but if I wind up doing a Cherry West male, I tend, I'm like over the years, I've kind of,
I kind of try to keep like if something is one of those profiles that's so heavy,
I try to just kind of leave it, like lock it in its own cage in the back. Like Cherry West,
I make Cherry West, if you want it, you can get it. But if I cross it with everything, then you're
going to get a lot more Cherry West. It's so dominant, right? But people have had really good
luck crossing it with cool stuff. People crossed it with like, one guy really liked what he did
with like the cube from Exotic, which was, what was that? That was like a Kimbo that he,
something like that. It was one of those like, hashy, cool, super frosty type things and had
good luck with that. And people have done cool ones with it. But yeah, I don't know. I don't know
if I'll do that. But I mean, I could do, Cherry West would be cool to mix with a bunch of things
because you don't quite know how it'll go. Like if you cross it with some things that are really
plain, sometimes it'll come through and it'll just wind up very terpenellin dominant without
all the other subtlety that it has. And the subtlety is what I really like about it.
Because terpenellin is easy, but it has like, it has this really deep, like that's the kind of
weed where if you keep the cologne for like a year and you pull it back out, you can't believe
what it has done to itself. It turns totally different and it's really cool. But that would
be a good idea. I mean, I definitely wouldn't be against that. It'd probably be worth at some point
reversing the pink champagne and then just throwing in the colognes that I keep with it and see
what happens that way. Because I'd be less likely probably to take a Cherry West
male from these back cross seeds and put it on a bunch of stuff. Just because like I said,
I'm going to wind up with a lot of Cherry West from those crosses. I like to use males that play
better. That's why I really like to use lime and jarrow and things like that. Because when you
mix them with things, then they can, you know, even like the gelato Cherry Limeade was a little
bit more toned down. It still brings a lot of Cherry Limeade to a lot of crosses. You get all
these cool mixes. Whereas Cherry West is kind of like, it's not real subtle and it doesn't mesh
as well with things, you know. So we're looking forward to the Cherry West Deep Junk cross, huh?
That might be, that would be, that's like Clash of the Titans. Right. Who's going to
dominate? You know, you'd probably get, honestly, a bunch of Deep Junk plants that smell like Cherry
West. That would be my... There's only one way to find out, dude. Right. Well, so speaking of like
travels to like the US and stuff like that, man, I also know that all three of us here are mutually
pretty big fans of Bodie. I know both you guys have actually had the pleasure to sit down and
talk to him and smoke with him and stuff like that. What's some of the most memorable smoke
that you guys have had? I know the Ass was a big one for Heavy.
Like Gene, what's something you smoked from Bodie that you were just like, oh my god, dude.
He gave me a cool one actually when I was the last time I was at the Emerald Cup. Well, I guess it
wasn't. I guess it was two years ago. And it was raining really, really hard and I smoked it with
him and I had to drive in the rain when I couldn't see the lines on the road. And it was like a two
lane merge where one merges off and one goes onto the freeway and then there's three more lanes and
there was no lines because it was too rainy out and it was pouring rain and I was stoned to the
bone. And I just remember going, this was the wrong weave and the wrong moment. And what it was,
was his Artifact Afghani. And I can't remember what he put it on, but I think it was a Vietnamese.
I think it was Vietnamese Artifact 1 Cross. If it wasn't Vietnamese, it was Thai, but I believe
it was Vietnamese. And I still have a little bit of the weed in the jar. And he gave it to me and
he was like, you like the stuff that smells cool when it burns. This one has that incense cool air.
And he gave me a jar of it. And then I sat down with Peter and Peter was like, we're doing future
cannabis at the Emerald Cup. And we're there sitting there on straw bales. And he's like,
do you want to sit down and do, talk for a minute? And I was like, yeah, it's kind of
winding down. Let's chill. And he was like, do you want to roll a joint? And I'm like,
well, I probably shouldn't because I got to hop. I remember this. He'll be back with the rest of
the story. I was so high. And I remember driving in torrential downpours with Tom sitting in the
passenger seat. Carry on. We missed the whole story. So, but I mean, you got where I was sitting
down with Peter and he got me smoking a joint, right? So he goes, oh, and he goes, you like to
smoke with tobacco sometimes. And I'm like, yeah, I got some of this Aztec tobacco that I grew.
You know, I grew it in my yard, like a smoke. I'll smoke some of this, you know? And,
and so we like smoke one joint of Bodie's weed. And then we smoke another joint of like,
trying to remember what it was. It was like, I think it was cherry limeade. And then I put
tobacco in it. So we like smoke these two joints and I puff it. And like, I forget if I, what my
tolerance is. Cause when I smoke, I smoke, you know? So I just smoke and smoke and smoke and
smoke it down. So I smoke like, you know, a gram of weed and a bunch of like this shaman Aztec
tobacco really smoke like this, you know what I'm saying? They're not smoking down. And, and then
all of a sudden, like, we're sitting there talking and talking and all of a sudden the
lights kind of go start to kind of like, they shut off like a bank of lights over on the side.
And they're like, yeah, we're clearing everybody out. And I'm like, it's like eight o'clock. Like
you guys are shutting down the party, like eight o'clock. And then I'm like,
fuck it's Sunday and I'm hella high. And I thought it was going to go to like 10 or something like
get here. And my high was just like coming on, coming on, coming on. And I'm like,
kind of rushing out from smoking this fucking fronto. And I'm like, all right. So I get ready
to go. And I'm like, and like, Peter's packing up. And I'm like, I had to like help Peter pack
up and walk to the car and like, walk around and just kind of like kill time because I was like,
and it was like torrential downpours, like Peter said, it's just coming down. The road has this
much water on it everywhere. You can't see the lines on the road. It's just a, just the road is
just like, it's just like a black football field shiny. You know what I mean? I remember.
So I was in my, I was in my Prius with like the front windshield completely fogged up and the
windshield wipers going like this. And like, I have terrible eyesight. So I was like leaning
forward, trying to look out the window and yeah. Like slip sliding around.
Yeah. I'm just looking at the patterns of the cars going, okay, that's a lane.
That's a lane and that's a lane. And I want to be in that lane right there. And then I'm in this
lane and there's people who want to get around me to go into the lane on that to exit. And cause
it's a weird little spot right there in Santa Rosa. And, and I was just like, damn. And like
that, that was one, that was one from Bodie that definitely, like I got high off that weed for sure.
Like the usual, it wasn't just like, oh, hi, whatever, you know, here we go. I was just like,
okay, I'm, I'm definitely out there. And then he gave me another cool one that he called,
this was a few years before that. And he called it shoelace. And I was like, oh, you call it
shoelace because it has the little, it was, it was something he collected in East Asia. I think it was
from Laos. And it was this, these narrow little shoelace butts. And I go, it's, you call it
shoelace because it's like little shoelaces. That's cool. And he goes, he goes, coincidentally,
he goes, no, actually he goes, the reason why I call it shoelace is because when you smoke it,
you're going to stand there and look at your shoes because you're just not going to know
what the hell's going on. You know, I'm like, fuck him, Bodie. He's so funny, you know,
but he's, but it's cool. You know, Bodie's the only dude who, who really you can talk to, who
makes a lot of trippy things with all the regular California stuff. But then he's like, oh, and I
got this one in Nepal. I traded some whatever seeds to them and they gave me this. And he like
goes to these countries and instead of trading them weed seeds, he doesn't trade them weed seeds.
He brings them heirloom food and medicine seeds that are different from the things that they grow
in those areas so that he's introducing new species, but he's not polluting the varieties.
And he's conscious of that. And it's awesome because he's like, oh, he can show up with like
a new tobacco in a place where people don't grow tobacco or show up with a new, whatever it is. So
then it's like, there's no, it's like, it's all game and he's getting something cool and he's not
polluting what they're doing. And, you know, like, there's not, we're not going to talk to that many.
There's a lot of people who talk a lot of shit and then, you know, there's people who will talk
shit about Bodie and you're like, yeah, but I mean, Bodie's like sat down with like the naked
tribe and then around the fire and Nepal and, and, and North India and these weird places and like
hung out there and lived with them and collected seeds that nobody in the world has ever even seen
before. And then he'll sell you those seeds for $40 a pack. I know it's, I agree with you, man.
It's really crazy. Like, especially like some of the prices you see on some people's backs of seeds,
you know, that Bodie definitely just keeps it affordable. Like to this day, my most prized cut
that stays in the mom, Tenskoji Oji, you know what I mean? It's my, it's my favorite.
The first time he showed me that he showed me, he showed, I, I didn't, he didn't show me, show it to
me. I found it. He was hanging out like at the Top Dog booth. And I was like, I think Top Dog and,
and Mr. Bog and Hannah Bolt were hanging out over there. And I went over there and I found this bud
and I picked it up and I was like, God damn, this is bomb. And I was like, whose weed is this? This
reminds me like of lime, but it's different, but it's like the same. It has the same goodness.
The same goodness as what? No. Yeah. So that, that he's probably talking about the Pine Saw
cut. Yeah. The Pine Saw cut that he held for a long time was killer, man. That's the one that
a lot of people got a hold of as far as like a Goji Oji cut that went around, but his Goji
Raz cuts killer too, man. The one that I has a little bit more similar to that one, it's got
like a raspberry thing going on with the Snow Lotus like funk in the back. Like it's got this,
like the best way I describe it, it's like rotten cream cheese is really it like a strawberry,
rotten cream cheese. But dude, it's just potent as all God, dude. Like you just have like one
good sit down and like, I'm generally like a bong smoker and like one good bowl with that, man.
Like 20 minutes later, I'm down, I'm going to sleep. Like it's not even like a heavy narcotic,
like just go have fun and chill and sit around and watch TV thing. Like it's literally, you have
to go to sleep kind of thing. It's the most medicinal thing I've ever had. So that's why
I hold onto it, man. I have terrible sleeping issues. So other than that, it's fucking awesome.
But, uh, is that what that bud was main Jane? Was it Pine Saw Goji?
Yeah, it was Pine Saw. Yeah. And, uh, yeah. And, and, uh, and it was just, you know,
it was so good. It's, you know, the kind of stuff that just laminated and resin,
it's just dipped, you know, like it's, it's everywhere. And, uh, and it was just really,
it was really super ball, you know? Um, so yeah. Incredible. I was going to say,
I want to jump in to make two quick points echoing what I said before, the majority of the
Keeper Goji phenos Bodhi has came from him popping 10 seeds. So again, proof's in the pudding. You
don't need to do a million seed pheno hunt to find nice plants. And on top of that bit of
shameless self-promotion, I got some Goji seeds from the man himself. I popped them beautiful
plan. I found out of it. I'm hoping to distribute it a bit more in Australia. If you're listening,
maybe there might be a chance you get to grow it, but it's sort of 50, 50 in the middle, you know,
it's, it's got that pine-ness to it, but it's got this sort of character to it. That's hard
to describe. And I always say to people, it's like an Alpine berry smell. It's like berries,
but this sort of slight menthol-y-ness on the back end, like, like opens up your nose a lot.
Really nice stuff. Can't talk highly enough about the Goji line. It's really beautiful.
Yeah, absolutely, man.
Oh, and I was going to mention before we move on, I remembered two other really cool things I tried
from Bodhi that are really super special. The first one being his Vietnamese 7. That,
that plant fundamentally changed my perspective on cannabis in the sense that it was definitely
what flicked me over into being like, you know what, I think sativas are my favorite.
And it was this Vietnamese 7. It really just sort of looked like nothing too crazy, you know,
smaller sort of sativary looking buds, but it was like, it was like the best super silver haze I've
ever smoked, like better than super silver haze. But it was like, you know, uplifting, but not,
not anxiety inducing. And like, I always refer to it as like party weed, you know, the sort of stuff
where if you pass it around at a party, everyone would be having a great time. It's not going to
be like too much, you know, there's some sativas where you do that and it, for some people, it
would be a bit too much, you know. But this one was just, I remember just being in stitches laughing
and just thinking this is the most beautiful cannabis I've ever smoked in my life. And then
the second would be, it totally wiped me out. And there's, on our Patreon, there's a little
chat I recorded with Bodhi. And as the episode goes on, I just start to become a bit incoherent
because I was smoking this weed he was giving me. And he said it was NL2, but it was the thin leaf
phenotype as opposed to the more indica dominant one. And I think from memory, I might be mistaken,
so I just caveat it, I might be mistaken. But I think he said he got old NL2 stock from Jim
Ortega. And he's just hunting through it and he found this one that was a more thin leaf phenotype.
And, you know, people talk about there maybe being some Thai in there. And yeah, some of the most
potent weed I ever had because I distinctly remembered smoking and just being so wrecked
and just sort of being like, man, you didn't warn me it was going to fuck me up so hard.
In true Bodhi fashion, he's just like, yeah, you know, whatever. He has his way of doing that too.
I love it. He likes to surprise you. And yeah, so that NL2, truly special. And that Vietnamese 7,
if anyone ever sees his packs for sale and there's the Vietnamese 7 is one of the parents,
highly endorse it. Awesome. He just gave me some and I wasn't sure. I didn't know exactly what that
was, but I'll pop those for sure. I think Vietnamese 7 cross artifact 1 or something.
He gave me some, I think he gave me two or three 7 crosses. So I'll do two.
Gorgeous. I got to get some myself. I don't have any, but I would love to.
It was really nice. And then the year before that he showed me something else. It was a Thai
and it had the Dr. Grin spoon sort of look to it. Like just the alternating running calyx.
And that was also incredible. I remember thinking that was just so special. Like not quite as
memorable as the Vietnamese for me, but in the same sort of S category for sure, like S tier,
like super memorable, but the Vietnamese had like way better bud structure, you know, that,
that sort of Grin spoon thing. It's cool for like, you know, a phenotypical look, but
in terms of like actually getting a good yield, like less, less good.
Man. So, you know, you brought up that you kind of got into like those thin leads,
equatorials when you were hanging out with Bodhi and stuff like that. I always hear you reference
to about these like a racy ones that are starting to make you like, you're getting stoked on them,
man. These ones are giving people paranoia. What's the one that hit you that gave you this fun
paranoia that's got you excited? Oh, great question. Great question. I think, you know,
one of the Chernobyl phenotypes I found is definitely more, you know, some, some sativas
I refer to, I refer to sativas as like one of two categories. They're like, they're either
uplifting and fun, or they're like, shoot yourself with anxiety. And I found these Chernobyl
phenotypes that where there's like, there's one on each side of the spectrum. The one I breed
with commonly is the more fun uplifting one that everyone can enjoy. And the other one is the more
sort of anxiety one. So that one definitely sort of got the cogs turning for me. And for a long
time, I just found I couldn't smoke it because I wasn't into sativas and I didn't like the anxiety.
And then I think probably growing, probably hanging out with Duke and Mr. Soul when he was a part of
Brothers Grimm, I got exposed to a lot of brilliant sativas there, like notably the C99,
some of the Apollo Keeper cuts. And I've got to give a huge shout out to the genius cutting itself.
That is one of the nicest plants I've ever had the honor of trying, you know, it's not really
available. It's hard to get crosses of it outside of say Brothers Grimm. I'm really optimistic that
last time I spoke to Duke, he said he was looking to do some more sativa orientated work in the
future. And he didn't outright say it, but he said, you know, maybe sort of Apollo-esque related
stuff. So what I'm hoping he means by that is like some sort of genius crosses, but yeah,
the Brothers Grimm sativa stuff is really nice. At least the stuff I tried and then yeah, growing
some C99 for myself, I think is definitely what won me over. You know, it's such nice. And this
is the thing, there's also two types of sativas other than what I already said. There's like
disorientating sativas where they're like, they're fun and they're uplifting, but you're constantly
sort of going, what was I doing again? And Duke always explained that to me as like,
that's sort of the NL from the Jack Herrera shining through and it's disorientating,
whereas genius is more of the haze or it's a very cerebral and clear-headed, more akin to like
amphetamine where it's like I'm hyper-focused and just super and it makes sense why they
called it genius, right? It feels like you're a genius. You're just so focused on what you're
doing. So I enjoy both sides of the spectrum, but probably more that clear-headed one,
the really productive sort of one. And I think like super silver haze and stuff is in that
general vein as well, but that would be my intro to sativas for sure. But I know that I was really
fortunate with that visit when I went and saw Mean Genie at his farm. Hopefully he comes back
perfectly to coincide with this, but he gifted me a few branches of this plant he had called sweat
and I'll let him tell you the story on it, but that was a very memorable sativa as well.
That was a really cool plant that came from the Bay Area and it used to be,
funny enough, talking to Skunk Tech, he was like he had to hit up his buddy and
because he thought he's like, I remember this, you know, like the weed and the guy was like,
yeah, we used to sell it as cat piss. And it was trippy because one day I was smelling it and I
was like, this is like some weed that I could see people calling cat piss, but it's not the NorCal
cat piss, it's not the SoCal cat piss, it's not a cat piss cut, it's just something that has that
funk to it. And I think it's some kind of a haze cross, it has too much cool smell in the air and
if that's not the case, then it must be like a really good like Columbian cross, wherever that
magic and the haze comes from, it has that. I don't always assume that things come from one
lineage if they share traits because there's really only so many little hot spots on the whole
globe where things come from, so they could just be related, but it does seem like a haze cross to me.
But I've never seen anything like it. I had it, I read it a couple times with a few different
things and I finally actually lost that clone this winter, this fall, late fall, early winter.
It had Hoplatin and people are like, it doesn't matter, Hoplatin, whatever, it makes things hard
to clone. So, you know, I had kept it around in its own quarantine and it was always over in this area
and, you know, like if you know it's a dirty plant, then it's like, okay, well, you can't
just treat it like normal, you got to keep it over here. I'm like, all right. When it died, I was like
bummed in a sense, but at the same time, I was like, I'm glad I bred it. I can pop the seeds,
I can test the seeds, get clean version. I'm very familiar with the smell of it. I bred it with
monkey balls, deep chunk, and then I planted about 50 of those and I only got one plant that smelled
exactly, and people will tell you like, oh, stem rubs don't mean anything. Stem rubs don't
necessarily mean anything. And if you're trying to breed maybe like diesel or certain things like
the stem rub is like, it's not going to be helpful. Sweat, the whole plant,
touch the plant a little bit and it'll be all over your hands and you, and I got that plant back
mislabeled. It was supposed to be Hindu and I got two plants. One looked like maybe it was Hindu,
the other one, no. The other one, what, no.
It's deep in thought.
All right.
You said the other one.
Okay. The other one was supposed to be Hindu. It could have been both plants had russet mites when
I got them. I went, I killed the one, I went to kill the other and I went all of a sudden,
what's that smell? And what about, what are these hairs? It has like these pipe cleaner
looking hairs. They're fuzzy. And I like did that. And I went, I smelled it after I pulled
a couple of leaves off it. And I was like, maybe I can clean it up and then I'll spray it and be
whatever. And I smelled it and I went, that's sweat. Okay. So I wound up sulfur in it, quarantine
it, keeping it, getting rid of the russet mites. I thought it was a little messed up because it
was like poisoned by russet mites, grew it. It didn't quite get as good as I wanted it to
kept growing it, grew it maybe two or three times and got it to come out pretty good,
but good enough that when heavy saw it, he's like, Oh, this is good. Good. It's special.
But when it's really was good, it was so good. So anyway, the whole plant reeks of what it is.
So it's an easy plant to select foreign veg, which is very lucky because there's very few
of those plants that are like that, but some of them you can learn them. And if you know what they
are, this one's the easiest that I've ever had to learn. Cause I'll, you just smell it. It smells
like a bag of the finished weed and the whole plant, you know, top to bottom and the whole
plant sticky and it's special. And that's why I'm like, I don't know that it's really a haze.
Cause I feel like it's almost like in some ways, like above and beyond other things, as far as the
fact that it just kind of oozes when it's done. It's really like, if you grow it indoor, it's
really dark green and like, it's just kind of gross. Like you'll kind of get sick of it after
a while because it's so overwhelming, but it's like amazing. And when you smoke it,
like I've smoked it at a party and people thought I was like smoking PCP or something
is that, what are you smoking? Like, you know, people are smoking DMT, but it doesn't smell
that. It just smells unique like that. It smells unweedy. Right. And so I bred it. And so anyway,
I got one plant out of the deep chunk cross sweat and out of like 50 plants, there was only one
that looked and smelled exactly like sweat. Turned out it was a male. I took it and I put it back
onto the sweat. So I have those seeds. So I'll grow those. I'll grow them up. I'll find the
ones that seem good. I'll test to see which ones are actually clean because there could be dirty
ones in the seeds. And then from there I can make that cross. And when I make that, it should,
because the plant was so much of what I was looking for and because the deep chunk is so easy to see
as a separate thing, it should have been a clever cross. I think it'll work out and I'll be able to
isolate it again. So that's the story of that's what happened. And I was really unfortunate that
I lost it. But before I lost it, I at least had the good fortune to have done something with it.
But it's incredible. And it's really fucking stony. Gets you really high. And, and, you know,
like what you saw heavy was like, that was like, I'd say it was probably like 70% of what it is,
you know, but it's, but when it's good, just it, it was one of my very few, like lost Holy Grail
things that were like, I wish I could find it. And then I got it back as a mislabel. I didn't
even know I was getting it. And it had been, you know, I don't know, 10 years or something since
I'd seen it. And the other one that I was going to say, I got cut off earlier, but I just wanted
to say, well, I remember it was, you're talking about the thin leaf Northern lights too. My good
friend, Linda, when I was a teenager, she used to hire me to trim for, or she would hire me to
paint her fence or whatever. Like I would, it was like, so he was like the cool person who would
hire me to do stuff. And sometimes we're like, Oh, I need you to trim wheat. So I would trim weed.
And she grew our Northern lights. But after a while, she had a different kind of weed. And I
was like, what is this? And she was like, Oh, it's Northern lights, but it's called Northern
lights number two. And I was like, Huh, that's interesting. And, um, that was back when I thought
that I had Northern lights number four, because of seeing it in a high times. And it said Northern
lights number four, but it wasn't, but it was in a centerfold and it looked just like ours.
And there was other pictures of other Northern lights and they didn't ever look like ours,
but this one was really crystally and carrot orange hairs. And I was like, so we must have
the number four. Cause none of these other ones look like it. And I was a little kid. I didn't,
you know, I didn't know what the fuck was up. I didn't know then that it didn't really matter
what the picture looked like. But anyway, so, so I thought we had the four and all of a sudden
she's like, no, this is the two. And I was like, Oh, that's interesting. The two is very different.
It was have tiny little leaves. The, the, the family would only get like this big.
They were little. And it was as thin leaf as almost anything I've ever seen, but a little bit
more character than just totally little sativa, a little bit more serrations and stuff. It was
very narrow. It had tiny thin little branches and it got these little buds and it didn't get
very much weed at all. You didn't get any weed at all? No! It's coming. It's coming.
The payoff is going to be epic.
But I have an Australian music question. Since I don't follow you on SoundCloud,
what were you into like Australian or like electronica in the mid 2000s?
Oh yeah, baby. Midnight juggernauts, the presets, all of it. I love it.
I have something for you at the end and I want you to name that band. All right,
Jackson, you were in the middle of a deep thought.
Yeah. Tell us about this mythical bud. You there? I think we got you back.
Oh, where is muted? Maybe refresh the browser window and come back in.
Because you're not muted on our end.
He'll be back shortly. I was going to say for anyone who is familiar, that sweat clone that
Jackson was talking about, it reminded me in that same ballpark as like the C5,
if anyone's ever had that. The haze line you're talking about?
Yeah. But like different, not like different, but like similar at the same time.
It's interesting you guys are bringing about the NL too, because once again, it just shows that
you've influenced me once again for buying genetics, man. Like there's times that I listen
to your podcast and I just get so stoked. I'm like, oh man, let me at least check this out.
That podcast you did with Todd McCormick, man, I ended up having to pick up some of those NL2s.
I've got those running right now for like an open pollination so I can at least sit back through
like more than 10. But anyway, it's just like you guys keep talking about the NL2. It gets me so
stoked because my mails are just starting to open up in there. Let's hear it. So we got him back or
still figuring it out. Oh gee, oh gee. Yeah, man. I hope you find something similar to like what I
was talking about with Bodie. I do remember him saying that it was like a very outlier. Like he
hadn't really found much like this particular phenotype before. I guess the indica dominant
pheno is a much more what to expect, but maybe that's hope for you with your open pollination.
So what'd you find in those NL2s with the little grapes?
NL2. Yeah, yeah. She had this clone. She had this clone and it had tiny little branches,
tiny little leaves, and it got little buds. But it was so good that she kept growing it anyway
because she just loved the plant so much. But I was just saying it was just like straight
lemon chemical. Like it was so lemon peely with like zero like terpeneline edge, not that kind
of lemon, but like true lemon. And then this like chemical like funkiness to it where at the time I
thought of it as being like lemon joy or lemon pledge or something like that kind of trippy
thing. And it tasted so good. And it was one of the first kinds of weed where I really understood
like, whoa, some stuff is like crazy on the on the smells and flavors, you know, it was so, so good.
And I still to this day, I've never seen anything really that resembled it. And I don't know where
the hell it came from. But back in those days, it's very unlikely that it wasn't NL2 because
somebody probably popped some NL2 and found a pack. And so it's cool to hear that Bodie had a
narrow leaf NL2 too. You know, I'd be curious if it's a also if it's a small leaf, if it's any
similarities, because like, I'd like to see somebody go that direction and open it up and
see if this thing popped out because it's that sweat. There's like a few different things that
over the years have been like there, there was never anything else to find, you know, anything
in that in that general ballpark. And that was just one of those one of those things. It was just crazy,
you know, and that was probably 90. I want to say 94. Probably I started seeing that maybe 93,
maybe 95. In the mid 90s. And it was just killer. Killer.
Man, so, you know, we're talking about you taking some trips here to the states and hanging out
with Jean and Bodie. Other than the states, have you been to any other events or like
countries that you're just like so stoked to go check out events at or is it like the states?
Yeah, I gotta be honest, I haven't actually. And I like, I probably caught some hate for this, but
I always felt like the Emerald Cup was way better than Spanavis, at least back in the day.
I've obviously never been to Spanavis. So this is a, you know, feel free to flame me because I just
don't know. But I don't know. I always got the vibe. It was a different culture. You know, I went to
Amsterdam in 2010 just for general holidaying. And I wasn't super into cannabis back then,
but I can also, I have a very good memory and reflecting back on it, the scene, like it didn't
impress me even retrospectively, you know. So I always sort of just felt like maybe Spanavis
would be an extension of that. Probably wrong, you know, I need to get over there, give it a chance.
It just, it falls in February. It's like, it's not a good time of the year for me to be traveling.
Whereas like December at the end of the year, sort of generally you can hustle up some annual
leave or something with your work sitch. So yeah, I haven't done that, but I got to be honest, like,
you know, this is probably like the first few years I went to the Emerald Cup, it was incredible.
And if there's events like that around the world, you know, wholeheartedly recommend people give it
a try. But I think upon reflection, the more memorable events are just being able to spend
one-on-one time with people, like being able to go to Mean Genes house with Mr. Bob Hemphill.
That's like, you know, who wouldn't want to be in on that, right? Like you don't even need to be
there to know that like when we were sitting at the table, puffing on some of Mean Genes personal
weed, like we had epic conversations, you know, just talking about where we thought NL came from.
And, you know, the same with Bodhi, some of my most beautiful experiences, you know, like,
I think I've said this before, but Bodhi truly inspires me to not only in cannabis sense,
but just in general to try to be a better person. He's always got such refreshing takes on any
questions I have. It's always centered around the idea of like compassion, love and empathy.
And these are things that I've really come to appreciate a lot more. And, you know, I feel like
time's gone by, I've sort of become more in line with his views. Especially like, not that he's
ever said it to me, but I can reflect back and see that, you know, Bodhi's mantra has always been
something to the effect of like, you know, like obviously like love everyone, but almost like more
appropriately, no one is beyond redemption. And that's something I've channeled a lot in terms of
the podcast and whatnot, you know, because some people will say, Oh, I don't like such and such
because of X, Y, and Z. And I just remember, you know, like everyone's got good things to offer.
No one has done anything so egregious that we can't talk to them. And I just think that a lot
of his takes are really stuff that inspires me in general. And, you know, he definitely encouraged me
to start reading Ram Dass. And through that, I've gotten a lot more into that sort of side of
philosophical thinking and metaphysics of just like, it all just boils down to love. But yeah,
haven't been to too many other things. I've been to Colorado, I've been to Oregon,
been to California, been to Oklahoma, and they're all great, you know, but as I said,
the probably the most memorable experiences for me when I get to spend some one-on-one time with
someone like, you know, most recently, Mingine and I went up and spent the day with Tom Hill,
you know, I'll remember that forever. That was like, like Twilight Zone in a sense, you know,
like it was almost like going back to the 90s because for me, I heard about people living on
the hill and never really understood what that meant until I was there. And I was like, oh shit,
this is like, this is what they meant. And at the same time, it's exactly what they said. But,
you know, Jackson could probably give a better account of that because he's, he knows what other,
you know, I've only got that one, you know, isolated experience, whereas, you know, he's
probably seen lots of people's farms, but that was super memorable for sure, you know, and
unfortunately, you're not going to get that experience at a cup. Yeah, saying something to
Riot, he put up that post about the house that like Tom was trying to rent. I was like, oh my
god, dude, if he got all those growers to rent out that house together, man, I would pay all my life
savings for those candid takes where they sit and have the confessionals, you know, they're like,
oh my god, today, Swami got in the pool and he took his robe off.
Like, you know, like, but man, that's super cool, man. Yeah, truly, that sounds like super
memorable, man. And it's like, I don't want that visual in my head. Sorry, Peter.
But that's one of those things. I think that you bring up the mantra a lot where like,
a lot of these relationships happen organically, you know what I mean? Like, this wasn't some
forced event where you just showed up and it meant something to you. Like, you got to hang
out with a bunch of good guys, actually just give a shit, you know? I imagine if you're hanging out
with Bob, you guys are smoking a bunch of ash plants. So it's probably just a fucking real
mellow good time. Yeah, yeah, hugely. But like, you know, I was definitely lucky to smoke some of
the stuff he was testing. So like, the Red Lab, Cross the Puck, BX2 and some of those lines he
was putting out around that time. And just as a cool anecdote, I took a nug of, I think it was
Shoreline, Cross the BX2 down to Bodie and he vibed on that. It was like the one time in my life
where I showed him a nug and he was like, Oh, can I take one of those? And I was like, Yes, please.
And he was like, Yeah, this is cool. It smells like dirty diaper to me.
Dude, talk about that Red Lab Puck, man. So I actually just got some of those F2s from Kevin.
What do you like nug wise and smoke wise, man? What do you guys think about that stuff, dude?
Yeah, I've not tried any Lebanese at all. Like, I'm honestly, and I know all the people are gonna
laugh at me. I'm fucking 30 years old. So I've never even had Lebanese hash. So I'd love to
hear what Red Lab was like, man. I'm there with you, man. I've never had Lebanese hash plant.
Maybe when I wrap up in a second, me and Gene can talk about that. I'm sure he has. But that Red
Lebanese plant is super special. The story that I know is that Bamboo got it from someone he knows,
like a family friend or a close friend sort of thing. And this is the part which maybe isn't
entirely true, because it does sound too good to be true. But the story that I always got told with
it was that the people he got it off were like close friends of Howard Marks. And he had hung
out with these people at one stage, maybe in the 90s or earlier, I don't know. And had always said,
you know, my favorite plant in the world is G13. And my favorite hash is Lebanese hash. And here
are some seeds I found in Lebanese hash. And these guys popped the seeds, found like the keeper,
kept it for all the years and like passed it to Bamboo. And then from there, he gave it to some
friends and it's sort of, you know, reasonably tightly held. Probably on that same level as
Skelly, you know, like not many people have it. But really, I've been able to try the Red
Lebanese a number of times and it's so special. Like, it's truly, it makes you feel like you're
drunk, you know, or like you're lucid dreaming, like a very different effect to most modern cannabis.
Yeah, I can't remember who, but someone said it's like tequila weed or something, you know,
really interesting effect, super euphoric, really fun, but very different to most other highs.
And the Red Lab hybrids with the puck, yeah, are exactly what you'd expect. They just
got more grunt to them from the puck, you know, really beautiful stuff. It's no surprise that
Kevin F2'd the work, you know, Mr. Bob and Hannah do such a good job breeding it,
even for someone like him, who's known as a real, you know, head in the industry.
That's the sort of work he gravitates to and it all makes perfect sense, right? When you see
a big name breeder choosing to play around with some alternative work other than their own,
that like, what more of a vouch do you want? But yeah, in terms of that story about how,
like if it comes from Howard Mark's personal collection, I could never say for sure, but it's
a cool story, right? And maybe me and Gene know something about the Lebanese hash itself.
I don't know. Yeah, I don't know about the plant. I know that it's killer weed. I mean,
I love the plant itself. I saw the weed from them years ago and I was like, whoa, what's this? And
like, it was like, I didn't know him very good at the time. And I just asked casually, like,
is this something you guys share? And they're like, I don't know.
Of course not.
Of course not.
Okay. But I also saw the cross, yeah, at the jars and it's just like really pretty,
like it's visually really pretty weed. It has like the pretty, colorful, bubbly, nice,
like it just looks beautiful. It's beautiful, the shape of it and everything. It's really nice weed.
And I was just laughing because Red Lebanese, like Red Lebanese hash, right?
We used to get this cheap Red Lebanese hash and my buddy would have these big gongs of it and it
would be like dark on the outside and you'd tear it open and it'd be like red inside, you know?
Oh, wow.
And it was when back in the day, now this doesn't happen here, but back in the day,
you would have like a whole period of the year that would usually go from somewhere between
June or July or August or whatever on to when you would get the first weed because people weren't
doing light and depth as much. It existed, but people didn't, you know, you're like,
I don't light depth my plants and get a little bit of weed. And you'd think you'd save enough
weed, you'd smoke all of it. You'd wind up with like shitty shake and like making some
keef off of it and, you know, smoking that if you were even lucky, like, and then trying to figure
out how, picking through shake. And I remember like having like bags of shake and you go through
it and you'd look for all the little, you'd find like little kernels of that and get them all
together and be like, ah, right on and smoke that. You know, it'd get to the point where I was really
dry. So like, it was one of these things where it'd be like, oh, you got this big old gob of
this red Lebanese hash plant. You'd be stoked. So we would take it and put it in a bong and we'd be
like out of weed sometimes. So we'd like put like a pebble, like a pea gravel in the bong for like a
screen. And then you make a little, a little tiny disc of the, of the hash and you put it in, you
smoke bong inside of it, you know, it tastes like, like hash, you know, like a kind of a petroleum-y
rubbery burnt hash taste. It tasted like hash. You could tell it was hash. But one day my buddy,
he goes, dude, check this shit out. He goes, take a piece of this. He goes, chew it up. And we took
it. Chew it up. You realize the shit is like 20% sand at least, you know what I mean? It was just
like so gritty and fucked up. And like, you start to realize like, damn, who knows what's in this?
Like a good percentage of this could be like paraffin or anything. And now if you look at like,
if you look at like, like, like a resin, if you look at his feed, then you see like them taking
it and folding in all this stuff. And that's not, that's not Lebanese hash, but you realize that
hash that's going to make its trip to places where people don't know any better, you're going to
adulterate it. You're going to be like, oh, okay. So we have 50 pounds of hash while it's still in
powder form. Let's go ahead and fold in 13 pounds of sand. And then let's fold in another dozen
pounds of candle wax. And then let's put in some of this and some of that. And you could just tell
because you're, when you're, when you're used to being around weed a lot, you're used to like
eating off the finger hash off your fingers just to like get rid of it and spit it out and sticks
to your teeth. And it's like, it's resin and maybe it's a little bit of vegetative stuff,
but it's not crunchy and sandy. This was just like a hole of sand. And I also, they're growing
it under different conditions. Don't get me wrong where yes, there's going to be different, but I'm,
I'm not saying it's that little bit. I'm saying this shit was like full of stuff that was not
resin. And once we started to really pay attention, they're like, wow, I wonder what is in
this. And we started to talk to like old timers and they're like, oh dude, it's just mixed up. It's
just enough to make sure that it's still hash. But you know, you're going to turn 20 pounds of
hash into 25 pounds of hash. Are you going to turn 20 pounds of hash into 32 pounds of hash? It's
like, it's all going to sell and you're going to get the money. So they would just totally,
you know, they would cut the hash. And especially when you're, you've been dry all damn summer,
who gives a fuck? It's hash. It wasn't like, oh, this is no good and throw it away. We're like,
we're smoking candle wax. And like, we just continued to smoke it. But it was just the
realization that like, oh, because at first it's this exotic thing and you're like, dude, we got
this red lab and he was like, dude, I can get like pounds of red lab. Like we can just like,
can have it. There's no weed. Let's smoke this. And we would like, we would smoke that, you know,
and you know, anyway, that was, that's my only experience with red Lebanese hash. And I've had
really good, like Afghani imported hash that was like brown on the outside and blonde inside.
And it's like really, really good. And it has a really like having made a lot of hash, you go,
oh, this is good hash. And I've had that to import. But, but the red lab was like the definition of
not the good hash, you know, and I'm sure there was other red Lebanese. So don't let me give all
everybody's experience a bad name. But if you were in the late nineties smoking imported red
Lebanese hash, it was probably all the exact same shit. They were probably bringing it in
on a boat somewhere by the time and it was seriously adulterated, you know. So I didn't
miss out a whole lot, I guess. I didn't quite miss out on it. And I mean, it was odd. The only reason
why we had it was because my buddy was like, not from here. People from here were like, dude,
I got this big bag of shake and we would just like make keef. I've got to quickly mention before we
move on. Tom Hill did enjoy the red Lebanese hash plant. I took a little bite of it up there.
Yeah. He's like, he's the sort of guy where he's like a heavy smoker, you know, like a tough
smoker. Like it takes a lot to impress him. And he took a hit of it and was like, nah, not impressed.
And then I was like, oh damn, like I really like it. And then, and then I was like, all right,
I'll check back in in five minutes. And five minutes later, he was like, yeah, no, that's
actually pretty good. And he was funny about it. He goes, he's off, whatever, you know, like if
you, if you've ever met the dude, like, you know, he's, he's a pain in the ass. Like he's, he's a
character, you know, he's like really a hill dude. Like he's really like a pain in the ass, dope
grower. Who's like, doesn't give a fuck what you think and doesn't fucking care. And he's going to
tell you what he thinks. And he's like, this fucking shit, whatever. All right. You know,
so cool. Yeah. Fucking whatever is some bullshit. And then like, about like, it was like five
minutes, 10 minutes later, he looks over and he's like, all right, that's right there. Okay. Yeah.
I'm getting fucked up. Like he could tell it really grabbed a hold of him and he was like,
okay, yeah. All right. I'm, I'm sold. Okay, cool. You know, he was like, very, you know, like
very honest about it being simple. And then very honest about it, not being some bullshit,
you know, he wasn't going to be like, I'm not high. You're high. He was like,
dude, I can totally pick up on that too, man. Cause I was, I was actually pretty surprised when
he said in that interview with heavy that he was like loving some gelato that he was
snipping on right then. I was like, holy shit. So he was straight up on us. He said it out loud.
Oh my gosh. You know what I mean? Like we all fucking like it. We just don't say it out loud.
Yeah. I mean, you know, that's how it is. Like my buddy's kind of like the 41 is kind of like a show
stopper. It like shows out good. It does good in contests when people are smoking so much weed,
they can't tell. But when people actually have like their own pound of it to smoke
after a while, they're like, it's kinda, it's more, it's so substantial that it's kind of woody
and the way it smokes, it's a little bit too like too much of like rock bud, hard ball weed.
But the 33 is a little bit more like you don't want to grow it as much and it's not as impressive.
But when you smoke it in your own, not smoking other stuff, you're like, wow,
okay, this has a cool, this has a cool high to it. Like I actually do like the high and that's
how the crosses came out that I made with the 33 cross cherry limeade is every once in a while
you'll smoke one of them and you'll be like, like one of the, the pie stream that skunk tech
kept. I was like, okay, it's fruit. Like there's a kind of a thing where you go, it's sweet perps,
not going to be that strong. That's why I like cherry limeade. Cause I was like, whoa,
actually I'm getting really high off this. The cherry pie don't get me high.
Urkel people are, people say, oh, Urkel so strong. I'm like, I don't know.
Everybody's different. But for me, Urkel was strong right when I first smoked it and it gave
me the giggles and me and my buddy got the giggles and we thought it was really strong.
And after like a couple of days, I was like, this is morning weed. I can roll out of bed and smoke
a fatty of this. And I don't even notice. And like other people were like, dude, like my other
friend is like, it's the lead sombrero. It gets you so high every time. And we're like, well,
it's really strong. And especially outdoor, it's really strong, but I got used to it really fast.
And then the cherry limeade really got me high. And I was like, okay, so this is cool. And then
I crossed it with the gelato and, and gelato has such a bad rap of being just like market weed,
but I was like, okay, well, we'll see. And then I was like, this is like the, the, the
pie screen one. I was like, this is that kind of fruit, you know, whatever. We'll see. I've
diluted the cherry limeade away and gone to the gelato. Now I've gone to this wedding to this,
was that the wedding pie? And so I was like, okay, well, we're kind of getting into the realm of all
this kind of market, you know, Zaza shit. I sat there and Skunk Tech brought me a little jar of
the weed and I smoked one bong hit and I was like, wow, it's really tasty. Damn, I want to smoke more
of that. And I smoked another bong hit and I just smoked two fat bong hits. And I sat down and I was
watching TV and all of a sudden I started feeling like my heart do the little weird, like potent
thing. Whoa, this is actually, it is strong. It's like 40% total when it tests, you know,
different, you know, whatever, all the different stuff. It's not 40% THC, it's strong, you know?
And, uh, and I was like, okay, shit, this is not, I'm fucking, I'm high. And that I, I, I think that
some of that's coming through from the gelato 33, you know? So, and I mean, it kind of, it's got
to be in there when you get somebody like Tom Mills, you're like, fuck your weed. I only smoke
deep chunk and I only smoke Hayes and I only like three out of a hundred plants. He's not even like
Hayes is the best weed. He's like, no, most of it sucks, but the best is the best. Deep chunk,
he's like, they're all suck, but three or five out of a hundred, those are the good ones, you know?
And then he smoked gelato and he's like, this is a pretty good, but so like,
it's not that bad when they got snogged.
That's what I'm saying. Like, you got to respect people's like that honesty, you know what I mean?
Like it almost kind of solidifies your thoughts when you're not so sure about yourself sometimes
is the best way to put that.
Yeah, no, it's good. I really like to have like people who I know are like, cannot get high. And
then I'm like, smoke this, smoke that. And then they're like that one, that no, no, no. And then,
you know, cause I used to not be able to get high. And then I would smoke something. And then all of
a sudden you smoke white shark and you fall asleep or you smoke fucking sweat. And all of a sudden
you're like zinging or whatever they are. And you realize, okay, these things are really, really
strong. But but now I get stoned off of anything that's good weed. And then I'll smoke something
and I'll be like, Hmm, I didn't get that high. And I'm like, well, it's not that strong weed.
Then I'll smoke the shit that gets people demolished and I'll get demolished. And I'm like,
okay. So I realized like over the years that I like to have people with that crazy tolerance
where nothing gets them high. But I also realized that tolerance is not as big of a deal as people
think. And if the weed ain't that strong, it's not just going to get you hella high just cause
you only smoke once a day or you only smoke twice a day, as opposed to someone who wake and bakes
giant bong hits and all this stuff. You know, you're still like you want to have those people
to test weed on. But I've kind of learned over the last however many years that like strong weed is
strong to people who are used to smoking weed. But weak weed, it still doesn't get you that high
when your tolerance isn't that high. You smoke it and you're like, well, it's just not I guess
this shit ain't that ain't that potent. And you think back when like you're younger and you don't
have as much of a tolerance, the weed that really fucked you up. It wasn't just like because you
were a new smoker. Like I smoked weed when I was really young and hadn't smoked very much. And I
was like, whatever, cool smoking weed's nothing, dude. And then you smoke something that's like
strong, like how how Camino G and all this stuff is, it's really strong. And then you learn like,
okay. And I, now I, nothing can get me as high as I got back in the day. But, um, but you know,
having a guy like Tom Hill, like it's still cool to be able to dish them something, you know, and,
and, uh, and also people too, who are like, he, he's a hard ass. He smelled the stuff that I had.
And then he smelled the double limes and he's like, oh, okay. That's, that's some shit right
there. And then I rolled him a joint. He's like, that ain't how you roll a fucking joint.
And I was just being heavy. We're just cracking up. You see why this guy's a character? This is,
this is a real hill dope grower that just does, he does not give a fuck like what bank. And so
it's great. Cause you, you find out like, okay, no, no, yeah, no. And, and it doesn't,
it's not an end all be all, I might not agree with them on some stuff, but it's perspective,
you know, you get perspective there and you know, that it's honest and you need, you know, people
who have those kind of, um, you know, some, some people have to have that hard ass opinion so that
you know, like, it's not going to kiss your ass. Well, it helps put you in reality check sometimes
too. Cause sometimes like, uh, especially like a, you know, in heavy and nice situation where
we're not doing large Fino hunts, sometimes stuff's just good. Like we just, because it's
what we like. And then you sit somebody down in the room, you're like, Hey man, dude, check out
this bomb ass jar, whatever that I just grew in. And they're like, yeah, it's pretty good.
And then they start opening your jar and you start to realize quickly like, ah, fuck, it's not that
bomb. Actually. I just really like it. Yeah. And then that's, what's trippy too, is like, what,
what is good is, is what you like. And there's like, you gotta be able to find, there's like
certain ones where like, uh, skunk tech found this, he, he took root beer and he, and he hit
it with the reverse, the headband, um, the cut that we believe to be the seven Oh seven, because
it's like, he grew the S ones and they were all like, Afghani look like Royal cause, you know,
that's what that one is. Um, and so, uh, he hit that with the, he hit that, he hit that to the
root beer and he gave me some jars and I checked them out and it was like, all of them were good,
nice smoke, but there was one that I smoked and I was just like, so good. I got so high. I love
the smell. It smelled like the little Cola bottle gummies and it tasted so good. And I smoked and
then I just got really fucking high and he got really fucking high and we drove home and it was
like a Chi Chi Chong movie. And I'm like, this is, we got to drive past the police station. And he's
like, well, but you go, I'm like, no matter which way you go, when you drive here, you gotta go
past the police station. So this is hilarious. And I'm like, paid, like just drive them like,
just perfect and shit. And we were with our boy Doug from sticker farmer and he puffs like
hardcore, like nonstop, he puffs and we smoked with him and he was just as high as us. And that's
what I realized. Like, you know, tolerance is, there's a certain, certain thing to tolerance,
but there's a certain myth to tolerance to like heavy dope, kitsch stone, no matter what,
you stoned to the bone. But then like skunk tech took that, he took it to a party where
people had all this different weed and he showed it to all these people and everyone,
you know, nobody, it didn't stick out to anybody. So that could easily make you think like, Oh,
well maybe we just didn't know, you know, now I pulled out the jar and I smoked some more.
I took it to another dude's probably took it to this dude, Mr. Fatty J's fucking party and smoked
a joint. Like you want to get really high smoke, the shit we smoked it. And I was like, damn. And
I'm like sitting there, like trying to like, see like what's up, what's going on with everyone
else. And everybody else is just stuck, you know, like, Oh, Spacey. Hi. And I was like, yeah,
it's, it's bomb shit. And you know, I have the clone, I kept it, I'm going to work with it. But
it was one of those ones you could have easily, you could have easily thought like, we had a good
day with it and whatever, but no one else liked it. But I'm like, fuck it. People, if other people
don't like it, I don't give a shit. I'm still going to keep it, breathe it, smoke it. I want
to grow a bunch of head stash of it. So I got big jars of this. I'm just fucking roll it up like
crazy. And he, you know, concerts and parties and shit. It has that great, crazy zooming high,
you know, and it's just easy to, it's like, it's easy. It'd be easy for things to get lost thinking
like, well, maybe I was just enamored with it. And it's really not that good. But like, you got to
go with you when you really know, you got to really know because over time, you'll, you'll,
you'll learn whether it is or not. And then, like, for me, I'm like, if I lost this one,
I'd be hella bummed. And so far, I don't think there's anyone else who would care except for
like me and Skunk Tech and Doug because like, we know because of how loopy it got us. But,
you know, like, it's not, is it the next big thing? I don't think so. I don't think anybody
will ever give a shit. But I will continue to be like, no, I'm keeping this clone. I'm going to
keep growing it. And I know it's the shit and then the people who like it, I like it. But it's
just weird because, you know, I have a lot of 41, but I don't want I don't even grow to a lot of 41.
But I'm going to keep growing this fucker, you know?
Well, I was gonna say, man, it sounds like when you say something like that,
a lot of us will end up probably giving a shit. I already know heavy days in Ireland. All right,
well, we'll get that that jar sometime, right?
I'll grow some of it. I'll grow I'll try to grow a plant of it sensi this year. And then I'll breed
some of it to with some cool stuff. And I want to cross it with like some sativa stuff, since it
has such a good high, but it's really substantial and practical to grow because it's a good plant,
too, you know, but I want to hit it with some things that'll keep the trippiness and maybe go
more. Maybe I'll cross it with like, you know, the Vietnam seven artifact, something because it
be real, but you know,
Yeah. Well, I know we've been on the air for quite some time here. So I have the three questions that
have every time the end of the show is coming up, I start getting pretty excited on the podcast when
I know they're coming up. What are the three island questions for you heavy days? We said,
you know what, we're gonna put you on an island, you're not fit for us anymore. We're gonna just
leave you here with seeds or clones. You can have either one. What's it gonna be, man? What's your
top three? Oh, yeah. You know what's funny? I always get like surprised by these questions,
like that I haven't really put much more thought into it myself. You know, I've thought about the
time machine one a lot because, you know, some people give some great answers. But okay, so the
island, the three strains I would take. I think if I have to be really honest, I would want
something that's sativa in the sense that I'd want either like a pack of C99 or like my particular
Chernobyl cutting. They both fill the same spot for me, like all day zippy, happy, uplifting,
energetic. Definitely want one of those. I definitely want a nice indica that doesn't
like necessarily put my dick in the dirt. But if I had two or three hits, it'll get me to sleep. So,
something like Raspberry Mama is good for that or like maybe even my Jelly Breath.
They're nice as a one-off hit, like sort of if you wanted to have a hit in the afternoon,
you can do that but still do one or two more tasks before you're sort of couch locked.
So, yeah, maybe either the Raspberry Mama or the Jelly Breath, not too fast. Jelly Breath's
probably a bit stronger, so maybe that. And then, the final one, I would take a pack of seeds and
I'd specifically want a hybrid where like some phenos I get will be more sativa leaning so I'm
not just pigeonholed to like my one Chernobyl or C99. But then, some of the seeds will be indica
and then I can breed with those seeds to make more indica hybrids and more sativa hybrids.
So, maybe the pack I would take would be... Gosh, it's a hard one, isn't it? What's something that's
got both ends of the spectrum in it? That's not fair. He's hacking the matrix.
Yeah, I'm trying to really think of the right way to do it. I would happily take anything from...
Because really, it's a tool, right? So, I'd happily take anything from any of my friends
who I consider in that tier one category. So, like Mr. Bob, Dynasty, Mean Gene, Skunk VA,
maybe something from Emerald Mountains is going to do well outdoors. Anyone who I, broadly speaking,
put in tier one breeder, I'd happily take a pack from them because I'm really looking to breed
further. So, I want the stock to be stable. And then I just grab one of their nice hybrid strains.
So, maybe where the parent is a little more sativa leaning on one end and the other parent's more
indica, just so I could get a bit of expression out of it. But yeah, that would be my thoughts.
I want to have a bunch of sativas. I want to have one indica I can fall back on
and then something where I can have fun with it. Yeah.
Nice, man. That's a killer line up there, actually. And then always putting things to
work, right? Like you're not just going to sit on this island. You're already thinking about breeding.
Yeah. What about you, Gene?
What else? Am I going to twiddle my thumbs otherwise?
That's why I said it's not fair he's hacking the matrix because you're like name three strains and
he's like, okay, I'm going to take this one strain that has most of the strains in it that I like,
and it's a polyamory. I'm going to breed them back into separate lines. So, I'm going to take
these three things and I'm going to have 35 strains in four years here.
He basically said, I want indica, sativa, ruteralis.
I really like weed that, it's like he said, it's cool to have one weed that is like,
maybe like one gnarly weed that's like almost like an opiate where like,
cherry limeade is kind of like that. Like I, if I really need, like, I'm like, I can't sleep.
I like have that weed and I'll keep old weed. I'll keep like weed for a few years of cherry
limeade because like the longer you keep it, it just turns into straight
CBN with all the gnarly turps and you smoke it and it just, you just like can't,
you know, your eyes get itchy and you're like, feel like a little kid trying to stay up late.
You can't do it and you just, you just got to fall asleep. Those are cool for like,
that's one thing that weed is definitely really cool for. But like my general ones are the ones
where when you smoke it, you just feel like everything is improved. So like, like the
classic, the classic it's in like half-baked or something. He's all, have you ever watched the
movie on weed? Like those ones where when you smoke them and you just, that's why I like lime
and Jaro and root beer stuff so much because I smoke them. And then like, if you're in a funk
or whatever, like you're not appreciating, like kind of, it like sobers you up in a sense of like
really putting you in reality and going, oh, okay. But not in a panicky, in a panicky mode.
So it's like the three levels. There's like the level that's just like none of that. And it's just
straight like volume weed. And then there's the weed that's like in the middle range where it
brightens everything that makes everything awesome. And those are my favorite weed is in the middle.
And you just like feel really, really good and everything's cooler. And you kind of,
everything's kind of like bright and HD and like super cool. And then there's the other ones that
are like the adventure weed where, you know, you have those like those sativas where you're like,
oh shit, what did I do? Like, why the fuck did I smoke this? Oh shit. And you like feel it in your
chest and you get like the panickiness and you think you like think about everything that you
could possibly be doing wrong. And you're like worried about like the government and like the
fucking, you know, like you left the stove on and you're like concerned there might be an economic
crash while you smoked your joint and shit, you know, like vague panic, you know, aliens and shit.
You don't know just something that you don't know. It's anxiety. Like those are like the,
for me, those are the three main divisions of weed. And I would like to have one that fits the
description of all of that so that you can have it where everything's good and everything's
happening. And then the one that's just like completely way too much. And then the one
that's too much on the other end where it's just like, and whatever, whatever those ones would be.
You know, sounds like the raspberry mama to me.
Love the plug. Thank you. Thank you.
Oh, and then so the other part of that question, man, I love this one too,
and everyone always tries to take a diplomatic approach with it. So I'm going to word it a
little bit differently this route. I already know what it is. Richard Nixon was like, Hey man, like
let's just drop Richard Nixon off on an Island. What are we going to give him to grow?
And like, or smack, sorry. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So someone who deserves what they get.
Yeah. Not going to, yeah. And I can say something you don't like,
you're such a diplomatic person. I love everybody. And so we're still, yeah.
I think like, you know, I always love it when guests like, you know, stitch someone up hard
and it's like, you know, I'd leave them with hemp. I leave them with, you know,
like just give them dog shit. No, instead I would show Richard Nixon. He always strikes me as the
sort of guy who like while pushing prohibition probably loves to have a bunch of alcohol and
doesn't see how there's any sort of parallels between him enjoying that and us enjoying
cannabis. You know? So what I would do is I would be like, let me show you the full spectrum cannabis
has to offer. I'm going to give you one strain that is like the most anxiety inducing strain
you can ever get, you know, like just a gnarly C5 or like, yeah. Or like Zoid fuel,
like one of these Epic strains where it's like, it's just purely anxiety inducing. And just,
it's like, if you want to be inebriated whatsoever, it's all or nothing. What are you going to pick?
So something like that. And then something on the other end of the spectrum, like a Chem 91,
where it's like, maybe for a heavy smoker, this is enjoyable, but for the average person,
it's just way too much. Right. And then the final one is, yeah, give him some like Ruderalis or hemp,
you know, like, I don't want to give you any sort of middle ground. Like you, you're either,
you're shitting the bed in one direction or the other. It's up to you, which way you go.
Yeah. Pick his poison, right? Yeah. I mean, I think if you, if you really want to curse somebody
with weed, I think you already kind of touched the basis. I think basically you want to tell
somebody here's some weed that's horrible and harsh. This is a, this is like, this is a, if,
if you're, if you're somebody, not Richard Nixon, but if you're somebody who really loves weed and
you want to curse them with a strain, give them like a auto flower, that's supposed to be just
like what the name is, but then you grow it and it's a fucking cardboard Ruderalis, which is what
like a lot of auto flowers are fucking red hair, cardboard, fake resin, fucking dark green Ruderalis
that smells like cardboard and fucking peanut shells. And then if, if it's somebody, you know,
if it really is Richard Nixon, I think like, you know, it's not about like how the weed smokes or
nothing. I think you just give them straight fucking edibles and you don't even tell them
what it is. You know, you're just like, Hey, I made you these cookies and cookies are like
fucking 4,500 milligram fucking THC fucking cookies, you know? And you know, by the time
he can even digest half of the three cookies you feed him, he's already fucking throwing up and
spinning and fucking thinking, you know, he's going to die. Cause you know, I don't know if
everybody's done that, but I've done it. And it's definitely like, it's really unpleasant. It's
worse than when you're drunk for sure. And just be there, be there feeding into it. It's like,
whoa, man, you look like you're going to die. Like feed into the negative thoughts.
Man, I thought you were going to say a candle ridden, a red Lebanese hash.
No, no, no. That was, that was too, it's too, too much in the middle. That wasn't
that bad about it except the reality that you're probably smoking something that's not that good,
but it didn't get you that high and it did get you high. So like, it's kind of, you know,
the definition of midsy experience where you're just like, cool. I mean, I was happy to have it.
I wasn't happy to fucking my, my boy made fucking brownies and we ate them at one 30 in the morning
at night. And I woke up and threw up at three 30 from woke up in the bed and stumbled into the
toilet and threw up brownies and fucking continue to spin for whatever. Or we drank fucking two
ounces of melted weed butter I made from ridiculous fucking indoor weed and then fucking chased it
with a little bit of honey and toast and then got paralyzed for fucking four and a half hours
staring at a TV screen, wishing that you could move your eyeballs just to see what your buddy's
doing over, over there. But your body's too paralyzed to look over there. Your eyes are
drying out and you can hardly blink every fucking 10 minutes or something through paralysis. Like
we did that, you know, and it was ridiculous. Like that's how you learn like, Oh, and I realized now
we were, we were heavy smokers at the time. We must've, we must've been eating, you know,
thousands. We must've been eating, you know, grams of, of THC all at once to get that experience.
Cause otherwise, you know, if you're a heavy smoker, you can eat a 500 milligram edible. It
doesn't do shit to you, you know? So I don't know what we were ingesting, but we had full,
full paralysis for, you know, I don't know, three, four hours, just staring at the,
that, that in the days when the VCR would go off and the TV would turn into snow and ants and
couldn't look away and couldn't ask somebody if they were as high as you and couldn't turn your
head to see what they were doing. All you could do is kind of look with your peripheral out here,
like, cause you can't move your fucking eyeball because you're paralyzed, you know, Peter's going
in and he's got his 4,000 milligrams right here. If everybody stays with me for the next six hours.
I wish dude, I've been chasing around 22 little kids this morning. It was my daughter's first
birthday. So I am exhausted. I've been setting up for a party, making food and that all on this.
So otherwise I would absolutely love to sit here and hang out with you for six more hours, Peter.
I got to get jamming too. I got to, I'm supposed to tune this base and get the kids
jamming out over here and have some, have a little, my kids got his buddy over and he brought
his guitar and I got a bass. I just re-strung and I got to download a tuning app. And I was testing
out. I just got Starlink hooked up here and I have it on my roof and it worked good for streaming and
all that shit, but it doesn't work good for this. And I switched over to my normal connection,
which usually completely drops out and I can't even get on. And tonight my regular connection
is fucking beautiful. That's why I have it dropped out since then. So now I know.
So you have two choices.
Yes. And neither of them are really very reliable. So I'm probably going to have to extend
my cable and go out to my, by my weed garden to put my fucking Starlink out there. Then I'll,
then I'll be back in business.
Well, dude, we really appreciate you setting that Starlink up for this, man. I know I kind of,
like I was saying to Heavy Dazer, I got this terrible Eastern Shore grammar. So I think I
led you to believe it was last night. So he like was out there setting shit up last night,
ready for tonight, man. He was the most ready for all of this and all of us actually.
Yeah. You freaked me out. Cause you were like, where's the link? And I was like,
what? We're not, I hope we're, did I get the day wrong?
Did I eat the 3,500 milligrams or what?
But again, man, so I really do appreciate you doing that, man. And it really means a lot. And
I'm sure it means a lot to Heavy too, to have one of his past guests on and an old friend. It's
always cool to just see a buddy, you know?
Yeah. It's awesome.
Hugely.
And Heavy, dude, I really want to say thank you so much for hanging out with us, man. I know that
it's a little bit of a looser format than you're used to, but I think that at times that can be
just as much fun and almost as much more crucial for taking on information, which is what both of
these platforms are about is teaching everyone as much as we can about the plant that we all
give a shit about, you know? So it really means a lot that you made it happen from literally the
other side of the world, dude. So thanks again for letting us pick your brain and like hanging
out with us, man. It really means a lot.
Oh, no. Thank you for the invitation. I appreciate it. Stoked to be joined by me and
Jay and Peter, yourself. Always a good time to chat, cannabis. Never a burden. So very appreciative.
It was awesome, man.
Absolutely.
Sweet deal.
One last note, dude. I checked, I looked for my balaclava so that I could come on in a ski mask,
but I couldn't find it. So I was going to come on and match you.
I appreciate the sentiment nonetheless.
All right, fellas. Well, thanks again, man. Good luck with that base camp over there, dude.
All right. See you guys.
See you, everyone. Thanks so much.
