Makes pretty sick.
Boom.
Alright, we will start imminently.
Whoa.
Okay, hold on.
Amazing.
Okay, hold on.
And we did a presentation that was really an introduction to
the history and different principles and methods of
scientific plant breeding and when I went back and watched
it, I saw I had my like presentation up so I couldn't
see Chad or the chat or anything throughout the whole time
and I just kind of had my head down and was, you know,
plowing through the presentation and then I saw the times
that Chad tried to get a word in edgewise or the different
questions people had in chat.
So I thought it'd be a good idea to, you know, with that
information is kind of like a background sort of framing the
discussion.
It will let us go in any different Avenue.
We want to take to discuss different topics as it relates
to cannabis and getting more, you know, lots of different
breeders in here with lots of different perspectives on these
ideas can really kind of dive down dig into them and a little
bit more of a not just an in-depth fashion, but also a specific
as it relates to cannabis sort of fashion.
Sure.
Absolutely.
I know that when Peter let me do an episode, I pretty much
had the same issues where I was just pounding through my
little slideshow and wasn't even looking at the chat.
So I definitely understand how that can be problematic,
especially if you're not sitting in front of a PC and having
either two monitors or having like your phone and then your
PC or laptop or whatever next to you.
So that way you can kind of go back and forth between them.
So we have the mercy of our technology.
Unfortunately, sometimes.
Yeah, totally.
That's definitely and you know, I'm not the most tech savvy.
Peter hopped on partway through last week and explained to
us how we actually share the presentation and helped us, you
know, get things sorted.
So I think we're good to go as you guys were talking technology.
I was trying to set it up so it actually works, but I think
everybody on YouTube can hear us.
And yeah, I think how Trevor kind of framed it is maybe he
can kick off the topic and then anybody can and I think I don't
know if you mentioned that Ryan's going to hopefully jump on
a little later as our expert amongst experts, but I think
just like the almost like principles of plant breeding 101
like we all have the textbook in front of us and we get to
try to understand the basics on the science side.
Yeah, totally.
No, it'll be really great.
Once Ryan jumps on Ryan Lee is chimera.
He's been on a couple of our other recent roundtables and
he for anybody who doesn't know is really a leading expert
in the field of breeding with cannabis.
He's been doing it for a long time.
He has an academic background where he really, you know,
he understands the science of cannabis breeding and he also
has hands-on experience where he's been doing this for a
really long time and can explain just basic principles as
well as more complex and you know in-depth information in
a really hands-on and sort of like cannabis specific way
that is nice because it's just not it's not very common that
you find somebody who knows the science as well as he does
and has as much experience with the plant.
He's right there with a small handful of people in that regard
and also on my on my Instagram.
I already started getting some questions.
We'll probably dive into those a little bit later because
he's the perfect person to discuss some of those subjects.
He's got a lot of experience working with and breeding cannabis
specifically for its cannabinoid and terpene profile.
He understands the inheritance of terpenes, the interactions
and relationships between different terpenes as their regards
to their like inheritance and quote-unquote dominance relationships.
So he can kind of speak to some of those dynamics, hopefully
and we can really dive deep into terpene breeding because
that seems to be the question that people are most interested
in at least just from the initial questions.
But so yeah for anybody who missed last week's presentation,
we really just went from the very beginning all the way from
the history of plant breeding starting with Mendel and the
idea of qualitative inheritance, which is the inheritance of
discrete traits.
He did for instance, he had seven specific traits that he looked
at and each one of them was discontinuous in the population.
So essentially it was either a yes-no sort of relationship.
It was either an expressive trait or a non-expressive trait.
And unfortunately a lot of people kind of get stuck at Mendel
and there's his model is it works for simple traits where
a major gene controls the expression of the trait and there's
a dominance and recessive relationship between those two.
And then it gets into the issue of qualitative or quantitative
traits.
And this is where a lot of people kind of the complexity,
the mathematics and the fact that the vast majority of traits
that we're interested in are quantitative traits.
There seems to be a little bit of a breakdown in terms of people's
understanding of how these traits work.
And this is really the meat and potatoes of plant breeding is
looking at quantitative traits.
And I'm down to really dive into those ideas and explain really
how the inheritance of complex traits works.
We got into the whole history of plant breeding basically and
how we can use these different ideas and concepts that were
developed largely from the 1860s to about the 1950s.
Most of the ideas were developed in that time period and apply
those in different breeding systems, be it the pedigree selection
method or the mass selection method or bulk pedigree method and
go down particular breeding systems to accomplish our goals.
So, yeah, I saw just a moment ago there was a hand up.
If we can, I see some folks in chat like Mojave, if you want
to hop up in here.
Yeah, just quickly.
Give me a second.
I'm trying to figure out how it's a long-winded explanation, but
I'm trying to figure out how to make all you guys moderators and
invite other people up onto the stage because I'm not using
Clubhouse, but I'll give me a minute and I'll figure it out.
Trevor has to do it since he opened up the room.
He'll have to click on each one of us individually.
Cool.
Okay.
So Trevor, do you see if you click on any one of us you can
make us a moderator?
Yeah.
Okay.
So I will do that.
Make a moderator.
Oops, you're on this one.
Cool.
So yeah, I'm making all you guys moderators and just brought up
Mojave.
Welcome Mojave.
You're a great resource to have on this panel.
You've got lots of experience too.
And so, you know, welcome everyone.
If there are any questions, I unfortunately don't have the
YouTube up so I can't see if there are questions going down
in chat right now on the YouTube.
Maybe you can Peter.
Yeah, I'll moderate that or I'll keep an eye on that.
Okay, just for a start off.
I was asked by Think Grow Tech on my IG.
They asked, I was curious to have you guys break down creating
a cross selecting for likeness of one of the parents only how
close a match you can get with selection.
Are there more advanced methods needed and beneficial to achieve
this?
So that's the first question.
I think to a certain extent we covered some of this a couple
weeks ago when we discussed how to preserve or maintain a clone
only.
So there was a long discussion on some of these ideas.
But as it relates to the specific question of breaking down
creating a cross and selecting for likeness of only one of the
parents that really is a process of one.
You have to know the traits of the parent.
Two, this was a suggestion that was made by Tony Greenhands and
Tom Hill has mentioned this before and it's something we did this
year where if you grow out the clone, the parental clone plant
alongside the offspring, it gives you a better idea of the relationship
and the similarity between the clone only that you've used as your
parent that you're trying to select towards and the offspring
and seeing, you know, resemblance and likenesses.
There are different ways of doing this.
There's a way of doing this in terms of what's known as phenotypically
assortative mating or phenotypic assortative mating.
Essentially in this system, you're simply identifying like and
breeding like to like.
So you would find the offspring that are the most like the parent.
You would breed those together and you would continue that process
for multiple generations.
It's not necessarily the most effective method because phenotypic
assortative mating typically breaks up the traits and sends them
down divergent pathways because you're essentially creating two
different extremes within the population, even if you're only
selecting for one of those.
And so it's not necessarily, phenotypic assortative mating is not
where we've really accomplished a lot of the gains that we've
accomplished in plant breeding.
A lot of the gains in terms of accomplishing our goals have been
much more in the genetic assortative mating, which is your inbreeding
and that's, you know, that's selfing, full sib, half sib, back cross
type breeding.
And in this instance, back crossing or selfing is the most efficient
means typically, at least that's my input.
If anybody else wants to jump in and or needs me to repeat the
question, I can do that.
Well, and also not to mention that I know that whenever I'm starting
a project that there isn't a one and done that usually I try to
break down the characteristics that I'm trying to obtain from a
goal standpoint.
And I try to, every time that I have a selection, I try to knock
one of those things out.
So that way I'm actually making forward progression while at the
same time, because I think that a lot of people think that you
take two good parental units and you're just going to, you know,
have the best progeny or that home run just by having those two
plants come together.
That's not the reality of the selecting process by any means.
That's a great point there.
I mean breeding really is a system of trial and error and going
through test crosses and populations to see if the results, the
expected results and the desired results are obtained.
And so it's definitely not as simple as, you know, mix, add water
and you know, you've got your whatever it is.
It's definitely something that's requires a lot of observation
and analysis.
And when you start getting into like the more complex inheritance
of traits, it's a numbers game and it requires very large populations
and going through an entire population at scale before you can
really, you know, make determinations one way or another with regard
to the success or failure of a breeding program.
Do we lose everyone?
Hello, just want to say hi.
My name is Alex.
Thanks for letting me ask a question.
My question is one-to-one males.
What would be a good method to find a one-to-one male?
And then the second part of that question is if I had a one-to-one
male and I put it to a high THC cannabinoid male or female, excuse
me, could I bring a one-to-one ratio from let's say eight to nine up
into the double digits with proper selecting?
Let's see.
Well for me, I've done three one-to-one lines myself.
And for me, it comes down to the selection of what you're breeding
with to start with.
For me, I used the ACDC female.
She tests extremely high on CBD, very low on THC, and she breeds
very well for that trait.
I crossed her to three different females or males to see what would
I get from those.
My Guav OG male, my Angel male, and an 88G13 hash plant male.
And all three of the crosses showed multiple phenotypes that would
come back at one-to-one ratios of CBD to THC.
Some would have just slightly higher CBD or just slightly higher
THC, but all were coming back above 10% each on either CBD or
THC, except for one phenotype that came in at just under 10% on
CBD. It was at 9%, the highest one.
Total cannabinoid ratio on the, it was a strain that I called
Heaven Can Wait, was 24%.
So for me, it just starts off with using cultivars that are going
to breed for those traits that you know for.
So for me, I used ACDC and I've also used Harlequin, two lines
that I know would pass by breeding them to multiple different males
and then testing out the progeny to make sure that I was getting
what my desired results were.
Cool.
Yeah, that's kind of what I figured I would have to do.
Thank you.
So what I'm trying to do is the Ethiopian banana that Bodhi found
has a 8% CBD and 9% THC when I tested it, when I ran it.
I'm curious if I wanted to find a male that had one-to-one qualities
and from something that I crossed with it, what would be the best
method to find that one-to-one male?
Honestly, the best method would be to get it tested and get it,
you know, GC or HPLC test on the actual male.
I know that I did that with a number of different ACDC crosses
that I made and I didn't, the one that I found and ended up using,
I think was a 2.5 to 1, but you definitely see the breakdown.
With that, so breeding with a mixed chemotype male, you're going
to have a much broader range of outcomes in the offspring generation.
So, and one other thing that I've noticed is that CBD tends
in the mixed chemotypes to be slightly more present or available
than the THC in at least a number of the crosses that I made back
in the day and got tested.
And that was explained to me and also I think in one of the
DeMahair paper kind of talked about this as under selection
or the lack of directional selection
in CBD is kind of what makes it
so it expresses a greater value in these hybrids
where you're getting a bit less of a responsive THC
when you're crossing it with the CBD varieties.
So, that's one thing to keep in mind is that a lot
of times CBD will slightly outperform THC
in mixed chemotypes, but really the best way to identify
and select a male is either to use pure chemotypes,
two pure chemotypes, cross those who have a high probability
of getting mixed chemotypes in the offspring.
The best way to do it is to actually do the testing
so that you can, you know, be confident
that the chemotypic expression of the male plant falls
within that specific ratio that you're looking for.
That's what I was afraid of.
Cool.
Thanks for the answer, you guys.
You guys are awesome.
Thanks for the information.
Also something to think about just
because when you are trying to hunt down a one-to-one,
just the testing alone can get pretty expensive.
So, there are certain tools that I would probably recommend
that aren't perfect.
They don't replace true COAs, but just
like that purple scientific, it's purple without the E
at the end of it, there is like a 2% margin of error,
which lies between up and down.
So, for percentage points overall, which kind of fits
within the realm of most COAs, but that's something
that you can use just to have in your tool shed
or your toolbox.
So, that way, when you are trying to hunt down one
of those plants that has those markers that you're looking
for, then that point you can say, hey,
now I can spend the money
and actually have this thing tested
from a true COA standpoint.
So, that way you're not just spending a ridiculous amount
of money on the hunt.
Thanks. That's great information.
Yeah, that is a really good point.
There are cheaper ways of doing, you know, like, yeah,
COA is awesome, but there are, you know,
you don't need an exact breakdown.
You just need to know roughly the range and the ratio.
Like, I remember when I first went to Steep Hill,
they talked about how everybody was getting really,
really exacting in their ratios and trying to be like,
this is a 40 to 1 CBD to THC.
And they're like, that doesn't fucking matter.
Like, the 20 to 1s are the pure CBD.
The 2.5 to 1 or the 1 to 1 are the mixed chemotypes.
And the, you know, pure THC are off in their own realm
with, you know, like, incredibly skewed numbers far beyond
a 20 to 1.
And so, really, for the purposes of figuring
out whether or not you're working with a mixed chemotype
or a pure chemotype, that type of, that level and degree
of accuracy is more than adequate.
So, I just want to re-ask this in another way.
I'm sorry.
So, if I did find my ideal male,
and that was expressing the 1 to 1 characteristics
that I liked, and then, let's say, I dusted it on,
like, you know, a 30% THC variety female,
could then the progeny, like, Anthony was saying
that he saw a higher cannabinoid ratio.
Just curious, is it, in theory, doable to create a 1 to 1
that is in the double digits?
I haven't seen it.
So, I'm just curious if it's even doable
or if it's just a theory.
Well, I have three of them.
So, it's doable.
Oh, I must have misunderstood you, Tony.
Thank you for clarifying.
Yeah, I only had one of them that tested
with CBD lower than 10%.
Only one phenotype out of the three crosses that tested lower
than 10% out of the stuff I tested.
And I believe it was, like, 9.78%.
But everything else tested with double digit CBD and THC.
And I hit, I believe the highest was 24.7, I want to say,
on total on Heaven Can Wait.
I have a Heaven Can Wait, Grease Lightning,
and Cancer Battling Dank.
They're three different lines that I created
using the ACDC female.
Across to the three males that I,
self the males,
on the 14 hash plant that comes from
Hayes Man's release in, I believe, early 2012,
when I picked those up.
This is when the stock, what it came out of.
So, for me, I was doing that breeding with that same female,
three males, to find out if she was able to pass homogeneously
those traits for high CBD.
I didn't care about terpene profiles or anything like that.
I wanted to be able to use her and other crosses or to pass
to other breeders who were looking for females that they knew
were going to pass those specific traits.
And the two that I found in my breeding were Harlequin and
ACDC. And Harlequin didn't breed one to ones as easily, but
it offered CBD and all the crosses that I did find tested.
But the ACDC female, she passed CBD and had the ability
to offer double digits on those.
And I even had a very high terpene on the Heaven Can Wait.
She came back at almost 6% terpenes.
So, she was a double digit CBD THC line for one, I believe
it was 11% CBD and 12% THC.
And then the terpenes were at just under 6%.
It's like 5.7.
Thanks for clarifying.
That's really good news.
I appreciate it.
Yeah.
I also think this is an area where there's a lot of potential
for breeding because we've done mass recurrent selection for
cannabis or for THC in particular in the quote-unquote drug
market for, you know, the last 40-50 years.
And that intensive selection, directional selection specifically
for THC has made it so that a lot of these other cannabinoid
profiles are simply underdeveloped in terms of breeding and
taking the germplasm, selecting for it, breeding it in.
One of the nice things about these traits is that the fact
that you can, like we've identified and isolated a number
of different cultivars that are high CBD, mixed CBD varieties
and taking those and bringing those alleles back into the
population and then intensively selecting for them is one of
the ways that we're going to be able to start developing the
germplasm so that both cannabinoid profiles in terms of high
CBD and high THC varieties have been equally developed in terms
of their agronomic and their overall, you know, their optimal
output abilities.
And I think that once we get to the point where we've really
developed the germplasm on both sides and then start mixing
them together, we're going to get a lot much better ability
to target and isolate specific cannabinoid profiles.
And I mean, largely, you know, we can point to the work of
David Watson, Robert Clark, Hortifarm and what they've done
and Eddie and D. Mehar have done with the lines that they've been
breeding that have gone into the pharmaceutical pipeline.
Like they've done a lot of this kind of work of really intensively
inbreeding lines and then hybridizing those lines for particular
cannabinoid profile and like, you know, pharmaceutical applications.
So I think there is some evidence there for, you know, if you were
to go down the line of really like inbreeding some of these lines
and then doing the crosses to get the one-to-one, you may find that
you have better predictability in the offspring.
And Evian, welcome to the stage.
I may have butchered your name, but go for it.
Hi, it's Evian and I just want to make sure you guys can hear me.
Okay, my reception is not fantastic.
Can you guys hear me?
Yeah, crystal clear.
Yes.
Awesome.
Well, it's so nice to hear Trevor back in the circuits.
I've really been enjoying your, you know, your re-emergence with
all these really intellectual articles and all the information
you've been sharing is like invaluable.
So really just like mad props, mad respect and it's great to have
Mojave here.
I guess my question kind of ties into where you guys are focused
on right now in the conversation and your last answer, Trevor.
I have a huge passion for mixed ratio cultivars and like that.
We've found that the market just is not fully mature for those.
So it's like holding genetics at this point has been part of the
idea like trying to develop other terpene profiles within the
mixed ratio category.
I guess my question kind of ties to that.
I'm loving what you're saying Trevor about like the future of
this breeding piece.
And I guess my question for you or Mojave or anybody else up here
would be where you see the future of breeding going?
Like what are the trends that you guys foresee in the next couple
years?
And you know, what is the future hold right now?
Because I feel like we're kind of in a very interesting place,
especially with all like the over hybridization of all of the
exotics and just kind of like lack of diversity as far as like
and also like how it actually ties back to sales because that's
what I'm seeing is like the market trends definitely want specific
things and it's like the maturation of the market hasn't fully
happened to even be exception of all these things.
That's why we've actually been running less and less one to ones
over the past three years and just holding the genetics.
So I'm curious your thoughts on the future.
Thank you.
And that is a really great question.
Unfortunately, it seems well, I don't know.
It's one of those times where we're really in like a unique period
in history where we get to see a lot of incredible stuff happening
and people really advancing the plant.
But then we're also seeing market trends that are not necessarily
advantageous or certainly not beneficial to
cannabis germplasm as it were.
And so that's one of those things where a lot of us are having to
you know, maintain and preserve things even though there's not
necessarily a market value attached to them right now, but it's
both from just a cannabis germplasm genetic standpoint and from
hopefully a future sort of like long-term perspective.
There will be a lot of value in these mixed ratios and mixed
chemotypes.
Once we start to get better market education and moving away from
singular focus on THC numbers.
That's really one of the high THC is driving so much of market
decisions.
I've talked to some different large operators who have wanted
to develop breeding programs to develop in-house cultivars and
that they only want to produce 30% or more THC and all of their
cultivars.
So it's a bit of a problem.
Yeah, I love that answer because that's kind of what I'm seeing
too.
It's like no matter what you're growing and you know, we tried
for a long time to hold genetics on both the hemp side and the
recreational side like a lot of the genetic library like up to
a hundred and twenty in the type one and a hundred and twenty in
the type two like or type three and then some in the type two,
but I feel like at this point, you know, we had to really call
back the population because without like viable long-term
storage solutions like, you know, even getting like long-term
storage in TC is not readily available, especially here in Oregon
and you know, I'm hoping that the technology really catches up
here at some point, but I feel like you know, it's kind of it's
very unfortunate to me because I feel like the vast majority of
new users of cannabis would actually, you know benefit so much
from more of like the unicorns and the mixed ratios and you know,
I'm really hoping that we're going to end up, you know, the place
for these things, but I guess it's up to us to educate people
is kind of been my kind of current conclusion.
So I'd be curious to like the trends with beyond the high THC
like if there are other trends because right now it seems like
everybody's still in that they want purple and gassy or they
want like these dessert cultivars and there's not really a whole
lot of room for the freaks or the unusual things.
So I'm just curious if you guys, you know, it's like holding
genetics is also a very, you know, it's like labor-intensive
and time-consuming.
So there's that piece too.
I think that a lot of us kind of get grouped into the same
boat where just because the general public wants production
plants, you know, at most people want eight-week flowering
times or it doesn't make it into commercial settings.
And unfortunately, a lot of people don't like the longer flowering
time. So I find that the stuff that I do at my house for my
medical grows tend to be my extremely rare pieces that don't
do well in commercial settings because they might not have
the profile that is needed for to have commercial viability.
And I feel that's important to breed things not just because
the general public wants it, but for preservation purposes.
And I think that unfortunately, there is that fine line between
what we have to do as growers and breeders to be able to pay
the bills versus being able to grow a plant because we specifically
love all aspects of it.
Some of my favorite plants are going to be things that test,
you know, under 10% THC, but you know, it's not something that
is commercially viable at all.
But at the same time, it has a special connection with me and
the people that I have the ability to give it to.
But hey, hey everyone, Rufus Mojave here.
Great, great to be here.
I'm sorry.
I can't even chime in earlier.
I've actually just jumped in just to listen more because I
enjoy the topic.
But I think to your point, was that Chase talking?
I think that the general public actually hasn't had the opportunity
to sample your likely amazing 9% THC varieties or all the
one-to-ones that Evian's talking about because the brands and the
distros and the dispensaries are all kind of, you know, targeted
on a different product, which is high THC cannabis because it's
a value because of the inflated cost of cannabis as a commodity.
But I really do think that in order that future brands and future
consumers will really learn to appreciate these varieties that
farmers, you know, people, growers out there, they've had the most
opportunity to sample all the different potential that cannabis
has to offer in terms of its complexity of chemistry and the
general public hasn't.
And I really feel like the farmers and the growers and the community
that's been more, you know, in touch with the plant for decades
actually know that these varieties have a huge value.
That's why they keep them around at great expense is because they
know that if they were appreciated, you know, if the commercial
cannabis market would embrace 12-14 week cannabis the way it did
10-20 years ago that the consumer would react with their dollar
and they would see that and then we would start, we would say,
oh, well, these are the these are the cannabinoid and aromatic
profiles that consumers like for various reasons and then we turn
the dial towards breeding and we start to improve on those varieties
to make them more friendly agronomically viable, but really
first and foremost is the consumer has to have a chance to experience
all the cannabis has to offer and I feel like they're not as much
now, for instance in California as they we were under Prop 215
when there was a lot more, you know, there was thousands of small
farms and there was just a lot of diversity in the cultivars that
were being grown then.
So I think that, you know, we have to hold on to those varieties.
And then inform the consumer and just like other products, you know,
there's high end, middle and low and once people realize that
you can only get an effect from this 14-week variety, they'll pay
for it and it might be a small portion of the market, you know,
and just like with breeding, it's always going to be about
about efficiency for the grower, you know, and that's where our
real, you know, the real shakeup is going to happen is when the
real larger scale farm operations get in on cannabis and
cannabis becomes a multinational commodity, then there's going
to be huge breeding efforts towards efficiency for regional selections
and all that stuff.
And if we don't determine what the material they're working with
is now, then we'll lose a lot of the diversity just like has happened
with other agricultural products where they just, it gets thinned
out. But I really think the value is in the diversity and but we've
got to connect to the consumer with the right marketing approach
in order to develop those varieties.
I would love to touch base here a little bit.
Thank you guys.
Thank you Pietro for calling me up and Trevor, Mojave, you guys are
killing it. Evian, I absolutely love what you say this conversation.
I had a question earlier, which is why I raised my hand, but you
guys have me just geeking out over here, excited as can be because
I talk about one-to-ones a lot and it's something that I wish I knew
where everybody on this platform right now is located in so that I
could kind of address a little bit differently my point, but I was
going to say I really think the more developed markets, I'm like
Las Vegas.
Las Vegas.
I've been working with the Las Vegas market since 2015 when we passed
medical and now this market in Las Vegas is a tourism market.
It's a market that they love their 30 plus percent.
We just got cookies in here.
Berner went and bought out everything in town, percent and above so
nobody could even come in when he came in and just kind of nasty,
you know, they shop on the typical shopping based off.
It's not based off price.
It's based off, you know, the menu and pick and highest THC's down is
what's popular obviously because we're a consumption on party level
kind of visitor tourism area.
So we've definitely honed that market, but I will say just as an example
of Las Vegas because I pay attention and operate out of Washington,
Oregon, California, Texas, Florida, New York, Puerto Rico, and many
other countries abroad.
I will say that even in Las Vegas, I had a senator pull me aside at a
campaign event two years ago and had a grower then who could not
consider.
I believe his issue was he couldn't find a consistent one-to-one that
would grow for him one-to-one for all of his processing of it or all
of his growing of it.
I wish I would have paid more attention at the time, but I've been
Working with a lot of growers out here that they that's what they want
now.
And honestly, if you guys have a consistent one-to-one send me send me
a message and I'll forward it on to some people here in Las Vegas
because ultimately the people who are shining loud and bright right
now, if you look up a company and I don't work with them, I just love
what they do.
Green life productions their GLP out of outside of Las Vegas here in
Pahrump.
They have a indoor facility that I think they're on their 25th round
of indoor.
No till living soil and they have recently started doing the freak
show genetics that they're publicizing and doing some cool weird
different stuff.
It's in a developed market like Las Vegas right now.
That's what the market really wants is a one-to-one medical is struggling.
We know we need more medicine and we don't need to keep getting higher
and higher because hello.
I mean we were what six seven percent back in the 90s.
We don't have that available entry-level consumption on the market
with all the I mean we do but it's not so readily available that the
canna curious consumer can shop readily in any dispensary and get what
they're looking for without just getting slammed to the ground.
I mean we used to work with a lot of patients one-on-one and we did we
had a practice in Nevada back when medical happened and we had patients
who were 71 years old who would fight with us for three or four years
saying that cannabis was never for them and they walk into a dispensary
tell them it's their first time consuming and have some pardon my
downgrade here but some bimbo bud tender who used to work in a strip
club or as a cocktail waitress trying to sell the highest you know,
all this will be good for you because this is what I was told and then
having a 71 year old patient his first time consuming going home with
concentrates and wanting to kill us because we told him that cannabis
would be for him and didn't steer him.
You know, obviously now we have better protocols in line of hey, make
sure you know what you're getting but just that you know, it was trial
and error figuring it out and we're still even though that was six seven
years ago for me.
We're still dealing with those problems today and that is going to be
the experience for probably 90% of the consumers that go out there
uneducated about this and so honestly as breeders and as growers
cultivators, I think it's our social responsibility to really put out
good one-to-one products and especially I know I'm even pushing I would
Prefer to see good four to one five to one twenty to one and in
dispensaries and if we I mean I know when we talk about it at the hemp
roundtable and with the HIA in places.
I know ultimately they want to get majority of cannabinoids into
dispensaries and it would make sense.
I think we should get to that route with things like D8 D10 and whatnot,
but I also I would love to see hemp in the dispensaries more prevalently
in access form for education purposes and teaching people that hey, if
we have a twenty to one and then all these over 30% let's sell you a
grinder and teach you how to mix and actually make things for yourself
so that your medicine is the medicine you need instead of just what I
mean, I'm not going to say there's not a need for 30 plus percent out
there because there are consumers who you know still need 800 milligrams
to get high these days, but there is definitely a lot more of the market
that needs to be educated by us doing a good example.
So I appreciate you guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I love this conversation.
Definitely.
If anybody wants to continue this one offline message me.
I'd love to hear more from you guys that are developing this out in other
states than where I am and if you want to bring stuff to Nevada, please
do I am going to leave you with the question that I had if you guys if
anybody wants to answer it is anybody in the room in New Mexico and
taking advantage of the 5% breeders license on the hemp side of it.
I'd be curious if anybody here has a and New Mexico Department of
Agriculture approved 5% breeders license because I think that's really
where this would this would really fit in very well there as well.
But anyway, thank you.
That's all I have for you guys and I appreciate you giving me so much
time.
Thank you.
I'm going to sit back and continue geeking out listening to you guys.
Thank you.
And I'm trying to master bringing people on the stage.
I'll just jump in and say I would love to talk to you.
I'm not sure how to pronounce your name, but I have a huge passion for
one-to-ones and our farm has won like best one-to-one at the cultivation
classic three times and we just have a huge belief in it.
And I think as far as for extraction goes you can have like we've had
amazing results something that's consistently been testing at 1111 for
like five years now and anything that's like processed from it matches
it like becomes like 33% THC 33% CBD and 33% turps and I think that the
future is really really important.
I'm super happy to hear the conversation and at some point later, I'd love
to hear Mojave and Trevor's and any of the other breeders up here opinion
on like the quicks and the breeding in of River Alice because this year I
know that I was erring on the side of a lot of early girl stuff and I kind
of think it's part of the future of what's happening here.
I just haven't I'm still waiting for I've had good results from some
things but they don't seem to test as well is been my observation, but
I'm really, you know, kind of real curious about the quicks and looking
into that because we've been also playing with breeding the auto flowers
for the past few years and it's definitely like a whole other animal.
So be curious.
That's funny in the YouTube chat.
There's a lot of chatter around autos just in sequential order Adam and
then Rick.
Go for it Adam.
Hey, hey, I was a great conversation.
I love the type to talk.
I think it's huge and I'm so glad to hear that you guys are excited about
it and focused on it and understanding the value there.
So the question I had for the folks on the panel is like because we've
seen weird things like leaky synthase genes where you know, you have
people that are breeding for hemp and essentially being able to see
that there is no THC a synthase and then still ending up with above
that point 3 when you do a total THC test if you let it go to fully
mature.
So do you like do you see the value of like genetic assessment and
marker breeding and stuff in the whole process or or you know, does
that have a place along with the more kind of intuitive mixed with
science?
Yeah, I'd love to hear thoughts about that.
Thank you.
I definitely think that there's a place for marker assisted breeding
and that it's one of those things where we have a really diverse plant
with really incredibly plastic ability or incredible plasticity and
the ability to adapt and change and so while we haven't fully clarified
and resolved every specific gene synthase we have nevertheless got
some tools in terms of breeding up breeding processes and I know
medicinal genomics and Oregon CBD work together to develop a set of
markers that can help you know with breeding processes that are very
cannabinoid specific that said it's never going to be a replacement
for actually doing the you know, the proof of concept that's required
particularly when you're in the hemp space and you have to deal with
the .3 cut off.
I mean, you know here in New Mexico is allowing people to move up to
5% THC that would be I assume that's what that count percentages that
offers a little bit more flexibility and I know that in the university
system here in California if you have a hemp breeding or in the hemp
breeding program here in California, you are able to go a little bit
over the 3% threshold but or .3% threshold, but that's something
that the more work that gets done with genomics the more saliency and
clarity we're going to have there and those two are essentially going
to you know, the combination of data sets be it from the testing and
analyzing the actual end products and demonstrating that you're at X
percentage of cannabinoids and then also pairing that data set to
genomic markers on the scale like, you know, there have been studies
and these studies are all relatively limited and I believe Dr.
I'm blank on her name right now, but she was on last week and she
talked about how there's still not even a complete reference genome
for the plant and that we're still like working on a lot of these very
specific synthase
gene architecture and so that's something that we still have more work
to do but it's not it's an adaptive system that's going to build on
itself essentially the more information in both in terms of phenotypic
data and genotypic data the better resilience or saliency we're going
to get in the overall data sets.
I will say go ahead Jason.
I was going to say that when we start getting people to realize at
the legislative level we need to bump up those percentages and allow
that threshold to be somewhat more flexible just because there's a lot
of cultivars that if they're not harvested within a certain amount of
time they will always go over and I know that that is a problem across
the board so I think that it boils down to also having more resources
allocated to being able to go into the R&D side at the collegiate level
to say hey, you know, these numbers aren't really conducive to the overall
success of this particular plant because you know, how much stuff are
we, you know, leaving on the table because of these thresholds that we're
going over.
I will say working for the University of Nevada and actually in really
closely with our governor, multiple senators, the king of cannabis here,
the county commissioners, even with the bill that I had in approved
pretty easily this year here in Nevada.
I've been working very closely with the Department of Agriculture in
Nevada and they divert all of their growing questions and all their growers
and licensed farmers to us and to my office.
I'm still at a .3 in Nevada and if I now according to the newest
legislation, they were going to there was talks of a .5 which never
ended up in the printed versions and it was a closed-door conversation
that obviously was decided upon without any public input being taken
seriously on it.
We are now at a point in Nevada where if with any hemp license, if you test
over .3 in three tests, you lose your license and that applies even to
my university.
And that's I just want you guys to know I don't mean that like down
you know, bring down the room in any way, but we're still there and I hate
that we're still there.
But that's the conversations that as much as I can when I have the floor
in conferences and I get to speak.
I mean, I'm having these conversations state by state to the growers and
to new states that you know to all the you know, when we get everybody
together with like the Department of Ag and all the schools and all the
different heads of the different regions.
I try to make this conversation very well known and I continue trying to
uplift the New Mexico 5% breeding license because I think it's it's
crucial while we're in this preliminary phase and if we can replicate that
in some way, New Mexico did set that precedent and I encourage anybody
in their own home states to bring something like that to their local,
you know, your your city councilman and your local representatives there.
They don't let I got to explain it this way.
They're never going to love cannabis because it's going to even if they're
consumers themselves.
It's always going to be more popular than a politician can ever be himself.
So even if they love it, they're just loving it because it's the popular
vote. But so you bring them a cannabis conversation and you talk to them
about these breeding licenses and if there's already precedence set in
another state and you can bring that forth to them and they see the revenue
circuit coming from it.
I think we can definitely push this idea forward and continue at least on
some sort of time frame.
Maybe you know new growers get this license for five years or something or
a state gets this license for the first 10 years of that state being legal
or something like that, you know, I'd be willing to set parameters on it
in that way as well.
I think that we can definitely our vote should be our voice should be a
little bit louder on this because I think it's definitely important.
Awesome.
Absolutely everything that everybody saying it's my understanding that
the federal law allows for a breeder's license that as long as you can show
you have, you know a plan as far as how you're going to accomplish getting
down to below 0.3.
Is that is that a misunderstanding on my part Trevor or anybody else?
Do you know or Evian?
I personally haven't looked at the actual legislation just because I don't
really work in the hemp quote-unquote space, but I do know that from people
that I've talked to here in the state that do have hemp breeding licenses
locally administered through the state which I assume has to be authorized
federally as well are able to work with material that exceeds the 0.3% level,
but the issue that I was mentioning it in was more for the cultivator because
it's one of those things where when we have people breeding and Nom de Foums
talked about this about how a lot of people have been breeding and thinking
that they're breeding varieties that are quote-unquote hemp, but they're up
in the teens in terms of CBD percentages and a lot of times those varieties like
has been mentioned when they're allowed to go to full maturation exceed the
0.3 threshold even though you know, they've been bred and worked in theory
to be lower than the cutoff.
So that's one of the things where it really would be beneficial for the federal
government to ease up on their restrictions for hemp cultivators so that
they're not losing crops or having issues when they're getting hot test results.
I yeah, I want to just chime in that I've been working on both sides of the fence.
So I've been touching plants for 18 years, but I've been working in the adult
use regulated market in Oregon for the past six years and I've been heavily
involved in the hemp market and hemp breeding and I've run a very large scale
hemp nursery like we've run.
I think I've run over 7 million seeds over the past few years and we've done a
lot of breeding and so I've worked with tons of other breeders in that space and
I've lobbied really hard because it's actually a state by state the regulations.
So the farm bill basically requires that every state has a different plan.
So they're like their plan is going to be different and the reason that we stopped
breeding even though we have like all of this heavy-duty, you know breeding
equipment and we know we've done all the things we've worked with medicinal
genomics.
We've done all the stuff is I personally believe and part of the reason I've
really fought for lobbying is that it's been misclassified like Trevor's kind
of pointing to is that I think that type 3 plants are not point zero three total
THC.
I think that I forget the name of the white paper, but you know, it's basically
like an arbitrary number that's pulled out of some like 1960s science that is
not accurate or up to date and that what we've been breeding and you notice
working with all these breeding programs and for years we were calling things and
trying to get things, you know, the CBD numbers up whereas it's it's just not
accurate, you know, non detect maybe comes up in some of the other cannabinoid
profiles, but definitely not so much.
It's really hard to breed hemp that at full completion of flower is under point
zero three total THC and I think that's part of why you know, we're kind of in a
we're in a weird place, but I think that's why you know compliance is why hemp
production in Oregon has like a dropped dramatically and there's also a whole
bunch of other issues with what's going on here in the state and the hemp
program that I won't really go into but it's it's you know, it's made national
news.
So I think that you know breeding with hemp is tricky and at this point, you
know without using CRISPR machines or something.
I'm really uncertain that you can, you know accurately get it under point zero.
There's a lot of issues in the hemp community and I'm super excited for the
innovation to like I would be I was actually wanting to hear maybe some of
the breeders on the panels thoughts on the triploid situation and if they see a
place for that in you know, commercial cultivation because we've had so many
issues with seeds in certain states with since hemp especially, you know has been
coming through so I'd be curious there but I think the plant has been
misclassified and we need scientific data sets to back us up and we've been
working on that with the ethical data Alliance for like two years to try and
you know showcase this stuff because it's like it's all wrong basically.
So this is Evie and I'm complete.
Big facts.
Yeah, all of that is really great work and like great great insights.
Thank you for for sharing all of that.
And also I agree that a lot of this is based on outdated science and also
misapplication of outdated science.
The testing is not supposed to be done the way that it's done.
It also comes from there's some standards and it comes from the EU and
the way that it's done here is not the way that it's supposed to be done.
Abroad and so yeah, there are lots of lots of problems with America's
application of the testing regime.
If I were to make an assumption or just a general observation, I think we're
just in a stronghold right now between
the truth of the plant and whether people can get up and speak enough and
come together enough to have a conversation to change legislation that
the farm bill should have been at 1% rather than 0.3 and whether or not we
have that conversation before Monsanto, Cagrill, whoever gets a 0.3% certified
seed and hits the ground running with that commercially.
I think that's the I think that's where the industry we were kind of in a
chokehold right now if I were to
put in my two cents.
Well, if you look at where the lobbying money came against it's like coming
from pharmaceutical companies to keep that 0.3 number.
So yeah, there's a lot of you know, there's a lot of data that you can look
into.
Yeah, I think that hemp I think it's all I think that I really Trevor I'd be
curious your and also like all the other breeders like your perceptions on
like how we are classifying the types of cannabis and because I've been told
that really what we're growing, you know, I think Trevor you pointed to
this also we're not growing type 3 plants as hemp.
We're actually growing type 1 plants that have been bred to act like type 3
plants.
So I'd be curious your perceptions there also and like the oh, yay, Ryan.
Yes.
I tried to ping Ryan cool.
Awesome.
Yay.
Okay.
No, you're you're totally on point there that
The big sort of like change in the last 20 years or even less in hemp
agronomy is the fact that we've taken drug cannabis varieties and bred them
to kind fit the square peg of hemp regulations.
And yeah, we're seeing how that square peg doesn't actually fit that well.
And so yeah, everything you've said is on point.
And I also I would like to circle back with the discussion on, you know, the
work that's been done with the triploids and Oregon CBD with that type of
breeding scheme and trying to address some of the seed issues, but we'll
come back to that.
Ryan's jumped on welcome Ryan for everybody who doesn't know Ryan is
chimera chimera is a long time breeder and has done a lot of work in this
area and he seems to have just disappeared from my screen.
But anyway, he he's on here and it'll be great to hear some of his his
opinion particularly about mixed type cannabinoid breeding cannabinoid
Breeding for the peanut gallery and also
breeding for specific terpenes because he has a lot of experience in this area.
I think he fell back to the audience.
Oh, there is okay.
I think I got out of jail.
How are you guys?
Sorry, I'm in the conversation.
So I kind of don't really know where we're at.
I heard
Was it was a version?
Sorry, my eyes.
I don't my contacts in so yes.
Yes.
What we say about type one plants that behave like type three plants.
Oh, that was Abby.
Oh, I'm sorry.
That was I was just I didn't understand what that was the first thing I heard
and I didn't understand what you meant.
I I interpreted it but all I
thought that she was talking about the way that we've got drug cannabinoid
essentially drug varieties that have been bred towards CBD hemp varieties.
And so what you see across in most of the hemp production in the States is
production for CBD concentrate and that's how I interpreted it, but I could
be wrong.
How high the cannabinoid varieties that are most people are growing down
there right now.
I mean, is it really like what's available in the marketplace from an
American perspective in the hemp scene?
A lot of the demand asks for at least 11 to 12 percent and over.
And the THC amount like what does that work at?
On the CBD but then keeping it under the 0.3.
Well, it's got to be 0.3.
Okay, cool.
Yeah, of course.
Everybody wants a tea free right now.
Yeah, which is very difficult.
Yeah, there's I think there's actually a patent.
I think the guys from Anandia have a patent on something related to like
was it was it post-trans, you know, post-translational genes gene silencing.
They've got a technique where they essentially infect the plant with a
virus that makes a an RNA that can shut down, you know, these issues in the
plant.
Essentially it binds to the THC gene that's being made when DNA is
transcribed.
It goes to like a three-step process before it makes the enzyme starts
its DNA and then it goes to RNA.
So we're GMOing our cannabis now.
No, no, that's not GMO.
Well, I guess yeah, I guess it is GMO in a way.
Depends what you call GMO.
It's biotechnology.
That's for sure.
And do you see that as being the likely solution or direction that most
large-scale agronomic industrial sort of hemp production goes in terms of
trying to address?
Because one of the questions Adam had asked, how effective is marker-assisted
breeding when we have a leaky synthase genes?
Exactly.
That's the problem.
Yeah.
You got the leaky synthase genes.
Essentially, some of the cannabinoid genes are very, very close structurally.
If you look at the molecules side by side, you can see that they're quite,
you know, they're really quite similar.
They have the same number of, you know, hydrogen carbons and everything.
So yeah, the enzymes that make one version of the molecule, like they kind
of spit out, a lot of them spit out a ratio of CBD to THC.
So there's always a little bit, right?
And I think the real question there is not can we change that in the plant
because you don't need to.
But is to have proper regulations that aren't stupid, right?
And Switzerland has a 1% limit.
And really, like, I mean, if you go back to the oldest studies when they were
looking at like the 70s schwag hemp, I think one of the University of
Mississippi papers came out and said if it's like around 1% or under, it's
like not, you can't even really get high off of it.
So what's the point, right?
Why do we have to have a regulation around 0.3 when we've essentially
were legalizing cannabis in all these districts around the world?
It really doesn't make any sense to keep those rules because it's not
a threat to anybody, right?
Like there's acres of this stuff growing in Kentucky or wherever else
all in the Midwest.
Ultimately, I think we're, and I'll, I sing this song in unison with
Larry Smart from Cornell, if you guys know him in the hemp world.
We've been talking about it for years in places like the American Society
of Horticultural Scientists circles and places that, you know, not even
the cannabis world, but going through into the agricultural world and
horticultural world, really what we need to get to, and I say it often
on stage as, you know, I try to just call out the industry and I say
stop raping the plant.
We're needing to get to a dual, triple, quadruple purpose crop kind of
CBD plant that then has that consistent under 0.3 or if we hopefully
get to 1% where we can just top the plants and then figure out how to
process the rest of the plant instead of doing this kind of injustice
that we're doing by just, you know, desecrating it from the neck down
and not really having a purpose for, I mean, roots, for example,
I mean, it's just, it's sad.
It's sad that we're not giving them the truest, that the rest of the
parts of the plant have such a purpose to them that we're not actually
processing at full capacity for the hemp industry.
We're just raping it for the cannabinoids right now.
And I think that'll even out as I, I want to say it's going to even out
quickly and then we got to a little bit of a shortage this croptober.
I know that we're a little bit short on how much hemp is actually being
harvested.
So I think we're going to actually drive some of that demand back up,
but I was hoping that we were just going to get flooded again with more
CBD so that people would get out of that market of the industry a little
bit more and actually focus on the industrial aspects of the agricultural
practices that are more sustainable and long-term functional.
I mean, I'm loving it when I'm seeing a hemp farm go up and we're actually
using pivot and, you know, regular practices for farming rather than
trying to reinvent the wheel.
And I don't know.
I think the dual, triple, quadruple purpose crops are really going to
help drive what that cannabinoid profile looks like is going to be
determined by those varieties that we come up with that have strong, that
are strong contenders in the ancillary aspect, not just the CBD side.
Amen.
And I think it's important to note that like, just like synthetic
cannabinoids, the only reason people are trying to breed for below 0.3
is because of laws, you know, synthetic cannabinoids wouldn't exist.
Otherwise, we wouldn't be fighting nature on this level if it weren't
for these silly laws.
So I think we could keep coming back to that.
Yeah, no, I think that really is a great point and that the idea that
we're going to force the plant to conform to a completely arbitrary set
of regulations that are being misapplied is definitely something, and
I say misapplied on a like scientific level, that that's something that
needs to be fixed, not just, you know, forcing everybody to adapt to
what is obviously a capricious system.
I speak very loudly against synthetic cannabinoids and I actually got to
advise the business licensing department here in Nevada for the SB 49,
which was the synthetic cannabinoids law that passed here, where Nevada
does not allow synthetic cannabinoids.
They wanted to make Delta-8 illegal.
I go, okay, let's have that conversation.
Do you really want to make a cannabinoid illegal or do we want to talk
about the processing?
However, I'm also, I was one of the biggest haters on CBD isolate when
we first came out with it.
I said, you know, you can't take one part of the plant and end up
expecting humans to, you know, we're making pharmaceutical drugs at
that point in time.
You're no longer dealing with plant therapy.
And so I made that argument very loud.
But then again, at the same time, I am a huge supporter of CBD isolate
because we have federal employees who can't test positive for THC at
all. And I've got veterans that are getting kicked out of the VA for
using CBD topicals, things like that, that we still are overcoming
those issues.
And guess what?
I supply 18,000 C stores with Delta-8.
Why? Because the legislation does not give people relief in those
areas. And if I'm going to be able to make a noise about that until
you change the legislation so they can have relief, do not take relief
away from the people and do not take this plan away from the people
if you said it's legal.
Hey Ryan, I got to go and since you're up here, I wanted to ask a
terpene reading question if I may take this discussion take on a left
turn. I've noticed some terpenes expression and I'm curious if I'll
just say terpenylene for one.
Is there a reason that that seemed to dominate certain gene expression
and if so, why? Yeah, I mean it's heritage really.
I don't think we know why.
I mean, why did a plant start making a specific chemical?
You know, I'm not too too sure. Terpenes are, you know, they're also
like cannabinoids that like they're at least, you know, we said with
THC and CBD earlier that the same number of like atoms, right?
The same number of like hydrogens and carbons and oxygens. Terpenes
also have, well, there's really two classes, monoterpenes and
sesquiterpenes. And like the monoterpene, this is where we get into
what's a monoterpene and what's a terpenoid, right? Like some of
these things are, they might have an extra oxygen molecule on them.
So that wouldn't be a terpene specifically, it would be a terpenoid
like a terpene-like molecule, but they're really all biosynthesized
from the same part.
So they're just rearrangements of the same like number of, you know,
like I said, carbons and hydrogens.
So that probably just evolved as a mistake in an enzyme, you know,
that's kind of the way like evolution happens, at least if you
believe in evolution.
You know, there's like, like we were talking before, just DNA
multiplies and changes. There's like replication errors that happen
kind of in most species, or almost all species, I think. And that,
you know, sometimes that breaks genes or changes genes in a way
that like, you know, like we were talking earlier, like you get a
DNA is expressed in the RNA and then that's read and turned into
a bunch of amino acids that make up a protein. That protein is,
it becomes an enzyme or it is an enzyme. Usually that like, you
can kind of think of it like a lock and key in the plants.
And so, you know, we have these enzymes that make THC and CBD and
that's probably how THC evolved, right? Or at least there's some
evidence that that's how the THC acid synthase gene evolved, is that
there was a an enzyme that made CBD acid and just through mutation
that it changed and then it became, you know, valuable to all of
us, or at least most of us, I'm sure.
Yeah, and we selected for it, right? And then that thing started
being expressed more in the environment, or in the plant, because
you know, genomes get shaped by whatever interacts with them.
Like if, you know, you get a plant, it's going to change its shape
to suit the behavior of whatever is propagating it. Or maybe take
advantage of the whatever's propagating it in a way to manipulate
them. So we manipulate Canada's and then in a way it manipulates
us as well, right? Because we're doing its bidding over time as breeders.
I don't know if that answers your question.
Yeah, I mean, I get what you're saying, you know, like I'm just
curious because I see like that Jack Terp or you know, that Haze
kind of terpene lean dominant. Once it kind of gets into a gene
pool, it kind of is there and almost hard to get rid of, you know,
minus like vast, you know, gene pool selection, but it just seems
to dominate, you know, and I'm just curious if anybody sees that or...
It's kind of ass kicking the F1, like it does tend to dominate.
It depends on the, it's not always that way. It depends on what
you hybridize it with, but it does kind of take over in an F1
generation. If you screen an F1 or you make like a self, an F1
plant or cross it to one of the sibling, selfing it's better because
they're only dealing with the two versions of the gene. There's no
possibility that, you know, the sibling inherited a third gene that's
going to confuse things. So if you self an F1 plant, then you get
a like a true F2 expression, which has, you get all your stuff back,
right? Like you get, if you cross it to a beta-caryophyllene plant
in two generations, the beta-caryophyllene come back 25% of the
time. So, but yeah, terpene lean usually comes in and it takes over
the whole, the whole terpene profile, right? It's like most of the
Jack and like train wreck stuff. If you look at it on a graph or even
you can just look at it on a COA, there's way more terpene lean than
almost everything else. But there are a couple of lines where it
expresses co-dominantly with myrcene or, you know, in a, in a, in a
group with a few other terpenes and it's about like equal or half as
much. So yeah, it's kind of either all there or like almost not there.
I would encourage you to harvest your plant and grow it for another
year and then, or another growing season and harvest it again and
try your, test your terpenes then. Yeah. You know, Ryan, you really
made me think about some things cause I've opened up a few lines
and found that it just kind of dominates it and, you know, just
kind of like threw it in the stash for my kids to play with cause I
wasn't interested in it. But, you know, now, now that I think about
it, you know, you're saying that maybe opening up the line in the F2
into a broader selection, I might find a more diverse terpene lean,
or sorry, myrcene, more diverse terpene expression. Probably still
with terpene lean though. Yeah. That's one of the... Going back to what
you were saying earlier about, well, why these things sort of happen.
Hey, hello, this is Matthew Gates. This is me talking for the first
time in this conversation. Thank you. There's a lot of selection pressures
that sort of direct that flow and certainly nowadays that selection
pressure is us, you know, when it comes to cultivation, of course.
But, you know, originally, you know, cannabinoids and terpenes, you know,
often have a signaling effect or of course a resistance or even a
facilitating effect for certain organisms. And when we see, of course,
like when we see plants move out of domestication, you know, if they
escape it in some way, certain things that are super costly to maintain
if they're not really important. And if they mutate or something and
the plant loses that, you know, predilection, then, you know, we see
that, we see it move away from that cultivation phenotype, right?
And so I know, for example, for cannabis, right? You know, cannabinoid
content being very high or terpene content being very high.
You know, you don't see that so much in uncultivated circumstances.
And I suppose depending on who you're talking to, that could be, you know,
that process can happen a few different ways. But ultimately, from an
ecological perspective, it's because it's a very costly thing to maintain
and it might not be as beneficial or even like necessary in the environment
that it's in now.
Yeah, well, it usually comes at the expense of other terps, right?
So I don't know if it's that much of a saving of energy of the plant.
I mean, the plant's either making terpene leaner, it's making a bunch
of other stuff with those same isoprenides, right? Like whatever's
feeding the terpene pathway, it just gets diverted to something else
in terps. And, you know, someone said earlier, like, you should take
cuttings of the plants and grow them the next season. I've done all this
stuff with full lab support and like screening of hundreds of individuals
for both cannabinoids and terpenes. So I definitely have done these
experiments. And, you know, I'm not just pontificating here. What I'm
telling you is based on my experience from doing these things. So, you
know, if you don't like terpene lean, like there's usually within
terpene classes, there's like a family of terps, right? Like, or a family
of similar profiles. But if you don't like the overall class, like you
might want to just stick with the flavor class that you do like, right?
So for me, that's why paying attention to the terps is important,
is because it's kind of like it helps guide you in your perception of
what you like. You know, I got the impression that whoever brought
that question up, so I don't have my, again, my glasses in so I can't
see the names of folks. But yeah, like if you don't like terpene lean
stay away from the terpene lean ones for sure.
No, I understand. And I do. But I just, you know, when it comes to like
skunk and haze and, you know, when that haze gets into the skunk gene
line, you know, it kind of, you know, does some things to it. So that's
kind of where I was curious about it, you know, like pre-haze skunk
and just, you know, ethanol and thiols and stuff like that. And the
difference between like terpene, like what a terpene can do to the
different thiol expressions, which is way over my head. And honestly,
so. Yeah, we're just, there's so much like, some of that stuff is,
you know, pretty new. I don't think that anybody's really done a
super deep dive, at least that's public. I'm sure there's some groups
that have studied a bit. But yeah, there's a whole like, you know,
we've been freaking out on terps for the last 20 or 10 years, depending
how long you got into it. But thinking that they were the whole picture,
but they're not, there's a whole other level of other molecules or
volatile molecules that can come and go in pretty much any terpene
profile. And they're like, you can think of them as scent modifiers,
like they can change the scent of a terpene profile plants or two
plants that have like very similar terpene profiles. They can smell
very different because of these modifying chemicals, right? So.
Yeah. So Ryan, can I ask a follow-up question? Of course. Okay, I got
to go. So I'm going to shoot myself in the foot here and I'm going
to have to take this back and listen to it afterwards because I'm
sure we have enjoyed the response. I've been wondering and kind of,
I'm in a very early point of reading, but do you find that there
is certain terpenes that show a higher dominancy or they show that
individual terpene flavor or that they blend a little bit more?
Like is there an individuals that are stronger in certain ways or
that blend in certain ways? You get what I mean? And also, is there
specific terpenes that if you blend into, they'll just take right
over? And are there ones that blend in well? And how do you, do
you have a methodology and thought process in the way of blending
these terpenes? Can I interrupt you for a second, brother? I'm so
sorry. Someone's blown up my phone with messages and it's just ding, ding,
dinging and I've missed most of your question. Can I get you to
just kind of get to the start again? I'm really sorry, man. No
problem. My question is like, is there a dominancy shown in terpenes
as a genetic disposition or is it like heritage-wise? So like, you
know, just for example, I'm just going to throw stuff up. Is you
have a strawberry strain. Will that strawberry flavor if produced
in a different plant be dominant of a terpene? Or is it, is that
terpenes dominant dependent, dominance dependent a little bit
more on the genetics? And do we see a variety there if that get
pigmented to another room? So I hope that, does that sound make
sense? Yeah, yeah, for sure. Yeah. I mean the terps, so again,
there's like, there's the terps, then there's these other
modifying compounds and they often add some of the fruit flavors
because these same compounds are found in a whole bunch of other
fruits. So, you know, playing with those things and breeding them
into different lines has different effects depending on what, which
terpene line it goes into, right? So yeah, I'm not sure if that
kind of, if that answers the question or not. Mersene is the
most prominent terpene. Mersene is what's found in like, if you
look at natural cannabis, like the majority of natural cannabis or
hemp, for example, it's pretty much all mersene dominant, right?
So that, you know, if it's not the natural state, it's certainly
what the early humans liked to produce. And yeah, it's, it's,
again, it behaves differently depending on what you're crossing
it with. And there's even different, I think there's different
variants of it that cross differently as well. So, you know, it's
kind of like you have to play with what you have to see and
combine them to see which way it comes out. But, you know, usually
those types of experiments, again, it's not just one generation
you cross it and you understand what's going on, because there
is this dominance, like recessive relationship between, rather
than thinking of it like, you know, the way I kind of thought
of them is like a terpene cassette, like, you can think of
as like a playing card, like you can kind of trade one for
the other, but you can't have both at a given location, right?
And so the terpene profile, it's not just, you're not just breeding
individual terpenes in and out of a profile, like they kind
of all come as a group together. And then that type is like
a heritable, I think it was that type is like a heritable
trait, like so. You treat it, I treat that as a qual, like,
you know, I know Trevor, you were posting about quantitative
versus qualitative traits, like that's, I treat that as a qualitative
trait because they segregate that way, right? Like if you, if
you cross terpene-lean dominance into like an OG type, you know,
well, maybe not an OG type is a good example, but, you know,
for example, limonene, if you cross limonene to terpene-lean,
limonene is gone for a generation in most, in most lines, not
always, but in the vast majority of lines. And, but if you F to
it, you, you know, you self that one of those selected plants
from that generation, usually you get the, well, you can
mean 25%, you get the, the limonene back, right? So, you know,
I think maybe the greater question is, is like, if you don't
like that flavor, what is it about the plant that you're crossing
into the other line for, right? I mean, like for me, when I
cross two plants together, it's not just because I have two
plants together and I want to make seeds, like that's not,
that's seed making, it's not really breeding. What I'm doing,
if I want to choose a pollen, there's either, I'm either
trying to replicate what the mother already has to make the
line true breeding or like more consistent, or you're intentionally
trying to add something else, right? And so I would assume
if you're adding like terpene-lean into it across that you
don't like the flavor of, there must be a good reason you're
dealing with that problem, right? Otherwise you could just grow
something else or not make that cross. And you know, there's
like, it's for sure something I've noticed over the amount
of time I've been studying cannabis, like there's a whole
bunch of people that don't like terpene-lean, right? It's kind
of popular in Holland, but there's a lot of people that find
it makes them kind of squirrely. So, and they're, you know,
it does interact with some chemicals in the brain. So who
knows if there's something to that or not.
Yeah, that terpene really makes me squirrely, but it's curious,
you know, like as somebody likes to play around with genes
and just pop seeds and kind of see where they go, you know,
I'm the terpene, the terpene-lean, you know, I usually see
tests at a high terpene certificate of analysis, you know,
like in threes, fours, fives, I've even seen a six terpene
or terpene-lean or yeah, six terpene analysis with dominant
of terpene-lean. And so I'm just curious and like tried to
see if I cross something with that, if I could bring out
high percentages of terpenes with other terpene, you know,
with other terpenes other than terpene-lean, but that
terpene-lean just seems to stick. So yeah, that's just as
somebody who doesn't like terpene-lean, you know, and somebody
who loves to breed and just kind of play around like, you
know, a home scientist or botanist or whatever, like I like
to play around and see where lines go just because it's
it teaches me a lot, even though I don't like the terpene-lean,
I'm curious to see what's up with that line. So, you know,
like curiosity killed the cat on the price book, but I feel
like I learned a lot fucking with shit that I don't like.
I would get kind of basic with it and do a couple different
plants and feed them a couple different formulas and feed
them stupid simple stuff like mango water and just feed
them a bunch of different terpenes and see what happens.
Yeah, so I'm going to reset the room here and we're going
to really jump into some more of these like deeper breeding
concepts and it's really good to have, you know, Ryan on here.
He's got a level of experience that's kind of unparalleled
and Matthew as well.
I want to properly introduce Matthew to everyone. If people
don't know, Matthew Gates is, I'm sorry.
I'm probably going to butcher your names.
Cinch angle and Cink Angel.
No problem.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So Cink Angle and what's the YouTube? You introduce yourself.
Basically Matthew's brilliant.
He knows an incredible amount of information in a whole host
of different subjects as it relates to integrated pest management,
mycology, etc.
And he's somebody who is a wealth of information and please
give us your details.
So everyone knows.
It's really kind of you to say I appreciate that.
So yeah, so I'm an IPM specialist and I have worked with
just the last 10 years or so and but I've also worked in other
crops too and I'm a very large advocate of sustainable agriculture
and the use of and the understanding of topics like, you know,
gene-based resistance, for example, or one of the topics I really
like to talk about and have been posting a lot about in social
media like Cink Angel on Instagram or my YouTube channel is
Zinthanol where I try to communicate about these subjects of
plant health is sort of the gene-based interactions of the microbiome
for example, and I've made videos about sort of the pest host
relationships and ecology, which is why I was kind of talking
about sort of the broad spectrum.
Why as to how some of these things are kept from an ecological
perspective not necessarily from a more sort of local or proximate
reason, which is actually why I'm really excited to be here
because I'm learning some of that right now.
Dude, your IG is off the hook.
I really love it.
And it's really nice to meet you too.
Like really stoked.
You've got some really really awesome information coming down.
I really appreciate that.
Means a lot coming from you.
Yeah, and Ryan, can you also introduce yourself man?
For anyone who doesn't know Ryan is Chimera.
He was very active on the forums over the years.
He's been breeding and working with cannabis on a very scientific
level for decades.
And so he's a wealth of information as well.
Yeah, I can't like my undergrad was in like neuroscience kind of
thing.
So I did like a lot of biopsychology and molecular genetic stuff
around then and my degree I was already selling seeds and talking
all these forums for years.
And so I switched in and obviously wanted to study like plant breeding
and biotechnology.
So that was kind of my focus for years and then just have kind of
just been kicking out for years since and you know making crosses
and I've been had some lucky opportunities to work with groups
where we had like, you know, analytical labs that were funded
and the ability to grow lots of plants and make crosses at will.
So, yeah, it's an interesting concept that you're talking about.
How do you know how does biology interact with cannabis or how does
cannabis interact with other organisms in the environment sometimes
positively and sometimes to great detriment, right?
So if you know, you look at when I think when they studied the
cannabinoid synthase genes in the trichomes one of the things they
did is they looked at they essentially extracted the RNA right
and looked at what was what genes were turned on and then blasted
that information against a database to see what other genes in other
plants like did those similar things share function with right or
you know genes with high identity.
What did they do in other plants and there was a bunch of stuff
related to plant health like anti, you know antifungal kind of stuff
and antibacterial compounds.
So it makes sense the highest concentration of those glands is
around the seed.
The seed is the most important thing as the future generation.
So it makes sense that the plant has been trying to make chemicals
surrounding the seed to make it bitter or however last against the
environment or the organism to the environment, right?
How do you tease those two things apart the genetics and the chemistry
because they're both there and that's a big hairball, but it would
be a pretty cool thing to figure out.
Yeah, definitely.
And like I was saying earlier like I've been talking a lot lately
about powdery mildew resistance, for example, and I love to bring
up the example of the mildew locus O group of genes, which is
highly conserved in lots of plants and you know the research that
because for a long time we knew that this locus group was important
for powdery mildew susceptibility.
And the question is always kind of bizarrely.
Well, if it's so important and if we take out this gene, if this
gene is in mutants that don't have or rather some of these genes
because it's a group, you know, they're practically immune to the
powdery mildew essentially.
So why would it stay around?
And the reason for this is because it also is really or rather those
groups are really helpful for what they essentially help with is
a mechanical sensation.
So for like pollen tube formation or for our bruscular mycorrhizal
interactions at the roots and of course for powdery mildew interaction
in the epidermal layer.
And so the question, you know, so like that kind of thing I think
is a really great example of how like one or a few genes presence
or absence, you know, very sort of binary here.
It's not of course like this in all cases, but it's a great example
of how like a singular gene or a couple of genes can just totally
change the dynamic of a parasite with its host in this case like
powdery mildew.
But also the same thing happens with a beneficial microbe like
a mycorrhizal organism or some other sort of microbe.
And I feel like that will as the democratization of technology
that allows us to basically evaluate this becomes easier and easier
to come by.
I feel very strongly that that is a an aspect of breeding that
I'm very excited to see people take more advantage of and sort
of understand some of these dynamics with like the microbiome
that they're trying to provide for their plant and how this can
help with like immune system strengthening and making the
cultivated plants.
Well, basically much more viable essentially.
Yeah, that MLO locus thing was pretty awesome.
Seth's group, Oregon CBD, Seth Crawford's group up in Oregon
that was doing the triploids you were talking about earlier,
you referenced earlier.
They've also found resistance gene.
So I think MLO is either susceptible or not susceptible.
It's kind of a loss of function.
I would think that maybe there's some protective element and it's
a loss of function.
I don't actually didn't look into it too deeply, but there's
definitely a marker.
Yeah, a couple of them.
They basically, we're not sure exactly what happens, but essentially
they react to the mechanical stimulation.
They're a GPCR that's in the cell membrane.
And so I guess that sort of reaction, something is happening
there that allows the hyphae to like, or the historium really,
to get into the cell and be successful.
And I guess the absence of that makes that, because it's a
biotroph, so it has to like, I like to say like has to negotiate
with the physiology at a genetic level.
There's this molecular sort of communication going on.
And if those genes that are important for that are not there,
then that communication cannot happen, in a very basic way, at
least. But yeah, there's also like, in fact, I just loaded up
this paper here.
The sequence and annotation of 4-2-cannabis genomes reveals
extensive copy number variation in cannabinoid synthesis and
pathogen resistance genes from Kevin McKernan and others.
And it's just really, you know, other sorts of like resistance
genes and those interactions are a lot more on a spectrum.
But I'm very interested in seeing more of that come about and
seeing, like we were talking about like marker-assisted
breeding, you know, people being able to know like with
much more saliency, do their plants have the
genes necessary and the expression of those genes, of course,
to better resist certain pathogens and certain feeding guilds
centrally? Yeah, I mean, it's, you know, I mean, that MLO
locus or whatever, it's well known in other plants, like you
said. So it's kind of interesting that we've kind of just
arrived in this post-genome sequencing, reference genome
sequencing world where everybody can start looking at all
these pathways that exist in other plants and how they can,
you know, how they can benefit the plant, right? How we can
optimize them. But like you're saying, like, you know, about
the locus, there's different variants of the gene, right?
And then there's this other gene that also influences the
situation, you know, how resistant the plant is to powdery
mildew, and there's also variants of that gene, right?
And so we talked about like where genes are coming from or
like why the plant, you know, cannabis, like, because it's
again, everything comes back to its mating system because
it's an out-crossing plant. It's essentially this big, like,
you know, if you think of cannabis in a field and hemp is
a good way to look at it because that might be on a bigger
scale what the plant looked like when it was growing
in nature, right? It was many individual plants all
pollinating at the same time. So you have every male gets
an opportunity to pollinate every female because the female
plants are have, they have like thousands of flowers on them,
right? Each one of them opportunity for fertilization.
So they're not necessarily just getting fertilized by the
one beside them. Like they also get fertilized because it's
anamophilous, which means when pollinated it gets fertilized
by any plant that's close by. And so that means that you
in nature, at least you don't have a really good selection
pressure against any gene, right? So, you know, if you
think of the genetic spectrum or visual, I mean visual
spectrum is a very good way to look at it because people
understand, you know, you know, skin color, eye color, how
long your nose is, whether you're bald or not, like how tall
you are, like there's all these visual cues that are
essentially references to what happens in your genome.
But if you look at the human species as a whole, we vary
across every identical characteristic that you can identify,
right? From like how big your big toe is to whatever, you
know. And that's because we don't breed in families.
We kind of have this system, well, I guess based on love
more or less with some other adultery and one night stands
probably thrown into the mix. But you know, there's there's
breeding that happens and it's never within a family
because we learned that. I mean, look at the Royals, right?
Throughout history, I've had like serious issues in breeding.
The Spanish line was essentially extinguished at one point
in time because it was so inbred. Humans are not supposed
to inbreed and it's because we are breeding system doesn't,
it has all these flaws throughout the genome. And usually
when you mate with someone else, like the flaw is so rare
that it's not expressed in the child, right? So that's
a really good way to look at cannabis because it's essentially
the exact same kind of breeding system. We're like an obligate
outcrosser, right? Like you have to breed to a plant of
the opposite sex, meaning that you're mixing genes from different
individuals. And that means you don't purge genes, which
means that like every gene in the cannabis genome, like
if you could somehow wrap all the whole pool up together,
you would have unlimited variation in every gene through
which to choose, right? And we have been, right? Which
is why it's kind of shaped the way that it has. But you
know, like you're talking about the MLO gene again, like
we can optimize those different parts of the plant and
try to give them the right versions of the right genes
so that we don't have to do other kind of stupid interventions
like spraying stuff on the plant.
100% agree. Oh, yeah. Well, and then like the other
sort of facet of that on the other side is, you know, the
genomes of the pests, right? Of the herbivores and the
parasites and all these sorts of things. And like for example,
you'd mentioned like, I think you had mentioned or somebody
had mentioned that copy number variation or things like
this, like even asexual organisms or rather groups like
I guess since we're on the powdery mildew topic, of course
powdery mildew can sexually reproduce but it often asexually
reproduces, right? And despite the propensity for that,
they can still get a lot of genome variation because they
have like repeat induced point mutations, which are I
think specific to fungi and you know, it's the production
of proteins that are sort of important for infection like
effector proteins and things like that. And they'll often
just like make more of those and it just kind of, I don't
know, I wouldn't be able to describe to you in detail how
this happens. Just apparently that it happens and it still
is a great factor in adaptation to natural
resistances in plants, but also presumably the resistances
we're talking about breeding for in cannabis. So we'll always
kind of have to, you know, be thinking about that. And so
that's why I advocate for the assessment of these like
insects and fungi and bacteria, no mycetes and viruses and
all these sorts of things. And because those, the replications
that are happening in those organisms, especially since
so many pests of cannabis are not actually specialists
of cannabis, they can like, they can go be somewhere else
and reproduce and have novel mutations or certainly selection
pressures for ones that are already there in their population,
kind of like what happens with chemicals too, or even
biocontrols for that matter. I think that a lot of people
don't realize that depending on the biocontrol we're talking
about and how it happens, behavioral and also genetic
based resistance to pathogens, like what we would use for
biocontrol does happen. Like when people implemented
cryoproteins, like from bacillus, into plants and they express
these cryoproteins which are toxic to things like diamondback
moth. Well, diamondback moth was shown to become highly
resistant in populations where these plants were utilized.
They showed a large uptick in expression for resistance,
like within the first couple of years of the implementation.
So part of it is certainly getting those genes. The other
part is sustaining it and maintaining the resistance in and
of itself. That will be the major game to play.
Ned, did you and I speak the exact same language, but you
think bugs and I think as human as the interacting organism,
right? It's literally the exact same thing because humans
also have variation in their genomes, right? We said it earlier,
they're obligated outcrossers. So they compile this variation
without being able to purge it. And over time, somewhere
in the genome, as humans as a collective, there's a variation
for every gene, right? And so it's the same thing with
cannabis. And we just know maybe a little bit more about
the chemistry and the endo-cannabinoid. Because remember,
it's like the chemistry is essentially a reflection
of the genome, right? Or even like you're talking structural
stuff, like on the way that things interact on the plant,
right? And how those are also representations of the genome.
So you can kind of look like phenotype and chemotype, both
as reflections of what's happening in the genome. So you can
select the genome by looking at the chemistry, or you can
go in and figure out the genes. But I don't think
we've really gotten to that part yet where we understand
what all the genes do and the variants and how to be able
to benefit those. We're starting to, like we're definitely
starting to. I mean, it was, you know, I think it was 2011
that Kevin McKernan sequenced the genome. And the John
Page, I think was early the next year or whatever, was
a little bit more complete one, or at least done a little
bit differently. And yeah, like, it's, you know, we've
got 10 years of work into that whole thing. Wait to see
where we are in 10 more years. It's going to be crazy.
Like, cannabis is going to be, hopefully, like we said,
we'll have at least some resistances built in. But also,
like you said, I mean, we turn up these genes, and we've
seen this in corn and soy and every other plant that we
breed. You turn up the resistance of one thing, and the
organism that it's interacting with finds a way to adapt.
That's what the biological evolutionary arms race is about.
Well, and yeah, absolutely. And sometimes even a resistance
towards one thing, like necessarily, I guess, through how
it develops, right? Or how it is expressed, or how it
occurs, right? So, like, resistance towards one thing, or a
couple of things can necessarily cause a susceptibility
to other things, too. So, it's not like, there's no
free lunches, right? There's an energetic cost to, like,
immune response. And even when we talk about resistance,
and even when we talk about gene-based resistance, that
can be a bunch of different things. Is there a simulation
of the jasmine acid pathway? Is it the production of more,
you know, ROS, right? Is it the production of different
toxins or compounds? Is it the production of different terpenes,
for that matter? You know, it's like, the signals that will
repel one thing will also attract another thing. You know,
it's just that there's this cacophony of interactions.
We, as cultivators and breeders, have to kind of figure out
where we want to focus in a lot of cases. But that
doesn't mean that, I guess, a more refined understanding
of the genome and breeding technique couldn't alleviate
some of these issues. But I'm not a genomicist, so I would
leave that to those folk in order to help out.
Oh, absolutely. I'm not really a genomicist either.
Like, that's not what I do. I can interpret the data, especially
when there's nice tools that are, like, organizing it all
and showing me which genes do. Ain't that the truth.
But, you know, no, listen, like I said before, in a
previous one, I mean, it takes teamwork to make
the dream work. Like, plant breeding, to do it as a team
sport, sure, you can go out and do it blind with one person
looking at a plant and sensing it with their own senses.
And that's really cool. We've made, like, a lot of progress,
you know, throughout time with our relationship with cannabis.
But there's also, you can use science on top of that
skill. You know, everybody thinks that, like, or not everybody
thinks, but I hear criticism all the time about people that
don't like doing it with science. And it's like, look, you
can overlay the science on your love for the plant.
It's just another set of tools, right? It's like, imagine
you had a magic set of goggles that you could put on and
see a whole bunch of stuff about the plant that you couldn't
see with your eyes. That's what the lab does, right?
Is it unveils this, like, chemical mask behind the plant
that we can't really see through. And using, running the
thing through a lab, it's like you said, there's all these
compounds, right? Like, cannabinoids, terpenes, like, all the
volatiles, all the compounds that are involved in resistance,
like, you know, there's a lot to do. There's a lot of stuff
to look at. And if you have the money to spend, research
takes dollars, right? But at this point in time, we have
the tools to, like, if you want to spend money on any
aspect of cannabis, you can improve it, make it better,
bigger seeds, more protein, you know, different oil, seed
compositions, better fiber, different fibers, just different
fibers for different products, right? Different products.
So, then you said, I'd like to see. Oh, yeah. No, I mean,
one topic that I would like to see a lot more of, I already
mentioned soil microbiome dynamics, but, you know, like,
looking at sort of ancestral, now, of course, cannabis
expanded quite a bit in the Eurasian continent, but, you
know, looking at sort of origin or sort of ancestral locations
of cultivation and, you know, sort of trying to tease out,
of course, a lot of, lots of happened in the millions of
years since then, but, you know, trying to find out, like,
when humans, especially, I mean, when cannabis expanded
generally, but when humans also started to cultivate and move
plants from, you know, locations where they were found to
totally foreign locations as well, that, of course, had a
great selection pressure on, you know, what microbes are
interacting with, what herbivores were interacting with
them, and other sorts of things. And for like 10,000 years
plus, you know, at the very least, you know, this has caused
a huge change, and we don't even know to what degree, and
of course, prohibition and the cultivation styles of breeders,
you know, the OGs in the community space, those also had
an effect as well. And it'll be very interesting to see if
we can reinvigorate some of the ostensibly lost interactions,
because I feel like that is something that can be very useful
and a great boon to cultivation. Because as we've seen a lot
of other plants, especially domesticated crops, they do not
have a good way, or they, that's not the right way to say it,
they have less of a sophisticated way of, like, filtering
microbes than their wild counterparts, if they still exist
even in nature for that matter, which doesn't always happen.
And I guess like, I guess I'm very passionate about that
subject, because I think it can be sort of a, I think that
could be a very, sort of a shortcut to some of the advantages
that we're talking about here, in addition to maybe more novel
approaches as well. And making those sort of, integrating
those, right, integrated pest management. So integrating
all of those techniques together, I think will allow us to
be way more successful. Not just in cannabis too, but you know,
since we're talking about it.
Whole world to explore, isn't it? It's just crazy. Someone's
got to do it.
There's less, that's why there's so much room in the cannabis
industry. I think the thing is, is that, you know, there's
just not enough people. Well, I mean, most of the cannabis
breeders are focusing on one compound and then a bunch of
flavors, right? It's, it takes the same kind of diversity of
intent, intentional good quality breeding to find and develop
all the varieties that you need to bring into those kind of
systems. We got a lot of work to do, like especially in hemp,
right? Like, it's just very, still very, I would say kind
of raw.
Yeah.
You know, like, and you know, I think Marissa was talking, was
Marissa was talking earlier about, you know, these multi-use
plants, right? Like you can produce. So one of the groups
I was working with in the States, they did that. They produced
a bunch of type 3 or CBD producing plants that had all these
different terpene profiles.
And so even just by, when you're isolating the CBD off of
them, you know, that you get liters of terpene profiles, but
actually nice flavors. Like they were type 3s with proper
terpene flavors. We had bred them with, you know, real, real
drug, stinky drug plants, and then selected against the hempiness.
It wasn't that we weren't using hemp. We were using type 3
plants that had already been bred for generations as,
you know, as really drug background plants with the CBD
gene, right? So they were, they had all the, they were producing
a lot of oils and the necessary components to make high levels
of cannabinoids. Whereas if you cross it to hemp, you kind of
go down in total cannabinoid content in your first few generations.
So it's not the ideal way to go. But you can, you know, the
point is, you can breed these plants that have multi uses and
you know, why waste, if you're, if you're removing the terpenes
or whatever, through whatever method in extracting the CBD,
if you can capture them with a cold finger trap or some kind
of relatively simple device or process that has value even
for like the vape cart industry. And then, you know, you're
using cannabis derived, nice smelly terps with good flavor
profiles. And even, you know, sometimes the right like aldehydes
and stuff, you're, you know, you're kind of off to the races.
You can, that's a hell of a lot better than taking myrcene
you've extracted as some other plant might be contaminated
with UNO's mud, right? So yeah, multi-use crops all over it.
That's a super awesome thing.
Thanks for backing that up, Brian.
It's reality. We live on this planet. Like we've only got so
much room to spare, right? Resources to use. We got to use
the most out of it. Being wasteful is like what is killing
our planet. Like we're, you know, what's going on? Everybody
sees it. We're kind of fucked if we don't change. So, and we
may be fucked anyway, but let's at least try to do something
about it rather than just like go down for the huge party
with like a Bud Light, you know?
That paints a picture.
Crisis for change, right?
Yeah, I love when you go to that, Brian. I think it's like, I
actually really would love when you get passionate and that
you circle it back to the Earth piece because I think it's
really cool. Just I hear you a lot of the times say these
really eloquent things and I wish I could record it. And now
we do have the clips thing on here so we can, but it really,
and it's on YouTube, but you have such a great way with, you
know, just that vision. I really appreciate. So I'd love to
have maybe a panel specifically around that and the breeding
piece at some point would be very cool.
Yeah, I'm just of that age group where we kind of like, you
know, I'm in my mid 40s. So it was like, I think we realized
like quite a long time ago that shit was going south. We didn't
change and we know we didn't really still haven't even
changed. Like just truthful, right? Look at the report that
came out the other day, the UN report. Obviously timed with
that big conference in Italy, but it's a mess. Like it's a
total mess and it has to be brought into every part of our
situation. I mean, I don't understand how you could be a human
not understand that. Like it doesn't matter. You can go, you
destroy the environment for money and we just exploit, exploit,
exploit till the end. To what end? Like maybe, you know, maybe
it's like, okay, then we're in a spaceship somewhere. Like
that's not really a good strategy. No, not at all.
I don't know if it was a panel that you were already on, Ryan.
I think it was maybe you and Mojave were on that panel and
there was a discussion about, you know, just the future of
breeding and how easy it will be in the future. You know, I've
always kind of been opposed to CRISPR and these other things
and I don't know, but just the fact that it's getting, the
breeding is getting more advanced and it will actually be able
to breed for some of these, you know, hemp genetics that, you
know, like the fiber and all the things and that we could, you
know, just make it so much more efficient and easy and I hadn't
really thought about it in that concept of how beneficial for
the earth it could be. You know, it's like I definitely, even
though I feel like I'm jaded, I still think that hemp will
save the earth and I would love to see, you know, carbon
credits for hemp farmers and, you know, we've definitely tried
to put that into some of the lobbying pieces, but even just
cannabis farmers as a whole, I feel like people that are doing
it in a good way, you know, maybe there needs to be some
sort of, well, obviously they maybe can make it less hard for
us, but that's like right out the gate, you know, with like
banking all the things, so a little less hard, but it's pretty
easy, but I'd love to see more encouragement there.
Well, you know, the fact that you're actually advocating for
this at the levels that you are and also Marissa at that point,
or to that end, restores a little bit of endearing faith
in humanity that folks like yourselves are, and other people
on this panel, and even people in the chat for that matter,
are advocating for these sorts of things and are able to talk
to people at the levels that you are able to.
You know, I guess there's no other way to put it, it's incredibly
endearing and so hopefully together we can actually achieve
that objective.
Totally.
I mean, I think that's why some people really do a lot of
nonprofit work with cannabis because we still have like leaps
and bounds to go even with the genetics and like protecting
genetics and like the work we've been doing at the Ethical
Data Alliance for the past two years since the Open Cannabis
Project and the whole phyloscape drama happened.
I feel like we've really been trying hard to like, you know,
have ethics and sustainability and using the sustainability
guidelines from the UN and finding a way, you know, and it's
because people care.
I mean, I know Trevor has that too.
It's like there are some of us that actually really genuinely
care about this plant all the way back to the indigenous
villages that like it came from and I would love to see, you
know, in the future, maybe it circles back around so we can
pay it, you know, back I guess to some of these things with
our breeding and all the things that we've done.
So I'd love to see that work continued in a good way.
Yeah, no, I really agree and I think that it's interesting
that this, the way the discussion has kind of gone from a
discussion about possibilities of, you know, pest and pathogen
resistance breeding and the implications for sustainability
in that regard and also then, you know, merging into a broader
discussion about breeding for sustainability, multi-use crops.
And while we were talking about pest and pathogen resistance
breeding, I went and pulled out the UC Davis seminar booklet
on the way that they really like introduced the subject and
it really, it brings home so much about what we're talking
about because we have a cannabis plant that has been largely
underutilized and has great potential to change the way just
fundamental industrial society operates and it's emerging
at a time point when we're at a massive inflection in terms
of our ability to capture, optimize, and utilize information
and how, you know, if we're able to bring these types of
systems in terms of data and application online from basic
research into breeding, for instance, for gene and pest resistance
that's actually durable and sustainable and that reduces overall
instead of the inverse what we had, you know, 20, 30 years ago,
you know, pushes back to the 70s, but with genetic modification
and essentially the upshot with genetic modification so far
as we've gotten Roundup Ready crops, like that's been one of
the major advances that it produced which has just increased
overall pesticide use and caused all sorts of, you know,
quote, unintended consequences and or pretty fucking obvious
consequences. I gotta say it for such a myopic way of doing it.
I have to say like if you're going to use that process to
make a better plant, it wouldn't be to make it resistant to
the poison. It would be to make it resistant to the direct
problem. I'm just going to say that part. You can go ahead,
Ryan. Well, listen, remember Monsanto was a chemical company
before they got into plants. Oh, I know. I know. I understand
the reason. Yes, but I think if I can just point out like
again, because I think it's really important. You guys are all
really smart people and I know like that. There's a lot of
people of the earth here and I'm of the earth, but I'm also
pro-biotechnology because there's a difference between the
tools that are being used and the people that are using
from them for their own purposes, right? And so the truth
of the matter is is like breeding takes time. We have to
develop cannabis into this crop that is going to be able to
help us get through all these problems, you know, including
like dumping huge root systems into the ground so we can
sequester carbon. Like we got a lot of work to do and cannabis
can be a plant that can like really like I don't know. I
mean this disrespectfully, but that can be our mule and kind
of carry us through this huge fucking problem. We have the
environment and CO2 in the atmosphere, right? We got to
sequester it and cannabis is an incredible plant. But the
truth is plant breeding takes time and we don't have time
to wait around 20-30 years. Look how fast the environment
is changing. Like if we can make changes to these plants
and you know, there are all sorts of biotech means for making
these plants sterile and not able to escape and you know,
someone's going to bring up the Jurassic Park life-bombs away
on it. But the truth is genomes change over time, right? And
CRISPR is a highly, highly, highly precise technique that
we can use to change cannabis plants in ways that maybe we
can't find in the variation that already exist in the genome,
right? And anyway, I just like to say like, you know, when
we talk about companies like Monsanto, it's really easy or
you know, or you know, like the cry, like you said, the
Bacillus thuringiensis BT gene that got stuck in all those
genes. Like, you know, that was when they first did it, they
put it under like a constitutive promoter. So like it was
expressed not only in the leaves of plant but in the pollen.
So when the pollen left the plant, it would actually go and
contaminate like the non, you know, the native plants that
weren't GMO, right? Or they didn't have the transgenes in
them. So there are those cry proteins, I should say. So yeah,
there's responsible use and then there's people using shit for
their, you know, to make money or to like, you know, like you
said, sell chemicals, right? Dow had the patent on all those
chemicals. Or not, whatever, Monsanto. So sorry.
Ryan never apologized.
Yeah, you have to, I'm gonna have to agree with that
sentiments as well. Don't apologize for that. I think that
it helps identify the real problem is like us, right? It's
like our behavior and what we do, right? More than any piece
of technology, right?
I have a question. Do you think that it would make like with
the, my concern, I mean, I still have like mixed feelings about
it, you know, but I do see that it could be beneficial. And I
feel like my concern, especially when it came to people creating
like non detect THCA cultivars, like that was concerning to me
because I do have this theory, you know, that the plant needs
all of these things to survive in nature and to not create
like more weakness within the genetics because, you know, it's
like, I know that I choose cultivars based on their resistance
and what they're going to, you know, especially now with
pest resistance, especially because, you know, it's like I don't
want to spray things. We, you know, even it's just a lot. And
then when you're doing outdoor crops and these different things
in the future, I mean, I've heard people say like the future
of ag is going to need to be protected, you know, by structures
and other things just because of what we're doing to the earth
and having to deal with the smoke from wildfires. My concern
is that if we do use, you know, that technology to remove certain
parts of the plant that we're going to create, I just am concerned
about like the downstream effects of that. So Ryan, I wonder what
your thoughts are there.
I just want to say this is relevant. I totally agree. I don't
want to, you're asking Ryan specifically, but I'm sure we're
all aware of the fact that these plants can also sort of, like
I was saying earlier, get into the haplogroups and the populations
that are already in nature and they can, they're in some, according
to some people, this is already happening. Anyway, it doesn't
mean to steal your thunder, Ryan.
Should have asked you guys. It's for everybody, but I just, I'm
curious, Ryan's thoughts specifically, because I know that this
is the tech, you know, it's like what you do, basically.
Yeah, I mean, I kind of look at it like we do, I mean, even
breeding CBD up in the plant, like that comes at the expense of
THC. And so, it's kind of a weird explanation to think of it,
but like, you know, I think of cannabis chromosomes like long
streets, so you can even represent the genome by just one long
chromosome. And say we got 10 streets, okay? And there's all
these houses on the streets that are equal, they're like, they're
identical house on every street. So say number 420 or house
number 306, like they're the same house on every street, but
they got different tenants and the tenants like fix the
house up in a different way, right? Like some of them trash
it and some of them like enhance it and make it really good.
And those houses kind of correspond to genes in the genome, right?
So you can move a house from one street to the other, but that
takes a lot of breeding work and it's like a really energy and
cost-expensive thing. Otherwise, the house that you get is
influenced by the houses that are close to it on the block,
right? And so sometimes if you want like, for example, CBD
acid or CBD acid synthase, like, you know, selecting for it kind
of comes at the expense of THC production. So you can't have
everything, right? And as a breeder, that's what we're doing
is we're, especially when even when you're just breeding naturally
like you are by definition selecting those genes just a more
slow rate and letting phenotype guide your way. But every gene
comes at the expense of another one because, you know, it, you
know, you might have one gene that you're really looking forward
to and it's just something like, you know, maybe it's a beautiful
flower color gene or something like that. But it happens to be
that like the house next door to the blue flower gene that is
also crucially responsible for mold resistance is a crack house,
right? And it just the house is all destroyed. It doesn't work.
The gene doesn't do what it's supposed to do. So like you're
influenced by what goes on in your neighborhood, right? On the
or genetically at least. That's why we want a way of thinking
it. Do you mind if I just say something real quick while I was
thinking about because it's, you know, Trevor's Trevor's thing
he says about breeding the culture and I think it really fits
in to this discussion because like what we're talking about here
and shaping the plant and shaping organisms and optimizing the
plant for the organisms. Like the plant is an organism. Humans
are an organism. Insects are organism and the earth is an organism
and we're all interacting with this cannabis plant, right? And
so when we breed, when we breed the plant, we literally are
breeding the culture, right? Like the chemistry that we put
into the plant changes the cultural use of the plant, you know,
how our relationship is with cannabis. That's you know, I don't
know if that makes sense, but you know, are you saying that
cannabis is our extended phenotype by way of cultivation?
Well, yeah in a way it is but what I'm also kind of saying is
that like I kind of lost my mind. Sorry, I was meandering but
like in breeding, like in breeding the plants we are breeding
the culture. So we're changing the plant and the plant's changing
us. It's like kind of like I don't know. I guess Michael Poland
kind of says something in the same way, but it's like, you know,
as we change the plant, like we're literally changing our chemistry.
We're changing our experience with the plant because these chemicals
that we breed up and down in the plant, they interact with our
not only our endocannabinoid receptors, but you know, you have
like, I don't know if you know, like what about the human physiology
about cannabis, like the enzymes in your lever that break down
cannabinoids like the p450 enzymes and there's all these
different variants. They turn CBD acid or CBD into like various
other molecules, right? And then those things go around your body
and they have a biological effect. In fact, they have like CBD
has like a gene transcriptional effect, right? Like they can
actually use these compounds can actually regulate some of our
genes in different ways. And that's what we're doing when we're
using cannabis. We're like interacting with it on the deepest
like neurochemical level that runs our bodies, right? So when
we are changing the plant in whatever way we are changing the
in the way that interacts with the environment. So that's why
I kind of like when Trevor says that breeding the culture thing,
that's what it kind of, you know, reminds me of right because
it's like there is no other plant. Well, maybe you can say
orchids, but like I don't think that there really is any other
plant in our existence or in our culturalist so that we have
a cultural association with that is so held tight by one community
that that uses the plants right to the point where we were like
all protecting it and like guarding it and ushering it and being
a custodian through prohibition, right? Like it's kind of an
interesting thing. So as we are at the beginning of this industry
that we can build we have an opportunity to kind of do things
that other industries haven't done. Right? So anyway, let's do
the right thing. I love I want to just really quick. I just want
to say I love the botany of desire analogy and I have absolutely
used that analogy so much with cannabis and I do think there
I've thought about the other plants and I think like poppies
and I think he uses the tulip analogy, but you know, there
are plants throughout history that have had like these communities
around them and I think cannabis is kind of like the really
like bleeding edge cutting edge because this moment has never
happened before on the planet. So I love this conversation.
This is like well, it hasn't been industrialized is what I meant
like that's the thing. I was going to agree with that.
Yeah, that was the point I was going to make was that from an
as an industrial plant. I might agree because the examples I
come up with is like oak or maybe the chestnut which I don't
think was particular. I don't think maybe that was too industrialized
at least at least the chestnut or at least the oak trees.
Anyways, keep going.
But yeah, I'm really glad that all of you picked up on that
and that's that's definitely what I was getting at and just
kind of giving reference to the every different group that's
ever had come in contact with the plant has shaped it and
done what they saw fit. It was useful in their own cultural
context and applications and that then left a mark on the
genome to the extent, you know post domestication so to speak
but even in that interim period where presumably hunter-gatherers
were engaging with the plant as a camp follower at least based
on the works of like Ernest Small and different people who
have looked at some of the deeper history and that interaction
that we've had which really is one of the deepest histories
with plants going back thousands and thousands of years has
really shaped both that plant and us culturally and you know,
we're all we're in that long stream of history and we're in
this, you know particular time period with it and we're really
seeing how you know, I love the mentions about how
the industrial like the plant is now shifting into industrial
agricultural cultural. Sorry for the redundancy and cultural
there but like we're shifting much more into an agricultural
framework in terms of industrial applications and that's going
to have its whole host implications and consequences on the
genome and for better and for worse and I think that that's
really something that we're exploring here and the ways in
which we as a group of people who have been interacting with
this plant for decades many of us can it still help to shape
that towards the future and not just sort of seed the terrain
to the the Monsanto's the big AG the what-have-yous and really
learn how these tools are tools that we can make use of because
for better or for worse.
I mean, you know, I know I have my personal perspectives, but
I mean like I had my perspectives about fem seeds for years
and have been disabused of those notions and there's also,
you know, CRISPR applications.
There's a whole bunch of things when you talk to a lot of people
like UC Davis about disease resistance.
They're talking about the necessity of using these types of
technologies because of the lack of resistance in the germ
plasm.
And you know, we're also discussing how diverse the germ plasm
is and how we're just scraping the surface.
And so I think we have the opportunity to really bring these
technologies and the vast germ plasm of cannabis that's under
developed in terms of industrial agriculture and really apply
these in ways that you know could help shape the future and not
do so in a way that just kind of seeds agency and the ability
to participate in that process.
I was just going to ask how many on the panel believes that
the industrial side of cannabis outweighs the monetary benefit
that cannabinoid-based cannabis puts on the whole GDP of the
US.
I don't think those are mutually exclusive.
I think like that's all part of economic activity, you know,
I agree with that.
I wanted to say that if I introduce somebody to a new concept
today, it should definitely be to support kind of the metaphor
that you're talking about Ryan and also Evian.
I'm sorry.
I haven't pronounced your name ever.
Is it Evian?
It's Evian.
Thank you for asking.
Yeah.
Thank you.
I'm very particular about names.
I like to make sure I get them right.
So let me know if I do not.
It's a hollow genome theory of evolution and it's very similar
to what I think what Ryan is talking about.
You know, the idea that things that are closer together, you
know, on the phylogenetic tree, they share more genes and even
the phylo-symbiosis theory for that matter, which is the same
kind of the same thing, but with microbes like the microbiomes
are going to be more similar to more related things and less
similar to less related things.
And so similarly with hollow genome theory, there's DNA in your
genes, those genes make up tissues, tissues make organs, organs
make up your body, bodies are populations, populations are
communities, different ones, and then you got biomes.
And there's like, if you want to oversimplify it, it's like a
bunch of barcodes hitting each other and interacting.
And that's why it's the acknowledgement of this sort of like
interconnectivity where you, I mean, like for example, the
technology of CRISPR is based on how bacteriophages infect bacteria.
So like, in a way, it's a sort of artificial or synthesized
version of a natural process, right?
So I'm not trying to make any sort of like value judgments about
this, but if only to say that like horizontal gene transfer
between microbes has caused interesting changes in intrakingdom
movements of genes, for example.
Spider mites, for example, I'm an IPM specialist, right?
Spider mites, like 39% of their genome, something really egregious,
is dedicated to processing xenobiotics.
So chemicals that are toxic to it, proteins that are problematic,
things like that.
And that's why they feed on more plants, like 1,200 plus plants
documented, than a lot of other pests can even hold a candle to.
And it is because they have this really plastic genome, this really,
and this really like, you know, very detoxification heavy genome.
And they have a lot of other interesting adaptations, like being
haplodiploid, or haploid, I should say, for example.
And the fact that a female, if it's not fertilized, makes males.
If it is fertilized, makes females, right?
So with that, you only need a female to propagate an area.
I hate it all.
I hate that.
Yeah, I know.
They've earned it, though.
You know, I mean, and that, by the way, that gene, or a couple of genes
that are really useful for detoxification come from bacteria.
They're UDP or UGP genes.
I forget the name off the top of my head.
But they, like that is how it is.
Like, they do have these genes that come from a totally different
lineage of organisms, and it was transfected.
So I feel like, at the end of the day, and I've seen this also in the
chat, too, and I agree with the premise that it's how you use a
technology that matters.
And I'm cautiously optimistic, but at the same time, I do recognize that
it's a ton of responsibility as well, right?
Yeah, and it's the responsibility we choose as plant breeders and
custodians, or the people that shape the genome and make the seeds.
And it's, you know, it's one of the reasons why, like, you know, and
listen to me, I'm not complaining about the community.
Like, we're getting to the point now.
We haven't ushered her through Prohibition well, and it's not our own fault.
You know, Prohibition created the situation where the preservation of
the species was thrust on a bunch of people that didn't understand how
to preserve the species really, in a really good way.
You know, on the whole, and I'm talking about, like, not now, it's like
I'm talking about the last 80 years, right?
And so, remember, like I said last time, too, again, the UN, at one
point in time, it was their mandate to make cannabis extinct, right?
Like, that's fucking insane.
Just be making a species extinct.
Like, who the hell do we think we are?
Especially, like, a plant like cannabis, you know, but no matter
what the species, like, you know, we're not fucking the people that
get to decide who comes and goes.
I'm also just fond about the native populations potentially being
essentially, like, contaminated and that perhaps we...
Dude, they're not only contaminated, like, it's a sad thing to say,
and everybody talks about land races.
Land races, I heard on here a couple weeks ago that land races were
released populations into the wild.
That's not true at all.
The definition of a land race is a type of plant or a population of
plants that kind of have this general shared type.
It's like a unique, you know, quote unquote breed, you could say,
but it's isolated in that environment and it's shaped by the culture
and the environment and the local environment and, you know, weather
and everything that entails.
And then within, you know, because again, cannabis breeds with these
obligate outcrossing ways.
It's like, there's variation within those phenotypes.
So it's like, they call it like a heterogeneous population of
heterozygotes is kind of really the definition of a land race, but
it's that breeding state under the guise of like a culture and
an environment, right?
So, yeah, I don't know what I was going to say.
Yeah, but no, that's a great point.
And it's really, it's something that one of the paradoxes is that
in the 1970s, right as the shift in conservation biology and, you know,
it was kind of led by people like Otto Frankel, I think his name is,
and H.V. Harland, who initially was the first person to demonstrate
backcrossing in a plant species.
He, they really like reignited the focus on conservation and sort of
Harland's been compared to Vavelov as like America's Vavelov and I'm
probably butchering his name, but really focusing on biodiversity globally
and this new wave of biology really happened in the 1970s.
The upshot of it is the conservation on biodiversity or the
the International Treaty on Biodiversity, but at the same time
they were doing the single convention and moving forward with prohibition
and set about a policy of exterminating cannabis and eliminating the
germplasm and genetics of cannabis from the planet.
And so that really is one of those things where it's mind-boggling
that right at the time when the international community and the
scientific community was coming to the realization that, you know,
we need to preserve as much genetic material as possible, the political
institutions of the world basically got together and said, yeah,
let's kill that shit.
Political institutions never operate in a vacuum.
It was corporate interests, right?
I mean, DuPont family and I've heard the Hearst family.
I don't know if that's true as well, but the DuPont family definitely
had a huge DuPont, you know, like DuPont Circle in Washington, DC.
These guys are like big-time money and power and you know, they had
like the new synthetic processes, sorry, synthetic fibers and
synthetic oils that cannabis could replace or at least compete
with and you know, there was definitely a reason people were these
political systems around the world were doing this.
It wasn't just everybody understood that cannabis was evil all of a
sudden, that was a concerted effort, right?
I don't know.
I wouldn't discount that.
I mean, I'm not saying that it was even like larger or lesser.
I don't know which one.
I do agree with you.
That was probably a major factor.
And I think probably now that I'm saying it, a higher one, but there
are people who for cultural reasons had issues with it that don't
necessarily have an economic or a strongly economic basis.
I think that's probably true, but there's also ways in which that
those biases are, were exacerbated in like the history of prohibition.
I would agree with that.
It depends on which ones we're talking about, but yeah, definitely.
I imagine that there are historical accounts that we have no records
for and that's totally speculation as well.
But then there are interests that were perhaps more like you can, like
we say, like socioeconomic, right?
It's kind of related.
Oldest known fabric in the world is a piece of hemp.
We've been around this plant for a long time.
It's pretty weird.
Pretty weird that a hundred years ago, like the whole world
decided that it was evil.
I concede that.
Bam, have you had a chance to speak yet?
Bam is driving, but if he can move his fingers, if he wants to say
something.
Okay.
I just didn't know if he had a chance.
I'm sorry.
Or Elka for that matter.
Well, actually just quickly because I got to imminently wake up my
three-year-old.
So let me throw out some of the YouTube questions.
Soulseeker at 311 asked, what kind of, and this is getting back to
the breeding textbook.
What kind of problems can I run into only using reversed feminized
plants and never using a male?
And also what kind of problems will arrive from backcrossing later
in the same fashion?
Does anybody want to give that perspective?
I don't miss.
I don't think I would even have an authoritative answer for that.
I don't want to cram my opinion down everybody's throat.
I appreciate it.
The I'll take a stab at it Ryan just to yeah, and just quickly Trevor
can you talk directly into the mic?
Yeah, is that better?
Much better.
Okay.
Sorry.
Yeah, I would say that there's not necessarily going to be inherent
problems just using female reversed plants.
If you're using female reverse plants for selfing and you're doing
that for multiple generations, there will inevitably be inbreeding
depression in the line.
But if it's outcrossing female to female breeding or as I've heard
Ryan refer to it as gynoscious breeding, that's not inherently
going to result in any problems.
There's debate about and there's not really any there's not too
much clarity.
There's a little bit of work that's been done by Kevin McKernan
in terms of what's what exists on the Y chromosome.
But who most of that is non recombining noise basically that isn't
necessary that either is only present in male plants or isn't recombining
in any way and whatever sex-linked traits that are present in females
are poorly understood.
That's that's as far as I know the science to.
We're going to debunk that thing about them not exchanging DNA.
The X and the Y have what's called a pseudo autosomal region and they
actually do go through a little bit of crossing over and it makes
sense.
I mean at one time in time they were a pair, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, totally.
No, that is definitely I didn't mean to give that impression.
There is if you do look into the literature, there are references
throughout it about the pseudo autosomal region and how there is
crossover there, but then there are the other parts where there
isn't crossover and I assume that's the region where we're going to
see interesting shit.
Well, my my, you know, my thought about the Y chromosome is this
it's important in plants that have a wife.
It's important in plants that you want to be male.
In drug.
We don't want in, you know, aside from breeding like the air quote
natural way.
The thing that you smoke doesn't have a Y chromosome in it.
We throw those plants away early on in production, right again, unless
we're saving them for breeding.
But I think that the argument can be made even from scientifically
breeding female to female versus male to female.
The males don't express the traits that interest us in terms of a female
plant and we know that the species has all its variation in it.
Anyway, and we want to be selected like the top 1% best.
It's really hard to blindly select the one in 10 or one in 100 male
right plant.
Whereas it's really easy to select the female plant because we know
exactly what we're looking for in the female right flavors malpotency
all the stuff mold resistance like our dream wish list of traits.
But the thing that we smoke doesn't have male chromosome or doesn't
have Y chromosomes in it.
So it's kind of in my opinion in a way it's irrelevant for drug cannabis
because the rest of the chromosomes and even half the X and the Y they
like again the pseudo chromosome or the pseudo autosomal region they
all cross over.
And so all the traits that are important to us as drug consumers or
even drug cultivators producers or do you want to call it that those
traits are found on either chromosomes one to nine or the X.
And so if you cross two females together, you're getting all the
important stuff or the relevant stuff.
I'm not saying important stuff relevant stuff.
If you're breeding hemp and you want you can breed for a pollen type
or a flower structure in male plants that allowed for increased
distance of pollen or less resistance to pollen.
It might be that there's genes on that Y chromosome that are important.
Right?
So again, I think it's just like understand the context of what you're
doing.
I know that we have this thing about the natural way, but the truth is
like cannabis was around a long time before we were right like to the
order of like, you know, we're talking like humans have around what
250 maybe 300,000 years.
Cannabis has been around 30 million right or 25 million or whatever
but something like that.
Yeah long time.
So cannabis existed before us.
We've changed her since we met her or the species and continue to
right?
We don't want to know our asks what happens when you breed a male
plant from a feminist seed population and has anyone done it?
Yes.
So those are a different thing.
And so we got to understand this like there's how do you define a
male?
I define a male as a plant with a Y chromosome.
Okay.
You can have phenotypically male females.
We know that by like just what we can do with the SDS block SDS.
You probably know plant hormones.
I mean that blocks ethylene, right?
That's one of made one of the five majors.
So it's pretty simple interaction that makes a major change in the
plant, but you can understand that maybe the natural variation that
exists in that plant is what leads to intersect.
So like to me, there's like genetically of male plants, which I consider
Y chromosomes.
That's the sex and then there's the and I don't want to say gender
because I'm not trying to offend anybody but it's like the plant
because of different genetic conditions will express a degree or the
other of male to female and it might just be something like to do with
ethylene.
So for sure you get like plants in some lines of female female
breedings.
You get plants that are phenotypically very close to male or at least
they produce a lot of stamina flowers a lot of male flowers.
But those I would consider that in between class which is a separate
trait that I call intersex, right?
And it's really is like you could put it on a Punnett Square as like
a you know, like a dihybrid cross right because separate traits.
There's the there's sex which is controlled by the X and Y and then
there's this intersex and intersex is probably like quality or
quantitative, right?
Like it's there's probably like a huge degree of variation within
the ratio of male to female flowers on the given plant, right?
Highly leading females with a few male flowers and everything in
between and the opposite of the spectrum and everything in between.
So, yeah, now that's a great point and that there is some good genetic
research into the QTL, the quantitative trait loci that controls and
it seemed or controls intersex or the expression of
sexual phenotype in different traits or in different plants.
And one of the interesting things that they found in some of those
studies is how tightly linked it is to light sensitivity.
And so one of the primary causes of intersexual trait expression is
a light leak and those light leaks are not just an environmental
like we have an environmental explanation that people have identified
and understood for years.
But now as the genetic research is being done, it's better understood
how tightly linked those two traits are and there's, you know, at
least hypothesized some relationship between light sensitivity and
intersex trait expression and it's been that's been demonstrated
on a genetic level.
And for reference, that's a believe that's the Faux, F-A-U-X.
Yeah, it's Abnishel Faux.
Yeah.
She published that about 2014 or 15 or something like that.
I contacted her when it came out and she was like, she finished her
PhD and kind of moved on into other crops these season, was blown
away that somebody was interested in research.
It was really funny, but she was stoked that I contacted her and
I was like, you gotta send me all your papers.
That's awesome.
I found those and those really like they were changed my entire
understanding of how that trait expression operates in the plant
and found it incredibly useful and have been trying to spread them
around to everybody I can.
That was one of my early Cyhub finds when I first started using Cyhub
many years ago.
I found that one around that time.
I don't mind admitting probably on a recorded thing.
Come after me, guys.
I'm sure the KGB has bigger fish to fry.
Yeah.
Well, it's not the KGB.
I mean, they're probably helping her out because that's the corporate
interest behind the publishing industry, right?
They're the ones that use Cyhub.
Sometimes the Russians are the good guys.
Well, as long as there's certain kinds of information exchange, right?
Yeah, she's, listen, I don't know if you know the story about her.
I don't actually follow that deeply, but I'd like to do it at one
point in time.
I think she's pretty cool, the lady behind Cyhub.
I've donated Bitcoins to that in the past, not full ones, but some,
you know.
It's a, I think she's doing a noble thing and I totally support her.
I would call it noble.
I would definitely agree with that word.
I would use that word.
She's doing it for the right reasons, right?
It's infinitely expanded my ability to access information.
Like I...
That's for sure.
Dude, it's expanded the world.
And again, it's like the breeding the culture thing.
She's providing access to this level of information and it's kind of
what we're talking about that other show too.
It's like, we've got to democratize the information at least, kind of
teach people the basics because I know shit like Crispy, I know shit
like CRISPR sounds scary, but I want to give people all the tools to
really understand it so that they can make their decisions from like
a point of view where they're truly informed.
And, you know, even if we just teach people to be better plant breeders
using old kind of Mendelian techniques, like, you know, like I said,
like we hold this species in our hands as the cannabis community, which
is kind of bizarre in terms of like, you know, like we were the
custodians, right?
And all other important agricultural crops that are relevant to society
have these Institutes that study them and store the seeds and it's
all a protected resource, right?
We've...
Cannabis has ridden the backs on a bunch of rebels and, you know,
hippies with good ideals and all that kind of stuff and tons of other
persecuted cultures all around the world.
I mean, the United States through the UN, right?
Like I said, that was the mandate, make cannabis legal and they spent
the DEA spent lots of money all over the world stamping out these
cannabis cultures, not just the growing, like of these land races,
the culture, like that's how they survived.
You bring up a good point, Ryan.
Just a thought, you know, this is a Breeder Roundtable and here's a
question.
How does somebody doing at home small stuff and maybe wanting to
work with legal people, how does one people, how does one small person
protect themselves legally?
Any thoughts or points in the right direction?
Yeah, I mean, I think we all have to realize to a certain extent, like
there's few and far things in the cannabis world that are truly owned
by one individual or another, like you might hold something but you
got it from someone.
And so can you register it and make it known as yours so that you get
the benefit for the commercial rights, right?
And I don't know whether you're in the States or not or in, you know,
in Canada or otherwhere else in the world, but there's different,
the reason I ask is because there's different systems.
So if you're in the States that falls to the USDA and they have a
whole set of rights around it.
Most of the other places in the world kind of except China, there's
UPOB, which is the Union for the Protection of Plant Varieties.
And they kind of regulate and recognize who owns what. Because it's
been passed around by a bunch of rebels and sold Grateful Dead shows
and whatever, like when you have a seed and you give it away or sell
it, if you sell the seed, you're relinquishing your rights to that.
You're, and in a way that's, you know, that's fair because we all get
these things from somewhere.
And like I said, we are just, nobody owns anything.
We're custodians that are passing this resource on, this genetic
resource on to our next generation, right?
Should you be able to breed stuff that's truly different and be able
to register that for a financial interest?
And the financial interest is about like paying back innovation.
Like that's why we have patents and IP laws to protect the innovators
because if you don't protect the inventor, sorry, you don't protect
the innovator or offer them some kind of benefit from doing it,
they're not just going to do it, right?
Like you were not going to see certain types of innovation.
And so plant breeding is no different.
So if you're actually doing something and making something new that
you can demonstrate is new, then you can register it, right?
And registering it in one country gives you the paperwork to be able
to do it in any other country, right?
You only have to do the plant trials in one country usually.
So if you go through the process and do the work, yeah, you can get
plant protection rights. In the United States, if you do a patent,
that plant is owned by whoever has the patent. Under the UPAV,
more international system, if you breed like say, you know, for example,
the person that found the Macintosh Apple, they registered it and
they were given a period of exclusive commercial rights that they
could either sell or transfer or license or whatever they wanted
to do with it.
But the Macintosh Apple then becomes available to plant breeders
all over the world.
So they can take the positive traits of the Macintosh.
Anybody can, that's part of the rules like with UPAV.
Anybody can request a copy of your plant for research or breeding
purposes. And if you cross it to something else and it becomes like,
it comes back like almost exactly the same as the Macintosh, whoever
you got, like, it's called an essentially derived variety.
So the royalty that is earned from that one has part of it
has to go back to the originator.
You know, so there's...
Progeny is huge.
Not just progeny, but their progeny that have to match the
characteristics of the plant, right?
It doesn't mean that you get the ownership. Like when you register
a plant, you get, you're going to describe all the traits of the plant.
And so those, this is why, and it's crazy, this is why I harp on the
word strain so much, because this is really at the crux of the matter,
like how the plant is developed or, you know, what, not how it's
developed, but how it behaves when it's reproduced from seed and
what that means as a variety.
So if you cross like an apple plant to another apple, like even if you
cross an apple plant to itself, I don't know if you can do that or not,
but you emasculate the plant and, or, you know, you ensure self-pollination
or whatever.
All the plants look different, right?
And so, if you got a Macintosh and you pull a seed out of the
Macintosh seeds that is totally different than the Macintosh, like
flavor profile, color, you know, the color of the fruit, size of the
fruit, shape of the fruit, the skin, like the skin tones of the fruit,
all that kind of stuff are traits that you have to record when you're
registering the plant.
And if you pull out an offspring that's totally different or is not
what they consider essentially the same, then you can register it as a
unique variety. Like for example, Pinot Noir, right?
That grape has been grown for hundreds of years.
At one point in time, somebody was walking through a vineyard and saw
like a cluster of the grapes that was like gray or pink, well there's two.
Somebody found a gray one, somebody found a pink one.
The gray one became Pinot Gris.
The pink one became Pinot Blanc.
And they're all genetically the same plant.
It's just it had a mutation of the gene for one of the genes for pigments
or the way that it was expressed in the fruit.
And that was considered unique.
It was considered novel.
Like it passed the test that they used to judge whether you've
developed something new.
And so it was due, you could get rights from it, right?
And so like that's a unique cultivar.
Like those develop under cultivation.
Like that's kind of the point.
It's a new plant that's discovered under cultivation that when you
breed it sexually to itself or a very close plant, it doesn't come back.
Like the type doesn't come back.
That's a cultivar.
Also, I think that it's important that if you are going to plan on
breeding something that you work your lines extremely well.
So that way you know what that plant's going to do.
So that way you're not releasing genetics into the community that
might have, you know, tremendous intersex issues or some other problem
that could be non-conducive to a successful harvest.
Because keep in mind that some of the people that would be potentially
buying these genetics, you know, their business model is contingent
upon them having a successful operation.
So I know, you know, shit happens.
But at the same time, it is important to work your lines as much as
possible and select for a reason and say, hey, is this something that's
actually commercially viable or worth putting out?
Or do I have some type of connection to it just because I've been
involved in the growing and the breeding of this plant?
Because I know that I run into people all the time that, you know,
they think they have the great best thing since sliced bread.
And then unfortunately, you know, it's their connection that they
have with the plant and not necessarily the real indicators that would
say, hey, you know, this is something that is going to be on every
shelf, you know, potentially in every dispensary across the nation.
So intent is a really big thing along with purpose.
For sure.
A hundred billion dollar ag industries aren't built on plants that
stoners crossed the closets though.
And that's where cannabis has come from relatively recently.
And now finally, we're getting people like, you know,
all these different people down in California.
That have a little bit of space and are getting a chance to do it
on a little bit bigger scale.
You know, it's, in my opinion, like we've done some great things
in the plant, but in my opinion, the plant's not ready for a hundred
billion dollar ag industry.
It's going to get destroyed by pests, right?
Because we just, we haven't,
we haven't grown it in, we've been growing it in bedrooms and like
basements and small greenhouses, like really small greenhouses are
hidden under outdoor trees in Mendo, you know, for like 40 years,
longer, 50 years.
That's even our Department of Agriculture is suggesting we still
do when we question them about home grow and they, and we say, well,
how can we, why can't we grow if it's legal?
And they say, well, go ahead and grow in your closet, you know, that
we're still not past that.
We're still not past that.
Sorry, Ryan, keep going.
That's a good perspective to enter to like reminders about though.
Yeah.
Well, you know, I, you listen,
one of our common themes tonight has been fucking good regulations.
So we don't have to do stupid stuff, right?
Like, and I'm not saying that all growing in closets is stupid.
I mean, it's great for people to do that.
And I've, you know, I've done in small space, grown in small spaces
before.
It's nothing wrong with that.
But again, it's like, what are we, what plants are we developing?
What plants do we have, right?
That are prepared to go to this hundred billion dollars industry
scale up.
I mean from, I want to say this is just like, because it's in my
wheelhouse.
I feel like one of the, one of the things that
people don't think about, I think a lot, or at least I feel like is
very underrepresented or isn't explained a lot is that some places
are just going to be really bad inherently for growing.
I know that a lot of people do understand this concept, but like
people get passionate.
They say they want to grow cannabis.
They look for a place just about any place because they're desperate
to do it because their passion and I would want somebody who is
passionate to be trying to grow the plant.
Don't misunderstand.
But
as we grow and grow and grow and there's more cannabis crops in
general and you know, other sorts of factors, other pest crops, right?
Other crops, which are more pests that share with cannabis, like all
these changes and dynamics create an environment where it can be just
extremely hostile and not economically feasible to grow in certain
in certain, you know, contexts and certain areas.
So like, like you're saying about how pests are going to as they have
been running roughshod across the cannabis space that will continue.
Right?
There's basically and I wrote about this recently in a book that the
lack of infrastructure, legislative, cultural, economic, those,
those things don't allow for the success that we would expect in other
crops to like you're saying and part of that is also, you know,
development of the plants itself.
Through breeding like we've been talking about which is the basis
of this whole meeting.
I just add that I love this conversation.
I think it's such an important conversation and you know, I've been
touching plants for a very long time now, but over the past few years,
you know, working in scaled nursery production on the hemp side and
then working, you know, it's like I've working at scale because that's
basically, you know, what we do at this point and and seeing this
massive production outdoors, massive production in greenhouses.
I have just seen the pests been getting exponentially worse over the
past few years to the point where it's like I am worried that there's
going to be like plagues essentially, you know, we're already having
it with the hop slate and thyroid and I'm seeing, I mean, I have never
in my life over the past four years, every single year the aphids have
just increased and increased and there was a paper that came out a few
years ago, Ryan, maybe you remember, two years ago, there was the paper
breeding for terpene specific, you know, specific terpenes and I was
very curious because I've noticed that some cultivars definitely do
better in these, you know, large, because at this point it's agriculture,
you know, we're doing like 5,000 plants per acre, you know, type 3's
now in addition and I think hemp really taught us how to do this
cultivation at a totally different level and now those ideas, all these
traditional ag ideas are getting applied to cannabis and this has
really never happened before in the modern world and I'm deeply
concerned about like what the next few years holds as we continue to
scale up with the hop slate and thyroid and the pests and all the
things, so like breeding really is at the end of the day, but it's like
I don't know, you know, there's very few limited people who have very
very good resources, it seems, who are breeding for these specific
things and have the ability to supply the genetics at scale.
So I'm really curious, you know, what we're going to see here and
also just your thoughts on like, you know, what we would need to
breed up in the plants in order to give them more resistance because
we cannot be spraying at this scale and even beneficial insects at
that scale just don't work and I would love to talk offline with,
you know, anybody too about this is like, I think a very very important
topic that I think the industry is kind of not really focused on.
I have to unfortunately agree with you on multiple points.
It's not something that gets talked about.
In other security industries, it's very common to say that people
won't, they won't pay for security until after they get robbed or
until after they get hacked and this is very true.
It's also true with IPM and props and I would be happy to assist you.
You bring up a good point, Matthew, could you maybe touch on like what
types of viruses can get passed on through breeding and why that happens?
Right, so not only just viruses but like even endophytes, sometimes some
of them are beneficial and some of them are detrimental and I have a
YouTube video that goes over some of the most recent research that we
have about some of these organs, these microbial agents that pass vertically
from parent to offspring.
Some of the, I don't know off the top of my head, but there are bacteria
and fungi at least that I know can be passed through seeds as
endophytes.
But as for like the hoplite and viroids, I don't, I actually don't know
how the veracity of some of this evidence is.
I know that there are there are seemingly examples in white papers
and I'm very curious to hear if other people have like maybe a more
articulate answer that kind of show that maybe hoplite and viroid can
be passed vertically.
But at the same time,
that's not like a binary thing that could be passed vertically.
That's not like a binary thing that could be and I think some of this
research is done with hops rather than cannabis.
So the issue is that is really a question of like if this is true to
what extent is it true?
Can it be true in other contexts?
Cannabis cryptic virus is a virus that does pass vertically from parent
to offspring, but it doesn't seem to have effects really on the physiology.
But you know, admittedly there's not a whole lot of research into it.
So I don't want to like, I don't want to mislead that with sort of like
speculation.
It's not really a research thing very much because it doesn't really have
a dysfunctional effect in a way that like lettuce sclerosis virus or
B.
chelatot virus has which are vectored by insects, for example.
And I guess on that topic, I do feel that like
rhizosphere effect or other sorts of like plant hosts.
And I'm sorry, I'm forgetting the terminology at the moment, but there
are situations that we've seen in research that shows that insects and
microbes in the plant or on the plant or just simply as insects feeding
on the plant can have an effect on the progeny through stress response,
but also even in the soil microbiome, you know, a feeding insect can
have an effect on the interaction between the plant and this area.
And when the plant, when that generation dies and the next generation
seeds in that same space, there are spatial,
there are, I guess there are microbiome changes and such that
that change how that plant is going to grow.
I'm being very abstract.
I apologize for that, but hopefully that answered your question.
I'm by no means an expert on the subject, but I did make a series of
posts on the Instagram in which a lot of people who know a lot more about
it did reach out to me and it does look when you read a lot of the
hop research that there's either no or very, very low transmissibility in
terms of vertical transmission parent to offspring and hops.
But that said, I believe it was Mojave who reached out in the comments
section and mentioned that there is evidence in cannabis of transmission
from a parent to this offspring through seeds.
And somebody from a very large operator, I won't mention like what operator,
but somebody who works for a big cannabis operation that does a lot of
data research said that they've done some studies looking at the transmission
rate and they found that it's, I believe they said five to eight percent
transmission rate, but that was...
That's the rate I've heard as well.
Okay.
Yeah.
And so for that, I'm...
That's yeah, there are...
I haven't seen any data though.
So, but these are claims that I've heard made.
It's going to change by variety.
Absolutely.
Like some plants have it and don't show any trait or don't show any
characteristics of the trait, right?
You know, I had somebody contact me recently because they tested their
plants and they found out that the stunting they were seeing was beet
colitop virus, which is vectored by the beet leaf hopper, which is really
common in North America and also globally.
And beet colitop virus infects a ton of different plants.
But the interesting thing was that they saw purpling, like a purpling sort
of coloration that didn't seem to be represented in research papers that
were talking about BCTV in cannabis.
And I have a video on that as well.
And in that, when we see the examples that are given for late and early
symptomology of BCTV infection, there were no...
There would be chlorosis perhaps, but not like a, I don't know which one
you call it, a veillosis or whatever.
Ionosis, if you want to be Greek I think.
But like that kind of a thing is just an example.
Now, I don't know if this is caused by BCTV or if it's some sort of
interaction, but it seemed to be only these plants that had it, had this
other coloration as well.
So like weird edge cases like this are also something to keep in mind.
And since we were talking about the metaphor for the botany of desire,
right, with the tulip mania, which was caused by a virus, right?
Or I believe I want to make sure I say this correctly.
Can anyone corroborate that?
Do you have any pocket virologists in here?
Well, anyways.
I was just saying it's been so long since I've read the book that I can't
remember off the top of my head.
I just remember the treatment in the general.
Over.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
I feel the exact same way right now.
But essentially the thing was is that, you know, these interactions, you can
have a case where you have a microbe and a virus or an insect and a virus
and in combination they have, I guess what the point I'm trying to make is
they can have way different symptoms than you would expect of them disparately.
And in fact, for that matter, the vectors of these viruses often get something
of a benefit from deploying them in the plant.
And so in that way, it's a sort of a symbiosis.
And they can even be a symbiosis for the plant as well.
BCTV can and other viruses for that matter, like less chlorosis virus, which
also affects cannabis is asymptomatic in other plants, which would be really good
for those plants, right?
Because other plants that might be competing for space resources, sunlight
access, you know, if they are affected and they die, that might make an open
space as area for them easier to colonize.
And so in that way, again, I think that I love to turn the perception of viruses
in particular on people's heads because the research about them is much more
profound nowadays, but also because they're oftentimes thought of as only
negative, but really microbes of all different groups can be beneficial or
detrimental.
So it's just like an interesting way to consider it.
That is an interesting extra layer, particularly when you consider some of
the theories behind breeding for plant resistance.
There's just some conceptual ideas like vertical resistance, horizontal
resistance, and durable resistance are three of the concepts that are kind of
generally laid out in most textbooks on the subject.
And I believe, and Kemer, someone else can probably correct me, but vertical
resistance is kind of like a qualitative trait.
It's present, absent within a trait expression.
Horizontal resistance is more of a quantitative trait that expresses more
of a continuum of resistance.
And durable resistance speaks more to the idea that resistance lasts and has a
remaining effect across multiple different environments where the specific
cultivar is cultivated.
And those are different concepts in the framework for breeding for resistance.
But like when you mentioned it, Matthew, the idea of, particularly for
Hoplite and virus, in hops, the primary vector and transmission is through
aphids.
So aphids presumably are also one of the vectors.
There are probably other sap-sucking plants that are pests that also act as
vectors for Hoplite, as well as cultural sort of practices that are conducive to
the spread of it because it is just spreading like wildfire.
But all of these pressures are convergent different pressures.
And you have both a viral pathogen with its genetic basis, and then you have the
vectors, which to at least a certain extent are also pests in terms of aphids and
other sap suckers.
And sorry for using that term as, you know, Matthew, I'm sure you know.
Sap sucker is so much more eloquent and simple.
I cannot be upset at that.
Okay.
And so breeding for this, it really becomes complex on the level when you,
there's an idea.
I'm not sure to the extent that it's applicable across crops and, but at least
the idea is that there's a gene for gene hypothesis that the pest and the host have
a genetic relationship.
And I think you were kind of getting at this earlier, Matthew.
And so for a resistance gene, you can have one resistance gene and it requires
then one virulence gene for the plant or for the pest to be able to overcome that
resistance.
For two resistance genes, it then requires two virulence genes for the pest to
overcome the resistance genes and so on and so forth.
And that this is how the arms race kind of operates between resistance and virulence
within host and pest populations.
And when you're dealing with, I mean, this just really adds to the equation when you
start considering the vector and as a pest and then the pathogen itself as another
pest pressure.
So it really, it speaks to the difficulty and the, how much we have to do in this
area specifically of pest resistance and pathogen resistance breeding.
I appreciate that.
I do find that looking at things from an ecological lens can be like a lot to take
in, certainly, but I feel like it's the most encompassing and in that way, sort of
forewarning.
And I'm excited to see more research to that end for cannabis, cannabis ecology,
or cannabis interactions or bionomics and that sort of a thing with the various
pests that we attribute to or that we associate it with.
And on that note, I will have to step out.
This has been a really great conversation for me, very enriching for myself.
I love the various topics that we talked about.
I also got to meet for the first time new people like Marissa and Bam and as
well, Brian, I think it's the first time we've ever communicated and Evian.
So I really appreciate it and I look forward to our mutual success.
Cheers.
It was great having you on.
Keep up the great work.
Keep up sharing that info.
It's awesome.
Appreciate it, Matthew.
That was really awesome.
And Matthew and I have talked a little bit about the possibility in comments, just
briefly about having really in-depth conversations about these subjects.
I was, as an impromptu, it was great to have him come on and be able to discuss a
lot of these, this subject in particular, pest and pathogen resistance and everything
he just talked about in terms of looking at things from particular perspectives
and integrating his expertise with our expertise so we can all prosper.
He's a great dude.
I appreciate all you like-minded individuals in here.
Thank you.
I got to duck out.
I got a call.
I got to hop on to here, but thank you.
This has been a pleasure.
Thanks for giving me the space and sharing space.
And I really, this group knocks it out of the park.
I don't get to exercise my brain with a lot of people that go above and beyond on
the topics that we are discussing here.
And it's nice to be in a room that challenges our thinking.
And I feel very honored to have met a couple of you guys for the first time today.
So looking forward to future conversations as well.
And thank you for having me.
Appreciate you guys.
Have a great night.
Respect.
I just saw Bam down there and I got a question for him.
Tell us about what you saw in those haze lines that you opened up.
I mean, like how many did you go through and what did you see?
Different types of hazes.
Just curious.
Can you guys hear me clearly?
I'm driving.
No.
No.
Okay.
I can not speak for Bam, but I can say that he went through a hell of a lot of
them.
And by that, I mean, I believe he popped.
There was the S1 population of the Cuban Black Haze.
There was a A5 population of the A5 cross to Cuban Black Haze and a C5 cross to
the Cuban Black Haze.
And I believe he popped well over a thousand of each one of those.
I got the privilege to go down and check him out.
Is this any better?
Can you hear me now?
Barely.
We can hear you well enough.
I would just go for it.
Okay.
Yeah.
So I popped a total of 4,000 seeds that we called down to about 2,000.
What did I see?
Like Jurassic cannabis.
There was a lot of like, I was most fascinated by like the freaks.
The unique flower structures and just the calyx structure, the neural spacing.
There was some very, very interesting specimens that I wouldn't even know
where to categorize them because I've grown a lot of different
quote-unquote land rays, divas.
I haven't seen these types of expressions.
But I'll say about the entire population is that across those three populations,
in terms of terps, my favorite was the C5.
They had like the most unique punch you in the face terps.
What do I mean by punch you in the face terps?
If I'm walking in a greenhouse that's 5,000 square feet and I'm not sticking
my nose at anything in particular and I'm staring at a hundred plants,
it's the one where as soon as you smell it, you just look around and you know
which plant it is.
It's almost like the scent just taps you on the shoulder.
It's like the plant raising its hands.
Yeah, I mean if there's a particular question about what I saw,
I'm happy to answer it.
They all kind of, there was a uniformity to their to their calyx flower structure.
But terpene wise was where I saw the most differentiation.
If you could go into that, I'm curious because I mean I've definitely had like
a little bit of haze, but I mean like you had what you just said 4,000.
I mean what stood out?
What different punch you in the face terps stood out?
And like what are you kind of talking about?
So I think the best way to describe, like if I had to characterize the overall
population, I would say that I would describe it as whatever your religion is,
it smells like your holy place.
There was all types of incense, but I don't want to like, and incense is a
pretty broad category, you know, like walking into like just in India alone,
you walk into a South Indian temple, then you walk into a North Indian temple.
It's not the same smell, but there's like this general characteristic that,
excuse my lack of the vocab for a bit, it just reminds me of like a holy place.
There was a lot of, and that spectrum was wide.
There was also a lot of like different types of citrus, not necessarily lemon
or orange, but like citrus has some characteristics in terms of texture
and feel that I found was present in a lot of those.
Usually when we're describing smells, we're comparing them to things that we
are familiar with, and that's what makes the hazes so interesting from a terpene
perspective, because they're new, like I'd have to do test results.
I'd have to get like wide terpene test results to really identify because
I don't have, I don't know what to compare it to.
There were very unique smells in there that no other cannabis smells like.
I can't think of another fruit or flower that smells like it, but I would
say that's the general categorization of the hazes would be incense, citrus,
and floral, and those are all really broad categories, but that is the depth
of the haze, and what was really, I think, tremendous and unique about going
through them is whenever you find those outliers that just have those extreme
peaks from all three categories, and they just hit a new space in your
nostrils that you haven't experienced before.
So, yeah, I wish I could be more descriptive, but some of those smells
were literally novel.
That's the best way to describe it, but I don't know.
As far as like the smoke goes, there was a mixed bag of stuff that would
either like hit you so hard that you didn't have much to say, but the way
I would describe it is like you're stuck, but traveling at the speed of
light because it was like a speedball effect, and I like methamphetamine.
In general, I like weed that like doesn't make me sleepy, that really
like gets me excited, gets my creative juices flowing.
I like when my heart rate rises, and I'm motivated.
I like when I smoke weed that makes it so that I can't consist.
There's a lot of that in the Hades, which I thought was amazing.
I remember one time I'm sitting there with my Apple Watch on, and Apple
watches have a heart rate monitor.
The thing said, you have been sedentary for 10 minutes, but your heart rate
has risen above 145 BPM.
And that's exactly what I like in Hades.
That's kind of like what I personally was looking for, but I'm always
looking for God in strength.
I'm not big on anything that's heavy on the eyelids.
I don't like to be slowed down.
So I like uppers.
I like to get high.
I don't like to get stoned.
What I'll say is that in that population, the vast majority of them
will get you high.
Even the ones that get you stoned, it's like getting stoned with wings.
You're stoned, but you're ready to run a marathon.
We did have issues with bot.
There was a number of plants that were not botrytis resistant at all.
That would probably be my one complaint.
I want to say we lost something like 20%.
Anybody have any other questions about the Hades run?
That's great info, man.
I appreciate it.
You kind of broadened my understanding of Hades and their spiciness.
It is kind of like trying to describe something.
It's to each one their own perception.
Thanks for that description.
It must have been fun to look through that number.
Yeah, that was like as a breeder.
Most of the time I could do stuff on my own property.
Smaller runs, that was a true blessing.
It was a dream come true to be able to sift through that many plants.
See all the variations.
Really see what outliers.
It's one thing to find an outlier in a pack of 100 or a pack of 50.
It's a whole other ballgame when you start getting into 1000 or 2000.
Yeah, it's like I said, that's pretty amazing.
I've done 800, 900, but that was a few different family lines.
But 4000 of a handful of Hades lines, that's pretty cool.
You said there was kind of a bud rot problem.
Do you think that's more environment?
I know you're kind of more coastal.
Just curious.
Or do you think it was because the nugs are so big?
I can't call it because at that project I was not the director of cultivation.
So my role was really in search, strain selection, breeding, and working on that type of genetic acquisition.
That type of stuff was my burbie.
We were in Salinas.
We were in a greenhouse.
It was the middle of summer, which is when phytophthora hits crops the most.
But we were also running 20 different valves.
When I say a valve, a valve is like, that was the terminology that we used.
In a quarter of a mile, exit right.
Each bay was controlled by a valve.
So we ran 25,000 square foot greenhouses at the same time.
If you look at the data across those greenhouses, no other strain suffered from the same number of blossoms.
So part of it was environmental.
It's hard for me to even say that it would be anything to do with the bud structure.
Because it's not super dense.
So it's not like you have that thick Afghani up in the Santa Cruz mountains and it's raining.
That wasn't the situation.
Yeah, that's why I was curious.
Because from haze is usually like a paintbrush, really feathery, wispy, trichome latent, but really kind of wispy.
So I was just curious, the bud rot was an issue with some of them.
You say it was mostly with environment because of your area.
It could have also been cultural, dude.
Those things were beached.
They were like 10, 11 feet tall in two gallon pots by the time we were done.
Their vigor and size was out of control.
So then canopy management becomes an issue.
Like when you don't have the labor force and you're unprepared, we didn't expect them to blow up that big.
So part of it could have just been like not having enough trellis, them falling over on each other, getting bruised just because they didn't have the support that they deserve.
Those are some of my ideas about what could have caused that.
I know I can't.
Cool, man.
Thanks for letting me pick your brain on that.
That's really cool.
I think some other factors.
Collectively, we as a community learn from one another.
And it's great.
And a lot of times when people ask me questions, it forces me to look internally and think about things more.
And a lot of times I make connections in my head that were existent, but I never put together until somebody raises a question.
That's why these conversations are so priceless.
I think also that population, the seeds came from diesel cartel.
That's Skunk Tech and J-Trees and the breeding work that they've done with the A5, the C5 and the Cuban Black Hays.
And the Northern Lights Five may be adding some influence there.
Having walked through and looked at that population, it was quite incredible.
And when Bam briefly referenced Jurassic Weed, it was the amount of vigor in some of those plants and the flower time in some of the outliers was really incredible.
Some of the haze lines or haze outliers were really running.
You know, I think I walked through it a couple different times and saw things that were probably at 10 to 12 weeks of flower and some were finished.
And others looked like they had only just started flowering the last week.
It was incredible how long the flowering period was going.
And on those longer flowers, a lot of them actually ended up producing the biggest flowers when I went back through.
And their ability to just stack up and go and go and go.
The pictures of the old late 80s seed bank catalogs were like one to one, almost as if I was standing in Neville's grows.
It was really incredible to see the structure on some of the plants, particularly the very large intermediary phenos.
It looked very similar to, I can't remember the exact year, it was either the 89 or the 90 catalog cover.
But it almost looked like exactly the same pheno that was selected for the seed banks cover and used 30 years ago.
And from my experience, there was, you know, this dates me, but lots of Cali Mist type phenos and smells.
I was definitely getting that kind of like incense-y, spicy, you know, what people from New York or the East Coast may call church.
Definitely things in the realm that honestly, as somebody on the West Coast, I had mostly just heard of in terms of the church sort of characterizations.
This was definitely my first time with that frame of reference going through and being like, ah, I understand what was being spoken of at this time now.
And so that was my perspective of going through them.
And it was definitely a treat to see, you know, bam, bringing those out and getting those into production and working with people.
You know, it was mentioned earlier, like how do you kind of bridge that gap from the traditional or the closet market to the commercial recreational space?
And there's an IP strategy.
And, you know, when you have something unique and novel that is improved that can be protected through some sort of IP, that's one strategy.
Developing relationships with people where it's possible in the recreational space with different partners is another thing.
And really, like that's something that's an ongoing battle.
But figuring out how to negotiate and operate between those kind of two worlds is what we have to do to be able to make it so that those of us like Bam, myself and everybody else on this panel, I believe, can make those jumps from what we've been doing for years and what we'll continue to be doing for years.
Because even now we still are primarily the people, as Ryan has been mentioning, with the responsibility of preserving, maintaining and improving the germplasm.
And so we'll keep doing that.
And we got to figure out ways of how to negotiate this terrain and the fact that Bam was able to help people from the community in terms of Skunk Tech and J Trees run out thousands of those hazes.
And for everybody in the community to benefit from watching, like the walkthroughs were incredible.
Just everything.
Like, I think everybody really got a taste of visually and through the different conversations that have been had about those lines.
Everything that you've done.
I appreciate it, Bam.
And Alex, thank you for initiating this discussion.
Yeah.
Respect to you guys.
Just a student loving fly on the wall.
Yeah.
Thank you guys for hosting this.
This is way cool.
And I would love to hop on another panel with you when we get into the IP and how to interface and match.
Because as you were saying, yeah, I'd say one of the coolest things that I did while I was working there, at least from my perspective, and what I can be most proud of, was that I was really a breeders advocate.
And from day one, I came in there with the goal of figuring out a ways for ways for people like me, who I feel were originally left behind by regulation.
Just because of my county and my inability to get licensed where I wanted to do and practice my work in the way that I wanted to do it.
And as soon as I got an opportunity to work within the space, it became priority number one for me to try to no breeder left behind, no traditional market, no legacy person left behind.
And I think that there was a lot of really great stuff that happened behind the scenes.
And I got in rooms with investors and corporate types and really hashed out what was important to them and drew my lines in the sand for what I felt was important to our community.
And what I as a breeder would like to see when interfacing with this.
And we were able to structure several deals for people who were legacy farmers that worked for both the investors as well as for the legacy farmers.
And trying to find that happy medium was like an ongoing six month battle.
But we were able to work out some successful contracts and I would love to share that wisdom with the world.
And if people are trying to structure those types of deals, I'm happy to chime in and share what my experience and knowledge was in terms of dealing with that.
What some of the pitfalls were, creative solutions that we came up with to address needs on both sides.
Yeah, that's actually a great point, Bam. That's something that I would love to hear and learn from you.
I've definitely been through a small situation and yeah, I'd just love to learn more about that.
Hit me up anytime, brother. I'm happy to get into it with you.
And if you guys want to make it a public conversation, I'm also happy to do that.
I think it's really important that we arm our community with the knowledge of how to interface.
And just sharing my experience alone hopefully will be enlightening to somebody else who's doing the same.
I think we can definitely get that going.
Doing these weekly breeder roundtables has been pretty awesome.
And just now I think between an IP special edition and also doing an episode on breeding for pest resistance, there's just so much topics.
We've got a lot of people here who have different experience, Bam with his, Ryan with your experience in the IP side.
We've touched on so much tonight, but there's a lot to get into and really good people.
So all of you are definitely invited back on.
And Evian, I hope I pronounced it right. I really suck at names. I'm the worst.
And so I apologize if I meant to pronounce it.
And Marissa, like all of you are adding and contributing to the discussion on how we navigate policy.
Because policy is going to interface with so much of what we do and determines what everybody can do in every different region.
And then how we as cultivators navigate all of this.
How we continue to do things in closets on the smaller scale, but also begin to get out of the closet and operate on these larger scales running 2000, 4000, even 800.
I mean, like those are proper populations and bringing that online and really, really figuring out ways for the community to be able to do that work is something that I think is awesome.
Thank you so much, Trevor. Marissa here.
I just wanted to shout out really quickly because she joined Clubhouse just because of this meeting for us.
And I want to shout her out in the listeners here.
We've got Dr. Skidmore, Dr. Amanda Skidmore.
Formerly, she was my IPM specialist out of Arizona working with hemp as well.
If you guys give her a follow or need anybody as a specialist in the cannabis space and IPM.
I wanted her to chat with Matthew earlier.
I'm going to be doing some introductions there.
I just want to give her a shout out because this conversation about an hour ago would have been beautiful to have her chime in because especially when we were talking about Curly Top and other stuff.
I know that those are conversations we've been deep and heavy in together.
So anyway, thank you for having me again.
I'm glad to have met Evie and Trevor and Trevor.
I've followed before and Peter and Chase and all you guys and Pietro.
Thank you.
Bam.
Ryan is a new one for me.
I am so glad to have been in this room to hear you guys speak.
I'm honored.
Thank you so much.
Right on.
Thank you.
And yeah, I just gave a follow.
So cool.
It definitely would be good to get everyone in and have a deep dive into IPM and breeding for pest resistance as a specific topic here.
We just kind of ad hoc dove in pretty deep tonight, but it would be really good to have some prepared presentations from some people and some organized ideas on it.
Because yeah, I'm just Matthew's a wealth of information on the topic and I'm sure getting more specialists in the area and getting people in these rooms together to just kind of start talking is awesome.
So thank you.
You guys want to wrap it on that?
Probably a good time.
Been going solid.
I had my hands deep and pumpkin seeds as it seemed like you guys were wrapping up.
So I had to run back into the garage.
Nice.
Well, thanks.
My wife was complaining that I didn't cook all the pumpkin seeds.
So I was firing up the cast iron skillet.
Yeah.
I've been like elbow deep in my little one running around.
So thank you, Trevor, guys, and Ryan and everybody for all the awesome conversation.
But we're even quiet.
Thank you.
Yeah, thanks for everyone.
It was really great hearing everybody's perspective.
And Peter, thanks as always.
And Trevor for guiding things kind of through.
It was a fun night.
Hope you all take care.
Do any of you guys know how to kill the room?
You want to kill it?
Chase, are you still there with your bulldog?
I think I have to kill the room.
Trevor has to kill it.
The person that's in the upper left-hand corner is usually the person that starts the room.
So they have to end it.
Yeah.
If you have a green badge, you might be able to pick the three right dots and then click close it.
If you have a green badge, you should be able to do that.
Word.
Well, I will.
I'll close out the room.
I just want to thank everyone.
And yeah, I look forward to having this conversation again next week.
Or not this one exactly.
But, you know, whatever we come up with, it's been really great.
Appreciate it.
Let me in, guys.
You've all talked tonight.
Yeah, big up, Cal.
I'm really honored to have been able to hear your statements and listen to everybody.
Thank you as always.
Thank you so much for having us, for doing what you do.
All right.
And on the YouTube side, thank you, everyone.
I'm going to get back to dinner, which is tacos and pumpkin seeds.
So they're still going.
Anyway, all right.
Have a good night, everyone.
