Well, hello everybody. We are live. There's Dr. Anubis, her moderator. We have some people
rolling in shortly, which is always exciting. We'll have the usual crew coming to join us
today as always. And I got to say, I am having a lot of fun right now because I happen to
have the unique opportunity to enjoy something that's before it's released. And Dr. Anubis,
I'd love to give you a moment of your time since you're the first one in here and we
might as well get the conversation rolling while we're waiting on everybody else to join us.
Is what are you working on? Because there's something pretty cool coming out pretty soon
that I think people should get excited about. Yeah. So for the last, oh, I don't know. Well,
it's been going on for a while, but definitely for the last three months, I've been really
working really hard on creating an education series that will be available for people to
sign up for and take. There will be like packages of like, what do I want to say? Like classes that
are related to each other, or you can just take a single class for something that you're
specifically interested in. It will be focused on just a single topic. So yeah, I, and it's going
to be a series that will be continually added to. So like the jank hour where we, every week we have
something new that we talk about. I want to keep building on this education series and people can
tell me, you know, where they feel like, you know, something that they want to learn that isn't out
there or, you know, whatever the case may be. So it's kind of going to hopefully grow and continue
to, you know, continue to add experts to help teach the courses and such. So that's been really
fun and I'm really excited. It should be out really soon. That's what I've been working on.
Nice. All right. And you know, it's a hell of a course and really well done. I've been
enjoying it thus far. I'm excited to take it. Yeah. And when it does finally launch,
it will be accessible through my website. So anishwabi.com, super easy to find right at the
top, it'll say Cannabis Education Series. You can just click on that and it'll take you right to the
courses. It's not ready yet, but it will be hopefully, hopefully, I'm hoping by the end of this week.
And this is awesome. I have my own at-home growth course that you all can check out on
Dagendam Academy, but this is done by PhD doctors and really high level. And I think it's super
well presented. So definitely go check that out. Well, we have our day beginning and we have the,
you know, a good portion of at least our usual group, a usual group of suspects here to join
the conversation. So we'll get today rolling without any further ado. I am excited for part two
of the Dank Hour panel, where we will be discussing breeding with the breeders of the Dank.
What we're going to, what this series is, is we're essentially doing a breeding project side by side
with you, our guests, and with some of the best breeders that I know in the world. I'm excited
to have Mr. Treece join us today and we'll learn all about you in a moment, Mr. Treece, but you can
tune in each week to see the various amount of topics here on Tuesdays at 5 p.m. on Clubhouse
and see all of the awesome stuff that's going on here, or you can catch us on future cannabis
projects. The idea being is that we want to create a space where we get, you know, people that are on
the ground, you know, doing breeding with like our, like Mr. Treece here, to the doctors. We want to
get these conversations to be had together and talk about how we can move and express and grow
together in this amazing world. And as usual, I'm London, your master of moderation for the evening,
your dictator of discussion, and your all-around weirdo that really likes alliteration, to create
a conversation and really have a Dank Hour of chat. The idea is that you get to sit down and
join us and have this conversation. So without any further ado, we like to do this every single
episode because it helps us do a little bit of a microphone check to see, make sure everybody's
coming through nice and loud and clear, as well as get you an opportunity to learn about a little bit
about each one of our experts on the panel today. So we're going to go PTR order for those that
don't know, PTR is in the order that you see them on screen on the clubhouse. So London, that's me,
and Dr. Anubis, Ashley, Johnny Gillian, and Mr. Treece. It's awesome that it's in this order today
because you're our special guest, Mr. Treece, so we'd like to finish on you. So Johnny will be like,
hey, I'm done. And then you go ahead and tell us all about yourself and kind of a little bit of
your history too there. So without any further ado, get going Dr. Anubis, who the f*** are you?
LOL. Yeah. Hi everybody, Dr. Anubis. I am, what am I? I guess I'm a cannabis
scientist, researcher, geneticist, and educator. I am in New Jersey currently working with an
outfit that is growing organic hemp at the moment using aquaponic methods. I completed my PhD in,
when was that? 2019, I think. Yeah, that sounds right. 2019 looking at,
well, it was entitled a multi-faceted approach to addressing variation in cannabis sativa. So I
actually do have a PhD in cannabis, which is kind of nice. And I enjoy my life every day. I love
discussing cannabis. I'm so excited to hear some more stuff about breeding. And Ashley, you're up
next. Maybe on mute, just so you know. Seems to be coming through a little bit funky. We do have
another issue that we probably, and there's Peter. So Ashley, is it coming through or am I the only
one getting screwed up here? Or would you want to try again? Say hello. I hear you. I hear you too.
I hear. And Blackbird will be on in like 15 minutes. I don't hear Ashley at all. Yeah,
I don't. I hear all of us, but I don't hear Ashley quite yet. Are you there, Ashley? Maybe
we'll skip by. There you go. Fighting my Wi-Fi right now. Fighting my. No problem, Ashley. We'll
go ahead and say hello to Johnny while you figure out your Wi-Fi situation. But go ahead and say
hello there, Johnny. Hello, everybody. My name is Johnny Gilligan. I'm a cannabis cultivator
and enthusiast all around. And yeah, I'm really excited to be sitting in. It's been a few weeks
since I've been able to sit down and join all of you, but I'm happy to be back and looking forward
to this talk. Ashley, I'm not sure if you are back and in proper service, but I guess I'll give
you a shot here. Or how about this, Ashley, you shoot me a message on the back when you're all
good to go and then we'll make sure to not call on you until that point in time. She's left the
room, people. She's left the room. Which is fine. Mr. Trees, come on. Say hello and introduce
yourself to everybody because it's important. You're our featured guest for the evening
and I'm excited to get to know a little bit of you. Can you hear me? Can you hear me good?
Brilliant. You sound amazing. All right. That's what I like to hear. Good deal. Good deal. I was
just shoveling some truckload full of mushroom compost out of the back of my truck and I'm like,
holy cow, it's five o'clock. We got to go. So I'm a little sweaty, but I'm smoking a bowl. I've
got some PAMF3 stuff I'm going through and smoking on right now, which is nice. And I'm happy to be
here. I'm excited to kind of hear some questions and bounce some stuff off of you guys. And yeah,
it's my pleasure to be here and hang out. So that's what I plan on doing. I got a free couple
hours from the wife and kids and this is what I'm doing. So a hundred percent in.
Awesome. I love it. Love it. Peter, did you have a minute to say hello as well? Did you
want to say hello to everybody on the wacky world of clubhousing?
I just went outside to smoke a joint, but yes, I'm trying to find reception. Hold on.
I hear you. I hear myself again.
I just got a whole bunch of seeds from Shooter and he sent a joint as well.
That's an awesome bonus when you get it back.
Yes, it was in the jar of seeds, had a joint ready to go. So I figured I should smoke it
immediately. Some Panama Red Cross with God Bud. Well, that sounds absolutely delicious. And I
hope everybody's ready for a fun one today. And we are going to be talking about, if I go to the
top, we are going to be talking about plant selecting and getting jiggy with it. And let's,
how the hell do you, A, select the plant that you're going to pull pollen from and B,
decide whether or not which plant to do it in and then how to do it without
destroying potentially or not destroying, because I don't think when you pollinate something,
you've destroyed it, but potentially affecting the rest of your space. It'd be great to be able
to grow some beans for your at-home breeder. And that's the idea is we want everybody to
kind of take this hobby onto themselves and enjoy it and grow along with us. I have,
on our last episode, we selected and we talked about selecting seeds, selecting breeders,
finding where we were going to have our base start point off of. And I actually think,
Mr. Trudy, you have a really great story. And we're of course going to lean on you
a hell of a lot because you are one of our special guests. The other will be showed up shortly.
You have kind of the PAM-15 that you mentioned there, which is the line that you have,
that you've been breeding off a long time. Do you want to talk a little bit about that one
and how you've been working in over the years and why you have such pride in that?
All right. So I'm Mr. Trees. I've been Mr. Trees for as long as I can remember.
Been growing fruit trees and gardens of cannabis for more than coming up on 25 years for cannabis.
That's you as a baby.
Yeah, literally, literally. Yeah, something that I do, something I do all the time. So I had some
old bag seed from my youth. I needed some ganja and I popped a few seeds and I pulled out a
plant that I really liked. And long story short, there was a couple of seeds in there.
I planted those seeds and selected a really nice plant that my wife named PAM after Pam Anderson,
because it was one of the prettiest, funkiest plants in the garden. And it came from the late
90s, early 2000s era when Baywatch was at its prime time. So I grew that for a few years.
Loved it. A lot of people around me loved it. It's an easy plant to grow,
easy plant to clone, really pretty, really kind of unique and unusual. Nothing like,
holy cow, this is the best weed on the planet Earth, but it definitely holds up.
And I sent a snip of it off to Phylos when Phylos was the hot thing. And back when Kevin
Jodry and everybody was mapping different genetics. So I figured, hey, I don't really
know what this is. It was kind of bag seed. Maybe if I can get some sort of answer,
you know, on its real, you know, origin, then I could better breed the line
and mess with it and combine partners and different things like that. So I sent it off
and it kind of came back with no, you know, no data that was usable really for me. It sat in
its own bubble and its own galaxy and didn't have any closely related relatives that it was in their
genetic database. So it kind of tested outside the realm. It kind of sat outside the box a little bit
and kind of told me that, hey, this might be a little bit unique. So from that point forward,
I just kind of started, you know, hitting things with it, trying to improve it and make it
a little bit more, you know, gassy and, you know, upfront and more, you know, more modern looking,
because it's definitely a raw sativa dominant kind of land racy type, you know, strain. And
over the years, playing with it and breeding it and talking with different people and different
people around the world, you know, it's some sort of probably some sort of like Himalayan,
you know, high elevation Himalayan ganja is what it looks like and kind of resembles all the
characteristics of. So, yeah, I've been, like I said, I've been playing with that for a long,
long time and it's coming up on what, eight years with the PAM-1 clone and
like six years with the PAM-15 clone and, you know, every type of back cross and out cross and,
you know, thing that I can do with it. I've done with it. I pretty much, you know, I keep it around
because it was, you know, it was kind of outside the box until I can get more confirmed data on
what it is or, you know, if it really is, you know, kind of out of the box and that special.
But I enjoy smoking it. Everybody enjoys smoking it. It's an excellent breeding plant. It's
something that is pretty darn dominant in all of the characteristics that, you know, it passes on.
And if you're trying to change something with it, you better have something that is a work line or
has a lot of domination, you know, capabilities because the PAM always shows you, you know,
where she is and all the crosses. And that's what I kind of use it for is my, it's my calibration
tool. So, anything that I like or that I want to work with or any males that I find or females that
I reverse, I always hit them to PAMs, you know, 1 and 15 because it tells me exactly what that plant
will, you know, more than likely pass on, you know, in a strong fashion. So, it's a great
calibration tool on learning, you know, what other things do and how, you know, how it all fits
together. So. Awesome. Well, we're going to play this a little bit loosey-goosey here today because
I'm going to invite people to come up and ask some questions. So, if you do have a question,
don't be afraid to raise your hand because we will do a little bit more question and answering,
but we want to keep our conversation focused on the breed. So, one thing that I want to get into
and really ask you about, because you mentioned that you're selecting plants and putting them
into your breeding products that you're currently working. So, into your PAM. How do you go about
selecting plants like males, specifically let's start with regular, using regular pollen from
diploid plants, so not feminized plants. Well, I mean, they're all diploid, but non-feminized plants.
So, how do you go about selecting a male plant to use in your program? And whether it be large
scale or small scale, what is your recommended methodology of doing that? And I know everybody's
going to have a different kind of lineup and setup. I don't expect there to be ever, ever any
consistency at all. Everybody has their own passions, but for your general goals and purposes,
which might be important to lay out too, like what are your general goals and purposes for your
breeding? And then how does that affect your choice of selecting a male that you might bring
into a breeding program? So, you know, like the general answer would be, you know, depending on
each project determines what your male or who your donor is going to be. So, in certain cases,
like a preservation project, you know, or you're trying to preserve a line, you know, one of the,
like the Kandahar, the example that we're working on right now, the Kandahar Mark Red,
I, you know, wanted to do an open pollination, use all the plants that I had, because I had,
you know, I had 20 seeds or something like that, or less to work with on a population. So,
I used all the plants in there to kind of capture as much of the, you know, of the palette as
possible. So, it didn't really matter if the male was short or tall or stinky or anything in the
original, just a preservation purposes. And then that next generation, you'll have plenty of seed
to kind of go through and then make your selections on the outliers and things like that. So, you can
kind of up your numbers. If I'm looking for, I used to use like a single male a lot of the time.
I think everybody does or did, or most people still do. You kind of select one male, and you
think that this is the stud, and you cross it to your plant, and that works out for a while. But
I always find that using a couple males really gives me, I don't know, more,
I don't know, it's hard, it's like more durable, more complex, more predictable seed
in the long term whenever I use, you know, like a multiple male project. I try to pick
a couple of good males instead of just using one good male. There was a time when I used just,
I was doing some stuff, and I selected this one male, and I used it on everything, and
everything that I crossed it to got this weird tropical type, you know, smell to it that I
didn't like. And it was just, it just came directly from that male, and it kind of ruined
the entire project for me because everything, you have to look through a lot of plants
to find the smell that wasn't the smell that I didn't like. So, ever since then, I started using
a couple males. So, whenever I looked at the plants after, I was like, okay, I'm going to
whenever I looked at the plants after that through the seed, I would have, you know,
I'd have an easier time finding what I was looking for, you know, in a weird way. So,
if I'm going to use just one male, which I have in the past, and I do, and I have a couple that
I keep around here and there, it's got to be, it's usually those resin males, the males that show
resin early, easily. You can sometimes prune back a male late, you know, when it's late in flower,
you can prune them back, and sometimes they'll throw resin. But the ones that show resin without
any kind of abuse, I like, I like seeing those. I like seeing some special color or resin
development that's abnormal to the others, and then I'll pull that one aside and use him
solely and figure out exactly kind of what he does, you know, and then that goes back to
crossing to Pam and figuring out what he does, you know. But I like resin males. Anytime I find
a resin male, some male that expresses resin or extreme smell or something that is just outright
stand out above the rest, and the rest being a lot, you know, as many as you can see,
that's the male that I'll keep solely. But most of the time I'm picking a couple of really good
males that are quality, that don't have hard time growing, that don't get picked on as much,
that just are a beautiful plant that has a good flower structure, and smell is really important
to me. So they got a stink in some way. I like a stinky veg plant, whether that translates to
flower or not. That's a another topic we can talk about later or whatever for another day.
But I like a stinky plant, so I'm always looking for some sort of a plant that smells a little bit
above average for that group of males. But it just depends. Yeah. Awesome, awesome. So I wanted to
ask, because I think you touched on a really interesting point here, is using multiple males
and when you come to, when you start inbreeding lines heavily, you create, you can create a
challenge for yourself long term. And by having multiple donors at the start, I think it's a
really helpful fact. So Dr. Anubis, what would, I have a two part question for you, and I'll word
it slowly so you have plenty of time there. The first part being is what, when it comes to the
genetic diversity of what we're doing here, when using multiple male plants, what's the outcome?
What, are we creating more genetic diversity, less genetic diversity? And how, and secondly,
how does that affect the breeding later on when it comes to things, when it comes to the development
and the speed and growth of the plant? London. Okay. So when you, so this always like gets my
brain just into overdrive because with males, you, because they don't have, you know, the female
flower, they don't show you the same potential for phenotypes or chemotypes that a female can
show you when she's in flower. So I feel like working with males, unless you have, you know,
unless you've bred it before or, and you know where it comes from, like you just, you don't know what
that male has to offer. So it's kind of at the beginning, it could potentially be a craft shoot,
as Mr. Treece was saying, you know, he bred one of his males and it gave all of the, you know,
all of the offspring this funky tropical profile that he wasn't super hip on. You know, but you
can find a stud that always gives the, what do I want to say, that always, or that very often gives
the next generation kind of like a consistent, more consistent phenotype in its offspring.
So I don't know that you're creating more genetic diversity when you're, when you're,
when you're feminizing, you know, creating female pollen, all you have to work with is what that
female has in her toolbox, her genetic toolbox. When you have a male and a female, now you've got
twice as much stuff in the genetic toolbox that you're pulling from into the next generation. So
it's not that you're creating more diversity, you just have more to work with from the get-go.
But if you're, you know, I mean, if you, if you're solid in what you're trying to create,
then using the feminization procedure, you're kind of cutting down on surprises. I feel like, I don't
know. And in terms of, is it better to work with males than females? I don't think it's better or
worse. It just depends on your situation, what you're going for, what you're looking for.
You know, by feminizing, you know what you've got and you have less, a smaller toolbox from
things that you're going to get in terms of what your offspring are going to turn out like,
because you've only got, you know, one parent that's contributing to the genotype of the next
generation. Whereas when you're doing a full cross with a female and a male, you've got two genotypes
that are mixing. So you're going to get a mixture of both of those parents. Did that answer your
question? Awesome. Flawless answer. We appreciate it. We're going to get into the other question
too. So, but we're going to get into, we're going to talk about choosing whether to do feminized
pollen or do, to use male or deciding that right, right next. But okay. So we've spent our time,
we've, we've, we've watched our previous episode and we made sure to make the right decision on
selecting beans or seeds that we, that we have vetted and ensured are either, at least we have
an understanding of what's going on. We've then taken those plants and grown them right up. Say
we've selected one, say we've selected a dozen males. I know people that have, that have done
or been a part of large hunts through male plants, through 10,000 male plants, through 10,000 plants
to find one stud male. And so I've, I've heard of this before. So say we find our stud male plant,
we find our one male plant that we're going to want to, you know, keep with us and breed with
for a while. Now, my question is, how do you go about like keeping these male plants? Do you
keep the genetic material stored in seed through further generational breeding, or are you able to
take these plants, bring them, you know, make sure that they're not dropping pollen all the time, but,
but keep them in a vegetative state and then use clones to produce a consistent pollen,
to have an almost unlimited supply of consistent pollen from an individual,
individual plant. You know what I mean? Like, so what's, what's your methodology?
Like a father plant, like we have mother plants, like a father.
Yeah, yeah, for sure. For sure.
Because I've always wondered, because they like, because it seems like they almost drop pollen on
the regular with like pre-flower. My guess would be that they drop pollen on the regular with
pre-flowers, just like female plants develop pre-flowers as well. So, I mean, as a home breeder,
one, one flower drop can be a big challenge in pollinators. So, my question is like,
what do you do in that? What's the methodology and thought process behind it?
All right. So, you're like, you don't know what, what you're getting with a male a lot of the time.
So, if, if it's a male that's going to be kept around, it better be darn special. And I've spent
money and had, had different males tested at a young age, have the, have the leaf tissue tested
for different cannabinoid profiles and things like that. And one of the males that I do keep
is a flamingo ringo male. And it's, it's one of my CBD type lines. And I was looking for CBD.
You can't really, you know, you need to test when you're doing CBD work or any other cannabinoid
work that doesn't, you know, it's not psychoactive. So, I tested quite a few plants. I found this one
male that, that had a little bit, you know, the, the right ratios that I, that I like. I can post
up the test results on my Instagram after this, if you guys, you know, want to see some of that stuff.
But yeah, it's, it's something that I know has this much CBD. It's just a couple percent, you
know, in a male young leaf tissue, you know, sample. So, it's like nothing like measurable,
but like on a, on a ratio scale, there's, there's been males test up to 7% CBD. This one, I think,
is like four or three and a half or something like that. But comparison to all of its siblings were,
you know, in the 1% or half of percents at a young veg state, you know, that, that, that one was the
highest one in the group. He's got a lot of good characteristics as well, other than that. But
that's, that's a way to like determine whether it's a keeper male. But as far as dropping pollen
and pre-flower and all those other things, you know, some males keep better than others, you
know, over time. I, I find that if you, if you have to re-veg a male, you find a male, you like him,
you want to re-veg him, that one always kind of, you run the risk of, you know, developing little
pre-flowers and, and dropping stuff more often. So then taking a plant that is in veg state that
hasn't shown sex yet, took in clones of that plant, kept that in veg the entire time, flowered
out the, the, the male, you know, the, it's, it's dad found out it was a male, made it through all
the selection process. And then you have that clone already in, you know, in veg state, mother
status, so to speak, or father status. And it doesn't have any problems. You can keep that for
years. I've had multiple plants that, you know, I've let go after not needing them after a while,
but they never, it never was let go because they always dropped pollen. They were totally fine,
just like any other female plant. No issues whatsoever, keeping it just, just like an old
female. So I imagine that you can, you know, depending on the plant, the time that you take it,
that might have some impact, variety of plant, where it comes from, its tendencies, you know,
that all has plays an effect. But I've always been able to keep whatever male that I wanted,
granted that I took it from a veg plant originally before I really knew what it was, you know.
And on the feminizing thing, that's the best way you can craft a plant to be your plant or to,
to look directly at what you want, want to make. It's the quickest road to where you need to go.
So there's a tool for every toolbox, every, you know, job at hand. There's a different
reason to do something, but I love, I love doing FemWay.
Johnny, did you have something you wanted to? Yeah. I was just curious, Mr. Trees, if you have any,
and, or if you've ever kept males around, instead of being like a stud and being, you know, having a
bunch of traits that you're really looking for, because we said it was kind of a crapshoot,
having a male that's, that's like recessive, you know, that's the exact opposite of a stud,
and it just doesn't pass on anything and how that could be a really valuable tool for people to,
to have in their toolbox. And you got to unmute yourself. I did that to you, Mr. Trees.
Oh, I got you. Sorry. No, that's a, that's a great question, man. That is something that,
that's a great, great out of the box way to kind of think about things. I love,
I love thinking about stuff like that. I don't, I don't keep a recessive male in any,
any way, shape or form, knowingly that he doesn't pass anything or he's completely mute.
And it will 100% allow the other, you know, the female to shine or whatever. That's, that's
definitely something cool. Might be something that I, you know, will think about doing in the
future. I do, however, like to select males that aren't a, like your typical stud. Nine out of 10
of my males that I actually do select whenever I'm working with a male or a traditional breeding
project would be, like, I always look for a male that's more, more dainty and more feminine, like,
you know, more like the females, you know, less likely to shoot up as high and want to drop his
palm down on the females below, more of the, the male that kind of fooled you, you know, you go
through, you make your, they show you quick, you do your first round of colon, you think you got
everybody there looking really sharp. And then that, that one plant that shows male and you
thought the whole time it was a bitching female, that those males I really like, I like, I like
using males like that. They're usually stinky. They're usually, you know, they usually have good
traits that send over. I've never had a real bad, bad seed batch come out of a male when I use,
use stuff like that. But as far as passing nothing or totally recessive, no, that's cool.
That's, that's something that I'd like to try out actually.
Oh, that's a great, great question. Do you have a follow-up or I'm going to do a quick
room reset if you'd like. No, go for it, Mr. Tree. I appreciate you kind of dropping that,
that knowledge on the males that are kind of the last to show. I have a couple,
a couple that I've just been sexing and it's, they've been really resistant to kind of show
their sex and they finally, I'm finally confirmed that they're males. And I think I'm going to keep
them around. I think I'm going to keep them around and do something with them. So appreciate your,
your response, buddy. I know. So I just wanted to throw something in here just to screw everybody's
mind up that, you know, those males could be females just with some,
something, some gene that's broken to where they present as male, but genetically they're female.
Yeah. I always thought about something, something along those lines, you know,
with plants that's, that's radical. I mean, and hormonal imbalances can determine that for sure.
So yeah, that, that's something that would be cool. And it's like, kind of like that thing
that old DJ Short used to say, you know, he used to look for the males that had the hair, that,
that would, they would throw the hairs and the pistols because, you know, it was a benefit to
whatever, you know, he was looking for. I don't remember exactly, but those more female dominant,
you know, maybe female plant type plants, you know, I don't know. I think they make,
make good daddies. I've done lots of seed batches. I mean, lots of seed batches with males just like
that. And I've always, I've always had people really stoked on, on, on the offspring that came
out of them. And they were never like, like hermaphrodite prone, you know, it's never been a
big thing. Awesome. Well, I'm going to do a quick reset here since we're at about the half an hour
point. We are the Dank Hour where we get experts together with amazing other experts and talk about
awesome stuff. You get to sit on it on a, in my mind, some of the dankest conversations
So don't forget to follow and like, and do all the gizmos and do that. Share this room right now,
if you haven't already, cause you should have. And I'd appreciate it if you do. Now we are here
on part two of our breeder series, where we are chatting with breeders and talking about the
process of starting your own breeding process. And we invite you to take the time, listen to
our previous episode, listen to this episode and, and, and breed along with the show, because that's,
that's the idea. We want every person to find an awesome new hobby. That is this cannabis plant,
whether it's just getting growing, because sometimes that's where you need to start,
or you want to try out something more advanced. This is a great place for you to enjoy that point
of conversation. Now I am really excited. And this is actually the first time we've gotten to share
space. And, and we have Blackbird Preservations, Jimmy Toucan on the stage. Welcome. And can you
tell us a little bit about yourself and who you are and, you know, exactly what the fuck's going
on with Blackbird Preservations? Cause I, I'm excited to hear about it. And his first clubhouse
lesson is going to be on how to unmute himself, which you do have to do. You have to click on the
speaker icon or the bottom right-hand side of this. Way down at the bottom.
Tap the microphone. You can do it. We believe in you on the bottom right-hand side. You're good
enough. You're smart enough and you can figure out how to unmute yourself. This is also a Blackbird's
first time here on Blackbird Preservations. They got me. That's my fire. All right. Well, okay.
This is what we're going to do. So Jimmy, when you find the button that, that releases the button,
the microphone on the bottom right-hand side, like literally on the furthest corner point
there, you should be able to see it. But if not, we'll let you just, whenever you feel free to
interrupt once you figure it out. Exactly. Kyle, we did bring up on stage. He, he looked like he
raised his hand to ask a question. Yeah. Thank you. Comment or statement while we continue.
Kyle has asked for the unmute button. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you so much for inviting me up.
Excellent conversation. And I just want to say I'm a big fan of gassy strains myself
and my favorite strain is G6. Thank you. Awesome. So you're going to put those together in a
Brady Project with us during this, this series that happens every six to eight weeks?
Probably not, but I'll think about it. Awesome. Well, thank you for coming on stage.
Yeah. I appreciate that. Honestly, I appreciate you coming up on stage. So we'll continue forward
again. Jimmy, if you get that mic open, you just start yelling like it's totally cool.
No one's going to be mad at you. Everybody heads up. So Dr. Animus, can we talk a little bit about
kind of the misconception that's commonly found when we're talking about feminized breeding?
Specifically in regards to the stability of the plant, if it's done properly, and then it may be
you could talk about, I don't know if this will come right off the top of your head, maybe Mr.
Trees or someone else would like to jump in is what exactly are some methods of testing a plant
to ensure that they don't have, that they aren't going to be unstable and create male, female
pollen that has prone to macrodermism? Thank you. Okay. So I think I know what you're getting at,
maybe. So, all right. So some people think that if you only breed with feminized pollen,
then that's going to minimize your diversity and create problems. So number one, of course,
you don't have to like pollinate the female with itself. You can, but you know, feminize,
or you can, you can reverse sex any female plant and cross it with any other female plant, right?
So in that sense, you've got two parents that are contributing their genetic information to
the offspring. You would do self-fertilization if you were trying to stabilize your line and,
and breed out all of the unwanted traits. And that's great too. You can do that.
The second part of your question is about like, if you are doing feminizing and you're, you're,
you're reverse sexing and then using that female pollen to pollinate flowers, are you creating more
a tendency for hermaphroditism or, or, you know, for the female to produce male structures and
pollen and nobody wants that. So yes and no, it depends on how you do it. So if you are just using
pollen from a plant that a female that just produced male structures and is creating pollen,
and you're like, oh, hey, look, I can make seeds. You're going to get offspring that has a tendency
to hermaphrodite because that plant has, for whatever reason, decided or perceived that its
life is in danger. It needs to make a seed. It's going to create pollen so that it can at least
create a next generation to, to another attempt to try and, and, and, and breed and make seeds with
an, with an elk, with a, you know, another individual. So you don't want to use plants
in a breeding program from, from females that have created male structures all by themselves
for no apparent reason, whether, or, you know, whether it was a light leak or I don't know,
you forgot to water it one day and it threw out some pollen sacks or some nanners or whatever
the case may be. That's not going to be, those seeds are going to have a tendency to hurt, to
harm. What you want to do, in my opinion, is try and stress out your female. And if you cannot get
it to herm, no matter what you do, those are the ones that have, you know, good genetics. They
don't have a tendency to harm and produce those male pollen structures. Yes, they're female pollen
structures. And you're going to have some solid, solid genes there. So, you know, if you stress it,
if you, if you give it light leaks, if you don't water it, if you, you know, do whatever to try and
stress it out and it's just not throwing out any pollen structures of any kind, then you're going
to want to do the actual like chemical process of reverse sexing. So using something like colloidal
silver or, or there's a couple different ways to do it. And sort of force it into creating pollen
structures and then you can use that pollen to create your, your seed line. So I hope that made
sense and maybe Mr. Tree can kind of, I don't know, add something to that? I don't know.
Yeah, so, you know, Mendel said, like begets like. So that guides me on lots of things. You know, if a,
if a female plant is likely to, to throw, you know, intersex or has intersex traits,
then that's not a good candidate, you know, in most cases for, you know, breeding or being a
good mother or any of those things, because then the offspring that, that produces from that,
however good it may be, you'll always have that extra percent or that chance of more intersex
children. So best way to go about that is to have a durable plant that doesn't do that. Kind of like
you were saying, there's a billion and one different ways to kind of stress out a plant
to kind of figure out if it's a good, good mother or not. Some people go to crazy extremes. Some
people don't do it at all. Things that I like to do is usually foolproof. If you put a plant in
like a one gallon pot or a small root, you know, depending on how you grow, it could vary. But
for me, if I put it in a very small rooting root space, like a one gallon pot or smaller
and flower it, it gets dry really quick, runs out of food really quick, gets hot on the outside real
quick, root ball gets a little stressed. That'll, that'll usually, you know, that'll usually flip
a plant that's easily flipped pretty quick. It'll show you, you know, usually by week three,
right there, week three and a half, three, four, you'll, you'll know it, you know, most cases.
There are plants that can, that can, you know, throw late flowers, you know, way later in the
flower. That's a whole nother conversation. But yeah, so the plant that doesn't do that,
you know, one gallon plant, it's, it's kind of dried out a couple of times and had a harder
time and did all those things. Usually pretty durable. And if you grow that thing again
and really kind of grow it well and kind of take, take care of it and see what happens,
that'll tell you a lot about its character as well. The more you grow anything, the more you're
going to learn about it. But you can throw it in a small root space. You can feed it really
excessive, you know, nutrients, you know, some, some people say give it a bunch of high nitrogen
or whatnot, but I find just, just feed it excessively. That'll piss them off. You can
flip them, you know, take them out there. They're in a night cycle. You take them out and look at
them. You know, pull them out and do pruning on them in the light while they're supposed to be
sleeping. That pisses off plants really good. You'll, you'll know it real quick. If a plant
is touchy, if you do some stuff like that. But there's a million ways to get it to kind of flip.
But you know, the, if you got a plant that is the profile that you want, that is durable,
doesn't flip easy and takes chemical intervention to, to really, you know, go the distance,
then that's a good, that's a good host plant. And that's something that you want to kind of,
you kind of want to work with. That being said, you know, all the best plants out there in the
world today that dominate the world, they're all touchy. So I don't know what that means, but
yeah, maybe we've chatted about it a little bit. When you, when you get, when you get such a,
when you start having plants that have such a high THC and such a high commit,
like such a high percentage of all these phytochemicals. Like if the plant's only putting
energy into that, it loses energy in other space. So I feel like that could be an underlying cause
of some of this situation and issue where like, that's why you get to go see, I just saw an
unmute Mike from Jimmy. Do we have you here? Can you say hello? Yeah. Oh, yeah, maybe, I don't know.
I guess maybe leaving and coming back was the ticket. Yes, it works. Holy shit. That was my
troubleshooting. I was like, maybe just quitting something. The mic was wide open. I was like,
well, I'm trying, but yeah, we, we were texting screen. Like I took a screenshot and I, and I
brought it into Photoshop and I put a big red circle around the microphone with like red arrows
pointing to it. And I texted it. I was like, tap this button. And then he sent me one back
that show that it's actually like on his end, the mic is on.
Yeah. As far as I knew, as far as you know, my, my screen was telling me I should have heard me.
So I, I, well, you have now mastered the most critical function of clubhouse, which is unmuting
yourself from here on out. It's all gravy. Right on. So, so the stuff you've been listening to,
you have any, were you like, I have something to say, but nobody can hear me.
Now I'm going to now, now I, now I have to go back and think about yeah, there was, there was
something. Oh yeah. As far as like choosing, you know, choosing males and whatnot you know, for,
for like an open pollination, you know, just choose everything that's healthy and well,
you know, it helps to, to research what you're, you know, what you're digging into and, and try
and find out if you haven't already, you know, smoked it and you know, have any knowledge. So,
you know, try and research what, what, what the, you know, what it's supposed to be like, right.
And, you know, maybe leave out some of the outliers, but for the most part, anything that,
that comes within that kind of idea, what it's supposed to be. But, you know, if you want to do
something more focused, yeah. Choose a, you know, choose a male that that's a lot like the female
that you like the most. You know, if you've gone through a population and you find a girl that,
you know, really suits you and that's what you, you know, want to move forward with. I
definitely look for a fella that's, you know, as much like the sister as possible without,
you know, without, you know, fancy equipment and whatnot. We don't know what exactly,
you know, what traits are close on the, you know, on the DNA strand. So, you have some,
some linked traits because they're right next to each other that you can, you know, I mean,
if you, like I said, if you have the equipment, you know what to look for, but, you know, as,
you know, people that are breeding out of their houses and whatnot, and even a small facility or
whatever, you're going by sight and smell and, you know, maybe you can reverse the male and,
and get a better idea of what the, you know, the terpene expression is and all the,
all the different stuff that makes up the smell. You know, that would be, you know,
that would be my direction. And as far as like recessive males, maybe not entirely recessive,
but, you know, it's not a bad thing because, you know, not for nothing, but, you know, when I bought
a lot of seeds, you know, it was because of one of the parents and it's usually because of the mom,
right? You know, you're like, well, I'm never going to get the clone or I just don't have the,
you know, I don't keep them or whatever. I just want to check out some stuff that's a lot like
the mom. So that comes in really handy. And a lot of the times, you know, the big bitch about
really great females is, you know, plants in general is, you know, maybe the structure isn't
real sound and, you know, they're, they're always flopping over and, you know, so maybe something
that just adds a little, a little bones, you know, a little sturdiness to the carriage. And,
you know, maybe, you know, maybe a little, a little resin or something like that. But yeah,
something that's unobtrusive and, you know, mainly it's like, don't take away from the,
you know, the tastes and the smells and the effect, you know, anything else is like,
oh, who gives a fuck, right? If it looks completely different, but it tastes and
smells like the mom and, and, and it has the same type of ride, then who cares?
But that, you know, it takes, it takes a lot of looking. So those are my thoughts anyway.
Hey, I wanted to just jump in real quick and address this idea of recessive males, like
recessive traits, right? You got to have two copies of that recessive gene in order for it to
be expressed as a recessive trait. So if you're getting recessive traits shown with your male,
that also means the female is carrying that same recessive trait. He's only
heterozygous for whatever that trait may be. So you, it's not the male necessarily that's
the problem, although he only has that recessive trait to, to donate to the next generation. She's
got one too. And, you know, this idea of dominant and recessive, that's every single,
every single gene, every single thing that that plant expresses is going to be either homozygous
or heterozygous dominant with two dominant alleles. It can be heterozygous with one
dominant and one recessive allele, or it can be homozygous recessive with two recessive alleles.
And, you know, as long as you get two copies of that recessive allele, it's going to show. If
you've got a dominant gene and you get one copy of that recessive allele, the dominant is going to
show. But not everything is dominant or recessive. There's also things that are co-dominant or come
where you get a mixed, you know, co-dominant agent. Both of them are expressed. One isn't
dominant completely over the other. There are linked traits, things that always come in, in
together like red hair and freckles. Most of the time, if you have red hair, you're going to have
freckles. Same thing in plants. So this idea of recessive that people throw around is not always
completely accurate. So I just wanted to throw that out there to get people's brains kind of
worrying about how these things work in the real world. Yeah, which is why it's important to not
only grow out the progeny, but the results of the progeny, you know, take those to F2 and
also breed out your males against multiple females that you've bred out against multiple males.
Again, without, you know, we're making observations. So without fancy equipment and
everything, we don't really know what's, you know, what traits are linked.
Even with the fancy equipment, we don't know enough about the cannabis
genome to say, oh, that plant has that trait. This plant has that trait. These, you know, like we just
don't, we don't, we know hardly anything. Yeah, if you breed a male, if you breed an IBL against a
bunch of different, you know, 30 different females, you're going to get a pretty good idea
of what shines through. Oh yeah, yeah. I mean, yes, traditional breeding methods. You can call it what you want, but
when, you know, when I breed a PCK against anything, whether it's male or female
side, all the progeny are going to show some bit of anthocyanins.
Yeah, I was just talking about like the fancy equipment, like that's going to look at the,
you know, the genotype and like, oh, you can get your, you know, sequence done.
Sure, it's going to give you an idea. You can take a look at the, you know, you can get a close look at it. But again, it's all about,
you know, I was just saying we don't know enough about the, I'm just saying we don't know
enough about the genome to send it into people with fancy genetic equipment for them to say,
oh, your plant's going to look like this, because we don't know. So before we get too far into this,
I'd like to step back a minute and ask Jimmy, because we didn't get the opportunity to actually
hear a little bit about you and Blackbird Preservations, could you talk about that?
We can learn a little bit about you and who you are and what you do. Sure, yeah, it all started out of a
pack of Northern Lights that, you know, I was just doing for myself and,
you know, picked it up on a, well, not an auction, but a kind of buy it now type of thing.
They're rare seeds and I spent a, you know, fair bit of money for them. So I figured, well, I'm going
to make some more for myself. So I have, you know, more to look through. And, you know, there was
a bunch of people that were tagging along that were wondering if I had any more and
if they were going to be available. And so, you know, I think there was maybe 30 packs that I put
out. And, you know, it was just a, you know, a fact of, yep, it's a rare pack and a lot of people
didn't get a chance to scoop them. So we made a few more and then I got in contact with Snow High
and asked him about the chocolate tie that he had that was very limited.
So we did that and we kicked some seeds and some other things back to Snow for the opportunity.
And it just kind of grew from there. And then just going through and doing the preservations,
I've had a chance to look at a lot of different plants. And in the meantime, I've acquired a lot
of different plants. And so it's kind of spread from, you know, the preservation work, like with
my last, the previous drop with the lemon tie, it was, you know, I preserved the lemon tie and I
found this, you know, this great male and hit him with a bunch of stuff and, you know, kept that
line going. And then I got a hold of Bodie's Cutta Lemon Tie. So I did a second iteration of the
Dutch Flowers release. And yeah, it's just kind of gone from there. You know, the base of it is
really is, you know, preserving some of the pure lines that, you know, the building blocks,
things that we've seen over the years, some of them are land-raised type stuff that, you know,
farmed land races that have come into the hands of some good people. And, you know, we did the
Hill Tribe Mung Tie, which is an amazing line. You know, the Vietnamese Black, which I have in a
couple of different things now. And so yeah, it's just kind of grew from there. And so I'm just
trying to keep it going right now. We got a lot of things lined up this summer that are in the works
and some things that are drying and curing right now. And so it's been a lot of fun.
Awesome. And you do have some really cool stuff. And I do want to mention that the breeders that
are showcased as our guests tonight, Mr. Trees, Jimmy from Blackbird Preservations, you can
actually find all their gear on DagaDogGarden that you can see at the top of the page here at Clubhouse.
Or if you're on YouTube, you can find that in the description right at the top so that you make sure
you can support these guys and give back to the community. So I was wondering, you know, we leaned
on Mr. Trees pretty heavily in the earlier part of the discussion, but I'd love to hear it from
you and give you a chance to take the stage for a little bit there, Jimmy. I'd love to hear about
the process and about when a plant is pollinated and the amount of time that it takes for that
seed to develop and how to know when it's a proper time to harvest for seed.
Yeah, you know, and like a lot of questions, the answer is it depends, right? Like the
faster running varieties can, well, most often, you know, they make their seeds pretty quick.
You know, five, six weeks and you'll see a lot of ripe, you know, fully mature
seeds where the Nacre is, you know, it's got that nice sheen on it and they're busting out of their,
you know, whatever the technical term is for it, their jackets is what I call it.
You know, and then some of the longer running varieties, they really take their time.
With some exceptions though, that Cut of O'Hays that I have makes really fast seed
and makes a lot of it. I do like the more kind of narrow leaf expressions as far as making
seeds because they're just branchier and stretchier and they're more airy,
you know, the flower set and it makes for a lot of room for each seed to develop. There's,
you know, sometimes you'll get a, you know, one of those faster girls that everything's
really clumped together and they almost get like over pollinated, you know, and you get a lot of
white seed and not a lot of, you know, A-grade type stuff out of them. But yeah, I mean, you know,
for the most part, the faster running girls are a little quicker to make their seed. They got to
get their shit done. And then the longer flowering varieties, of course, you know, it takes,
I say, you know, it could be six weeks before you see any bit of real flower set on them.
And then, you know, another, you know, eight weeks later, maybe you got seeds. So
it does depend on the varietal. And as far as like, you know, knowing when they're ready,
you know, it's, again, it's when they're freeing themselves from the plant and they take zero
effort to get them away, you know, and a lot of times, like I said, you'll see them split that
jacket open and you'll see that beautiful, you know, that beautiful shiny seed knacker kind of
peeking out. So that's, you know, again, so it depends, but somewhere between six and eight
weeks. Excellent. And do you suggest like almost allowing the plant to close out its life cycle and
just let it kind of die? Or do you suggest like kind of putting a timer for eight weeks max,
and that's kind of when you take it? Well, actually, well, what I do is I just pull them
out once, once they, the seeds are, you know, from what I can tell are ready,
I'll pull the plant out of the room, especially if I'm out of room, which is almost always
so I'll pull it out and just let it dry out naturally. You know, just let it hang out in a,
you know, in an empty space and then let it kind of dry out. It's usually what I do at the end of,
like, you know, for harvest or whatever, you can tell, because I hand water, so you can tell like
the day that those plants stop, you know, they kind of kick it from, you know, first, you know,
third gear back down into second or first gear, and they really stop drinking. And then it's time
to stop watering. When the bucket dries out, then I'll pull them out of the room and just let them
fade off and dry out a little bit before I even cut them down. So it's kind of the same thing with
the seeds, only I'll let them sit longer. Cool. And so like, I, so from that point forward,
would you suggest, like, do you suggest, so you've got your seed, you've bought, you've gotten,
you've separated them out, and maybe we'll grab Mr. Tree's after we go into this, you've gotten
them out. Is there a specific way, like, should you put them on a rack to dry a little bit before
you, before you put them in a jar? Can you just put them in a glass jar altogether? Should you
put a little bit, what is it, the old desiccant or where it dehydrates the air? What's your
suggestion for storing those beans post? Yeah, for me, well, it depends on the season too, right?
Like, I live close to water, so it's really humid in the summertime. I can, you know, like, they'll
start to dry out, but like the same thing with flour. I can't dry anything in August, right? It'll
just sit and be, it'll stay at like, well, I don't know what it would be, maybe 65 percent
RH if you jarred it, right? If you had a hygrometer in there. So, you know, like in the
wintertime, no problem. I'll just set it out on a paper plate or a tray or something like that and
let them dry for a week or two, and then I'll store them with, like, a little bit of desiccant just to
pull out the last little bit of moisture. Cold shock, you know, they've got to go into cold storage.
You know, they have stratification, I guess is the term for it, you know, like for ginseng out
here. There's a big, you know, pull for ginseng in this area, and those seeds have to, they spend two
years before they'll germinate, right? Like, they'll get dropped one fall, and they have such a shell
on them that it takes two freeze-thaw cycles before they'll germinate. So, you know, that
cold shock, I think, is really important to kind of sedate the, you know, sedate the seed and think
it's going through that normal cycle where, you know, they're dropped, but it's not ready to germ.
You know, you don't want them to germinate in the fall, so they react to that cold, you know,
those cold temperatures and kind of go to sleep. And so that's my gig. I, you know,
two weeks, let them dry, and then cold storage.
Awesome. Great response.
If it's the summer, and it's really moist and humid, then I let them sit out for that initial,
like, you know, five to seven days, and then I'll jar them up with, like, a bunch of desiccant to
dry them out. Smart, smart. And do you just use packaged desiccant, or do you, like, use, like,
dried rice or anything like that? Yeah, I buy rice by the 20-pound bag, so I always have it around.
I love that. I appreciate it. So, Joseph popped up on the stage now. I'm going to open this up
now. If you're in the audience or you're on a future cannabis project, go ahead and raise
your hand, ask a question, go ahead and stay there. I've tried to write down if there was
other questions beforehand, but I didn't really see much of any. So, we're opening up now for
discussion, for you to come in and ask our everything. So, Joseph is the first one up on
stage. You happened to have popped up quite a bit earlier, and I would love to ask you,
do you have a question, comment, or statement for a panel of experts today?
Hey there. Thanks, guys. It's been great listening to you all. I'm a cannabis farmer
up in the Emerald Triangle. I've done some breeding myself. I had a question about males
and growing mediums and sort of nutrient regiments and kind of what your guys' thoughts are.
You know, give them the same amount of nutrients as the females, give them more, give them less,
plant them in fair growing medium, plant them in the raw earth. What are your guys' thoughts?
Thanks. Did you want to ask anyone specifically, like our special guest, Mr. Trees or Jimmy,
in particular, or did you want, were you just asking an open question as well for the group
to answer? Then I'll just. That's an open question. I mean, I've heard from Mr. Trees and
Jimmy. So, if one of you guys want to share. Yeah, just kind of curious on what your guys'
thoughts are with it. Maybe we should go around the room and ask. Just kidding.
I would imagine they're treated the same, but I'm no expert in holding male plants.
Mr. Trees looks like he's jumping at the bit here. So, we'll give him the opportunity.
No, I was going to say was I treat them all the same, man. There's nothing I do differently with
the males. I'm growing the males so that I can get the females to do what I want. So,
if the males are doing, falling in line with the program, then they're probably a good contender for
later on making good females. They're going to follow the program. So, I don't do anything
different with them. I just like using them against multiple things so that I can actually
see what the hell they do. So, but yeah, nothing special. Cool. Thanks. Yeah, I'm kind of playing
around with a running theory over the last like 10 years or so. Been growing male and female and
doing the selecting and vegetative ratio. And what I've been playing around with is like if the
females are being grown in luscious soil with all the nutrients they need, and if the males are
getting the same thing, are we breeding a lineage that's adapting to higher nutrient needs?
Don't know the answer. My intuition says yes. And so, been playing around with just growing
males in like raw native plant soil, kind of with this idea of origin in mind of, you know,
what were the plants doing before we started cultivating them in the ways that we are today.
But yeah, just an idea I'm playing around with. And I don't know if any of you guys have any
feedback or thoughts on that. But yeah, I would love to hear what you guys think of that idea,
theory. I'm super cheap, man. So, I always teach my culture to like, you know, just,
I'm using native earth mixed with very little low nutrients, only when they absolutely need it.
And I rely heavily on just the worm castings from the farms that I have.
And that's, I totally agree with you on like, we can push things to need certain things.
I've been doing kind of a similar thing with clone, with cloning gel, you know,
I'll make five clones of something, and then I'll make five more. I'll make five clones of
something with clone gel, and then I'll make five more of the same ones without it. And if I can get
the ones to root without it, I take, I usually take those ones, you know, for everything special
for myself. But, you know, I don't know if some of those old cuts are, you know, grown like hungry
for the clone gel or the nutrients because of their conditions, or, you know, it's something
I've always kind of wondered myself, but me, I'm a minimalist anyway. So everything gets minimal.
And if they outperform, then we're rolling, you know.
This is a heads up, Dinemi. I did give you a mute because there was a little bit of background
noise. And in case you had a private conversation going, I didn't want everyone to hear it, just in
case, just in case. But I did want to jump in and say, like, I think you're doing a really good
point here is that when you're doing breeding, my understanding is when you're doing breeding,
like you're going to, the strongest plants in your system are going to favor that system. So
if you're going regeneratively, plants that do best in regenerative, in your regenerative method,
their offspring will be better. And you just keep going along these paths. That's kind of why we
have a lot of plants that are, that are so stuck on salt based fertilizers and these really crazy
consistent levels because they have never seen anything else other than that. So you get like
really wicked instability. Now, Johnny, as our resident, like regenerative natural guy,
could you talk a little bit about like plant selection when it comes to outdoor growing and
what your, what your thought process is there when using these methodologies? If you're.
Yeah, yeah, sure. I mean, so the way the plant is going to express is going to
draw a very, so dramatically based on so many different factors. When really, you know, the
word phenotype is kind of that, that influence of, of environmental with the genetic code that it has.
So you, all of these things, whether it's in, you know, inside, outside grown under
high pressure sodium versus led grown with synthetic nutrients and grown with organic,
you're going to have all these different expressions, or even if you have the same,
same exact clone, you're going to see variants. So really, you know,
I'd say it's just, I feel like there's not enough
disclosure and transparency where breeders are doing their, their selections. And you'll have,
you know, issues that can come up from it. A lot of things that are really, really stable outside,
you throw them inside and they're going to be have high rates of intersect, developing intersects
traits. And I mean, so it's, yeah, just picking and choosing, if you know, you're going to be
growing something organically but you source your genetics from, you know, somebody who's,
who's growing in coco core and they're doing their selections based off of, you know,
you know, their high salt regimen that they're doing inside and you're trying to grow organically
outside, you know, results may vary dramatically. So really, I mean, I don't know if I'm answering
your question here at London or if I'm going off topic. You're nailing it. Oh, good, good.
But yeah, so I guess just knowing where, you know, where your genetics are coming from,
how it was treated as it was being cultivated and, you know, taking that into consideration because
yeah, you could end up with something completely different or high rates of
plants from herming out where someone may have not had that in their setup. So
yeah, just I think that's the gist of it. And take it away, London.
You're spitting Shakespeare, brother.
Boom, drop the mic ball, microphone, not ball. Well, I said ball. Regardless, moving on.
That was like a really well done, Johnny. You nailed it exactly. So Woody Stems asks,
I'm getting crazy. Best favorite way to dry pollen and probably while we go into dry and
store pollen, because I'm sure there's a few people listening to this episode that are at
this stage might be thinking, oh, fuck, I got all this pollen. What do I do with it? Can I store it?
Can I use it? What can I do later? And I would like to actually hear from both of you. So let's
start with Jimmy and then go to Mr. Trees and get each one of your own input on this specific
subject. So Jimmy, don't forget I muted you. There you go.
Yeah. So usually I collect on, you know, it's really handy dandy are the boxes that you get
like, you know, something long and skinny in, you know, like golf clubs or something like that. I
have a couple of boxes that I saved and I line it with parchment paper and shake the mails over that.
And once it's dry, maybe four, again, depending on the time of year, I really don't try and
collect and, you know, in the dead of summer, just because it just everything stays so wet and sticky.
But usually like four or five days and you can scrape it up,
send it through. I can't remember what, I think it's 150U
screen that I have that I send the pollen through just to get any of the live bits out.
Because that's the last thing you want in there, you know, organic material, other organic material.
And I store it with a little bit of rice or desiccant and just keep it cold and dark. I don't
freeze it only because I don't trust my freezer. You know, it's got like the freeze-thaw cycle or
the defrost cycle on it. So I figured I'd just keep it at an even temperature, sealed up and in
the dark. And I've had no problem with it. You know, I don't think I've kept anything longer
than a year and a half or two, but it does start to degrade a little bit, but that's my method.
And it seems to work.
I used to try to collect and store more pollen than I do these days. Now I usually just pollinate
the females with the live, you know, pollen donor in action and then make sure that everything gets
cleaned up and I'm done with it. There are instances where I got really good at storing
pollen and holding on to pollen and kind of figuring out what I could and couldn't do with it.
That being said, I never ended up, I never freeze it because I never had success with it and I rarely
put it in the refrigerator and I would try to use it pretty darn quick. I'd, you get your plant,
what the way that I'd collect it, if I was going to collect pollen, I would wait for the plant to
get ready to start flowering before it was just when maybe just a couple of the male flowers were
starting to open. But it was getting there. I would wait for the plant to start to flower and
but it was getting ready to bust, but it hadn't quite busted yet. And I would, I would snip off a
couple of those branches just like they were like roses getting right up fully open, you know,
and I'd take, take those branches and I'd clean them up, take off the majority of the leaves and
all that jazz and I put them in a, you know, in a glass of water or a water bottle or something
with a little bit of moisture. You could wrap them up in a, in a wet paper towel, put them in a dry
Ziploc bag and, you know, just kind of wrap them up with, you know, rubber band or whatever,
just kind of just make a little, little, little flower bouquet or whatever. And then I'll take it
and kind of do, do what Jimmy was saying, you know, you get yourself a good box and some parchment
paper. I use a taller box so that, so that pollen doesn't blow around, you know, if like, you know,
the door opens or something happens or, you know, what have you, a draft goes through, what, what
not. So I'll use like a deep, tall box and I'll set that, that little bouquet of flowers in like
the corner, kind of sitting up. And if I'm in a bottle or whatever, I'll set it in the corner and
then I'll bend over the, the flowers so that they're over the top of the parchment paper,
kind of, and as soon as, you don't even need any light really at all either. You can keep it in
the dark. I've done it hundreds of times. You can just have the ambient light, you can put it by a
window, whatever, but you put it someplace that doesn't get windy and you leave it there and all
the pollen will just drop from those flowers over like a two-day period, right onto the parchment
paper, nice and clean, nice and easy. And I'll just drop down there and then you can gently pull that,
that bouquet out of there, shake off whatever, tap it a little bit, drop the rest on there, and then,
then you got a parchment paper thing full of pollen that you can clean up. And you clean it up,
you get all the, the material out of it, make sure it's clean. I don't screen it. I don't fiddle with
it anymore. I just make sure it's darn clean. I spend a little bit of time moving it back and
forth and getting the crap out of there and watching for any bugs that might jump around
there that are small and all that stuff. And after it's been clean and kind of sitting out there for,
you know, a day, you know, maybe I'll get to it, you know, all in one day. Maybe it'll take me two
days to finish it off, but it'll sit there and dry even more. And then I'll put it into a, I'll
either make a little envelope with that said parchment paper and just wrap it up in its own
little envelope. Never had to scrape it or move it or anything. And then I take that envelope,
fold it, throw it in like a Ziploc bag with a couple of desiccant little packets. And then
I'll throw that in like, you know, a cool place, you know, in the kitchen or the, in the bathroom,
throw it up in a cupboard in some dark, cool place. And I've, I've used pollen stored that way
for, you know, six months, eight months. It's good for, I've used it with good success.
Every, every month, you know, you're going to get less and less success unless that pollen's
going to, it's going to lose viability, you know, pretty quickly. You're not refrigerating it.
You're not freezing it. And the reason I don't is I don't want to take the risk with any,
any moisture. I don't even want to fiddle with it. Every time that I do anyway, you just,
you just got to take it, you know, unless you're doing it serious in a serious situation where you
can really, you know, properly seal everything in a scientific way. And I don't bother freezing
stuff anymore. I will refrigerate seeds, but that's a whole nother story.
And you know, it's dry enough when it flows like, like talcum powder, you know, it should never
clump or, you know, you should be like dust. And as soon as, so, you know, it's all relative,
whatever, wherever you are, if you're in Colorado, your shit's going to fucking dry out in like 12
hours. Right. But so, yeah, when it, when it moves around freely, then you can just jar it up or,
you know, however you want to package it and then you should be good to go. It's just important to
get it dry. And, you know, I think just like, you know, it's like seeds, they don't have to be
in some fancy fucking deep freeze, 900 fucking degrees below Fahrenheit,
it just maintain temperature. I think that's the most important part is that wherever they are,
or, you know, wherever your pollen is, that it's at a fairly constant temperature,
no matter what time of the year it is. Hell yeah. 100%. If your shit's clumpy, you're in trouble.
Don't even try. So make a t-shirt out of that slogan.
Okay. So here's a question I have. So if someone were to, you know, have, because we're talking
about pollen here and oftentimes if somebody is growing cannabis, it's not usually particularly
for, particularly just for breeding. It's very rarely a source. Probably they have some medication
and they want to explore this new thing. So my question for both of you, and we'll start with
Mr. Tree, then go to Jimmy and reverse it this time. It's kind of our final question for the
night before we get a little rundown about you guys, is what can one do if you know there was
pollen released in a room that you're looking to keep sensimalia as an all-female, un-pregnated
flower? What can we do? Is the pollen immediately pregnant? Can we do something to stop the pollen
from getting all the way down there? Is there something we can do?
I lost you. Are you there? Or was it my end?
Yeah. You're...
Okay. Oh yeah. So the only thing you're going to do to stop pollen is water.
If you're trying to, if you have a plant that goes, if you have a plant that
throws some pollen and you didn't want it to throw pollen in a room full of females,
best thing you can do is try to get the females wet or wet down the area to prevent any pollen
from blowing around and sticking to them. But if it's already happened and it's near
other plants, it's already happened. It's microscopic and it's happening. But some of
that you might be able to postpone if it's not right on top of it. But you got to, if you've
had a pollination inside of a room or inside of a structure, I mean, water is the only thing that,
you know, it'll kill pollen right away. So you can use water and something. You can mix water
and bleach if you want, or you can just use a squirt bottle. I carry a squirt bottle with me
whenever I got a lot of pollen that I'm dealing with. And I just hook it to my hip or to my belt
with my shears and stuff like you guys know. And I just carry a squirt bottle and I'll squirt down
myself. Just mist myself and I'll mist down plants. You can take plants, you know, like to
have a male outside and take a female that's inside, take it out outside to the male, pollinate
the female outside, you know, give it a day. Next day you can hose down the female, squirt it down
with that squirt bottle and stick it back inside with the rest of the females and you won't have
any problems. It won't contaminate the other females, no problem. Done that hundreds of times.
It just, water is your best friend. It's the best thing you can do. Sorry, I'll stop talking.
Tyler, I have a very important question.
Yeah, Peter.
How frequently do you strap on the RoboCop Edward Scissorhand Falco hydraulic?
Oh, the H-Rubber, man. Yeah, yeah.
And how satisfying is, do you feel once you strap it on?
Yeah, I love it, man. It feels really good. It's like you're like RoboCop or something when you
get it on. It really, it like clutches your back a certain way. It's just backpack. It's
this battery-powered sheer that can pack branches up to like three inches plus and like just a push
of a button. It's the coolest thing ever. That thing cut down trees.
Yeah, like nobody's business. It is the bomb. I use that every day almost, man. Honestly,
every day. And the cool thing about that thing is it counts your cuts. So what I learned was I do,
I do like somewhere around 10,000 cuts, you know, every couple weeks, some months, you know,
depending on the busy years, up to like, you know, 10,000 cuts up to like every two months.
So it gets used. That's for sure.
Imagine that counter can be really handy for the, for when you're doing trees.
It's like how many cuts of this branch?
Yeah, man, I was having problems with my arms and stuff like, you know, getting carpal tunnel
and tearing up my shoulders and all kinds of shit. I'm like, God, I gotta do something
different. So I found that tool and I started using that tool instead. And it told me that
I was doing 10,000 cuts freaking that, that, that often. I'm like, I was doing that for years,
almost a decade. So it just shredded my arms. So I was like, oh shit, taught me how much work
you're actually doing. And you don't really realize it. So working smarter is definitely
the way to go. You know, tools are the best way to go. Get a good tool.
Peter, how strong is Mr. Tree's handshake? Because I imagine you have a ferocious fucking
handshake. It's like the recessive males we were talking about. It's very passive and limp.
I got, I got three boys. So that tells you a lot about what's going on here. You know,
I have, I have for one delighted in this conversation as, as you all are always
disappointed and found out, we like to keep these conversations tight and respect our
experts time because we have a lot of amazing people come in for these discussions. But before
we go, there's one crucial thing that we absolutely need you to be here to listen to.
So if, and if you haven't already definitely check out Dagadaw Garden at the top,
but before we go there, I want to know first of all, we did Mr. Tree's, you were here at the
start, but Jimmy, how can the community, whether it be on YouTube, future cannabis project or here
on clubhouse support you as a breeder in your endeavors and adventures in the world of cannabis?
Yeah. So I have, I have a website where, where I do some woodworking, we do rolling trays and
stash boxes. I have some leather works, some laser engraved leather bound grow journals,
things of that nature. You can find that at dirty bird trading co.com.
As far as the, you know, the breeding is concerned, you know, you can follow me at
blackbirdpreservations on Instagram and just show it off, you know, grab some gear, hit me up. If you
have any questions or, you know, like if you're wondering what, what, what you want to dig into,
I try and provide, you know, long flowering varieties, shorter flowering varieties,
provide, you know, long flowering varieties, shorter flowering stuff, you know, lots of
different flavors, you know, preserving some of the old, old classics. And so if you want to dig
into that, you go to blackbirdpreservations. My personal account on IG is at J2Cans.
You can check out all kinds of stuff there as well. So,
the best way to, the best way to get down those is really is grab some gear, share what you found,
you know, show it off, make more seeds.
Hell yeah, that's exactly the type of word you would like to hear from people that go out to the
show when it comes to these segments. Don't just buy the seeds and grow the seeds, breed the seeds,
be part of the community, be part of my adventure. I love that mentality too.
Yeah, well, you know, and a lot of the times, you know, like I've gone through a lot of different
varieties and it's like sometimes I just, you know, for whatever reason, I got a lot more shit
to do. So, you know, if you picked up this or that, make more, because I don't know if I'm going
to get back to it. You know, if people want my selections, they'll get my selections. I'm not
worried about, you know, you making something out of, you know, something that I reproduced and,
and, you know, stealing my thunder. Like, you know, people, you know, that's the best part.
And really an important part of the provenance and letting people know, like, you know,
especially when you're preserving something, you know, we want to know where it came from,
who made the previous selections, who made these selections, because we, you know, we could get,
we get 10 of us all together in a two-year project with the same fucking line, and we could make
selections for two straight years, right? And at the end, we're all going to have, you know,
a little bit different, maybe even wildly different, depending on what we start with,
you know, a different, you know, different line almost, right? At that point,
nice, you go five, six generations, you got, you know, it could be something entirely different. So,
you know, keeping the provenance, letting everybody know where it came from, who worked
on it previously, and then you get to know, like, well, what are they selecting for, right? So,
yeah, just keep it going. Keep the groove going.
Hell yeah. We love you, Jimmy. We appreciate you joining us.
And who are some of the breeders who you get excited to play with, what they've
kind of, like, directions they've pushed things in?
Well, you know, I love Mean Gene's shit, because he works with a lot of old stuff,
and he's also an outdoor breeder, so it's kind of a two-for-one, is he works with a lot of classic
gear, and he breeds outdoors, which brings a lot, you know, because I run, 90% of my stuff is run
indoors. So, you know, I like to look for that kind of thing for, you know, pest resistance and,
you know, just being, you know, having that extra dynamic in there. Snow High, because all the crazy
shit that he works with. Bodhi, of course, you know, I've used a bunch of his stuff, reproductions,
and crosses, and I'm lucky enough to have a couple of his cuts. So, you know, guys like that,
then there's a ton of smaller breeders out there that are doing the good work, you know.
They're keeping stuff alive, the building blocks, the kind of things that we're going to want to
revisit at some point, you know, as the gene pool gets muddied, and in desserts, and
that kind of thing, and, you know, it's all bag of peel, and, you know, whatever. I've smoked a
lot of it, I can't really tell the difference between most of it, you know. So, that's where
let's just keep the old stuff alive, and have fun.
William Raisch Brilliant. Mr. Trees,
how can the community at Clubhouse and on future cannabis project go about supporting you and your
endeavors in the world of cannabis and breeding, and tree breeding for that matter?
Jim Trees Well, you know, well, first, man,
I just want to, you know, salute Jimmy, man. He's, you know, Blackbird's the real deal.
People should check out his stuff, his trays, and his books, his little leather books,
poetry books and stuff, man. They're cool notebooks. They're badass, man. Really are, no shit.
As far as me, you know, people can find me. I'm on IG, Family Tree Seeds, at Family Tree Seeds.
Got my YouTube channel, Mr. Trees, about plants and trees and all kinds of fun stuff. You got
this place, there's Embracing Organics. I'm in all kinds of online, you know, shows and programs. So,
you can just search for Mr. Trees most anywhere, and I'll pop up. As far as supporting and stuff,
man, you can, you know, keep visiting DAGA. That's great. That's a great place to go.
It's good people, good stuff. Try to keep it filled up with cool things.
And if you need, you know, problems or questions or issues, or you need, you know, help with your
trees, there's all kinds of different, you know, services. And, you know, I love answering
questions and helping things. There's all kinds of stuff that I can do. There's the worm business
and the farm business. There's all kinds of, you know, fruits and veggies that we're going to be
launching and doing. So, you know, just link up with me. Hit me up on IG or the YouTube or here,
and we'll, you know, we'll get you hooked up with one of the cool things or all the cool
things that's going on. So, I'm also doing some of the coffee cup seed deals going on again, too. So,
anybody knows about that, just like I said, hit me up, man. We'll get seeds in the garden. So,
much love to all you guys, man. Thanks for even, you know, having me out there.
Well, I mean, I've had an awesome conversation. I think everybody else has, too. Do any of the
experts have a closing statement for today before we finish off the show and say good night to
everybody? Yeah, I just want to thank you guys for having me on. It was an honor to share the stage
with Mr. Trees. You know, I watch what he's got going on. I keep a pretty small circle, but I
think it's a good circle. So, much love to everybody. And, you know, if there's anything,
you know, that you have any questions on the gear or, you know, the products that I have,
please hit me up at Blackbird. That's the public one. So, you can always access me there and,
you know, keep it growing. Thank you. Awesome. And I do have a favor for everybody in the audience,
and I have a favor for everybody that is out on YouTube as well. That we have, I had an awesome
thing. And I'm sure you guys know of this fantastic human being called Jordan River from
Growcast Podcast, another awesome channel as well. I happen to have the opportunity to get to
interview him this morning at 9 a.m. for Cannabis for Breakfast. So, please, I popped that link at
the top of the channel here as well. So, please go check that out. It was a great conversation.
He's doing some great stuff as well out there. And don't forget, there was also Dagadot Garden
to catch everything else. And again, I appreciate you and everyone. Thank you, Mr. Trees. Thank you,
Jimmy, too, for being here for our awesome show. And don't forget to follow, like, and
check out all the moderators as you can. I'm going to close out the show and say bye on the YouTube
side. But thanks again, everybody. And looking forward to seeing you next week as we talk about
bugs, bugs, bugs, and prepping for the summer season with our expert, Claude Robert from
Anesis Bioprotect. So, tune in next week for that awesome episode. I'm going to do the whole in the room.
I'm going to do this.
Brandon, take this off so you can see a hollow outline of me. Can you hear me?
General audio. Yes, you can hear me. It's not super great. So, we're going to do this one
quick little thing to make it super great. Oh, so much better. PC loaded. Give me one minute here.
For the mix up, Mike, and you now have the ASMR version of London Mirror. Now, I just wanted to
say we had an awesome day today on the Dank Hour as well as an awesome evening last, as well as
an awesome morning this morning with Jordan River from Growcast Podcast. I have a lot of fun stuff
coming up in the next little while. So, don't miss out on any of that. Make sure to check out that
other show as well. Next week for Cannabis for Breakfast, I believe we have this Potsquatch
Vigidene again. So, those that enjoyed that beautiful human being, be back next week for that
one. And before you go, make sure to check out Dagadot Garden, Dagadot Academy, as well as all
the other cool people. And there's one last bean we need to touch on because it is Tuesday, Cannabis
for Breakfast, and all of these amazing items are done for the day. Tomorrow, we have Growing with
Marco at 1 p.m. So, don't miss out on that. I frankly love their goddamn show. It is absolutely
brilliant and they really kill it. They really do a really good job. Brian Enlightened is again on
Thursday at 10 a.m. as they are every Thursday. Don't miss on the Joda Herb show on Thursday night
at 6 p.m. Following that, you have Saturday's Mental Breakdown with Chad Westport. Hopefully,
that's going well. And then next week, we have a regular round of shows. But don't forget,
you're going to see regularly here and there. It's a little hard because they don't quite put
on the schedule, so I can't tell you exactly when it's going to happen. But if you are part of the
community and you love growing and you love being part of this community, I advise you go check out
Guerrero Go Show. They are regularly playing throughout the day. He's probably one of the most
active streamers on this channel. So, if you haven't already, make sure to go give him a watch
and let us know what you think about all the awesome programming going on here,
including our channel and everything else going on because we are doing it for you,
not for me, not for anybody else, but for you, the viewer. So, looking forward to seeing you all
next week. And actually, I'll see you on Thursday because we got Joda Herb's
Grow and Tell. Anyways, I'm going to end the broadcast and let you all enjoy.
