All right. Welcome back, everyone. Episode three of Seed to Social on FCP channel two.
And here is your host, Sir Lancelot.
Hey, thank you, Peter. As always, yes, as Peter mentioned, this is episode three, and
we continue our virtual global tour. As you all know, we started off this season first
in South Africa with some friends down by the horn, and then made our way over to Barcelona
and caught up with some friends both in Spain and up in Amsterdam to hear what's going on
on that side. Now we're actually transitioning to South America. And again, I feel like I'm
hosting a reunited apart. I love that series on YouTube, but it's about cannabis instead
of 80s movies that we all love, because I've got two of my favorites out of South America,
Simon and Pasual. And it's no coincidence they have the same last name. They're brothers,
and they're actually two of a dynamic trio. And we'll jump right in. You guys want to
say hello and give a little background right quick?
The brother thing is just marketing.
They're not brothers. When you come in the company, they're like, okay, when you negotiate
your salary, it's like how much for changing your last name? And then you start from there.
So it's the thing, you know, right?
It is. And you guys, and so I have to divulge. I usually give the backstory on the relationship.
So again, for our audience, I've known these guys for years. We got introduced through
a mutual friend who may or may not make a cameo here shortly. But I've been down. I
remember it's been about, my gosh, four years now, but came down to South America. You guys
were so hospitable in having us down for Expo Weed, coming down at the time representing
Boveda and definitely get to meet you all. And joking aside, there are three brothers.
And I always love-
Dude, when we first met, you were in Weedmaps.
Oh, that's right. Oh my God.
Dude, that was back in Champs Pretty Show, Vegas.
In Las Vegas. Oh my gosh. And we met in the back. And usually I've got the great memories.
Remember this horrible fry, you remember?
Oh my gosh. You guys came in. Oh my gosh. That's right, man. I was hanging out with
our soon to be cameo guest. And you guys, we met up back in the food court in the very
back of Champs. That's when it was smaller. It was still at the Vegas convention center,
but it was smaller. And you guys come in and I think you actually had the film crew thing
going. You actually, you guys were doing some videography there too, right?
Yeah, we were shooting this documentary series that we have. It's called Very Happy. We kind
of travel the world and tell the story of the people behind the cannabis industry. So
we were interviewing different people. The funny thing is that one of the guys was a
fucking time, I remember from Seattle. He had these like, back in the day, like, every
single-
Hold on. Are you having trouble hearing his audio?
Yeah, you can't hear me now.
Can you kill the earbuds? Can you take the earbuds out and just talk through your phone?
I think it might be internet though.
Yeah, but the Apple earbuds always cause problems too. If you can just put the earbuds in the-
In the trash.
Put them back in there. Okay, let's take two.
They all have a little bug.
Well, and Pasoel, you can actually, I'll jump in because you can tell a bit of the story, man.
You were the man, again, behind the camera. We were joking a little bit before starting
off here because you're like, you guys just call me out if you need anything because you're
so used to being behind the scenes. So for those that don't know, and I don't know if
Joaco's around as well, but Simone is definitely the front man, if you will. And then Pasoel,
you were doing everything behind the camera, right?
Yeah, well, it's like one time we tried to put me in front of the camera and I broke
a bong like the first minute. So I'm not very good in front of the camera. So that's why
I stepped from behind and tried to make Simone and the people look good. That's my joke.
You guys have a perfect formula going on, that's for sure. I definitely stand corrected
because that was the first time we met.
Yeah, we can hear you. A little, a little, so yeah.
So, yeah, it was the year we met, it was like, it was crazy because we were starting to like
build this media. And so we were kind of like a small group, you know, like a small band
of brothers and friends trying to figure out how this would work. And we saw what you guys
were doing, what you know, like Matt from Peacemaker were doing, like a lot of people
coming with input from outside. And we said that we need to step up. So that's when we
started like doing all this content, you know, like trying to travel, do the travel documentaries
that Simone was talking about. And you know, that bus was when we met you and we were just
starting. And I remember that you're like a mentor to us, Lance, because you kind of
gave us the input from like a really good input of like how this whole business works
and gave us feedback from our work. So it's really an honor to be in the same show with you.
I'm humbled. It's nothing but love from you guys.
Yeah, I was always...
Thank you so much.
Yeah, very well. I very much appreciate that. And you guys know, it's all good vibes in
this industry. And I saw where your hearts were. I always love working with and helping
out and mentoring people. And you guys were so passionate and you put everything out there.
I mean, that's the thing is, is you guys, I mean, I know having come down and met Simone,
I met your family. I mean, you guys are like me. You've got, you know, you've got life
to deal with. And here you're out on the road being road warriors and doing these shows.
And I mean, we caught up all over. I mean, I remember in Barcelona, you know, you guys
being out there being a part of the crew. And for those that don't know, again, I always
talk about the circuit, but you guys were definitely a part of that circuit, no matter
if it be in Europe or in the Americas. But you guys have always been passionate. And
what you guys put out is amazing. I mean, I still want... And of course, my Spanish
is only so good, but I try to enjoy as much as possible. I still can't believe, I mean,
you guys have a phenomenal following. And it's not just South America. It's not just
LATAM. You guys literally have a global following as far as the people I see interacting with
you on social media. So that's grown. I mean, you were talking just in the last, it's been
about four years now, you guys have been going at it, right?
We got the cameo here. So for those that watched the show last week, we had Matt, who is definitely
a good friend. And he was the one, I just give you Matt the credit. And he or me, we did so many shows
together, man. I was thinking the first interaction is when we went down to Expo. Simone's like,
no, we met at Champs. I'm like, oh my gosh, that's right, because we were hanging out. And
you're like, you got to meet these guys. And let's go grab some lunch. And as soon as Simone was
talking about the nappy fries, it all came back to me, being the foodie I am.
So this is great. Now, how did you guys knew each other before I got to meet either of you, I think. So what's the history there?
Yeah, so we started Peacemaker October 2015. And I think Simone sent me an email October 3rd, 2015, being like, hey, I'm the
startup. We're in Chile. Hat in hand, we love your products. But if you could send us some free samples, we'd love to promote
it and try to sell it for you in Chile. And yeah, and it's been and I just appreciated Simone's honesty in his email. So I was
like, okay, I just sent them a really nice care package down to Chile. And the rest is kind of history. And it just led to a bunch of
different things. I mean, Simone just took it to a whole level that I can't even imagine at the time. I mean, I don't know if you
guys talked about it, but like it even led to things like leading to our invitation or his invitation to MIT, the MIT, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. As they had invited Simone down, oh, Simone can speak to this, but from my understanding, they invited
Simone and his team down to explain to the MIT Sloan Business School students how Envola was able to take our brand, Peacemaker and
make it the first brand in the cannabis slash paraphernalia space in Latin America, because before Peacemaker, it was just like
whatever you can get, whatever pipe you can get is what you got. So yeah, sorry, Simone can speak to it. This is his thing for sure. I
just was riding his coattail, went to MIT with him.
I was worried. Sorry, I'm honored. I was like, I don't understand. Peacemaker was like, never. Like, so we do the business model,
Cope, we've got your Peacemaker in Latin America. It's of course different from different cannabis.
Hey, Simone, just quickly, your audio is a little hard to hear. Do you want to maybe leave the room and like kill it and come back in and
let's see if that clears up your audio? Yep.
All right. It's funny. It's like the true test. I guess this is the interesting side of international because even in times like these, when
bandwidth is narrow, we're really seeing how good people can come in.
But it's cool because when it works, it's amazing. I mean, I'm always blown away. Like we have someone's, you know, from Barcelona, two
guys down in Chile, you're up in... Are you vacationing up in Washington State?
A little bit of this, a little bit of that, a little bit of business, a little bit of family time. But yeah, up in Vancouver,
Washington, kind of right on the border of Portland, Oregon and Washington. So interesting travel times. Yeah, that's why my ambiance
is... I mean, it's a nice hotel room, but you know, there wasn't any really good artwork to have in the background. But again, these guys
know the travel life. You make do with where you are.
All right, Simone, take it from the top again.
Is that better?
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Oh, all right.
Beginning. So start...
Still cutting out.
Do you have a wired earbuds by chance?
Like,
yeah, yeah.
Or Pascal. Actually, Pascal, let's hear how you sound, Pascal.
Yes.
You sound good.
Yeah, it's me. I think it might be me.
All right, maybe you can do the storytelling.
Yeah, I got lost a little bit.
So, you...
I got lost for a second. I was like changing places. But...
So...
...this connection.
Matt was kind of talking, Paso, I was talking about like the early days of you guys courting Peacemaker and bringing it on as kind of the
first official paraphernalia product in its category down in South America and how you guys kind of got the start.
And here I was like, oh, it's just been like four or five years.
And obviously it's been a little bit longer than that, that you guys been going at it.
So that's kind of where we left off.
Yeah, we were with Peacemaker like, what, 12, 15 or 12, 14.
And as well, like, this story started also with Peacemaker, of course, maybe Matt.
So these guys from Chile are just like writing, whatever, they're inviting us to, you know, to the Expo Weed.
Did you know what you were getting into?
No, I didn't know. So that was the other thing.
So like right away they invited us down to Expo Weed and we're like, what's that?
You know, because we've done the Champs trade show in the US.
We probably, I think we have done Spanivus by then.
But we, I just, just Expo Weed was not on my radar at all.
But that was the same year Uruguay just went federal, completely legal.
And it was happening about the same time as Expo Weed.
So I was like, OK, let's plan this trip, shoot down to Uruguay and Expo Weed.
And there's a trade show in Uruguay that happens the week right after Chile.
So it was perfect timing. Two birds with one stone.
So, yeah, we went down to Expo Weed and I was blown away by the, just everything about it.
Just I couldn't believe I hadn't heard about it.
But then when I went there, it was just like it was packed.
It was efficiently run.
It was all the major brands were there.
Very special people.
And I think back to the conversation of how we all met.
I think that was like the thing I said.
I was like, you gotta check out Expo Weed because it's, you don't know.
I mean, yeah, it's the best kept circuit in the world in the cannabis industry, in my opinion.
Do you remember that when we were there, you told me like, OK, Pasqual, I need to, I'm going to Uruguay for the same Expo.
And you told me, I need a translator.
Can you travel this Friday?
I was like, that was my first, like the first time I traveled because of cannabis.
The first time when you needed a translator.
And I remember us sitting in the tour bus, in the second floor.
Yeah, we took the tour bus.
We just took a tour bus.
I took a Barcelona.
But we also had to do like last minute booth decoration because everything was so last minute.
So we literally went to like the Uruguayan version of Walmart and bought all this crap.
Luckily, the show was across the street, but we didn't have to borrow anything.
So we literally had to steal the cart and walk past the security guard.
And we borrowed it.
We borrowed it.
Yeah, we borrowed it.
We borrowed here.
Well, to give a little background, I think you, well, no, maybe it was you, Simon, but you're right, Matt.
Expo Weed was a well-kept secret.
And for those that don't know, this is a tour of Le Tombe that actually starts up closer to our neck of the woods.
And it works its way down, essentially from Mexico all the way down into South America.
And it's like show after show after show.
I mean, I had no idea either, because at that point, traveling for Weed Maps, then early on traveling for Boveda.
To your point, Matt, it was Indo Expo and Champs and maybe Spanavis.
I think NCIA did a lot of the suit and tie shows as well.
But I did not know what was going down in Latin America.
And then finding out, I mean, it's a large, I mean, you have hundreds of millions of people just in South America alone.
If you count all of Le Tombe and the islands, I believe it's up to over 600 million populace.
I mean, this is a large market.
And I think one thing that talking to you guys, to the team of WALA, was that the people are passionate, right?
You guys were explaining to me that people literally save up their money to come to these shows once a year to buy everything they can that's centric to consumption of cannabis.
So it's a real, a real passionate audience.
And I remember being on the phone talking to you guys, just being like, wow, that's not to say it doesn't exist in North America, it doesn't exist in Europe.
But the way that you guys described it, especially based on incomes and cost of living, you know, the relativity to life in general, how much people pour into something they're passionate about.
And Matt, you're spot on, because I came down, obviously.
And again, you were a great host as well.
I mean, Matt, you know, we did so many shows together.
I think the first, I hope I have it right.
I think the first show, yeah, we champs.
But then I remember Australia, we were in tow together doing the Australian tour from Brisbane.
We even did the right show.
What's that?
Together.
Even for.
I don't think I can really get you to say what that meant.
It's probably still the earbuds, man.
Peter always puts them on.
Maybe have them maybe restart your phone, like shut it down and turn it back on or restart your modem.
That's my advice to my parents all the time is.
We want to restart the computer and restart the modem.
If you find wired earbuds, man, those always help me.
But anyway, yeah, so it's so but it was very hospitable.
But you guys were spot on.
I remember coming down and you're right.
So I was a few shows behind Matt for sure.
Matt had been there before and he knew he knew the train.
But you guys, I mean, you had this booth.
It was a very eclectic where you kind of had your representing each brand, including Peacemaker, amongst other reputable brands.
And I agree.
Everything about it was so professional and so organized in the live music, the food, the ambiance.
I mean, everything.
Yeah, for sure.
I think that when we saw like what you saw in those first first shows, because Matt came when for our first expo, wait, actually.
And he was there for the first stand, which was like two meters by one.
I don't know. And like really, it was just like a like a small thing that we got.
It was like mostly just stock for sales.
That's it. It's like it wasn't anything else.
I'm like 10 people trying to squeeze in together.
I don't know how they squeezed in.
And it was a huge, huge deal because we realized we needed more, more space and like more efforts into, you know, like aesthetics and into like brand recognition and so on.
And what what you saw in the first one you got it there, Lance, I think it was like an evolution of the first one.
So you always saw like big companies like seed companies or like international companies that would spend like a lot in, you know, like in big big stands, big booths.
And they had a lot of things like going on.
But we started like when you go there, I think that the expo was like getting like a revolution on that side, you know, like local brands started to act like more international brands.
And so what what what like all the people was going to the big ones.
So started like investing more into booth.
And also you saw a lot of like of how you say it in English, you know, when you just like display a lot of effort, but doesn't convert or doesn't.
It was a it's a huge deal to to to understand that, like being the biggest doesn't mean you're going to be the one that sells more or that the one that gets more recognized.
So we got to struggle with that and and understand how how people work in the industry.
Hey, save me.
I don't know what I'm working now.
Can you sort of the other thing you could try is maybe kill the video and just go audio only.
Have a nice picture of you.
There are not your mute.
Yeah, we can hear you.
Yeah, you're like the voice of God.
I'll go.
That's like someone's in the company.
Do you hear his voice?
Well, that's going back to I mean, you got to remember in this.
This was fun to be a part of it.
Not to speak for Matt.
I think the feeling was mutual, though, both of us being business owners in our careers and coming up, you know, and working that way.
You guys had just moved into a new office.
And I mean, you're up to from the moment we met where was a band of brothers.
You're spot on, you know, to I think I counted.
I think you had almost 20 employees, man.
I mean, it was insane.
A couple interns, a couple of part time.
But I mean, you had a crew and you guys were coming up.
You you got an office right across from the largest building, the tallest building in Chile, at least.
Right. I mean, that's right.
Downtown.
It was a big deal.
It's a it's a little bit crazy.
But I mean, from where you guys started, you know.
Yeah. And it was really scary.
Really scary.
You know, like committing to to this office.
But there was a there was like a lot of things going on.
And, you know, like we needed to convince like.
Can you see that?
Yeah, man.
Don't forget that view.
You guys had such a great party, man.
Yeah. Those guys know how to play it well.
And then, you know, it was a it was a little bit scary.
But we knew that we have to do many brands and many companies here, like respecting cannabis.
We're kind of like people thought they were sketchy.
Well, I think it happened everywhere.
Right. But there some were sketchy, you know, like people didn't want to do it.
But there some were sketchy, you know, like people didn't want to like relate to the companies and stuff like that.
So we had we kind of thought like we need to make something that is approachable by everyone.
And so we started, you know, like we got this office for the for the people that were really eager to work here and work with us.
And it opened a lot of doors for us.
A lot of them.
Well, in getting into that, I think, you know, kind of a good good segue right there.
We talk about I think you guys brought up Matt brought up Uruguay being the first country in the world.
I mean, they were 2013.
By 2014, it was officially the first country in the world to legalize recreational consumption of cannabis.
Obviously, the next big movement in that space didn't come until Canada, which created a G7 country.
It came online in 2018.
But really, a lot of people who are just getting on the scene in the last few years, they don't know the movement for adult use, not medical.
We know that was, you know, San Francisco back in late 80s, early 90s.
But for adult use, for for trying to erase the stigma and tabooism that you speak of, that really started in South America, man.
I mean, that's something is a big deal for me that at the time I was working at the Cannabis.
And I remember us doing articles and stories on it, you know, this little country in South America.
But now, I mean, it's a majority of the continent that is legal on some level, correct?
Yeah, we have that in Latin America as a whole still has a lot of stigma around it.
And in like, it's crazy.
Some people see some places, you see a lot of acceptance, like in Uruguay, for example, in Chile, also.
There's like, it's, it's, it's non legal, of course.
And that brings a lot of problems.
But still, like a lot of people consume and it's normal to see people consuming.
But in other places, it's really, really hard.
You know, like in some countries, it's like Brazil, for example, you know, those countries are like more conservative, has more, more conservative views.
But yeah, Uruguay was crazy.
It was like, and it was it's so cool that they did it in a non like,
like, they treated like a health issue at some point, you know, like, it was more about like, you know, personal, like freedom and, and health care.
But other countries, like, for example, Chile is like, you can tell that the country is more like economics oriented.
So it's going different places.
And it's crazy that Uruguay was the first one to get it like, without being a, you know, like the economic fever that it was in other places, like in the States, you know.
For example, yeah, like, it's people consumption or stores or groceries hasn't grown that much in Uruguay after legalization, you know, it's like.
Yeah.
Which is Chile, if you open up, if you guys, it will do will be juicy stores and they already are there.
Yeah.
The office you have like at least 100 stores nearby.
I and you're not joking.
So our listeners really understand that.
Yeah.
Being down there again, it's been a few years, but I remember walking to a shopping mall.
And it was three stories, four stories, call it every floor didn't have just one.
But we're talking about shopping malls.
So for those in the US, like, you know, like a typical indoor shopping mall.
So it had salons and it had, you know, game shops for gamers and it had, you know, toy stores and it had beauties, it had everything.
But it also had grocery shops and not just one or two, it had a few on every floor.
That's when it really helped me understand that.
And I'm not saying I'm not saying people in North America versus South America are lazy or, but that says a lot about the passion around the plant.
Because again, it means that people want to grow like they're actually passionate enough to grow their own, not just, oh, well, I'll call the delivery or a wait until it comes to my town or I'll continue going to the dealer in the illicit market.
Like you guys really have a true grow scene there, which is reflected in not just the cultivation, but the consumption.
And I mean, you guys, I remember you have a it's like a sativa celebration, right?
Because your your seasons are kind of flip flopped to ours.
But I remember Simone, I wanted to come down for that.
And we ended up I think it got postponed or something.
But I mean, you guys really celebrate.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah, it was.
That was amazing.
Can you hear me now?
Is that better?
Yes.
Fuck.
Dude.
Dude, save me.
I was so stressed out.
I was so stressed out.
All right.
Yeah.
So that was the Lake Harvest Festival.
It was a party that we organized to kind of, you know, like to welcome and to host for those brands that we were working in that we had invited for the expo.
So it was like kind of the closure party for the expo.
Is that a proper expression?
Closure party?
The end?
The wrap up party?
Yeah, wrap up party.
Okay, that's better.
So that's how we started.
Right.
But we only did one one one event.
But what happened after that is that we also invited all the local celebrities that we knew, the influencer community, the media.
My background is I'm a journalist by profession.
So I've worked in several media, written press and TV and radio and so on.
So we used that opportunity to actually to give some sort of editorial testimony of what we thought that the industry should look like or could look like if we made the right moves.
And then a lot of press came and it was in the papers the day after and on the radio, on TV.
And it was amazing.
So everyone was talking about something that had happened in Chile that seemed to be imported from a different country.
Like nobody believed this was possible in Chile to actually go to like a cannabis open bar or so on.
That was crazy.
It's super illegal now that I think about it.
But it's I mean, it says a lot about again, I know it's the theme of the show, but the passion and it kind of is a good segue into where you guys started.
That's the thing that I remember we had a lot of conversations about because we all have some sort of media or marketing background.
And you guys took a different approach.
Right. I mean, a lot of companies, even even large forms like Grass City and such, you know.
But but for you all, instead of starting in with products and then segueing into marketing, I kind of saw as opposite.
Like you guys really you built a solid brand.
You had a legit following even early on.
I remember scoping out and checking out on social media.
You guys had this this really solid and you built this trust associated with that solid brand.
And then you kind of backed into the product offerings because you guys were sharing all these products and showing them and showcasing them.
And then your clientele, your followers were like, well, where do we get it?
How do we get it? You guys.
Exactly. All right.
Well, yeah. Peacemaker is actually the best example for that.
And there's like like with the risk of sounding a little bit like, you know, upfront.
But there were no brands before Peacemaker on the paraphernalia or smoking accessory side of things.
Not even speak like that, even disregarding the fact that they were the concept of high end was not a concept for the cannabis industry.
So what Peacemaker brought to to to the community that we were engaging was like the the expansion of a horizon in a way of thinking, what what else could you bring for yourself in consumption?
In improving your your your cannabis consumption experience.
Right. I think that was actually that was something very, very strong to take in, to assimilate as community.
And after that, we've seen the changes.
There's like you can see an evolution around it.
And it's not the brand that they sell everywhere, even in the streets.
And I remember Matt and Bill being so frustrated because of the amount of of Chinese knockoffs that you can see on the street.
This is like Peacemaker, Postmaker, whatever.
Like nobody gives a fuck.
They will just like copy that like like like intellectual property is not a thing in the street in the streets of Chile.
But for me, has like even though they take a great share of wallet of like of my pocket, because like they actually like we are the ones trying to capitalize those efforts.
So but I think it's a compliment.
Right. It's it's it's a symptom of of of a tendency of a mainstream thing.
It's like it's mainstream.
And that is something very important and very emblematic that I think it's it's it has like changed the way we see the cannabis industry and ourselves as consumers, but also as individuals that are trying to define themselves with their cannabis consumption choices.
Very well put.
Can you hear me?
Yeah.
I think we're all still speaking back.
But how well we can speak.
Hello.
We missed.
We're going to make another meeting.
I had so many good one liners we missed out on, though, I know for sure.
Dude, I was killing it.
I was killing my word.
Joke, joke.
Yeah.
Eloquent thoughts.
Funny thinking.
Everything lost.
No worries.
Oh, man.
So, I mean, how is this affected?
You know, obviously, the last year has been pretty crazy.
And I know obviously following things, the one country that we keep hearing about is Colombia.
You know, obviously your neighbors to the north.
I know a lot of Canadians, a lot of LPs have invested down there.
And obviously that's a factor into it.
Where do you guys feel that as far as South America specifically, we can talk about all the time because obviously there's other places to consider all the way up to Mexico.
But for South America in specific, if you were to kind of first rank the countries as far as not just evolving, but adopting and having offering and being open to cannabis.
Is that a fair kind of picture that's being painted of Colombia being on the forefront and really being kind of the leader in the space as far as legalization, production and exportation?
Well, that's a very, very good question.
And it has like many answers.
I think a lot of what has happened in the cannabis industry as far as like big investments that we've seen in the past few years, like that it created some expectations that were kind of difficult to live up to, especially due to the fact that they, for example, many companies like like Cannabis Growth, like those Avia, all those big names.
They started operations based on licenses that were provided to some companies or people in some cases.
And those business were kind of hard to actually put in motion due to the fact that the countries were in the process.
It's something very similar to what's happening in the US.
You're being part of a process that has like many gaps that still need to be filled in with technicalities and regulation.
And most of those moves, if we're thinking in a chessboard, most of those moves have not yet been made by the institutions that should react to this.
Let's give an example.
For example, I can even in Chile, this is possible in Chile as we speak.
Like there are a couple of licenses that have been provided by the government.
So you get a license and you get to plant or to grow cannabis for certain specific reasons.
You can never be consumption because that's illegal.
But you can, for example, say I want to make an investigation and study on cannabinoids and then you can get a permit to grow that.
You can even get a purchasing order, a PO or an invoice or whatever document from a buying company that says like, hey, whatever this guy is going to harvest, I want to buy it.
Right. For textile use, whatever you say is legal.
So you can have those parts.
But then the customs agency, they don't have the people or the department that are the infrastructure to process this order.
So we have a reality that has like a containers full of weed, you know, stopped in customs.
That's a reality. That's something that has happened before.
And that these gaps or these like not shortcuts, but like these interruptions in the in the business flow or in the supply chain can happen at any point of the supply chain.
Like it can be the beginning with some sort of technicality in your local government or transportation issues or whatever technicalities you can get blocked by.
And some other policies and so on.
So what's true about the Latin American cannabis industry is that we are in motion for for regulation, for change and for becoming an actor, a relevant actor in the global industry.
This could go many ways.
What usually has happened in Latin America, in every industry, not only in cannabis, is that we have become suppliers of raw raw materials.
So this is a classic thing we say in Chile is that we mine copper and then we sell it to China and then we buy cable at a more expensive price.
So what's the business there?
What's the business there? Right.
So that's actually what has happened in Colombia.
When we say they've come up front, what I've seen is that they're taking that place where the industry sees Colombia as a place where you can have like four harvest a year at a very low price.
And the people that will be working there, you can pay relatively low salaries.
And that's basically your business structure.
You get like a good supplier for raw material.
That's that's one way it can go.
Right. What I would like to see is that R&D, which is R&D sectors like investigation and innovation, take a good lead in this place.
I think that's what Chile is aiming to do so because cannabis is not legal here yet.
But yet you see all these innovations surrounding it, like the remote grow control applications for your cell phone, a lot of investigation in in cannabinoids and of the public health area, a lot of medical investigation, a lot of well, marketing cannabis content, digital content, all of that.
And of course, an industry that speaks for itself because the size of our industry, that is of the repository product surrounding cannabis, by repository product, I mean pipes, bongs, seeds that you can sell, grinders, rolling trays, rolling papers, whatever your name is there.
It's like a 20 to 30 million dollar a year niche.
Right. So for a 20 million people country and a cannabis and unregulated cannabis country, I think that's a pretty interesting number that we can see that that many, many people are coming forward and we're seeing how it's actually going year by year.
With the COVID pandemic, we've only seen the the the acceleration of what we kind of thought it was going to happen.
Basically, I hope I answered.
Can you hear me?
That's going to be the running joke now.
That's the trailer of the show.
Can you hear me?
Yeah, that'll be that.
That'll be the still.
That'll be the still for sure.
But you make a good point.
So for people, because you're right, it is it's a continent of consumers.
There's consumers everywhere.
But we definitely agree it's a higher consumption rate than most in many instances.
And that's especially around ancillary products, which again, Matt can vouch for amongst others.
One thing you touched on, and I think for our listeners that are on the B2B side that are thinking about transitioning their business into the international market, maybe be it just the Americas and not, you know, not over to Europe or Pan Pacific.
But logistics can be a challenge in that country.
That's I found that man.
I mean, there's some borders where you pay legitimate duties.
And then there's some borders where you have to have an envelope with a random amount of money in order to get stuff across it.
And it all depends on the country, right?
I mean, it's literally all depends on the port in the country that you're talking about.
Yeah, it's crazy.
No, we don't.
Yeah, yeah, it sucks.
Do you want to do you want to add something to that, Matt?
Oh, no, just yeah, it's it's a crap shoot.
I know Lance had his painful moments, but not me like my first year in Uruguay, the first show, our first shipment before Uruguay, the trade show actually won an international brand at the show.
So the show coordinators are doing everything in their power to make sure that it was a smooth transition to get our products into Uruguay.
So literally, the show organizers contacted the Department of Agriculture and then someone in the customs office to say, hey, this brand is shipping like nine boxes for this trade show.
It's going to be overnighted.
Make sure it passes through customs immediately.
And this is the letter to make sure it passes through.
No, no, it was a nightmare.
Two days at the airport, the customs office with the letter going like this, is this not worth anything?
This letter official seal from the Department of Agriculture.
Like, but no, it's somebody somebody's budget had to be met or something.
But yeah, no one can really explain like, oh, you know, this is your HTS code and this is the duty rate for that.
No, there was none of that.
It was just like, no, sit in the waiting room and we'll tell you what to pay, when to pay it.
And maybe you'll get your stuff out.
And I think I think we only got one out of nine boxes, I think.
Well, that's in the story that I guess I would hold back on.
But it is interesting because I've taken ancillary products because I, you know, not plant touching.
Traditionally, I've been on the ancillary side.
And I mean, one example I took, I literally had a duffel bag full of what is grinders, maintainers.
And I mean, a duffel bag.
And I remember humping through Fiji and I use it as a carry on because I had the allowance.
I just had this carry on this big bag.
I mean, I thought I was literally like a smuggler.
It's nothing illegal.
But you know, these containers like probably 16 boxes and, you know, 20 per box, whatever.
And I mean, I remember having to run through Fiji.
They didn't even like right through the scanner.
Everything was fine when I hopped through Fiji, got to Australia.
No one asked a question.
But then on the flip side again, yeah, I remember coming into Chile with this time with Boveda.
And, you know, I asked what it was.
And, you know, it's a gift for, you know, this company, blah, blah, blah.
And they ended up holding it.
And I remember like, what's the value?
I'm like, nothing.
Oh, you have to put a value.
Then I did put a value and then they decided to tax on the value.
But then I couldn't pick it up.
A resident had to pick it up.
You guys, again, were so helpful with that.
I'm glad we got the product in.
But then my buddy who came in on an earlier flight, who obviously had it stored in a different fashion in his luggage right through it, didn't have a problem.
That's everywhere, right?
I mean, I think I still have some Boveda swag in freaking Spain that they just would not.
It was such a nightmare.
And they wanted to charge us to ship it back.
I'm like, fuck it.
Keep it. Give it to your kids.
I don't care.
It's you want 300.
I think it was 300 euro in duties and it was 250 US in goods.
I was like, so I know the logistics.
It really is everywhere in the world.
And it all depends on, again, Matt, you nailed it.
It's politics most of the time.
You know, it really is.
Right. We are actually we just triangulated cargo to Peru from the Peacemaker warehouse.
The overseas.
Yeah. So that's actually something that's happening at the time.
And it's a very interesting process and a very big milestone for us.
And also, we just opened a pop up store in a shopping center in Chile, in a big, big shopping center in Chile, which actually it's the first time that has like that any cannabis company in the country does anything like that.
So it's going into a very, very mainstream place or marketplace.
So we're actually celebrating that happened this morning.
So we are celebrating today.
Very cool.
Congratulations.
Insane, man.
Insane.
It's when it comes to cannabis, there's something that just came out I wanted to share with you guys.
My friends at Arcview just reported, of course, now keep in mind, you know, rather be Arcview or BDS Analytics or the like.
You know, obviously, the statistics are a little behind because they're trying to aggregate this information and many times, you know, both legal and non-legal markets.
But their new report claims that global local cannabis markets are to grow 36 percent despite challenges to break 40 billion by 24.
I 40 billion dollars globally by 2024.
Again, you guys have all been on the circuit.
I think you guys have been on every every continent I have in the tour.
Does that sound like a realistic number?
Are you guys feeling like we're on track, especially factoring some markets have deemed this this cannabis essential, the legal markets, that is.
Do you think that's plausible globally for 40 bill?
Dude, like I honestly.
Don't understand that number that well, because I've read the reports, of course, and I and I and I study the number that
provide different institutions like all the reports that are provided from local institutions or like like international companies that do these reports.
And then on my side of the of the of the road, there's like the the retail that has not yet approached the kind of sales.
And what the problem is that.
Whenever they made these projections, they are not including the very, very important condition that should be considered regarding revenue, which is the tax policy that would apply.
And that tax policies are very different in different countries of Latin America, especially in this point of history in which we see countries like the big countries of Latin America, like Brazil and Argentina, taking very conservative positions, especially on importations and exportations.
Or so. So if there's if there's no tax background on those projections, then I tend to think that they are like overshooting demand by by implying certain certain assumptions that that will often don't happen like that in Latin America.
That would be my impression.
But then again, I could be wrong, of course.
So so my estimation, like we before making a projection, I would wait to see what's what the government has to say regarding taxation on on every kind of product.
And in the process, if there is going to be certain specific companies that are allowed to process or harvest or grow cannabis, are they going to have any tax benefits from the government like the rest of the agro industry?
Or if we are going to face a different agro industry specifically for cannabis in that part of the process as well?
So before looking at those numbers, then I would I would say that all projections are should be careful or at least conservative.
Yeah, that's a really good point you make, because, you know, back in my home state, California, you know, taxation has subsequently resulted in suffocation.
Right. I mean, we have farmers.
Exactly.
It's a business from seed to sale.
And that's just the farmer.
You know, I mean, it can kill the business.
It has happened before.
We've seen it in California a little.
Right. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
California, even Canada.
I know they try to keep it a little on the down low.
Canada as well.
Nobody's very efficient.
Nobody's transitioning.
So what are we measuring?
Like what kind of consumption?
So, you know, sorry, but no, I agree.
Yeah. Yeah.
I had to do a I was doing an audit, you know, total, you know, pretty much a TAM, total market potential for Bovido one time.
And I remember, you know, the CEO had asked me, he's like, you know, what is the total market potential for cannabis, both THC and hemp plant?
And I couldn't like, you know, I'd go on to UNODC, you know, to the UNODC because United Nations, they track, but they track it from an illicit and illicit consumption.
You know, from the illegal standpoint versus the legal.
I couldn't. I said, this is an enigma.
You really to your guys's point, like you can't.
How can you? You know, and that's why I think you're right.
A lot of governments, they don't know how to tax or what to tax because they don't know the true number.
I mean, there's so much again.
It's a plant. Right.
I mean, it's something that can be easily grown in most climates.
So do they really know how much is being produced at the end of the day in a given market, no matter what continent it's on?
You know, exactly. I think I think this this industry, it's it's one like animal to look like from from from close.
Right. You have to look like all the individual perspective on each company and see what their projection are and how are they going to, you know, avoid the obstacles that that we know that every company has to overcome in order to, you know, kind of go go legal or go
legit. Right. So so in that way, what I tend to recommend when people ask this question, trying to figure out like sizes or where to to put my my coin or, you know, where to look at or what's the north that I try to to see or to to tell them what has in our experience been the most valuable asset for projections in in an uncertain industry,
which is like, is there like like any like like customer acquisition indicator that has been like taken care of or projected properly?
And if that's the case, then let's look at that as that asset as itself and then how it relates to the this hostile environment that is the cannabis industry at this point.
Right. And I think that's a very interesting thing to watch in cannabis companies, especially in this side of the world.
Speaking of watching Matt and I was trying to find this, I was just scrolling because I get I get so I know you guys do, too.
I get so many daily digested newsletters and news feeds, RSS and Google, the rest of you hated.
I went to see the news.
Yeah, I did so much better keeping up on this.
I just have too much going on now.
But Matt, I just came across I know it's a little bit of a tangent to conversation, but something about was it Spain's high court going after the social?
I know we're kind of going back to last week, but something just hit my news that they're they're pulling out the big guns to go against the social clubs.
And that's just an example of how this industry is constantly in the markets are constantly changing.
But that just that just came out in the news.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. And you do that every once in a while.
It's kind of like I don't know, like how Google changes its algorithms.
Algorithms. Exactly.
Just like a police. And sometimes it's sometimes the clubs do get a little greedy.
I think we talked about this last week about Spain during Spanabus, where you have the influx of the Canada tourism and they kind of get a little greedy and they go out of the reservation.
Cops kind of rain everyone in.
But yeah, every once while they they rain in clubs, they rain in seed companies.
I think we all know recently in the news a certain someone we all know that under the fall under the hot seat, under fire, whatever you want to say.
But yeah, so you still got to be careful.
You never know if things can change in an instant because so much of it is in a gray area.
Very, very true.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So what do you guys think?
Kind of a good, you know, as we kind of wrap up towards the end here, because I do have one funny story I want to reference, because Matt's told it more than once.
And it always makes me smile.
We'll get to that just now and we'll see if Baswell and someone can imagine what the powder was.
Not a drug. You said that powder was not a drug.
So every time, every time this story comes up, dude, like I didn't know.
Funny because I didn't know.
But now I do. Now I know.
I'm sorry. I didn't know.
I can't believe you make up something like that.
That was not a cultural thing.
Tripp, who used to be CEO of, oh my gosh, of Dixie out in Denver.
He did a trip to the to the East Coast and they busted him for cannabis in a powder that was that was suspected to be cocaine.
But it was not. It turned out not being cocaine.
They couldn't say what it was.
But it was not cocaine.
I didn't I didn't say cocaine, though.
I didn't know. No, I'm sorry.
I never get that.
So where do you guys see?
So I've heard obviously friends over in Europe and I think, Matt, you're on the same page.
But, you know, saying that maybe come fall, kind of late fall, could see things coming into the new norm and in us getting back to some sort of real circuit versus virtual circuit.
And don't get me wrong.
I mean, after doing one hundred twenty thousand miles in twenty nineteen in airplanes, I'm not complaining.
It's nice to actually be home and get to enjoy, you know, reap what you sow kind of thing.
But what do you guys see?
Have have any conversations come up with regard to ExpoWeed or some of the things you guys you're a marketing company as well.
So I know this is on your mind.
Like you said, the late harvest festival, other things.
Are you guys thinking that there's a plausibility in late twenty twenty one to get social again?
Because that's so centric to this industry from all perspectives.
Right. From B2C, B2B.
Right. What's your kind of if you were to look at the tea leaves and tarot cards, as I see, as I say, what do you see and when you see it coming into fruition?
And either of you, Paswell, I'd love to hear from you, too, Matt.
Well, just I'll just jump in really quick, just because we just got the email like last week, but Spanbus just did it announced that there'll be a virtual one, I think, in April.
But then the actual physical show will take place in October, which, you know, who knows that this is the third time they postpone.
So who knows?
Not sure. But with us, Peacemaker specifically in Barcelona, we're kind of a holding pattern just because of the rules here.
But once if if it loosens up and we can kind of travel and by travel, I just mean road trip within Spain, we'll we'll start road tripping different regions.
By travel, I mean the bathroom.
What's that?
And by travel, I mean the bathroom.
Yeah. Yeah.
But no, we like that's the most we're planning for 2021 is, you know, if if we're good, if we're lucky, we'll be able to do road trips, hit a couple of autonomous regions or provinces where we haven't been to get our brand presence out there.
But, yeah, as far as flying or any major shows, if there are any great, but we're not planning on it, actually, we haven't really other than Spanabus is really nothing on our budget either just because we just don't foresee it.
But, yeah, I don't know what's going on.
Latin America.
Expo. Yeah. I'm seeing this heuristic value cannabis Patagonia tour.
Oh, my gosh, man. Yes.
I mean, that's very true.
And another person point out the restrictions.
Chris Lowe's restrictions in Spain are insane.
It's interesting. It's a moving target.
Right. You guys are not to date myself, but most people are familiar with the movie called Jaws.
It reminds me of the final scene where, you know, he's bouncing on a boat that's going down and there's the shark that's breaching and he somehow shoots a scuba tank in its mouth.
It's like there's so many variables.
What is the likelihood?
And that is the industry is like everything's constantly moving and adjusting and not just local and regional, but national, international.
So, you know, it's crazy stuff.
I think this is a great segue into a story that I've always loved.
Unfortunately, I was not there.
I had to fly home for another show back in the States.
But there's what I think in the US we call puddle jumpers is the type of plane that a few individuals on this call might have taken to follow the Indo Expo tour from beautiful Santiago, Chile to Uruguay.
And something about an edible and a flight attendant and someone in a huddled position in the rear of the plane.
Is there anything that's familiar to anyone?
These are the stories from the circuit that just always keep me smiling.
When people are like, why the hell are you always smiling, Lance?
It's not because I'm always high.
It's because I have friends like you that provide stories like this to me.
It's because a friend of mine is high.
Yeah, that's that's one of those stories, right?
It has gotten international by now.
And it's in a book and everything.
Yeah, like we were on the I think the second Expo that we ever participated in.
And we had such a great first experience that we wanted to step it up.
And we totally overshot it.
Like by far.
That was like as an entrepreneur, that was like a big, big mistake.
We like we spend it like we were totally like off budget, you know, taking like like like the team was like unorganized.
Everything was like we were under so much stress.
And of course, we decided to to participate in Expo Cannabis Uruguay for this year.
So we were waiting for these guys to come from Colombia.
They were flying from in from Colombia, from the Expo Cannabis Uruguay.
In?
Well, what's what's things like?
What's the directions?
Where are we?
So no, these guys were flying in from Colombia and then we were supposed to fly with them.
Or we did, though, but we were supposed to go like half of half of my soul didn't made it.
Right.
I lost something in that in that trip.
So I was going to say, there might be someone that was a little less high on the call that might be.
Oh, and then he drops off.
Jeez, you guys, that was the one that was the one from a different perspective.
And then that gets so lucky, Simon.
But joking aside, I mean, it's interesting because, you know, while we do have all these stories and everything, I mean, we're so busy busting our ass.
And I love the people that I mean, Johnny and Chris and all these people that are listening in and following us.
I mean, as much as we joke around about the good times and it was fun.
I mean, I've been to places you guys, I mean, Tel Aviv, Israel and Prague and the Czech, you know, we're there together.
Right.
Everywhere.
Pizza in fucking Tel Aviv, dude.
Yeah.
Who would have said?
Who would have said?
A rooftop.
I mean, we joke around.
We were just joking around on the last call with Matt because, you know, we had we had the Irishman.
We had the Chilean.
We had the American.
I mean, we always joke around about us walking into a bar.
We are that proverbial joke when we're in these other countries walking to a bar.
They're like, where are you guys from?
And they're like, oh, you've moved.
You're in a pad.
It's like, no, we're really just.
Everywhere.
Yeah.
I mean, we were from everywhere and we have some phenomenal stories, but man, I mean, joking aside, you guys like Spanibus is for those that have been, you know, for those that haven't worked it, you have no idea.
I mean, we would get up and you guys included you guys as guests without even having a booth.
You still were hustling, but you're getting up at seven, eight in the morning because you have to be there at nine before the gates open.
You're on your feet until eight thirty nine o'clock.
Nobody eats dinner, has dinner meetings till 10 or 11 o'clock.
By the time you're done with that's 12 or one.
Then you go to the social club.
I mean, it's just, it's, it's, uh, you know, I know I'm a little bit older, but man, it's not easy for anyone that's over 21.
That's for sure.
You know, it's hard to shoot like a week of people just being high and in shows.
You guys were on it.
I mean, that's the thing is you guys.
I mean, I remember when we had, uh, we, when Matt had burner, you know, one of our boys brought burner over to the booth in Spanavis.
Here's burn.
You guys are there video.
And then, and then you guys call me over.
We do a get together and I traditionally don't consume on camera.
You know, I'm very much a medical app kid, but usually when I'm on camera, like business is business kind of thing.
And I was so caught up in it.
I was so stressed out that like Simone passed me a joint and I'm just smoking it.
Like we're all like, we're doing an interview.
This is like international news.
We're talking and that was, that was everywhere as well.
That, that also popped up quietly that had a boost.
That was insane, man.
Yeah.
Everyone was like, what's happening?
Matt, Matt, I remember Matt, like this part of Matt's mouth was like totally beat it off.
Like you, you mentioned the movie jaws, right?
It was like half, half of the movie, half of the movie was happening here.
Like that.
Exactly.
Really quick for your first Lance, just to give him perspective about who Simone and his team are.
Like when you go to expo, when you try to walk around the show with Simone, it's like impossible.
Cause everybody knows him, but even to put it into like real perspective, there's a couple of stories where like after the first time I went down to expo, we,
um, I stayed for the whole thing and my flight wasn't till the next day after the show.
So they were nice enough to let me crash at their, at the time it was their apartment slash studio all in one at the time.
So I, I served on their couch and like, I was like, okay, let me, let me treat you guys to some pizza for dinner.
So I, you know, we called up, you know, dominoes or whatever.
Right.
And 20 minutes later, a guy shows up, I go, I go to pay my tree.
I'm at the door.
It's half open.
I'm he's at, he's handing me the pizza.
I'm about to hand him the money.
He looks over my shoulder and see Simone on the couch and literally pushes me out of the way, forces himself in and like ask for an autograph.
Cause the pizza delivery guy totally knew who he was.
Do you remember that?
Well, Simone's legit.
He's legit.
Yeah.
Oh, he's insane, man.
He was insane.
One of my colleagues, he's, he's Chilean.
And so when we went down to expo weed, uh, we wanted to visit, you know, his family, you know, family gets to meet his colleagues.
So we went to see Simone in his office first and, uh, you know, had our meeting, whatever.
And then he wanted to send us off in the, in the Uber.
It was an Uber.
We got on the Uber and Simone's just making sure the driver knew was going.
He's like, okay, you know, the places in this, you know, it's in the suburbs, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Make sure these guys get there.
They're from out of town.
Simone goes away.
We pull away.
And then two minutes later, it was me, Hassan and bill.
And the driver just goes like, you guys know Simone?
Like, all right.
He's just like, how do you know this?
Like, why is he sending you off on an Uber?
And it was, yeah.
So that's, that's who Simone is.
He's a legit.
Yeah, no, it is.
Well, Lance, Lance, are you starting to get stopped in the local Ralph's in the valley?
I know, right.
Between seed to sale and, and cure to consumption with these two shows.
It is though.
I mean, joking aside, that, that might be me in the U S but like, I've got like Maddie Christofferson up in Canada, Simone down there in Chile.
I mean, all of us on our home turf, it's crazy because people walk up, but Peter, I've told you the story, man.
I mean, your, your followers, your audience on future canvas project are legit.
Like font, none of this sellout bullshit by the top shelf.
Swag, you know, pushing over the top marketing crap.
Like these are legit consumers that know the know.
I was working product earth expo two summers ago and these guys walk up and they're like future cannabis project.
We know you from future.
And I'm like, damn dude.
I mean, that's crazy.
Cause I don't think that when I do an interview with NCIA or MJ biz or one of these, you know, big outfits, like this is the real scene.
And, and that's why it's so easy to talk and have these conversations.
Cause a lot of these guys that are watching, you know, want to get into the game or they're in the game and they want to come out of the shadows or whatever.
Um, you know, it's a lot of hustling.
You guys know it's hard work.
Most of us here have been tied to the illicit market one way or the other at one time.
I'll just say that.
Um, but yes, please just say that definitely opportunity and the opportunities international, right?
I mean, we, we joke around, we're all from different places, but just like food and music, cannabis is international.
It doesn't, you don't need to speak the language to, to share the path.
It is, it is.
It is.
So for sure.
You know, always appreciate it.
You guys, I mean, I can't wait again.
This, this it's like the cannabis version of reunited apart.
I'm telling you, I mean, we got to get the band back together.
Um, for those that watched the last few shows, all of us are connected.
That's the thing is, you know, it's really about network.
Um, it's not about.
Again, who has the biggest budget or who has the biggest name?
Like all of us are collaborative.
And all of us budget.
Did he just say the biggest budget?
All right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Simone, can you, can, can you confirm or deny that comment?
Can you read that?
I won't confirm or deny that comment.
I, you, you can, you can know that I'm leading.
Well, you can tell people can tell.
As much as Simone's the front man, Pasquale is a bit of Rico Suave himself.
I'll just say I I've seen play.
Like they look at the man behind the camera and they're like, Oh, Hey,
what's up?
Well, awesome.
Hey guys, I definitely appreciate it.
Peter, we'll throw it back to you in case we have any questions or anything, but
sorry for the technical difficulties, you guys, uh, in fairness, we are
calling in from around the world.
We got our shit together.
Eventually.
That's it.
It's the distance.
Nah, I love it.
Cause cause while you guys were talking, uh, Lance knows that I'm now
unstoppable with my, uh, Rolo printer.
So I printed up a bunch of shipping labels to get some seed packs out.
Everybody's going to get some big foot.
Actually, I don't even know if you can hold on.
If you can see this, that's backwards.
I can see it.
Some big foot Mike horizon, their packs, uh, five freebies of mango
cookies from Sonoma seed company.
We got some over to Lance that I'm finally putting the boveda packs to use.
So everybody gets some, uh, boveda packs in their order.
And we have some, uh, Some mossy giant FCP slaps.
If you can see that.
So anyway, I, I love, I love when other people MC the conversations and I can get
shit done for those two hour chunks.
And up next we have, uh, at 1 PM on the West coast, we have, uh, not a black
screen, but we have, if you all bear with me, let's get back to me.
Uh, there we go.
Don't
nice sweatshirt, by the way, man.
Love, love your sport in the Alpine hemp code, dude.
I did.
It's it's so comfortable.
Their hemp stuff is legit.
Yeah, it's a, cause it's like 50 in LA right now.
I mean, that's obviously nobody's getting, nobody's going to empathize with me on
that, but for, uh, for Los Angeles, that's a little on the chilly side.
Hey dude, snowed in Malibu a few days ago.
Go figure.
Hey, I do want to send a shout out to Matt and peacemaker because although it's
ironic, uh, we don't give away stuff during my show, but, uh, Matt was kind
enough to send some more gear for us to give away on the, I believe it's a James
loud show is, uh, is where we're giving that product away.
Well, we, we can do it anywhere.
So if we want to do it on this, uh, Matt, keep key.
I need some peacemaker gear back there.
I'll bring some down to you.
I'll bring some.
But, uh, yeah, we'll, we'll, we'll do it.
People do like their giveaways.
So we'll do a, uh, and do we know where we're going to be next week?
Oh yeah.
Wait, Pasquale.
What's what is that?
I didn't have much to talk to.
I was so always like, is that what you were doing while we're, while they were
talking, I just like, uh, press record and just like do this stuff.
And, uh, yeah, next week, um, as of now we'll see a schedule is a little crazy,
but it sounds like we might be going to catch up with Kitty in Thailand.
Uh, so we're going to head over to the pan Pacific office.
Not a lot, but Thailand, South Korea, amongst a few that are coming up.
So we're definitely going to go see how things are over there.
Um, I'm excited because again, another good friend from the circuit and, uh,
just like these guys, that's one thing we didn't touch on, but, and voila, you
guys, they're all about education.
So if you get a chance to catch them, um, they're definitely about education
as the rest of us are, and you'll notice a bit of a theme, uh, in the show.
We always love talking about education.
So we now can say that we have scientific education.
So yeah.
I also want to talk on your show.
I know what's up.
I've seen it.
Good stuff.
All right.
Well, thank you.
Great.
All right.
Thanks everyone.
And, uh, I'll see some of you at a one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight,
nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28,
one o'clock Pacific time.
So that's four o'clock East coast time and add another 10 PM in Amsterdam.
And in, so you, you guys, Chile is five hours ahead of LA, right?
So Santiago, no idea.
Well, it's a, it's 1115 right now.
So 12, one, two, three, four, it's four 15.
Yeah.
Four 18.
All right.
So you got, you guys got two minutes to four 20.
So right on.
Yes.
Get to it.
All right.
See everyone.
