Hello, we're live.
Oh, I see.
Chase.
There's Tyler. Well, how about this?
Trevor, do you want to kick off the topic? Do you want to
set the table? These terms that people
misuse and interchange?
Sure. I think the topic kind of comes
from longstanding confusion and debate in the community.
And actually, here's Russell.
Well, Ryan made a post a couple days ago
in Elmer Fudd, be very quiet
we're phenohunting, and a discussion kind of
developed off of that post.
It's just a longstanding discussion in the community
and I had posted something about a month ago
on Instagram and a lot of discussion was
generated out of that and it seems like whenever the
discussion comes up, there's confusion, there's debate,
there's disagreement, and there's also the extra
layer of chemotype that kind of gets shunted aside
in most botany and breeding discussion
but is very prevalent in cannabis research.
But I think Russell and Ryan would be
also very good to set the stage here. Because, I mean,
Russell proposed the topic the other day
when we were talking and Ryan definitely got
the ball rolling on the discussion.
Okay, there we go. Sorry. I'm there in the middle of nowhere.
Yeah, no, I think, I would like to play
just the layman person today and just ask Trevor
questions and be like, really parse out what's the difference
between phenotype and chemotype and when, why are they used
why are they misappropriated and for what reasons, you know.
I think that's probably the most powerful question just to simplify it to.
Like when to call it a cultivar, you know, when to call it a strand.
Nice.
Yeah, and we've got
Ryan here too. I like to, I'm
somewhat conversant, particularly
on the history of one of these
terms, like when they got coined, when
they were first used, how they've kind of changed
in their usage in the scientific literature
if they have, and then also, you know,
the cannabis community's
usage of scientific nomenclature
is all over the map. And so we can try and
reign it in or put some contours to
the usage of these terms in the
community. Nice, some contact points. Just so you know, it's probably
going to be crazy family time at my house. They'll be screaming and yelling. So I'll try
to keep it as civil as possible.
Joy's working at home. Yeah, I mean, everyone calls them, you know, it's like
the strain thing was, you know, forever the strain and
it's like, why are we calling it strains? There's like some, there's like main strains
are mainly in like the bio, bioengineering
kind of sectors, but it's like, there is a term
strain used in botany I looked up a while back. I can't remember what it described it as, but
I don't know.
Yeah, I think, I don't know if you're able to hop on yet, Ryan,
but, you know, obviously you're probably the most adept
to discuss that considering you were one of the first to bring up the
you know, the misusage of the nomenclature.
Yeah, I mean, it came about for me from looking at
how do we call these things? I mean, we're, you know, on the board so many years ago
we're talking about a cultivar, sorry, we're talking about like a clone,
right? And so call it Blue Dream, call it Cookies, call it
OG, it doesn't matter. It could be any like kind of, you know, air quotes clone only
plant. And then you make that plant to something.
What do you call the offspring? Because like a
strain, like the definition of a strain, I guess
like the kind of the loose biological definition of a strain is
like a biological entity that when it reproduces
the type
is reborn, okay, from the parent. And I think that
that's probably a good way to look at
you know, that word type, you know, when we talk
about genotype, the really, what that means
to me is genetic type, okay? And I think that we can also say the same
thing for chemotype, right? It's a chemical type.
And so a strain is
a type that when it reproduces
through its natural mechanism, nothing but that type comes back.
Okay? And so if we look at cannabis and we even
consider like, you know, an individual clone that selves,
there's no other genetic contributor to an S1 generation.
We have a clone of a plant that's been reversed to produce
you know, male flowers and then cross back to
itself. So, you know, from that point, from that point of view, there's no
other genetic contributor. But when we grow out S1 seeds
we most often see
that the type of plant that we bred
doesn't come back in the offspring. Or maybe it only
comes back in a percentage of the offspring.
Okay? And so because of that, that doesn't qualify
for the word strain.
You have to forgive me because I'm not so up on the dates and stuff, but
the International Association of Horticultural
Scientists essentially looked at this issue and they said, you know what, we're going to stop using the word
this is like the 70s or it might have been the 60s or early 70s, but they said
we're going to stop using the word strain for plants because
again, like the situation I described, it doesn't really, it's not suitable.
And so, you know,
the question becomes what is the suitable word? Right? And so
it's funny that we've gone into the strain conversation and I'm not talking about genotype or phenotype.
But maybe it's a good place to start.
When we have a plant that represents a given type, say it could be like
a tulip with a special flower pattern or color pattern
on the flowers, when you
breed those plants sexually, so you have sexual recombination,
so either the plant selves or you cross it to a sibling or you outcross
it to another species cohort, when you grow the
offspring, if they don't look anything like the parents
that's called a cultivar. As long as the cultivar when grown
and propagated, if that plant is grown and propagated clonally
and the type is always reproduced
but when we reproduce it sexually, the type is not
reproduced, that is by definition a cultivar.
And so that's why cultivar is the most appropriate term for cannabis.
We also have the word variety, which was really the
first word that was
coined, I think going back to like we're talking like the Roman times.
They used the word variety or veritas, or variitas
sorry, veritas means truth, variitas just means variety.
And it meant a type of plant that
was distinct from the wild version of that plant. So usually
somebody, say you're growing like whatever, say you bring like
you collect a bunch of apples and you bring them out of the
from wherever their region of origin is and you bring them back to say
like whatever, France, and you plant an orchard full of apple
seeds.
Usually what happens, or we've all done this by planting landry seeds
usually a lot of the stuff is junk that you plant, but you might go and find a
plant that is suitable for cultivation and you're going to take that clone and propagate
it or make a bunch of scions or whatever you're going to do.
That plant that is said to have arisen
under cultivation, that plant can then
be used as either a cultivar or a variety depending on its characteristics.
When you breed the type and the type doesn't come back, it's considered a cultivar.
But if you do breed that type to itself or within the group of
plants that all match that same set of descriptions, and the
type is then reproduced, that is actually a variety.
A good example that I use, that I think is a good example
is Tom Hill's deep chunk line, what was known in California
or in Mendo for a while as monkey balls. But it's an old
Afghan ink line. You can grow a hundred seeds of it, they all come up and more
or less look like clones. They really are
they make up their own type. And if you cross any of those plants to
each other or you self any of those plants, again the next
spring or the next generation will all again reproduce that
type. And so if you have a seed line that does that, it
reproduces its trueness over years of generation, that's what we consider a
variety. If it only reproduces
its type when propagated through clones, that's a cultivar.
So I'm going to shut up for there
and we can touch on chemivore in a second. But if anybody has any questions or comments, please jump in.
Yeah, I have a silly question.
So if the varietal
is producing the same thing and the strain
is reproducing the same, what's the difference between a strain and a varietal?
Maybe I missed the subtle fine print there, but could you
clarify that? Absolutely. And sorry.
So let's just real quickly do a terminology thing.
Variety is the noun, varietal
is an adjective. Okay, great.
Sorry, and I'm not trying to single you out. We hear people all the way through the
industry say this all the time. No, no, it's good.
Say you're on Blue Dream. If you take the hash and you make the region only from
Blue Dream, that hash is a varietal hash of
Blue Dream, but the clone or the variety would be Blue Dream.
And it's a really good point and I'm sorry I didn't
clarify it. You're right. So strains we reserve
for bacteria and viruses. And those types of organisms
typically reproduce through some form of cloning
themselves. Often there's a little bit of recombination as we've seen with
COVID. You can have like Delta and Omicron exchanging little pieces
of DNA. It's not true sex, but it is
like a form of recombination or a degree of recombination.
So strain is really, should be reserved for
organisms that reproduce through cloning. So
that might be like certain phases of like mushrooms, for example.
Or maybe it's like a clone from like, you know, clonal colonies more or less.
It's more like self-replication.
Self-replication really without recombination is the
idea. Okay. That's really clear.
Yeah. And so because cannabis or plants don't do that, that's
why we don't use the word strain.
Now there's been some PhDs that want to find
reasons to use the word strain. And like technically you can
use it. I don't think it's like 100% correct, but I think that we definitely
see it. For example, you know, if you have like, for example, say you had a blue dream
clone and you made it transgenic silica powdery mildew resistance.
Like technically you could call that a strain, but
I think like, again, this is my idea. Not my
idea. This is my opinion. I've been pushing this for like this ball
uphill for more than 15 years at this point in time. And I believe
that we should just not use the word strain myself.
But, you know, it's kind of built into the vernacular
and I think we're going to still hear it
for many years to come. Yeah, for sure. No, it's important
just these types of conversations help. So it's just one little
step at a time here.
We can shift over to chemotype or genotype or phenotype.
It doesn't really work with phenotype, but I think we can really look at these
things as genetic type or chemical type. And those are like really
sufficient for explaining what those things mean.
Chemotype is a little bit, again, it's a little bit of a baffling term
because it's like, OK, chemical type. OK, so
we've decided that the cannabinoids are the only
important chemicals in the plant, right, because they're the only ones
that we involve in the chemotype discussion. We're talking
chemotype 1, 2, or 3 plants, right? Chemotype 1 being THC predominant,
chemotype 2 being a mix of CBD and THC,
and chemotype 3 being CBD predominant.
We've also come to realize through breeding for over
the past 10 years, say, that we can mix and match those chemical
cannabinoid types with any given number of terpene
types. So you can have, as we know, you can have THC
type 1 plants that are limonene predominant, or you can have type 1
plants that are pinene predominant, or you can have type 1 plants that are terpenelene
predominant, right? And so we've kind of like really
prioritized this chemotype discussion around
the cannabinoids. It's really like we're kind of saying it's like, you know, it's
very cannabinoid-centric, when we put it that way. It only really focuses
on the cannabinoids. And so, you know, one might say,
okay, well, let's add the terpenoids as well in, and then we can have, you know,
chemotypes based on the combination of the cannabinoid type and
the terpene profile type, which is all fine and dandy, and
maybe that really helps us define, you know, we can take it from
five general classes, and that really blows it
up into like, you know, at least 30 or maybe
35 classes, if we're only talking about the predominant terpene, right?
But then every time that we decide another chemical
is important, like the aldehydes or the ketones or
you know, thiols, for example, we're adding layers of complexity
to this chemotype thing, where we essentially blow up what
is now referred to as chemotypes 1 to 5. You know, if you really want
us to look at the whole potential set of
different classes of compounds that cannabis produces, we can really blow it up into
like easily 100 different chemical types, right? Adding
or subtracting any given terps or thiols or, you know, ketones or
whatever. Yeah, that's really interesting.
Can I interrupt you for a second? I'm curious, because when I think
of, you know, clearly the growing conditions is affecting
chemotypical expression, right? So the abiotic and biotic
stresses are like rapidly altering the plant's chemistry.
So how does that play into it? Yeah, so
we did a whole series of these experiments, and you know,
let me set the stage here a little bit. We hear a lot,
I'm starting to hear it more and more in the last, say, two years, that like, yes,
the environment changes the chemotype. If you remove a plant from one
environment, say Humboldt, and you start growing it in the desert
in Arizona, or, you know, farther afield, say like Louisiana
or even Florida, way more humidity, right?
Florida. We will have a
slightly different chemical fingerprint from the plant. Now,
in the research that I've done and the testing that we've done with
multiple cultivars in different environments, what I've
seen, and you know, this may be
contradicted in the future by other work, but we had our own laboratory, so we were
quite sure of our methods. We collected all the samples, we planted all the
plants, so like I know that they were specific genotypes going into all these different
environments. The chemical fingerprints would be slightly the same,
but the chemicals that are in that fingerprint for a given
plant, they didn't change, right? And so
say you've got a THC-THCV plant that's like limonene, myrcene,
and beta-caryophyllene. If you plant that one plant in, say, Northern
California and then take it to another environment farther afield,
the plants in both of those conditions
will always produce THC-THCV, beta-caryophyllene, limonene, and myrcene.
The ratios of those chemicals may change a little bit
between each other. Okay, that makes a lot of sense. It kind of reminds me of
dynamic accumulators, where I've been studying those, and if you look
at comfrey, there's a high in certain compounds like magnesium
and potassium and calcium, you know, but it's like
the ratios are spike, you know, with certain elements, and depending on
which environment it's grown in, they'll fluctuate depending on
if that's actually in the soil, but they will always generally be elevated. I don't know why,
that's just like an analogy I think of when you tell me that.
Whatever makes it stick, right? I mean, that's kind of the way
people really learn best is relating the stuff to their own
experience.
Chemotype
to me is useful for talking about
like, to me when we talk about chemotype, and this is
a little bit debated by some people online, I think relatively barely,
I start thinking of wine, because, you know, like for example, you can have red
wine, you can have white wine, but within white wine, you know, there's all these
different varietals, right, or all these different varietal wines.
And same on the red side. And those different varietal wines,
even though they're red, it's really about flavor and the chemistry that makes up those
mixtures that separates them one from another, like
Shiraz wines are different from Pinot Noirs, and those are different from
Merlot, right, and they all taste different. The reason they taste different is because they have the chemistry.
But within a given class of wine, like, you know, wines that come from that grape,
they're more or less the same.
Right?
And so I think that, you know, I think that chemotypes are useful
for looking at cannabis from that, and even, you know, for doctors
prescribing cannabis to patients, it's
an oversimplification, but
I think that it's a good one, because, you know, the truth is
there's no doctors, there's no studies that show, for example,
that like a type 3 plant with beta-caryothelin is better than a type 3 plant
with terpeneline, for example, right, and we just don't have that
level of granularity or understanding matching the different chemistries of plants
with therapeutic conditions, right, or
sorry, medical conditions.
So, yeah, you know, I think
we probably got a little bit too deep for our own good
on that. You know, this class system,
Trevor and I have mentioned this in the past as well on Club S, but
like, you know, this chemotype 1, 2, 3, 4,
5 system that we've kind of built for cannabisers that
has evolved in the literature for cannabis is absolutely not sufficient
to describe all the different cannabinoid types that exist in the plant.
Right, like, for example, in those types 1 through 5,
there's no variance, so there's no CBDB or THCB,
right, or CBGB, for example. So where do those plants fall
in that 5 class system? It's just
clearly not sufficient to describe all the variety.
That brings up a great question that I have. Great topic, everybody.
Love to hear it. Love to learn from you all. So if I have
a phenotype that's expressing a different
chemotype than I'm used to seeing in a genotype,
what's going on there, or is that even, am I even describing
that correctly? No, and that's just, you're describing it exactly the way that everybody
in the community uses the word phenotype, and
like, just from a complete logical point of view, to me,
when you ask that question, it doesn't make sense. So you said, when I have a phenotype
that has a particular chemotype that is a genotype, it's
like, I think that we can just take out the word phenotype
out of that discussion, and you're still saying the same thing. You have a genotype.
So a genotype means a genetic type. So
you, OneLove, you are a genetic type, right? You have a unique
genetic makeup that nobody else on the planet
aside from your twin, if you have one, has the same genetic type than you are.
So, like, that's a good way to describe a genotype, right? And so
you know, I posted this meme on
IG this week about, like, you know,
Elmer Fudd saying, be very quiet, we're hunting phenos.
Right? When people use the word phenotype, like, you're not hunting
for phenotypes. Phenotype really refers to
one trait, right? And I think that the trait that we
used in the discussion was pink stigmas, right? So the little hairs
that come off the female butt are pink rather than white.
So you can say, you know, if we knew that the
genetic condition that referred to that, or that caused that
pink pistils, you could say genotype when talking
about that one trait.
And even if you added in another trait, like, say I added, like, you know, powdery
mildew resistance or whatever, you know, a specific chemical
profile, different types of plants,
right? So say that there's 100 million cannabis plants growing in the world
at any given point in time, and that's just a number that's chosen out of thin air,
it doesn't make sense to have 100 million
classes, right? Like, if we're going to try to classify all those plants,
you want to break them down into groups, right? And so you can't
really do that by using the word phenotype. Like, phenotype really refers to
one trait or the appearance of one trait.
Okay, I got it. I got it. So, like, used in a sentence, in a
sentence you could say something like, I had some seeds
and this one plant had an interesting phenotypical expression of pink
stigmas out of the 12 I had. Something like that.
Yeah, exactly. And it doesn't have to be limited to stigmas. I mean,
I'm not being pedantic, I'm just trying to, like,
make that statement for the whole room, right? Like... Easy analogy
to wrap your brain around. Yeah, for sure. But it's like,
you know, you can say, okay, so the phenotype of the stem is
it has elongated nodes, right? Or it has, like,
compact nodes.
Or more anthocyanin production, purples, you know, I don't know.
Yeah, exactly. It could be anything. But it's really, like, it should be used
when you're referring to one trait, not a collection of traits.
Right?
The appropriate word to use most often is genotype, right?
Or individual. You know, because that's what we're doing. When we're selecting, say you're growing
like, whatever, you make cross OG cookies, who cares what it is, Sherbert, it doesn't matter.
You grow a hundred or a thousand seeds, you go through, you're looking
like, you may be looking for phenotypes,
right? You may be looking for the one plant out of a million, or a hundred thousand,
or ten thousand, sorry, or a thousand that has pink pistils. But really,
what you're doing is looking for an individual with a whole set
of different phenotypes, right? For many different traits.
And, you know, I was
going to kind of get into it with the discussion that we were having on IG with Trevor,
but really, I think what it is, is cultivators
are selecting plants just for how they grow.
Okay? But when you breed,
like, say we grow, let's call it five thousand, say we grow five thousand plants,
we walk the fields, we find two almost identical plants that are heads and shoulders
above the rest. They've got the smell we want, they've got the yield, you know,
they perform on a whole series of traits. So we take those two plants,
from a grower's perspective, if they yield more or less the same, and they perform
more or less the same, your job's done. You can grow with either one of those
plants, okay? But if you're a breeder,
you want to breed those plants, because one
of those plants, half the offspring might be shit, and the other one,
half the offspring, or all of the offspring, pass on the traits that you want.
So from a cultivation perspective, they're more or less
the same, those two plants. Like, they perform the same. So in
essence, there's no difference to the grower. But to
someone that's making seeds, and trying to move that plant
through a series of generations, that's when genotype becomes really important.
Because you might have two plants that have slightly different genotypes,
even at a given, you know, let's talk about genotypes
looking at one specific trait, right? So you might have a plant that is
heterozygous, and one
of those plants is homozygous, right? The heterozygous one, from a breeding
point of view, is probably inferior, because half the time, it passes on the wrong allele.
Whereas, like, the one that is homozygous, no matter what
version of that allele gets packed into a chromosome, or into a
pollen grain, and passed down to the offspring, it's inheriting the right copy of the chromosome.
And so that's a condition where genotype is really important.
So I think genotype is probably
a word that's more important for people that are breeding
than it is for people that are just cultivating. Does that
mean that we should fall back into calling plants
phenotypes? Like, I really don't think so. Because, you know, like for example, here's
another thing you hear all the time. I remember my friend, Kip,
he used to have a company called Legend Seed, and he was selling this
hybrid of a plant called Ortega, and a plant
called Grapefruit, or it was a Grapefruit backcross line. And when you
bred the two plants together, they made, like, this third
phenotype that was kind of a true hybrid plant, in between
you know, that was really a
combination of the traits of the parents. And you'd pass
those things out to the clients or customers
in the seed market, and people would come back and they'd grow it, and they'd say, oh well, this one
doesn't smell like Grapefruit, so it must be the Ortega phenotype.
Or the Ortega pheno. And truthfully, it looked nothing like the
Ortega plant. And even if it did look like the Ortega
plant on one characteristic, called yield or flower structure or whatever,
it didn't smell like Ortega, and it didn't clone like Ortega,
and it didn't yield like Ortega.
And so, the idea of calling it
the phenotype of one of the parents, in my opinion,
is just, it's not accurate.
Right? Yeah, I think
on that point, that is a point very well
taken and needs to be shouted
from mountaintops. That the idea that we have
plants that, particularly in the genetic state
that they're in, and you're making a hybrid or getting a bagged
seed or getting whatever the fuck you're getting, and then calling it a
pheno as if the parent
plant has just transmitted everything down is
really absurd. And that is something, I even catch myself
and all of us, or many of us doing that
when you're going through a population, trying to be like, ah,
the M10 phenos versus the
OG phenos or whatever. And you're absolutely
right that that is a total misnomer.
And sometimes these things are easier to visualize, like when we talk about
humans, because it's like everybody can relate to generations of humans.
Everybody's got a mom and a dad, or most people do, and a lot of people knew their grandparents
or maybe they have grandchildren. You know, like, if you got redheads,
you're a redhead in the family, and your only guy was red, like a redhead, so your name is George,
whatever, and then you have offspring, and one of those kids
has kids, and the grandchild ends up with a
redhead, you don't call him Grandpa, right? Or you don't call him George, just because he has red
hair. And that's kind of what we're doing with this whole
chem pheno or cookies pheno. You have people that have
never grown the parental clone, they've got seeds
that are progeny from that parental clone, and
now they're looking at pictures on the internet and growing seeds in their basement
and deciding, oh, this one kind of looks like it, so I'm just going to call it cookies.
Or chem, or whatever it is. I just feel
like, and listen, I know maybe came across as
a little bit like being pedantic or whatever, but the
point is that we're trying to explain
concepts here to people, right?
And I think it's just-
You bring up a good point, because it's like, if we are
pheno hunting, or if we are selecting varieties in an S1
genopool, even, then
if we're- What phenotypes are we selecting for?
If we're selecting for a trait that's one trait
or a few traits that stand out, but we're
dealing with a progeny, and the progeny is a mixture
I'm sorry, it's just like a puddle of all that
singular phenotypical variations, so
Sorry, but yeah, so that's kind of where I'm curious
is like, what do we call it? Are we just calling them varieties
with different phenotypes that stand out to us?
Because with these broad strokes of like, oh, I'm pheno hunting
You know where I'm kind of going with this, Ryan? I mean, you're dropping a lot
of knowledge, and it's like opening up my mind a lot.
I appreciate what you're saying, Ryan, but I just want to sneak that in real quick, because what you're saying
is something that needs to be heard by so many people in
the cannabis community. There are- How many people out there
like you brought up the chimp, always looking for a chimp, every time someone posts a picture
of it, you can see half of the comments say they wish they had
access to it, and then in their tent, they're growing that thing and
claiming that they're seeing the chimp dominating across that only
part of its gene code over to this progeny.
This happens all the time, man. I had a guy that was buying seeds for me, and
he was taking some of my Durban crosses and renaming them Durban
and selling them on the market until I busted his ass because he sent me a text telling
me that's what he was doing, and I'm like, what the fuck are you doing, man? You're just screwing
everything up, pretending that your idea of what the plan is
is going to help out sick folks. There's reality out there, and what the cannabis community
has been doing, it's not helping us.
Yeah, so let's look at
subterfuge, or what's the Australian bastard cannabis? That's a leaf
phenotype, okay? And so if you cross, like let's use subterfuge
and thin them proof to bed, it's like, maybe it's, I haven't actually grown it, so
let's assume that it's more stable.
I know one of the early ones that I've crossed that to is like a California
orange plant, so let's assume that that subterfuge weird leaf
ABC leaf phenotype has been bred into a lime
that now comes out smelling like California orange, okay?
If you take that plant and you then cross it to, let's call it OG,
totally different smell profiles, full of gas and limonene
and beta caroalphanine, whatever, you hybridize those two plants, you get an F1
generation. In the F1 generation, we know that that weird leaf phenotype
disappears, okay? So the F1 generation are
all normal looking leaves. If you take a couple of plants from that
generation and cross them together, or you select one individual plant and you self
it, the resulting generation, 25%
of the plants will have that abnormal ABC leaf
phenotype, okay? That doesn't mean that all
those plants are the ABC phenotype, right? They're not going to recapitulate
what ABC was, because
it's an F2 generation from across with an OG, so it's like
you're getting that orange scent profile crossed with the OG
and then that gets reshuffled in a recombination event
going from F1 to F2, and now you're going to have plants
some of them are going to be the ABC
leaf phenotype in the orange flavor profile, some of them are
going to be the ABC leaf phenotype in the OG
scent profile, and some of them are going to be a blend
of those two scent profiles with the ABC leaf phenotype, right? And so
referring to all of them as a phenotype
you know, as the ABC phenotype is wrong,
right? Or the subterfuge phenotype or whatever you want to call it, like, because
again, they don't all match the type. The only trait for which they
all match the type is leaf shape, right? And so again, that's just
like an example of phenotype being used to describe
one trait, not a series of traits.
And it's very appropriate to use Hybe as
an example there, because he's, having just read through
almost all of his few remaining posts that are out there on
IcyMag and different forums, he's made this exact
point a number of times about how, you know,
just from drift and
various selection and breeding practices
people have been unable to recapitulate
whatever it is they're breeding with, but nevertheless try to
maintain that name, and there's really
to his mind, from a purely breeding
perspective, he argues that there's absolutely no reason
to maintain the names, because there's so much
variation and difference and loss of genetic
components in these small breeding populations.
Yeah, and that I think is more a commentary. I mean, I don't think that's
a steadfast rule that we can say holds true across time.
I think generally it holds true across most canvas varieties, but for example
deep trunk, if you grow, you know, 10 or 50 or 100 seeds and you
let them all interbreed and you grow the progeny, they all do look the same.
So in that situation where it is a true variety, I think maintaining the word
deep trunk or the name deep trunk is informative.
For the more hybrid plants, for which
let's say 99.9% of the gene pool is,
you know, they're not, they are cultivars, or
hybrids of hybrids, rather than true varieties,
and therefore they don't reproduce the type
when bred from generation to generation. And as such
I think we can call them cultivars and not expect them, you know,
and that's why I kind of push the people to use these words varieties, cultivar,
and, you know, string, which I don't even use, but
you know, varieties, cultivar, landrace, for example. There's a ton
of information built into the word cultivar that lets
you know, hey, is this plant true to type
when bred from seed, or are you going in and having
to screen for individuals, right?
And that's the reason I push people to use the right words.
Or, listen, I don't care if the whole industry uses them. If breeders
can understand them, and it would be nice if the scientists got on board as well, but if
people can get on board with this idea and understand these terms,
then when we say, oh, I've got this cultivar, I'm going to call it, you know,
Joe's shmoe or whatever, right? By
saying it's a cultivar, that means, hey, if you take this plant
and you want to take cuttings from it and reproduce an army of cuttings and grow crops of that
plant, they're all going to be the same. But, if you take that
plant and you try to breed it with something else, it's going to be difficult for you to find plants like
the original, right? Whereas if you say, hey, this plant is a
variety, you're telling the person that's buying the seeds
that they can expect all the plants to come up looking the same. And when they
breed them inter se or amongst themselves, that type
and that form is going to be reproduced in the next generation.
And I've talked to Hive. I've been trying to get him to come on the show
here. I talked to him about a month ago and let him know we do this. He asked
about you, Ryan, if you were on here. He'd be a cool person to get
on the show to break down some breeding for us. He's a really
smart dude, man. And the truth is that he's an experienced plant breeder
not only with cannabis, but he breeds flowers and stuff, right?
Vegetable crops. So, he really understands a lot of these inheritance things
from a point of view that I think most people in the community don't.
And again, that's not trying to set him aside and put him or anybody
else that has learned this stuff up on a ledge. Anybody can learn this stuff.
This information is accessible to anybody and everybody. This is not some
form of gatekeeping. Everybody has the right
and the ability to look all this stuff up and join the conversation from an informed
perspective, right? And I would really hope that rather
than just say, oh, it's gatekeeping to try and stop people from using
these terms, I'd rather people spend a couple hours and pick up a book and get up
to speed and understand that, again, it might sound
pedantic, but I really do believe that we have these words
that mean specific things. And if we can all
use those words appropriately, we're much
more effective communicators, right? And we're at a real
crossroads here with cannabis graduating from prohibition
to legalization and all of us trying to find how we're going to work with the
plant for the rest of our lives. I just feel
like we're at an opportunity where if everybody stepped up their game a little
bit, we really could move this plant forward a
lot in the next 20 or 30 years. So this
is not, again, I just want to make it clear that this is not gatekeeping
or trying to be pedantic about the use of specific words.
It's just if people understand what these words mean, then we can
I really think that it's the basis for us being able to move forward together
with this marvelous plant, right?
Yeah. And for context, for anyone
who may wonder, there were concerns
that the meme and, come on people,
memes are jokes, was a form of gatekeeping that Ryan
engaged in. And, you know,
I feel like these are things that we have to be able to discuss. And
honestly, memes are one of the things
particularly on social media that generate
much more discussion. You know, I can post a
scientific paper and try and discuss
population genetics, or I can post a stupid meme.
And I have the receipts to show that the stupid meme
gets a lot more engagement. And I think that we should be
encouraging people to discuss this stuff and not necessarily
take a meme that we may disagree with or
feel is, you know, I will
raise my hand and say I am in the camp of phenohunt over genohunt.
But I also recognize those are made up terms and
it's completely silly and beyond ridiculous to
have a say or a side in that made up debate.
But it's worthwhile for us to have
these discussions. And even if we're, you know, not always on the winning
side or on the side of the meme.
Okay, I have a question. For folks that want to read some
stuff here, I've got, the cat that made up these words that we're talking about right now,
the phenotype and genotype. They were first coined by a
man named William Ludwig Johansen. He wrote a book
called The Elements of the Exact Theory of Heredity and another paper
in 1911 called The Genotype Conception of Heredity. These
are where these terms come from. If folks want to dive into the basis
of where this all began instead of just
trying to piece pieces together from shit that you
don't know where to look at. So I'm going to post the links on YouTube for everybody
to try to dive into those. Go ahead.
Okay, so I got a question. So you see
sometimes it's about breeders labeling
seeds properly. Ryan, you're kind of just talking about this.
Question popped up. So, like, let's say
a breeder is trying to start a seed company and
he takes someone else's genetics, like, I don't know, just say
sour diesel for whatever reason. Sour popped into my head. And
he gets seeds from that breeder
and then he basically crosses them together.
That's not, like you said, it's not going to be a true sour.
There's going to be some expressions of the plant.
But if he's calling it sour diesel, that's kind of like a
misnomer, right? So is there a way to say, like, what would be more appropriate
for him to call that? Sour diesel hybrid or sour diesel F1
from the seed? You know what I mean? Like, where does that nomenclature
lead that breeder to help the grower understand that maybe
he's going to get some different expressions happening?
I don't think there's anything wrong with the
convention of just, like, Top Dog
has released some sour diesel crosses recently
and it's all breeding
conventions. It's a BX2F3
or something along those lines. That
seems reasonable to me and I think kind of like what Ryan was
saying with Deep Chunk. Like, Deep Chunk is an inbreeding line.
JJ's inbreeding the sour diesel line, or, you know,
his specific sour diesel line. And
I personally, I see the
problem more when people just kind of throw random names
onto something or take a name that's kind of
like in circulations and call it something
akin to that, where it's like, you know,
OGXYZ or ChemXYZ
and we're just adding on
and adding on and
I don't know. The name game's all just marketing and we should recognize that.
The most important thing, to the extent that there is any
importance in what is on seed packaging
is the lineage information and just being very
truthful and honest in what cut you're using
and what male or pollen source you're using.
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
Yeah, but so many people out here are not purchasing their gear based on
the genetics that made it. They're buying shit because it says
poodle nuts and grape punch so they can make a strain called nut punch, right?
This is how a majority of the cannabis community is fucking doing shit
and that's not, it's not helping us out. I mean, it's cool to make seeds like that
for yourself, but when those become the basis of new breeding projects
and nothing has got any type of proof behind it
and you can't prove it.
Yeah, I mean, I think that's the problem with the problem with the problem
knots, which ties into what we had to show about before when a plant
had like Kim lines that have been here for 30 years and can show that they
do specific things when breeding and can pass specific traits. Those are things
that you can research and find out even if you haven't grown the plant for 30 years.
But I want a brand new guy just throwing fucking names on shit because it sounds
like you were looking for beef stew or some shit like it comes down to
just passing a lot of junk out there and charging people
for it. Yeah, that's a good point. It's like I
wonder if you could sort of stabilize that idea
of, you know, it's like if you know, like I remember back in the day
growing some DNA genetics like the tanning is a tan genes
can do and stops and there would be some. I almost said
difficult expressions, but there's some different expressions
and traits, you know, and it's like obviously if someone grabbed one
of those and then bred with it, they would be getting something different
than the true true plant, the two chimontites.
Yeah, it's like how stable does the line have
to be before? I don't know. I'm kind of just really high right now
and not making much sense, but let me back
up for a second. I'm going to pause and restructure that thought. Be back
in a minute. Would it kind of matter if it was a monohybrid
or a dihybrid or a trihybrid or how many traits you were trying to pass
through that I suppose it could just be one trait like
the something like freak show. You're trying to get the
expression of the structure of that plant. That's the only thing that you're after. You don't
care about the flavor. You don't care about flower time. You don't care about
any type of color production. You're just after one specific trait
from the line and that you could do by breeding some of the F1s into
an FT generation and then like Kymera said or Ryan
said, diving into the percentage of plants that actually
have that trait and then continue breeding through that.
Yeah, like have a line stable. I do like the
idea of having stable lines. It's a powerful thing
to have a breeder that's stabilized genetics to where they're
I guess Ryan would say it would be more of like a varietal
so it's from clone reproduce the same and then if you would
S1 it or whatever it would still reproduce the same
chemotypes. I think I said that right.
Aside from varietal you had it perfect.
It's variety.
That's really what you're saying though dude is you did hit the nail on the head.
Once a plant is true or what we
call again air quotes stable
stable really means that it's become at least for the traits under selection
a variety. We said this when we were on the
show with Mutants Trevor was talking about this as well. For example
that might be like one trait.
Like for example the freak show right that weird kind of Fernie
looking leaf phenotype if all the plants in the
seed line when bread reproduce that
type aka the weird fear the fern looking leaf
that is a variety right and so freak show would qualify
as a variety. It might and again we're defining
that variety by this variety has
weird fern like leaves.
Technically anything that
had that weird fern type leaf and bread and
when bread to itself reproduced the type would be considered a variety.
It just happens though that like when
you know so for example we can get into let's talk about variety registrations and so
when you do a variety registration or a cultivar registration
you have to describe the traits to the
registering board or authority. These are the traits
that define this variety. And so if you've got a weird
say I come up with a tulip and it's like a yellow tulip with lightning bolt
white you know on every petal there's like a white light
bolt. If that was the
defining trait that described the variety or that described the variety or the cultivar
every plant that either came through clonal reproduction or
sexual reproduction in the case of variety would have to reproduce
that trait.
You know I might then come up with another version of that same flower
that has the white lightning bolt on a red flower with
a purple stem rather than a green stem. Right. I could
register that as a separate variety because again as long as I
described not only the leaf pattern but you know any
other traits that are crucial and stable in that variety you can
describe them in there. They become
that might be what's called an essentially
derived variety in that case but
where you have to share royalties with the originator. But the point is like as long as you're adding
new traits and describing those traits in the registration
you can use additional traits as long as they're true
breeding or aka stable. You know and I think this is another
point to consider what we talk about like stable. Right. Like
when you talk about stability over generations you're talking about
a variety. When you're talking about any other trait it's a clonal
thing like. I didn't explain that well. Sorry.
I thought you're doing pretty good
there. You're doing pretty good.
So I got a question. If say you are talking
about freak show and you know it's a
fern leaf I guess variety but there's also other
cultivars that have been bred for that. There's one that was
made in Alaska called I believe the breeder calls
it sawtooth skunk and it also is that
pennant leaf type of variety. So would that
like would that basically be defined
as a variety because of its leaf morphology or does it
have like do its actual
genetics come into play at that point
as well. Like it has zero relevance to
freak show but I mean it's so hard to tell them apart.
I think that they're both
different. They're displaying a similar
mutation from different genetic stock and so
theoretically both of them
could qualify as independent and separate
varieties for that
specific trait.
That's you know just my guess
and estimation because it's not like it's not
as if once one variety comes into
being and exists as a described
and characterized variety it now like occupies the field
for that realm of varieties
like somebody else can produce a similar variety
on their own and if they're able to do so with their own
genetic stock that's totally unrelated then
presumably they would be able to you know
classify it as or describe it as a variety
and have it be an independent separate variety but
with the same characteristic. Yeah yes and no
right. Again look there's a whole bunch
of different levels of discussion that are going on here. We all the way
we work in the cannabis industry is we pick a name and we go with it. In the
flower world you don't actually get to choose you're not
you're allowed to give it a name but you don't get a recognized
name or a registered name until you get registered variety. And so
you know like what happened in the cannabis a bunch of years ago is somebody tried to
a couple of people like what happened was Dave Watson got
variety registrations on a whole bunch of old school stuff like that he didn't even breed
like Northern Lights and Afghani One and whatever else a couple other ones
and he did it from a defensive registration point of view
because he didn't want somebody else coming along later and saying I own Northern Lights
I own Afghani One I own Skunk Number One and in fact
that's exactly what happened. Ben Dronker then later went and trademarked
those words and tried to go around to different people in the seed business in
Amsterdam and say hey you actually can't use these words I'd trademark them.
A trademark is not
a trademark has nothing to do with agriculture or horticulture. A trademark is not
it has no enforcement. The thing that has enforcement is
when you get a variety registration you're allowed to give that registration
a name and that name is equivalent to a trademark. But
the plant breeders rights nomenclature
or the name that's given to your variety registration is actually what holds
the variety rights. That supersedes a trademark.
In the plant world it might be
different if you were like if you start getting out
of plants and maybe even plant extracts somebody else might come in and try
to use that word. But for example nobody's knocking off
Macintosh apples and trying to sell fake Macintosh apple juice.
When you do get a variety registration
you do get the rights to the plants that have that
type. If for example Mr. Toad and I
both developed a variety that had a weird specific
leaf shape and say they even smelled the same and looked the same
if Mr. Toad got to the registration first I'm out of luck.
If I could then come along
with the same trait for example say it was a visual leaf
trait and I put it in a totally different scent background and made
the leaves purple that may be different enough
to be considered its own variety but it also might be considered what is
an essentially derived variety. Meaning I had used Mr. Toad's
variety to generate mine that was similar but slightly different.
In that case I might be able to get a PBR registration
but Mr. Toad would have rights to a portion of the royalty
that I negotiated.
That's it. You nailed it. I wrote that down. Essentially derived variety.
So it's like there's that weird gray area where if the two
freak show varieties have different terpene profiles
it's like in the gray area of legalese
where is it different enough to qualify it as a
different variety? And that's like this unknown area right now
with cannabis. Huh? Sort of? It's not unknown. It's not
unknown because it's all discoverable. So for example there's these
patented plants and there's seeds that represent those plants that are deposited
into a repository somewhere in the world. I can get those seeds if I want
if I ask for them and import them legally and I can grow them out and see if those
varieties, I can say oh look, these are the seeds
that represent this variety and then I can grow them out and characterize them and say
what is the range of the chemicals that exist in this seed line?
Do my plants fall within the natural range of
described characteristics that fall within this population? Or do my
plants exceed those traits in some way? Or are they different in certain
traits in some way? And it is much like a patent
like you can challenge a PBR, like a plant breeders right registration and say
hey look, I've got this plant and it is almost like this one but you can
see from my heritage, you know, whenever you make these applications
or submissions for registration, you
have to not only describe all the traits of the plant
or the variety that you're registering, but you also have
to say this came from this genetic background or these two
plant varieties were used to create this given type that I've
developed. So if you can show
that, yeah, your plant might look similar
to this other guy that's got a registration, but you can demonstrate that
those genetics came from a different place or a different genetic
line, that this was just a random mutation that was buried in the genome,
that you also, you know, separately
from that other guy that developed freak trail, you also found plants that
showed the same trait and they never came from each other, yeah, you might be able to register it
as a separate variety. But there's a judge or an arbitrator
that essentially examines your
application and decides whether your plant is novel
and different enough to merit its own name.
Yeah, it's very interesting. Thanks for that.
Yes, thank you guys. It's crazy that we're having to
get into the legalese aspect of it
when it comes to producing stuff, but thank you guys for that.
That's what's coming with cannabis. And since we all started to decide we wanted
legal cannabis and have it regulated, we need to start following the rules
that come with this instead of trying to take the cannabis community's
wrong ideas of how a plant should be labeled and how genetics
combine and try to get everyone that's been doing this shit for
hundreds of years to change their ideas. We're the ones that
are supposed to jump on the boat that's floating by if we want to get on the ride
and most of us are just trying to swim next to this motherfucking boat. We're going to sink
because of that. Look, I don't think we do have to get on that board. I mean,
I think that people that are truly developing new, stable
and unique types of cannabis,
if you are doing it as an investment or you're doing this as part of your way to make a
living and look, everybody's got the right to make money, there's nothing wrong with seeking
intellectual protection for this stuff that you develop that is new and unique.
You might be an open source guy and decide, fuck that, I don't want to do that,
I want to share the stuff that I've done with the whole world. I mean, what's his name?
Dude with the Gorilla Glue for... he essentially
took that route. Sorry, can you say his name again?
Josie. Josie Wales, exactly. Sorry, I was having a brain
burn there. My respect to the past RIP
to Josie Wales. But yeah, I mean, he kind of took that philosophy
and he's like, fuck it, I'm giving this plant out to anybody that wants it.
And to a degree, I think it's also fair to say in that context,
that bit him in the ass a little bit because people started
selling it and using his branding and he never got a kick down. And then Gorilla Glue
came after him and started fucking harassing him about the use of the trademark
as well. But
it's an ethos or it's something that you've got to decide, or am I going to
give all this intellectual property away? Or if you're truly breeding and spending a lot of money
like lab testing and do genetic testing and whatever else gets you
to the goal, yeah, you might want to protect your work if you develop something new
and say, hey, I developed this whole new type of cannabis, it's totally different, unique.
It's only fairer than anybody that uses my plant. I should get
a small royalty out of that. Rather than some other guy
coming and hacking on your work and essentially doing what people do
in all these other industries, they essentially steal your shit and they sell it and they make the majority
of the money and you get left out of the game.
I do believe in intellectual property rights. I think intellectual property rights
pertaining to plants, I know how much money it costs
in R&D and germplasm and everything to build new
varieties. It's not just fucking two plants in your basement.
The way that the cannabis world works now, sure, there are a lot of people
like Mr. Toad's got cheese crosses and I've got
cheese crosses and there's tons of other people that have cheese crosses.
That's cool for us all starting different individuals, but I think
truly what's going to happen in the next 10 to 20 years is
we're all not going to be using the same clonal
seed parents to cross to make plants.
I think people should be crossing plants that they selected
themselves from seed. That's the only way that we're going to
really move forward. If we just stick at Sour Diesel and
Blue Dream and OG and Cookies and we just repeatedly cross
every different type of plant to those individuals, we're not
moving forward evolutionarily or in the sense of improving
cannabis. We're kind of stuck at one level. The only way for us to
really move forward is for breeders to look into their own work,
find plants that are better than Sour Diesel
and OG and Cookies and Blue Dream
and we start breeding those plants. Over time, that's when we're
really getting there.
That goes back to
the conundrum of cross-pollinating and having a bunch of polyhybrids.
I guess it is what your end goal
is with breeding. I think as a breeder
in knowing your provenance and knowing
definitions, it really can help
because I've just been doing it from experience. I've been able to
have access to able to pop seeds and
hunt and I'm grateful for it all. I'm also super
stoked to be able to learn proper definitions and I'd rather
learn than just sound like an idiot. I appreciate
everyone's information tonight.
Thanks, One Love. I think
we're, Ryan, you've kind of been
mentioning this, we're at a really unique point
in the history of cannabis and it's not
dissimilar from the point where
corn germplasm was 100 years ago. If you look at
corn germplasm or yield data
from the 1860s to
the 1930s, about 1920s,
yields were relatively stable. There wasn't
much increase from year to year. Then the development
of
sorry, I'm getting over a cold and kind of brain dead
of dye hybrids and then eventually
of true F1 hybrids. It
caused a massive explosion in yields and much of
precursor to the Green Revolution but
caused the explosion in overall
production in US corn
between 1922 and
the present day, really. But all of
the genetics that they had were open pollination crosses that
had been highly hybridized from a few
commercially viable sort of
seed lots or stocks that were being used from the
1860s to the 1920s. It was when they then started
actually doing selective infreeding
and then hybridization and figuring out how heterosis works
that they got those massive yield increases.
The massively polyhybridized sort of
clusterfuck of a gene pool that we have at the moment
while it's good on some levels if you're just
doing massive selection and pulling out some
30% THC variety that you're then going to
clone and sell on the sort of commercial market in that
context or cultivar, excuse me.
It's fine for that but it's not
great, as Ryan's mentioned, from a breeding standpoint because it's not
as if you're going to get stable or consistent or reliable or
at all predictable outcomes when you breed with this material.
What we need to do is the same kind of work
that George H. Schill was doing,
Edward East and the folks and Douglas
Jones, I believe that's his name, D. Jones,
who really kind of developed hybrid breeding in corn.
Similar things are going to happen in cannabis and that's just
basic old school shit that's not even getting into the stuff that the Stanley
brothers, or excuse me, God, that's a fucking
slip up. That was amazing.
That was awesome. That was amazing.
Yeah, no, we were just talking about them
actually about this topic of chemotypes
because of the way chemotype has kind of been used to
push a certain agenda by people who
want to do CBD only and that's a whole
other subset of this discussion.
The Crawford brothers and the very interesting work they're doing
that's much more
scientifically revolutionary or advanced than the
just basic hybrid breeding. But that's all we have to do.
We can literally go back 100 years, use 100 year old technologies
and techniques and methods and the
germplasm and gene pool is very comparable and
the methods for improving it and getting significant gains
are very similar as well. And granted, it's
not to say that it doesn't take lots of money, but
this is something that as a community, we as
individuals, if people stayed in their lanes, bred
their lines down, I appreciate every breeder who does do good
breeding work and breeds things down anytime I get something that's at
F, you know, whatever it may be, F3,
4, 5. I always try to increase that population as much
as I can and continue going down that line because
that's the important work that we're going to do. Doing that
inbreeding, then doing the hybridization.
Can I just, real quick, after mentioning the Crawford
brothers, Seth and his brother, who I'm having a mind
fuck on his name, so excuse me, I keep forgetting his name, Eric,
they are not plant breeders, or they didn't start as plant breeders.
Seth's got a PhD in something completely unrelated to plant sciences,
but they have done some incredible shit, including work in genomics
and they've figured out a whole bunch of stuff and are making some really cool stuff, not
only in polyploids, but also bizarre cannabinoid profiles and terpene
work. To me, when I look at those guys,
Seth used to post on OG, I don't know if he was on OG,
but he was definitely on ICMAG years ago, and to see
from where they started to where they've come from, I really think that breeders
in the cannabis space should look up to those dudes as an example
of where we can go, because they've essentially gone from people that knew
very little about breeding plants, and no offense, Seth,
if you're listening to this, or you do end up listening to it, to people that really
know what they're doing breeding plants, and they've hired a bunch of people that know what they're doing
and are excellent scientists, but I think
people should look at those guys as an example of what they could also do.
If everybody could work towards that type of
understanding of how the plant works and how it breeds, that we can
really move cannabis forward a lot in the next short period
of time. Because again,
we were talking about graduating from prohibition and
legalization, all the opportunities that that creates for us.
We're actually ahead of the curve in terms of
all these other species. Beer consumers, and even herbs,
people that are really into fresh herbs and even tomatoes,
and all these specialty veg crops.
I think the cannabis world is actually teaching people, like how we've
nerded out and gone past chemotype and cannabinoid profiles,
and in the last 20 years, we've really started getting onto terps to the point where
terpenes are, a lot of people know names of different terpenes
in the last five years, which is pretty amazing.
That type of understanding of the community, understanding our
plant, is actually bleeding out into
the hops world, and the beer world, and the wine world, where
your average consumer is actually saying, oh, these cannabis
people really understand about all this shit that's going on in the plant.
I've turned chefs onto terpenes. We sat down with
a chef, a guy named Jim, who runs a restaurant in
Berkeley, a really famous Mexican restaurant downtown in Berkeley,
California, and we were teaching him all about terps. He's gone and taken
that knowledge and really gotten into all the herbs that he uses, and
is now looking at different varieties of those herbs and different types of cultivars
of all the ingredients that he uses. This
knowledge that we're applying to cannabis is actually having a
cultural impact, like Trevor was always talking about, breeding the culture.
We have the opportunity here as we cross over
from prohibition to legalization, to not, like, look, we don't have to
just capitulate to the biotech sector or
Monsanto and the big expensive plant breeding technology.
We can teach ourselves to do that same type of work and
have the same type of understanding of plant breeding.
It's not going to be everybody in the community, because a lot of people just don't want to
fucking open a book, but for the people that do want to open a book, like
Mr. Toad or Trevor, that are digging through the literature daily and
learning all this stuff, we can pass that knowledge down
and have the custodians of the cannabis gene pool
start engaging in, like, proper terminology
is just a step towards proper breeding. Then when we're all doing
proper breeding, we're making advancements. We're finding out new things about the plant
that either we don't know or we're creating new types of cannabis that we
don't have today, be it cannabinoid content, therapeutic
potential for patients, or just fucking dank-ass flavor
for a strong weed, right? Like, you know, we can make those plants better
to grow. Like, there's a ton of work that we can do.
Anyway, I don't know. I just think that, like,
in many ways, we've been behind the ball for so long with cannabis
that, you know,
to a certain degree, we need to realize that we're also at the cutting edge of these types of, like,
human-plant interactions and our understanding and our depth of
understanding about all the deep dives that people are doing into the chemistry of the plant.
We're learning about cannabis on a level that's probably, like,
faster than, you know, I'd say, like, 95% of the plant species on the planet.
And even, probably even faster than some of our
important ag crops, right, that are feeding the world. So,
if this culture that we're breeding in the cannabis world, we can get
everybody kind of up to speed and, like, you know, understanding
the real breeding that goes on behind this, that we can actually have an impact,
not only in cannabis, but probably greater in cannabis.
I feel like that was, like, the coach's motivational
speech in the Bad News Bears locker room before, like, their
final game against the best team in the league, where against all odds, they overcome
and win. You're our butter maker. But just
quickly, Seth Crawford says hi. He's
picking his son up from wrestling, but said he'll come on sometime soon.
Very cool. He's a good dude.
And, like I said, I'm really impressed with the work those guys have done.
I think people have been a little bit scared of their success,
but, I mean, they were the first guys to hit the CBG really commercially
in the States. And, you know, like you said,
Bad News Bears, we can get, like, 20, 30 Seth Crawfords
all around the States, or, you know, globally doing their thing in every country.
We could really make some advancements towards cannabis.
And, you know, I'm from the community. I love the community.
I love to see community people make these gains and wins, rather
than a bunch of fucking outsiders come in and, like, pick up all the work that we've done and run with it.
So, you know,
yeah. You know, if you can, and you have
the ability to breed, you're spending all this time and money doing it.
Just pick up some books and learn about breeding plants.
And, you know, we're going to really make some gains.
I definitely...
Go ahead. No, it's all right. You first. It's fine. Go ahead.
I was just going to say, I feel like, you know, if we also
kind of geared towards improving these plants,
and, you know, improving... Like, one thing I really have been working
towards is improving clone-onlys, you know, with the male.
But just to gear towards
that, instead of having the mentality of people just,
oh, I found a male. Let's hit every clone-only I can, or whatever,
and make seed for money. Like, I feel like there's a
majority of our community that just
slaps together crosses to make some money, and not
actually work towards improving the plant,
improving its, you know, ability to resist
this, pass this, that, and the other. And I feel like we
really need to shift that mentality
and get towards actually improving, and not just
trying to make money, really. You know, Lucas, you bring up a good point.
Although, I get stoned, and I'm curious about how many
private corporations or organizations in these legal
realms are doing those types of serious
in-depth, you know,
resistant plant, you know, pest-resistant, mold-resistant
type breeding programs,
but they're just not really focused on the outcome, especially with
the ability to flood, you know, certain states
with biomass for, you know, cart distillation. I think there
is a lot of heavy-duty breeding going on. It's just behind the scenes
and under, you know, different organizations or corporations
because it's private money. So it's, you know, it's like Coca-Cola doesn't
sell their secret. I mean, we all know there's, you know, different
secrets and stuff like that, but I think those types of breedings are going down, Lucas,
for sure. But unfortunately, I don't think they're open to the public's
eye, in my opinion.
Yeah, like, most of, like, if
it's going on in THC, probably not because
large corporate sort of actors
haven't necessarily fully committed or moved in all the way
in THC, and they're certainly not moving in from the perspective
of, like, breeding necessarily, at least, like,
it's not as prevalent in the drug
area. It's all over the place in hemp, and it's in
fucking autos, and, you know, the Crawford Brothers,
the... there are people who are working in
the big ag space in hemp,
and the same sort of economies of scale,
the same sort of practices and financial
interests are gonna come in in THC as soon
as things open up and regularize down here in the States.
But, you know,
it's a much more, like, bifurcated market down here
in, you know, every different jurisdiction
is different, and it seems like everybody's just
kind of operating on the old model, even
in the, like, a lot of the breeders
and the commercial interests, you know, i.e. the cookies model.
And there's very few doing the NAPRO
or the biotech model, which isn't to say there aren't some,
but they're few and far between.
That's my question. I was gonna... it's kind of a funny lead-in one, though, because when Trevor
was talking about the hybridization of the corn in the 20s, I started thinking about
reading... I remember reading in the 19... I think it was the 1950s
they started chemically irradiating wheat, you know, to increase yields,
and I'm just... I would love to know if that... if the hybridization
of the corn in the 20s was just, like, pure breeding hybridization, or if there's any,
like, other, you know, radiation
type influences to mutate, you know, like they were doing
with wheat later on. And then, obviously, like...
sorry, real quick. And then, obviously, it's, like, getting into the future, maybe talk
about CRISPR and what's CRISPR doing now on a
scale. Like, I don't know if they can... you know, they're obviously trying to insert...
they're trying to map out the genome where the powdery resistant mildew genes
are, and then using CRISPR try to, like, remove that gene
so it doesn't get powdery mildew or something like that. You know what I mean? Alright, I'm gonna stop.
I totally understand what you're saying. I heard Brian talk about
it on another podcast about how, you know, CRISPR's just...
you know, I don't want to speak for him, but he was just saying that it's just so expensive
and that just makes me kind of think about what Trevor was just saying, is this, like,
the big, big money isn't there in THC yet,
but that might be the answer to your question.
Love to hear response from Trevor and Ryan. Anybody?
Real quick, just
on the historical side.
George Schill and Ernest East's work on heterosis
or hybrid breeding was just traditional breeding.
They inbred corn, and then
after inbreeding it for, I believe, four generations of selfing,
hybridized different lines and
noticed the hybrid vigor that resulted in the
offspring, and it was just traditional breeding. Okay, cool. Thanks for that.
Yeah, I mean, keep in mind, too,
like, fuck, we think of this world that we live in now,
dude, in, like, 1850s, 1870s, like, 1890s,
this is a totally different world. So we came into, like, you know,
the 20th century, 1900s. Like, people were still, like,
the farmers, you know, the states in Canada were
still kind of getting their shit together, right? And scientists, you know,
we're building academic institutions, and people are like, hey, let's get all the different
types of corn and get them all in one place and grow them all together
and see what works better than others, right? And then they start maintaining,
you know, obviously you breed, you get all these genetic populations, well, let's
open pollinate them and keep the seed pure so that we can use it again
next year, and at the same time, they start getting into these crosses
between, like, let's cross this one to that one, and, you know, once you have a couple
F1s, you can make some double crosses. Double crosses are like, say you got
plant line A and B, and then plant lines B and C, or
C and D. So if you cross A to B, you get an F1.
You cross C to D, you get a separate F1. If you cross those two different F1s
together, you get what's called a double cross hybrid.
And so they start running all these experiments at these academic institutions that are really
more or less just getting built out and developed, and they start seeing, holy shit,
like, you know, when we cross this line to that one, we get bigger yields
than when we cross these two, and the double cross hybrids are better and they perform
more years per plant or, you know,
bushels per acre, whatever the fuck they're following in those crops.
So, you know, really hardcore,
like, let's call that 1900s, 1920. Dude, that's 100 years ago.
It's not that long ago. And so we've
really only, like, really been kind of understanding, like, plant breeding for that long.
And since then, you know, wheat, corn,
sugar beet, everything, we've done a lot of good.
Cannabis has more of been left out of all of those breeding systems and
improvement systems for the last, call it at least 80 years,
right, probably 100 years. And we're
only now starting to get access to these technologies and
applying these, like, very basic concepts that are like have been done
out in the open with wheat and corn and, you know, barley, everything else
100 years ago. So, yeah, we're at, like, again,
it all comes back to you. It's at a crucial point right now.
Yeah. And like you had said also, like, I don't think,
you know, corn had plenty
of corn farmers out in America in
19, you know, from the 1860s to the 1920s.
But I don't think that the culture
of corn farming and in
like traditional American
culture was necessarily
thinking in terms that we are now. And
that is to say, a lot of farmers and a lot of communities
have lost genetic resources, have lost access
to traditional cultivars. And we have the experience
of what all of those communities have gone through and how, you know,
in the 1960s and 70s, people kind of really became
much more aware of and concerned about genetic
resources. And so we've got an active community
that is consciously aware of and concerned and has,
you know, had very vocal members in the community trying
to raise awareness and do good work to try
and sort of like hold back the tide of genetic erosion.
And so that's something that even
as things shift, like it's not a disempowering
moment. It's a moment where we as a community who have been
holding on to these genetics and stewarding them to a certain extent
through the insanity of prohibition are now
positioned to make better use of the opportunities
that we have before us. And hopefully, you know, to the extent that
people are able to access licensing
or develop alternative sort of mechanisms and institutions
to continue doing things that allow people to grow
and save seeds and share seeds and preserve
genetic resources that we can actually
determine the shape of things to come as opposed
to just acquiescing to the boogeyman of the
Monsanto type big ag.
Totally. I was just going to say
real quick, you know, just looking into the future,
it seems like if we have the ability to
I know it's like big money stuff, but
with big ag is they're going to have the money
to map all of the genes and be able to identify what genes
perform what actions and then from there actively select
traits. And so I think that's my opinion that might be
the biggest hurdle looking down the road for us to have the money to do that.
Yeah, but few and far between are doing
it right now. People are starting, but I don't think anybody is
really just going full. Good, good, good.
No, but my point is, dude,
is that I don't think we're at the point in time. Yeah, for sure.
There's groups of people that have more money than us.
I think they're more concerned about market share and the people that look,
people are trying to make money off of weed right now, the big business. They want market share. They want
sales. They want retail. They want production. They want all that shit.
Breeding is not breeding is a cost center, right?
Like it's not that's a I have this conversation with investors all day
fucking every day. Like selling a breeding program to investors
is a tough, tough slog because
it's nothing but a money sink, right? With outcomes that
are years down the road, like the return on investment is years down the road.
I mean, I guess I
would argue that this is because prohibition is doing exactly
what it was planned was to keep out illicit producers producing for nothing
but profit. And right now we're trying to figure out a framework to
essentially line up research.
And this is showing just a sad reality of what
could come in an entirely like with open
setup is you would have a shit ton of people
amassing profits
and not actually caring about the science.
That's capitalism.
Do you mind if I interject
real quick here, guys? I'm in Canada.
So we've already gone through legalization, federal legalization.
And that doesn't make us better or different, whatever. It just means that we're in a
different state in the development of the legal economy. And so I've watched
the way that it's developed from public money and all these companies coming
in and what they're trying to do and what they're trying to claim.
But it wasn't a completely open market, though.
No, it wasn't a completely open market. But I'm telling you, after having watched the thing go on for
a few years, I don't think that like I think, yeah, there's
companies that are coming in and trying to do it like huge on massive fucking
scale. They're not going to work. You can't grow. It's like
wine, dude. Like even wine, they don't produce the finest
wines are not produced on 100 or 200 acres. They're produced
on like five acres. Right. And everything's done on like a relatively
small scale comparatively. And since
all these big companies with all this massive advantage to the
tune of like billions of dollars, like we're not just
talking small money, like billions with a B, these guys
had all the advantage, all the head start, and they're losing market share
day by day by day to the small guys. And that's in my
opinion, the reason is that the small guys have an advantage, right? Like love,
passion and a manageable scale to preserve
quality. And when you try to ramp up
cannabis production to a specific size or to like a big scale,
that's where you start having all the problems. And especially in terms of not only
in terms of like cultivation and pest problems, but even
like curing and like moving the product while it's fresh.
Like this is not fucking widgets where you can produce a billion of them and
lock them in a warehouse. Right. It's
an agricultural crop that's alive and the people want it when it's fresh
or they're not going to get top dollar. And the big fucking pub
that's like a hundred dollars, they don't understand that philosophy.
So I think that there will be big cannabis, like for sure
there'll be big cannabis. There's Anheuser-Busch, but like how many of the people
sitting in these audiences are drinking Budweiser, Anheuser-Busch, right?
Like if they drink most, the most people that I know, at least if they drink
beer, they drink some kind of specialty beer, right?
Doesn't mean there's not a market for the big
I think that there's always room for the people that are doing it with passion.
I guess my point, not to take away from that
at all, it was just that, you know, the smaller guys, like you're saying, are going to
care more because they're not attempting to amass amounts, you know, to take
over the world or to like, you know, that was like a lot of the progressive movement
when a lot of these laws like, you know, hold opium more and like a lot of these things
like started coming around was everybody saw the need for
medical use and research, but nobody wanted
these guys who, we can call them a capitalist
whatever, nobody wanted these guys who were willing to come in and flood
regions and destabilize cultures and shit
you know, just for profit. And I would argue that's essentially what we're
fighting again right now is a bunch of people that see a commodity
and maybe they don't even respect the damage
that they can do by oversaturating a market. They just, you know, see
oh money and I'm going to invest and dump a mass amount of cannabis
and this has, or you know, any sort of drug really, but
mass amount of cannabis into an area
but they don't actually care about the product and that's where these like smaller guys
like the, you know, the craft growers
or shamans, whatever, you know, they all care about finding, you know, these
unique cultivars, cannabinoids, and then you have the passionate
folk who actually care about the plant or they just want to breed it for morphology
or they want to breed it for this or that. You don't find that at large scale
because that's not what you're looking for at large scale. You're not looking to
you know, you don't breed at like a mass
mass, mass, mass, mass amounts like that. So
in one sense, maybe as a community this is where
we need to like start, you know, like accepting like there is two sides
to this market. Like there is, you know, a
a capitalistic side that, you know, from the beginning
of this we've been attempting to keep out. Like it's kind of crazy
and like I talked about this earlier in the room, if nobody's read
Henry Anslinger's book, I just got done reading it and it's kind of a mind fuck
because like the media does a really good job of like portraying like
like a racist bigot and
like don't get me wrong, and I know this is like, you know, like he
was and the times itself were really like confusing, but it's
kind of interesting like reading his perspective
on not the whole like read for madness thing
but like the way that they were attempting to be
progressive and keep drugs or keep
all of these things in the guise of medicine and not
into this like street culture that
everybody just gets high and has fun and like forgets like that, you know
there is properties or you could breathe it or
you know these other things. Like it's pretty interesting like the beginning of this
whole prohibition started pretty progressive and like right now
I think like that's like something that like us as a community can ride on too
is like the fact that like we are going to be the only ones
that give a fuck about the science and you know maybe also
the only ones that even kind of respect it. Like Ryan, you know like what like 20 minutes
ago you were talking about how like we are at the tip of this whole like plant breeding
thing, but what's also unique about the time that like
I didn't really realize until a couple years ago was that like
we're also at the tip of the spear of cultivating indoors
like this really hasn't been done ever even at
scale and we're all kind of like writing the rules
or not writing the rules for it but learning how it happens. Like green houses
you know came around in like the Victorian age but still like you had to have money to have
these things and even then it was like the higher class
you know that was only like feeding each other. It really wasn't for the masses. So like
right now like this whole thing of like everybody having hot houses and growing
you know extending seasons like this is all new to us and all crazy cool
science that like you know these big guys really might not
even respect enough to slow down and start to focus
on you know studying. They just care about making profit because they're capitalistic
or whatever it is you know like that's
who this all was about kind of in the beginning was keeping those people out and if we
keep riding on that and like keep focusing and like I mean like back up
Ryan's like who Ross Beach but like if we were to keep riding on this
and keep both like accepting the moment like shit not
only like are we the tip of the spear at breeding but we're the tip of the spear right now
of indoor cultivation science that has never been done really
and controlling environments and then even taking that to
a kind of like an advanced
level which is awesome and there's like so much room there for people
to make money and make a name for themselves
and whatever but that's where again like you
I think we have to start deciding like are you going to produce
mass to become a capitalist or are you going to like really take the
time to like accept where we are in time and like
and like produce science or a special cultivar or
or like really start picking up a book and reading what's happening
before like these guys figure out that
they're losing more money by not doing it
To be clear when I say
XYZ is a capitalist I just mean to say
that somebody operating in a market space who's prioritizing
profits is operating as a capitalist which is
what one would be expected to do and so I don't
I try not
I don't think it came off this way but that was not a pejorative
or a like a judgmental they're capitalist it was like
you know people are capitalist operating in a capitalist
economy it makes sense.
And I didn't mean that like judgmental either I mean it is like clearly there are people that don't give a shit about
cannabis they're literally just growing it as like to make money
because they know like you read the shit from the guys who like
rigged the system in like Florida
from like Trulieve he literally like said it in a statement from the feds we didn't know
how to grow weed we just knew that we had to get in the ship because it's going to be
a shit ton of money like some of these people just honestly don't give a shit
and like they are in a take just like they're just
trying to make money that's it and they're capitalist and I didn't mean it like judgmental it's just
part of the culture that we live in there are people who care and people that don't I guess.
Look it's a business people are going to come into any
business and try and squeeze out every fucking dollar that they can for themselves
and that's kind of what I was saying about like that whole pubco cycle the way we went through
in Canada big companies came in they flashed around billions of dollars
they raised billions of dollars they built million square foot
greenhouses they failed they sold the million dollars in square feet greenhouses
the billions of dollars were spent on expenses and wasted on
fucking advertising and all this shit and their market share tanked
quarter over quarter over quarter over quarter right and the
CEOs went away and really the CEOs made their
money anyway because they were getting paid in share options and shares and
options and like big fat fucking salaries and
the people that bought the stocks at the top all their money
was essentially what paid for all the whole thing they didn't actually
make any money in cannabis they lost money in cannabis
all the money that was profited was on the stock trading side
right but
that shit's going to happen whether we fucking like it or not that's just the reality
right and I've seen it happen in the Canadian you probably
all watched it but I mean I watched it with a pretty fucking
front row seat meeting a whole bunch of these douchebag bankers flying around on
fucking private planes and stuff and some of the shit that I saw was like it was embarrassing
but they all got rich and none of their companies made any money and they sold the
companies off in the long run they pocketed the cash and split and left the industry
and the companies are like in the process of failing or have failed
and what's happening is we're having a resurgence of all
the small guys right all the people that were essentially you know at
the beginning they were kept out of the system because the governments didn't want to legalize
or license a thousand sites and have to go and visit all these small growers
they wanted to license a few guys and just have to do you know quality control
and inspections on less sites but the truth is is cannabis
isn't fucking dangerous it's not a pharmaceutical that you have to have these tight
automated procedures you can't grow it on massive scale and maintain
quality to the degree that people can growing it on a smaller scale
and the consumer wants high quality flower right
or high quality extracts or whatever so yeah there's always going to be the fucking
huge farms that grow distillate for gummies and drinks
and edibles and all that kind of stuff that doesn't need any flavor
but like the flowers and the extracts for the high end consumers
which I still believe is like a significant portion of the market that's going to
fall to like small guys because they care
Ryan would you I mean would you
do you think if
those larger corporations had
per se like answer
we all know what I'm trying to say I hope
you know like businesses that were or you know like breeding like companies
that were working on like say
I know that earlier you wanted to get into this term and I haven't heard yet so I'll use it now
but you know breeding specific like chemo
stability for them to mass produce then you know we might have
some sort of like full loop system
and maybe they wouldn't have like failed
no because the big guys they don't do innovation
they buy stuff for to listen like it's what I said
if you caught that part but like all the money that was made
in those stock plays comes from the market it doesn't come from doing any
innovation or like dominating like say the vape sector in the cannabis
industry all the money comes in the stock play so the only
point is to make the stock go up so the way that you make the stock
go up is you say whatever the latest thing is in the hype market
right oh everybody has a million square feet of greenhouse we've got a brand new
million square feet of greenhouse it's going to be GMP certified so we can
send weed all over the world stock goes up
right like because they think when they say we're going to produce
a hundred thousand kilos a year or a million kilos a year right
what's the math on a million kilos a year what's this much money stock goes up companies
work more right but it's a big fucking fugazi like it's fake
it's a fucking it's not it's a nothing burger right
so anyway the point is that they're not
investing in things to actually make the companies better if they want something
that they think will tell the story that the company is better they'll buy it they just go
and acquire somebody right I guess it's kind of
my point though if like maybe Canada didn't jump quickly
or jump to a point where there was you know only
or a couple large businesses in the beginning and maybe
like you know pie in the sky if we created
you know a system where these larger corporations could be buying
let's say genetics from like Trevor and One Love and stuff that were stabilized
and that they could put to market essentially having a bunch of free market
R&Ds everywhere that they could essentially purchase
products from instead of having to do this
like do you think that there could be some sort of market
that would function better that way and the fact that maybe they
just jumped up ahead with no real products was why
they might have failed
I guess that was like a double question sorry well let me just
address the first part of what you said and you kind of hit it exactly on the head
and the issue is why did they get so big so fast and the issue is that
when Canada will federally legalize these companies
they gave out licenses very slowly and they were issuing them like once or maybe
once every two months I think for the first call it dozen licenses
that came out
and because of that the license was seen as so valuable hey we got license
you can expand your license if you got a license let's just go to the stock market
and say hey give us a hundred million dollars we're going to build the biggest facility in the world
and build the biggest cannabis company in the world all of a sudden all these
people are putting their money in and that's really what happened with
Canopy Growth Corp or Tweed which was the big one the first big one
they got a bunch of big public money and boom all of a sudden they're the
one licensee and now they got a hundred million in their bank
to start doing stuff with hey let's call fucking dudes
from DNA Genetics and get a deal with them give them a million bucks
and that's really what happened and so
they had all this advantage but they squandered it and like you
said you guys are coming in at a different time when you've seen this happen
you do have all these pubcos in the state or sorry
operating in the states the MSOs the whatever they call them multi-state operators
like Cura Leaf and True Leaf and all these companies but
you also have in the states
a real understanding of what is connoisseur cannabis or connoisseur cannabis
products like super high end dabs or
really good quality live vape pens or ridiculously good quality
flower that stuff is all available and commands like a big dollar
in the market and I don't personally
believe I haven't seen it done yet anybody growing in
these massive greenhouses
pulling that kind of quality down and maintaining it all the way through trim distribution
whatever right so I think there's lots of room
for the small guys and I think that yeah like I'd love to see a system
where you had the small guys that were licensed to do the R&D
and they could license out their work why would you sell it to fucking the guys fuck that don't sell anything license it out
right and get a royalty
I think that's the best model and if you could actually
do distributed breeding where you have all these people changing like chasing
these different paths and then being rewarded in the market
for finding new flavors and interesting stuff fuck that sounds like an ideal
world for me not for me but I mean you know I would like to live in that world
where you had that kind of access to that diversity of cannabis
it's not a bad idea you know it's like what if you had
like I'm shooting from the hip here but if you had like a non-profit
set up by all the small breeders that essentially was a licensing
company that could interact with the corporate level
I don't know that might be interesting
BAM set up something I mean literally
that kind of set up
yeah no it was
the whole possible project
the work with Diesel Cartel, Skunk Tech, and J Trees
and also some work with
Mean Gene was all done under
that sort of framework of a licensing agreement between
breeders and cultivator producers
with partners that also you know brand
partners and that's something that can be pursued
in California unfortunately
we have a closed metric system
so technically speaking any seeds that are not currently
in metric held by a licensed metric
operator or licensed operator
those seeds just can't be brought into the system
obviously there are all kinds of different workarounds
I've told this story before but I had a friend who had
in Calaveras County we had a ban enacted
I believe like 5 or 7 days after the
state adopted or Prop 64 went
into effect in January 1st of
2018 so a week later we got a ban
adopted in our county and
so everybody had to go offline even though we were some of the earliest to get
permits and be regulated and licensed at a local level
as a result everybody went offline
tried to maintain their genetics in different ways
when one of my friends tried to come back online he
sent a letter to the DCC asking
it was the BCC at the time but asking if he could bring his 6 plants
into the legal
regulated metric system and they told him
no and that licensed operators
had lost millions of dollars because of people doing
essentially what he was trying to do, bring in their own genetics
into the system and it's like we're talking literally
about 6 plants so in theory they're offsetting the cost of
6 plants to a licensed nursery at most
and the whole point is that these are irreplaceable
genetics and they don't understand that that just
it's just
totally stupid. It's retarded
Yeah so that's unfortunately the system
obviously there are tons of different workarounds and different people can do different
things to get genetics into the system
and hence the millions of dollars of
lost revenues to nurseries but the reality
is that most of the nurseries want this change
unfortunately state regulators have not
been receptive to figuring out a workaround
to opening up metric
I hate metric with all my every ounce of
passion in my body. It's the stupidest system
I've ever seen. Yeah but I mean
that said there are definitely ways of doing things and there
are ways of doing the sort of licensed system that
or licensing system that Ryan had just mentioned where
breeders who have genetics can work with
licensed operators and get their genetics into the system
and do large population selection if
the operator is down to do large runs like that
or typically that's nurseries
but some licensed operators will do
large population selection and
that's something that any breeder
who knows licensed operators definitely
try and work with them and figure something out
on those terms because that's where people are going to
be able to develop unique and locally specific
cultivars and really sort of
develop those distinctions
and differentiation that Ryan was talking about from
the massive producers and unfortunately
there are a lot of large producers and
different operators in the state of California who
by and large have
a large
regulatory captures an issue in this state and there
are definitely those with
the ability to influence legislation, what legislation
gets drafted and what legislation gets passed at the state level
so that's informing the market locally
Hey, shout out to California though, I just saw that $100 million grant
to small farmers, that's pretty cool
Sure, to me it makes no sense, we've got the same situation in Canada
you've got licensed entities that can produce
or process or whatever they are but only the licensed entities can only interact
with other licensed entities so like if you're a cultivator
micro, major cultivator
or standard cultivator, you can only deal with licenses
licensed nurseries for example, every new
nursery or every new grow license gets the ability
to bring in genetics, you just have to declare what they are so there is like
a slow trickle of openings for new stuff to come in
but otherwise it's a locked down system and every new grower gets a one
time shot to bring in what they want and then the system is the way
it is, aside from imports
the problem is that it's like, we also have
federal legalization so everybody can grow for plants but
if I have a plant as like just a legal home grower, I can't
sell that plant or even give
that plant to a licensed producer, right? And how the fuck does that
make sense? It's legal for me to have it, it's legal for them to have it and I can't
give it to them? Like, what's the point of that? So anyway
I think that eventually, you know, we'll get
these things figured out but yeah, the way that the initial licenses
are written, everybody is so worried about cost and everybody needs to get taxed
and we can't have any type of commerce happen
where the government doesn't get their share, they create all these stupid regulations
that are just, they really stop the system from
working, right? I mean, if you're trying to fight a black market or like divert
get everybody to buy into this new system, don't
you want that new system to operate as efficiently and with as high
quality as possible? Right? Like you want everything. Isn't it kind of the humans though, messing
it up for us though, Ryan? Like, I mean, in Oregon
here, like, right, we made as many availabilities as possible
and in the medical market, you know, like at the beginning it was
like, oh, like anybody can have like 99 plant because we're trying to make it as
readily accessible as possible but then it
quickly became like just a way for people
to divert or use, you know, the
OMP system as a diversion as, oh
I'm growing for medicine yet they were shipping it all out of state. Do you think in maybe
some way these laws are designed to essentially ensure that people
don't figure out like ways to amass
you know, like wealth or product
in sneakier ways without having a license or anything like that?
Yeah, of course they are. That's like, that's the whole agenda. But
like, you know,
I mean, I was down there for a lot of that time, not that I was involved in any of that shit
for the fucking record. But yeah, like I was all up and down California
and Oregon and saw all sorts of shit going on down there.
And of course, like those states back when
you know, again, think of the context. We're at 2022 now. It's a different world.
19, you know, whatever.
1999, really early 2000s, that's when it started becoming
you know, the feds actually back the fuck off of the initial few states
that were growing. And then up to like 2013
or 2012, 2013, somewhere around there. Like those last few years
in Cali were fucking insane. Right? Like
I remember driving through Humboldt on the back roads and every goddamn property had
99 trees, like not just 99 plants. Like, you know,
we're talking like 10 pounds. Yeah, 10 pounds, like every, you know, 99 times
10 pounds, you're talking like, you know, 1000 pounds more or less.
Right? Even if you're pulling off 500 pounds, right? Back then
two grand, it's fucking million dollar a year cash. And
it was all day, every day going across the country
feeding the East Coast. Right?
So there was, yeah, I mean, of course the feds want to try and like
tamp down any of that stuff. And that insanity
shaped the way that the rules are now. The truth is there's
more states that are legal now than there were back then. Way, way more.
Once the state legalizes,
it seems that a significant number of people at least start buying
into the legal market. And if you can maintain a level of quality
that's like way higher than what you can get on the black market, you know,
if the taxes aren't too high, you should be able to get people to buy into that legal market.
I think the huge problem is that the states try to
everybody tries to get their piece of the pie, right? You know,
and the taxes go up ridiculously. Someone was telling me it's like
it was like five bucks tax per square foot
of production space in like Monterey County. And they've just dropped it to three.
That's pretty high numbers. I mean, your average
horticultural farmer, like growing flowers or like even veg, they're not
making that much per square foot, right? They're not making the amount that gets
paid in taxes. So I don't know. The government really needs to
decide whether they want a system that works or do they want to have all the money
from the cannabis industry, right? You can't have both.
The cut nursery farms are
essentially all of the nurseries in California.
The large operations
have set up in former cut flower farms
and that industry evaporated
and it used to be in Salinas. It used to be
up in Humboldt. There's still one in
Arcata, but like there's been some... it's trying
to now develop a cannabis
farm nursery on site. And so
that's a business model that
went under and had to transition to cannabis
and the amount of taxation that those nurseries
have been put under is absolutely insane.
It's good to hear that they've lowered the tax rate because
I have a number of
friends who either run or
work with nurseries down there and it's insane how much they have to
pay for their square footage. And that's just local taxation
to the county government
for every square foot of canopy that they're operating
when you also, you know, everything
all their commercial sales end up getting taxed down the
production stream in here in California. It's just insane.
So does anyone want to talk genotype, phenotype
and chemotype? Or what? Any questions?
Genotype... or chemotype. So like
I was tripping on like why or maybe I
misheard or don't know. Is chemotype just like
CBD, THC or does it also include the terpenes
and or like esters and vials?
I would say it's all right. It's got to be the flavonoids
and terpenes. I would personally, that's how I would define it but I don't know.
Technically no. Yeah, who are you asking?
I mean that's the thing. We say the word chemotype and then who's the one
that makes the rules about what is a chemotype? Well to my understanding
like I'm on the boat of Russell. Like everything is like it's chemotype
but you know I understood, or Ryan said earlier
that it's just the cannabinoid type. So I would love
maybe some more explanation on that would be great.
I don't want to dominate the conversation but I think what Trevor wrote on YouTube earlier
about you know the first occurrence of use of the word and I think
Tony might have mentioned it as well. I actually didn't know that.
Can you jump in on that Trevor? I think that's like a really good starting point
because it's like it's where the word came from. What's the etiology of the word?
Where did the word start? And that word didn't start in cannabis is the point.
And I think Trevor, go ahead.
Yeah, so chemotype emerged
in a guy, Rolf
and I will just butcher this man's name.
Dr. Rolf Santensen
coined the term along with his son
Johann in 1968 and Santensen
was a lichenologist. He was a specialist
in lichen and they first defined the term
as chemically characterized parts of a population
of morphologically indistinguishable individuals.
So essentially
if you have a population that's morphologically the same but their chemical
composition is different
that's the distinction there.
He first coined that term. It was then
other definitions were developed
and the other definitions are really the ones that seem to be the ones
that we use and that's the definition for pure chemical
race which was initially defined by
a gentleman named Sush
S-C-H-E-U in 1966.
He defined the pure chemical race as
using one oil component
which can unequivocally considered as the main component.
And then an alternative was proposed
which looked at essentially
the entire chromograph and said
let's look at everything and look at the spikes across the
entire range as opposed to just the one
main single component. And so
if you were to use the definition that was first
proposed by Sush in 1966
you would be going with
what's typically been used in cannabis by people
like Ernest Small and subsequently that define it by
type 1, type 2, type 3, type 4, type 5 and that's all
based off of the fraction of cannabinoids
the primary cannabinoid constituents essentially.
But if we were to develop a definition
based off of
the authors are Holo Panian 1987
and they did a study on Tansy chemotypes that looked at the
the terps as well, or like a range
of terpenes as opposed to just a single mono
dominant terpene. I think that
definition would fit with kind of what you guys are saying, like what Russell
mentioned and what One Love mentioned, like a broader more
encompassing definition. And this has also been looked at by
Russell?
Well Russell actually is the person who gives the definition that says
chemical phenotypes, parenthetically chemotypes
of cannabis are defined by the content and composition of their
cannabinoid fraction, which would be the former
of just looking at cannabinoids. Yeah, Ethan was citing
the literature there. Totally, totally. Keep in mind, Ethan is a medical doctor
he's not a plant. Oh great, great
wait, wait, hold on, this is important, hold on
that, whatever, because most of the people who
like, that's true and we can talk about that in a second, but
one of the key points here is that the way that this term
gets used, chemotype in particular, is not really within
the field of botany, and so not all of the
the terminology doesn't always correspond
a lot of its usage is either as
Brian just mentioned in like a medical field or in natural
products and natural product studies, which is
you know, a distinct field that doesn't really deal with
the biology of plants when they're growing necessarily
No, it's the use of a plant to treat someone
and of course from a doctor's perspective that you would want to differentiate
between two different plant types, one that were similar but had
one type had a medical effect and the other one didn't, right? So that's where I think a lot of this
work comes from in the science side, right Trevor? Totally, yeah
and so that's something that like
we, chemotype is much more of a
term of art that comes from that area
and kind of like what Matt just said
you know, it kind of developed out of
the desire to categorize and characterize
things within the prohibition framework, in particular
like, you know, the type 1, type 2
type 3 distinction, if you look at it, is really where
you get the like 0.3%
THC, point
whatever CBD, like if you look at the breakdown, that breakdown
for drug, intermediate and hemp
types has been sort of like, you know
turned into law through
the distinction and differentiation between drug and hemp
types. Yeah, that's a really, really good point too and I think
to really understand that point, I think it's important to bring
up the context in which all these research, all the research
that led to these conclusions were done, right? And so
like really what we're talking about and what you were talking about
with all those other species, or the other species in which the word chemotype was first used
is, we're talking about the evolution of a word over the last, call it 100 years
150 years, or the evolution of that word and what does that
word even mean in the context of the research done in the day? So
if you look at what Trevor just said and the ratios that he put up
maybe if, Peter, I don't know if you
can find it on Trevor's IG, but he's got a thing where he's talking about
the ratios of type 1, type 2 and type 3
maybe Trevor you can give him a message and send him a link to it, but
yeah, there's essentially a breakdown where he's talking about like the 0.5%
THC to CBD were in these ratios
that is really important to understand the context in which that work
was done because again, we're talking in the 70s or even late 60s that some of that work was done
a lot of these numbers, especially
the stuff that come from Ernest Small's work, that was all grown
in Ottawa, Ontario and Canada which is the capital, but it's also
kind of think of it like north of Buffalo or Syracuse
New York kind of thing, a little east of that. So it's quite northern
all the seeds that they were growing had been seized from drug imports
from various regions, so they knew where the seeds came
from because they knew these seeds were getting, this pot came from Mexico for example
this stuff came from a shipment from Columbia, they're intercepting
it at the border or whatever, so they know the origin of the seeds. So they
planted all these seeds in Ottawa, grew them out and obviously
we're talking equatorial plants being grown in the 70s
there's been no improvement done on this stuff for anything
in terms of early yield or anything. So you're growing equatorial plants
and we're talking way north, not way north, but north
of the northern border of the United States. The shit doesn't like
it would need to be in October or November for it
to be harvested. So obviously it didn't make it. And so it's still leaf
when they're harvesting the samples, they're harvesting leaf and analyzing
leaf using a really unsophisticated gas chromatograph.
Anyway, that's why the numbers are so way fucking low.
But you've got to understand that that's the data that was being used in the context
of this research.
The data that was used to
define chemotype was really not very good.
Here we are 50 years later, call it.
We have highly sophisticated ways of looking at plants.
We're not looking at oil extracts. We're looking
at GCMS traces
of fresh samples where
there's all these terpenes and aldehydes and ketones and all sorts of shit
in there. All the thiols, whatever, all the stuff that we're learning about.
Stuff that's stuck in the plant that are volatile
compounds that smell. And so if we now look at
the word chemotype and say, oh it's the chemical profile of a plant,
we have all these dozens of, or at least
a dozen class of compounds to look at.
But if that becomes the chemotype, that's a really complicated
thing to explain to somebody. It's like, what do you have to say? Oh, it's a type 2
plant with a limonene-dominant terpene profile and the ketones
and these are the ketones that are present and these are the aldehydes and these thiols.
That's not really an efficient way to communicate what a
plant is all about. I don't know. I guess you
have to decide at a certain point in time what is sufficient
for the use to communicate the knowledge that you need to communicate.
The super nerds that are really into it, like
all of us are, we might get way down deep into the thiols, but
do thiols have to be part of the chemotype? I don't know. To me, it's
maybe a little bit deep.
We're not saying, hey, this is a THC-dominant beta-carophyllene
limonene-dominant. At least giving the two
first precursors, like you're talking about the first two terpenes
normally are a couple milligrams, or the first, you say,
four or three or four, a couple milligrams. The rest are all
kickers, which they do matter 100%.
They totally matter. They totally matter.
At least saying, this is a THC-dominant carophyllene, at least giving the
vast majority of the oils, we can start to get an idea because we might even see that
those dominant oils might have specific kickers, if that makes sense.
It totally makes sense. That's the way, when we're doing these really high-depth
breeding projects, and we were talking about, it's like,
what's the plant? It's a type one
with limonene, but it's got a ton of hexylbutyrate.
You'd say, essentially, the cannabinoid profile and the terpene profile, and then you'd
mention the thing that was important about the plant. Whether it was an aldehyde or a ketone
or a thiol, it didn't matter, but it was like, that was the kicker.
It's like you said, those kickers, I call them scent modifiers, but kicker is
actually a good word for it. There's all these other
volatiles that exist in the plant, aside from the terpenes, that
when you layer on that one particular, for example,
3-2-1-MBT, the skunk thiol, that really has that skunky
smell, when you layer that on top of a given terpene profile, it really changes
the whole dynamic of the scent.
I think that's a good way to do it.
We've got this limonene dominant
type one, so it's a THC plant that's high in limonene,
but it's got hexylbutyrate, so it's got a real cherry
nose to it.
I agree with that, because Todd,
I was listening to Todd McCormick's podcast with Dark Horse again.
I love, there's so much information in
74 and 75. It was interesting
when he brought up the fact, I didn't even think about it,
skunk in America is called skunk because we have
skunks, but in Dutch,
all the Dutch would call it cheese because they don't have skunks,
but over time, they started calling it skunk just because the Americans did.
He had a moment where he was smoking with somebody
that was from there, and they were like,
this is some good skunk. He was like, do you even know what a skunk smells like?
I guess he was like, no, actually I don't.
I guess in some way, at least for
the world, we can't keep going on this whole skunk,
this or that, because it's really regional specific.
Skunks are only regional to North America.
Telling somebody in China, this is a skunk smell,
they might not necessarily know what that is.
That's another caveat, too.
Phoebe, who's currently baking, has a question.
I'm wondering if there is any
information expanding on what environmental factors
influence the ratio of chemicals, so I guess chemotype
related stuff. For example, how does magnesium or manganese, nitrogen,
watering, humidity systems, latitude of cultivation, etc.
influence the chemical ratio of a cultivar? Is there any publication
out there that matches terpene expression with cultivation practices?
If you tweak something in your cultivation practice or where you are,
it'll move the ratio of the terpenes and cannabinoids
in a certain direction. That's a good
question. I'm sure there's stuff out there that I haven't seen, and maybe some other
people can speak on this. But to my limited knowledge,
I've only seen just really generalized studies that show
certain biotic or abiotic stressors will just
generally increase cannabinoid or terpenoid production. There's not
a specific, oh, magnesium will increase
beta-caryophyllene. I've never seen that type of study. I've just seen
a little extra sulfur, magnesium, and you'll see your terpene levels
increase. That's what I've seen.
Anecdotally, I can't speak on anything
through research knowledge, but when I was growing out in Hawaii,
my summer crop from same
own mother stock and everything, my summer crop was
just different than my winter crop. I just couldn't put my finger on it, but
the people who consumed it were definitely like,
yeah, this is different stuff. I'm like, no, it's the same stuff.
I think there's definitely something
going on there. I just don't know what.
I have a paper that I can send to whoever wants to pin it up
if they want. It was a paper that was just finished.
It was actually just released right after the first of the year.
I think it's the first heading into this. It's not
on terpenes, which is interesting, but I think we have a linear
way of going through science. This is maybe
the beginning of it, but it's titled, The Effects of Short-Term
Environmental Stresses on the Onset
of Cannabinoid Production in Young Immature Flowers
of
Hemp. They go over a couple different things where they
showed different
herbivore treatments and such were
lowering and raising cannabinoid profiles.
I would argue with the science that we know about
biostimulants, which is a whole rabbit hole, that there
is some way to mess
with them. I don't think we're fully there with full-out research
or peer-reviewed research, at least at this point. That's just my opinion.
That paper is a really good one on cannabinoids because it goes over some of that.
I can send it to whoever.
We know basic stuff like UVB light will increase
THC levels because it's like a defense compound.
Higher elevations will generally produce higher levels. It's like a
protectant. There's some baseline information.
I did a whole PowerPoint on this for Terpenes and Testing Magazine.
We don't even know if that's true, though, because Dave and Rob did a whole bunch of work on that
in Amsterdam at Hora Farm, and they found the opposite.
Really? Yeah.
That's the thing, right? We're talking about chemotypes
and genotypes and phenotypes.
I think we've kind of proven the point.
Can I just finish this? There's all these different types
of plants in the species, and they all react differently
to all sorts of different stuff.
Can you give me a lead so I can research that and check out that information?
Yeah, look up Dave Pate and UV. You'll find it.
Dave Pate, P-A-T-E.
He worked at Hora Farm with David Watson and Rob Clark, and they
did that experiment there. They essentially used
a certain UV setup that they set up of the greenhouse plants,
or at least a selection of greenhouse plants. Dave had this whole theory.
He was the one that actually, I think, was the first person to have that theory about UV
and elevation and cannabinoid content.
Anyway, at least their little study, they showed that it wasn't correlated.
On the
question that was asked, we did actually a whole bunch of work at this
when I was at NAPRO, looking at different cultivars
in different environments. Essentially, what we had is a controlled...think of it
as a growth chamber, of which we had 20, and they were each
a decent-sized little grow room
that we had multiple 4x8 tables. You'd have a 4x4
section of one variety times, call it 8
trials per run, or 12 4x4 sections.
We plant the same cultivar, or 12 different cultivars
repeated every two weeks.
If something happened in the grow room, and an air conditioner went down, and humidity would
spike, you'd get data on that, because you're recording
air temp and humidity, and all that shit.
That would also happen as you're running studies. In one room, we're running
a salt fertilizer versus a salt fertilizer with a bio-stimulant,
or another condition would be an organic
fertilizer, or an organic fertilizer with a stimulant.
I can't answer the exact question that she was asking,
but I can tell you for sure, humidity plays a role.
If you want to bump cannabinoid production, use a
chemical fertilizer. If you want to bump
terpene production at the expense of cannabinoids, use an organic
fertilizer. Your terps will go up a little bit, your cannabinoids will drop.
The combination with a bio-stimulant also has
various effects.
Given the differences in cultivars, the differences in any individual
grow room, or greenhouse, or outdoor environment, there's
way too many factors for anybody to say, this for sure
is law, and the truth of how Grandbrush grows in the environment.
That's literally the billion dollar question, and I don't
think anybody knows.
I think it's SYNC, or Science OED,
or something like that.
It's about to do that whole
geographical lighting system, essentially.
Allegedly, they're going to start
having, I don't know if it's them specifically, I just saw this in one of my
crazy videos, how you always get these emails from everybody in the industry.
I was reading through it, and they're talking about how
they're going to start seeing this spectrum according to
latitude of certain areas. I thought that was pretty
smart in the sense of that's technically
probably how we're going to get,
because it seems like each cultivar is almost as unique as
growing a completely different plant, almost.
I know that's kind of a broad big statement, but with the different
lighting intensities, different environments across the board,
and I'd even argue some plants might even like different mediums.
It could be,
this could get pretty, you only
grow this section of genetics or something like that to maximize
them.
Hey Ryan, just curious on that study that you were doing with
what we're talking about, were those the same
cultivars from the same mother stock in
different growing conditions? Just curious.
Yeah, exactly. You'd run replicates,
you'd run a 4x4 space of 12 different genotypes
of 12 different genetic individuals
two weeks apart. Then you could vary the nutrients, you could vary
air temp, you could, like I said, you might have something go wrong
mid-crop and humidity spikes or
humidity drops just by
accident of mechanical failures. But because you're recording the data
you could see how that affected,
you're trying to maintain a consistent environment and learn about the plant
and how to tweak the nutrients from those plants. But obviously the shit
goes wrong in a grow room. But as long as you're collecting the data
like air temp, humidity, all that stuff, and then you're
running, you know, you got a data logger on your computer control
of your system, when you get the lab point,
data point back, you can start correlating these things, right?
Yes, for sure. Yeah, so this was just, I
was curious because I was doing these medical grows before
COAs on the island at that time.
So I'm curious, you know, what did you find? Like in a
drastic swing, was there certain cannabinoids or
terpenes that swung
drastically? And were there ones that didn't
change at all that stayed very consistent?
It's like I said, dude, you can't make laws about this stuff.
There's so many environmental controls and then genetic differences between
the varieties, not only in terms of cannabinoid content, but also terpene profiles.
Like all of, like I said earlier,
the chemicals that make up the fingerprint don't come or
go, for the most part. Okay?
Like for example, we see like beta caro, off lean varieties, or even like an OG under a
certain environment, it would pop like, I'm talking a blip
of terpene, like a tiny, tiny little peak on the graph
and it would just show up. Typically when you see
terpene in a variety, it's like the top terpene. It's like, it's the dominant one.
And OGs typically don't have it at all. But under certain
environments, they would just put like just a little blip of it would come in. But
for the rest of the chemicals that made up the sample, they would
change a little bit in their ratio between them, but
the chemicals were there, didn't come and go
between the different variety. Right? But like I said,
it's like we're talking, there's at least 10 different chemotypes
and then at least, I don't know,
12 to 15 terpene profiles, depending on how
you group them. You know, if you do the
combinations of those two independent factors, like you're up into
many different types. Like we're well over 100 different combinations. Right?
And we haven't even started layering in, like I said, aldehydes or all these other things.
So it's like, I can't tell you, when humidity spikes
this happens to any given one of those things. Like there's a whole bunch of shit that happens.
But I'm telling you for sure, humidity has an effect,
organic versus synthetic fertilizers have an effect,
bio-stimulants have an effect.
Thanks for the breakdown. You know, just the COAs and having
that lab analysis, you know, it was
enough for, you know, you to want to do the test,
for you to be curious enough to tell, as a scientist yourself,
like there's something going on here, you know, to test it out yourself.
So just curious on the data. Yeah, you guys have seen it too. Like, listen, this is
not something that's exclusive to me. I mean, these are things that we see as growers
in harvesting and curing and like getting to know a crop.
Like you'll know after looking at a bag, you can say, you can look at it and say,
oh, something went wrong, that grow, or it's not as good as it could be, or wow, it's way better than it has
ever been before. Right? Like you notice these things. It's just when you send them to the lab
you can start quantifying it. Right? And I know that there's like
those things I was telling you, they're like trailheads.
Like it's like, if you're going to look at things, go look at those things.
In your cultivation setup, with your feeding regimen, with your
environment, your cultivars, right? But again, there's no
rules that are like, that apply across the board for everyone because cannabis is
so varied, like it's not always going to be so consistent. Right?
Yeah, most definitely. And you know, let's say like theoretically,
you know, that data could help, you know,
if you continue down that rabbit hole, possibly
help tweak certain genetic expressions
in certain varieties you find if you were to grow them in
these said environmental conditions
that might lead towards, you know,
X or Y, you know? Just a thought.
Yeah, there's actually companies in the space here up in Canada
that are doing just that. They're building grow box and like, they think that they're going to be able
to build grow boxes and that you'll get like a specific
genotype or a specific clone that'll be sold through a nursery and if you put
it in the box and follow like XYZ recipe that you'll get X result.
Right? So yeah, people are thinking about it for sure.
It's kind of interesting, Ryan, too, like
I don't know if you've noticed the same thing, but from
watching COAs through the dispensary
that we were cycling, you know, 75 to 90
strains at all times throughout just the regenerative
sustainable farmers in Oregon and
like watching through
their batches, it seemed like
even if they were like sharing the cut, like there were like a couple
like Dynasty cuts, like I think it was like blue hair, I don't know.
Anyway, it doesn't matter. There was a few cuts that were shared. You could see
like the dominant or like what was
what the plant was going to grow no matter what, whether that be like genetically
and there's like these like random things that seem to be
environmentally that completely like stray and that even like
varies between each like crop and
I would argue that those like this
like this weird like solid state and fluid state is
like kind of what's like fucking some people up
to, I don't know, like have you seen this
kind of what I'm talking about, just like solid state and fluid state in like the
like chemical profile? Solid state
versus fluid state. I mean like and that's kind of like, sorry
like, you know, there's like, I guess the better way to say it, you know,
we have these dominant, you know, terpenes and then we have all these kickers, but the kickers
seem to be like, there was one grow that I knew for a fact had
had a bacterial infection because we ended up like going through it
at some point and like, you know, like you could see like the green algae around all
their other pots and such and like oddly all their
strains had
neurolidal and they had the same cuts
or they got the same cuts from someone else
that grew them at the same time because, you know, it's part of this whole like hype market
and when one of the other
people in the shop was like looking up why it was possible that neurolidal was there
they found that that grows
specifically in the roots to defend the plant from
or it starts to grow in the roots to defend plants from
bacterial infections so like we kind of like, oh shit, like yeah
we saw the green algae, it makes sense and it's like all throughout their strain
so like I guess I'm saying that some of these terpenes
might be, I said fluid, but might be revolving or
like kickers just because but they might not belong
there if that makes sense, but then some do and I don't even know
if saying belong there is the right way to say that
Are you trying to say that they would express
under certain environmental conditions?
Yeah, so you know like some of this I guess is
some of our confusion of not being able to say like hey this is one chemical profile
is just because of, you know, like the
issue that cannabis has this ability to
easily defend itself and learn maybe
you know like different defenses
so like I don't know, I guess maybe what I'm saying is maybe too complex and I'm not
explaining enough or it's not complex but I'm not maybe understanding enough to explain it
I got an analogy for you dude, if your redheaded friend
Wendy, she's got a burger shop, if she comes into school one day and she's cut her hair
and looks different with her haircut, is she still Wendy?
Yeah. Right? So there's got to be some like a loud
variation within a type. There has to be.
I guess that's my question, so you just answered my question I guess there
Yeah, but I mean again not to like browbeat the point or anything
but it's like, you know, when you kind of look at it from that point of view
it kind of puts into question which are the
important chemicals that we're going to use for dividing the categories
and which ones are these like supplemental
little blips that the true nerds of us in the room
are going to know about but like you know 95%
of cannabis smokers will never care or know
Right? And you know I think the most important
system is to develop like a system of you know again
air quote chemotyping or like grouping plants and
communicating that from growers to doctors to
consumers to retailers so that we're all speaking the same language
Right? Totally. I'm glad
like the way you said that kind of helped. I guess I just didn't like know
especially like the way they were talking earlier, you know like
you know we find type and then you know we kind of go off a little bit about the chemical
profile but yeah I guess I didn't know like
do we just draw a line and like understand that some of these
are just you know for those that know and those that don't or I guess that's a bad
way to say that but. No it's not it's actually a really good way to say it and the truth is
dude is that there's the
system of five chemotypes and then there's like call it the secret group
of people that know it or have read the papers and understand it through some social media
post or whatever but the truth is that system that we all
know is wrong. It's not sufficient enough to describe all
the chemical types that exist in cannabis. Right? And so really
when we talk about the word chemotypes that's kind of what I meant earlier when I said
chemotype is like a word that's been evolving like how we use
the word is currently at least in the state of flux
we know that the way that we use it is not sufficient
for what the word really should encompass and we're having a conversation
about that and taking input so that you know maybe
someone writes a paper and says hey these are the potential this is how we're going to start
or we propose to use chemotype moving forward but like right now
we're not even honoring like what the
word means which is the chemical profile. I think the question is how deep do you actually
really want to go right in describing the chemical profile of a given
plant. Right? Like how much do you really need to categorize
and subcategorize things right to talk about them.
Yeah that's a great point. It's fascinating.
Wordplay is so fascinating to me in science as
the meaning of words shifts with like a collective
understanding. It's a strange thing where it's like
Ryan and I could argue over potentially like does UVB light
affect THC production and I could show him my research article that I found
from the University of Maryland and he could show me his article and we really wouldn't know until we
actually did more research and created and we could
like the science could be like no look it's very clear that UVB production
does or does not influence THC production in a variety of alcohol drawers
but with wordplay sometimes it's like a strange
area to be in because it's like the collective
mind often dictates what is complex enough.
Is it cannabinoid? Are we all agreeing that it's too complicated
to look at like esters and phenols and flavonoids as a collective group
to understand how that influences individual biochemistry? Okay we're collectively
agreeing that? Okay then we're just going with cannabinoids. It's just
interesting to me how that all plays out in this human sphere.
Yeah like for me it's just
like when I look at a chemical profile like I said
I want to be able to tell
or when I look at a cultivar I want to be able to tell
somebody like the most utility out of it and
I guess I think this
conversation helps because it helps me like realize like you don't
like there's a line that's like it's okay to draw and be like look
like you're not going to know everything in the fucking plant like this is not
well I mean we might someday but at least like I feel like
Ryan was saying as of right now we're just not going to know everything.
Yeah for sure.
And I mean just talking like hearing everyone talk it out you know
it's like it makes a lot of sense like the nerd in me wants to identify everything
but then just like the general pop pop you know just the general
consensus is like okay let's just stick with this it's easier
let's just truck it we're going.
Look don't get me wrong I'm all interested
like I will nerd out every day of the week with you the year
with you about any plant that produces an inordinate amount of
some weird random chemical right like I think those things are
super interesting from a breeding point of view and should be self
and crossed to any other plant that shows anything even remotely similar to that.
Because that's like where those are the frontiers right
those are the edges of places where like evolution is where you can
push the species out in a new way.
So yeah for sure fucking breed the freaks. Yes for sure and I
guess that's like sort of where the frontier is it's the push it's like to me
healing like with plant medicine and like plant phytochemicals
are shit and that's the frontier like discovery
of all these like different phytochemicals to me is the frontier
of the modern paradigm of human health over the
westernized pharmaceutical industrial complex that to me
what it is what it represents so that's why I'm all passionate about it.
Well I just got to add to you hey guys also the
you know the availability of testing of some of these compounds is it's not
like widely available to be testing for like flavonoids and other things
within the plant so we're kind of limited based on some of those factors
as well as far as like where we're at right now maybe in the future it'll be more
accessible but right now it's very much so there's that.
You can't find what you're not looking for. Nice to see you Evian.
Nice to see you guys too. Happy evening. What a great conversation. I'm enjoying
looking over this paper I was trying to join earlier but work is
Mondays. Mondays. So there's that.
Hey Evian. Yeah on Instagram
I just posted up the NAPRO
slideshow or PowerPoint
that Mark Lewis produced I believe that's his name
I'm sorry I suck at names.
But I just posted up that data set and it really describes
everything we're discussing here today. I probably should have just thrown
that up and thank you London. Yes.
At the top of the room on Clubhouse there is the
link to the article or the PowerPoint presentation
and it really describes everything that we're
you know that the topic in tonight's discussion is about
in a ton of detail and you know
anybody Ryan just laid it out for us all but anybody who wants to
dive deeper there it is. Checking out right now
on Instagram and it's like data collection
genotype plus environment equals phenotype. Oh yeah
this is great. You guys got to go to Trevor's feed and look at this.
This is really good info. Oh dude it's like long. Oh yeah this is good stuff.
It's also above
if people just want to go if people who are just in the room here
London looks like shared it up there so you can open it and save it as well.
Ryan what would you I have a question what would you say about
testing like so for people are looking for more complex things I know that
I think just like I've tried to seek out
different testing and had a challenging time. I mean I remember when I
couldn't find even people who would test for like fertilin or upper fertilin and it
seems like it's becoming more more commonplace but like
still it's not easy to access. I've been looking for people to test flavonoids
for like the past little while and it's not it's not very easy.
No that's like if you're looking at that Mabro thing that's why we
built the lab because it's
cost it's too cost prohibitive to be employing a third
party. It's not only cost prohibitive it's like you're teaching
it you're teaching somebody your intellectual
property as you're doing it right and you're paying them to do that like that doesn't
make any sense right. So for the amount of money you're putting
in of testing like if you hit a certain point where you're testing
bill hits like 50 K or 25 K even like
you start looking at renting machines if you do it in-house you save
a ton of money per sample. There's a huge learning
curve but you hit
a point in time where you have control over the
methods so you know exactly what you're looking for. If you fuck it up
it's your fault right. But we invested
in Mark. Mark is a he's got a PhD in
chemistry but he's also got a degree in chemical engineering so he's
super smart on the chemistry end of things and
one of the other employees that used to be at Mabro with us was a guy named
Matt Giese who is like an incredible synthesis chemist
like farmer grade chemist kind of thing and he developed this method
for analyzing both cannabinoids and terps. So we were doing everything in-house.
We did that too just really quickly.
I will say that we invested in different machinery a few years ago
and the different equipment and I will say that running a lab
is also just it was really really challenging to find qualified
lab techs and it literally had to just be running
especially if you didn't have the automation equipment. It's a whole other business.
It was really challenging and it was super fun
also but it was we actually had a lab tech
quit and we couldn't find a replacement so that was literally
the point where we were like okay I guess we're packing it up and like you know
it shows over for a while but that equipment is still sitting in storage so it's kind of funny.
Did you use that
equipment for in-house only or did you also do
out testing for other farms?
We just did in-house only. Ryan were you guys doing in-house only
or were you doing outsourcing?
They did sampling for a couple of farm clients. We had a couple
of farm clients and then the other clients were laboratories
that we were helping develop their methods that were fucked up. Essentially what we did
is when we brought the stuff on in-house we wanted to make sure all that we did a ring test.
We acquired samples from the market and grew our
own samples and then had those same samples sent
to multiple labs and run in-house.
Because our chemist was he really knew his shit and he was
taking real care to make sure that the results were accurate
we had a set of numbers that we knew were pretty
close to bang on to accurate. Then we would send the same samples
to labs and get their reports back. So you could see
oh these guys down in Southern California they can't identify this compound
or these guys over in the Bay are having a hard time with this compound.
Both in cannabinoids and terpenes.
Some of our clients were dispensaries that were spending like
$25,000-$30,000 a month with the lab to run
their shit through the lab. So we would end up at a lab
presenting them their data and saying do you understand that our client is paying
$30,000 for your testing and you can't even
identify the peaks properly. So it made for some interesting
conversations that's for sure. But yeah if you're serious about doing the
work I say do it in-house. It's just a cost thing.
When you use a third party lab it's fine for compliance and it's
probably better for compliance because then you have a third party certifying
that your cannabis is X, Y, and Z not you claiming about your own shit.
But from an R&D point of view you
do it in-house. You're not paying somebody else's profit margin and you can run more
samples. And you're not disclosing your IP. You're not disclosing your research.
That was the other thing
I would just say that's part of why we started. The data
thing is so imperative and I will just say that's part of why we
started the Ethical Data Alliance is because if any time
you're working with any of these things just in cannabis in general
we generate a lot of data points and if you're not doing
the work to make sure that you own your own data
and that it becomes somebody else's. Somebody else has ownership of it.
It's a major issue and as things progress in this industry I think
it's going to continue to be an issue. So I really think just keeping
that in mind as we do this. And then some stuff I think it's great
and part of the reason we're trying to create more blockchain solutions and how you
can certify your data and continue to own it is then you can share it
with people that you actually want to share it with and that we can continue
this research as a community and not
have it maybe fall into the wrong hands. I mean it's a deeper conversation
but it's such a valid point Ryan. I really appreciate you bringing that up.
It's definitely great.
Also it kind of sounds like you or at least the lab that you
helped create kind of set the standard or keeps
the standard high across the board through a lot of different testing
facilities. Did I hear that correct
Brian? Yeah unfortunately I can't tell you which one really.
I think it's publicly stated that SC Labs is definitely
a client. They now use the Fidofax lab
report that Napro generated for presenting the
data. For presenting their cannabinoid terpene data and they use that in Emerald Cup.
And they had other various clients throughout the state
but I really can't disclose which ones. Sorry. No it
doesn't matter. It's just the principle. It's cool information. Thanks Ryan.
They don't do samples off the street. Put it that way.
But I felt really kind of
blessed to be able to grow plants, sample them,
pack them all up according to lab sample submission sheets and send them off to the lab
and a couple of weeks or three weeks later get back a whole slew of data
that was beautifully presented and it was
really easy for me to look at like a hundred plants or whatever I would get across
and be able to just quickly scan through the series of lab reports
you know like literally in seconds. You'd have a lab report
that would be one page and you'd have 25 samples that were all graphed out
based on terpene profile, terpene
content, cannabinoid profile and content and the various
ratios between the two and you could look at like a whole line of them
and be like oh number 27 is the one that has the highest terpene content and number
84 has the highest cannabinoid content or you know you could just pull
out the special plants really quickly based on visual representations
of the data. It was fucking slick. It was really cool.
So yeah. Now that sounds fresh. That sounds
exciting. Really cool. No it's like
you know when you start collecting data and it's like Evian was saying when you start collecting data
there's a whole world at your fingertips of conclusions that you can
get and you know I really support her ethical data alliance.
I wish all data could be open and shared but unfortunately
you know in the corporate world when people are paying to develop labs
and you're spending money growing shitty crops from
seed for weird cannabinoid contents as opposed to like some flower
that's selling for two three grand a pound on the market you know
like things get expensive so you gotta
it's really is truly an investment so I understand why people are putting in that kind of money
to do the research and want to own the IP right.
And like Evian I mean with you doing that just oh it looks like she got a phone call
no worries. I was just curious you know like when getting
you know if one were to invest a company or invest
in equipment like that
would you consider like doing third party testing
to compare yours with others or is that kind of like
redundant or not even necessary because you know
the standard isn't there yet.
I know that we did a we paid a ton of money for third party testing right and I'm sure you
probably did the same thing and I know the majority of other people I've worked with too.
I actually heard of somebody doing a cool thing on the west coast
which was they had a lot of they had like more of like a mobile lab set up
so they could go and kind of dock up at people's breeding projects
and do the thing but I kind of think that maybe it didn't
like fully ever become what it was meant to be
but I thought it was a brilliant idea to be able to utilize that.
But yeah I mean obviously you have to kind of tie in to third party testing
especially when you lose like your lab efficiency.
Well you know like you got the machine because of you know the third party
frustrations and just curious when you got it this equipment
did you compare your results at the beginning
or consistently with other third party testings
just to see what was out there or was. Oh for sure.
Cool that's really cool. Yeah well expensive is really the
Oh I'm sure it's expensive. But was the
standard there was there a standard there that you saw between
you know your equipment and the equipment that was out there. Just curious.
Yes yes for sure. And sometimes you have to run things multiple
times and get a clear baseline. But you know there is like a variance
my brain isn't fully there just today was so fun but
there is you know there's like a subtle variation
within all I mean even with like I'm going testing right now
it's like we all know the issues with the labs across the board is that there really
is no standardization especially state to state. And I think
that hopefully we'll get there eventually. But I don't
I don't really trust test results as far as I can throw them at this point.
We measured intraday and intra operator
variation within the with their own lab. Right. Like
you can have if you have two different people that are grinding up the samples
or like adding solutions you can have variation within the sample.
That is generated from those two technicians. So like
forget two labs that have the same equipment and are using a
slightly different method. I mean even within the same lab you can have variations
generated by two different users. So when you when you see like
a cannabinoid content that's like within 5 percent plus or minus
of another number don't think that they're different
like 29.7 percent THC
29.7 percent THC and 29.6 percent THC
or 28.5 percent THC. Those are all the
same number. Right. Like one plant is not better than the other.
Our scientific analysis capabilities
are not sufficient to distinguish that kind of variability between plants.
You read my mind. That's exactly where I was going with this Ryan. That's exactly where I was
my next question. So like what is the swing
for you to cause alarm like what or
to cause like a concern or like oh there's something going on there because you know
there isn't obviously an exact and you know
with both you and Ryan you guys have you've kind of
seen that with the without there being like a technical standard
there is like an average standard but there's also
this kind of swing to one way or the other
and that causes an alarm like what like what would be going on there.
Just curious. There's a ton of stuff and it was actually on
the when they had up the paper if you go back on the YouTube
there was a link to a paper and it was
it was Mark Lewis's and Matt Gizzi's paper on a
robust method for for determining cannabinoids and terpenes
and cannabis. Go back and read that paper like if you really read that paper
in depth and you really want to understand the question that you just ask go back and read that paper
because Matt goes through he really wrote the paper and he
goes through like all the methods that they used for ensuring
that the method they use not only for extraction
but also chemical analysis for both cannabinoids and terpenes
was like accurate right. It was like
what they said they were measuring they were measuring to you know to a pretty good
degree and it was really the first method for
for quantifying terpenes that was published.
Funny enough Trevor I think I saw it on one of your YouTube
things that you said Fischetik's paper in 2017 was
the first time that people used terpenes for categorizing cannabis
that Fischetik paper came after our NAPRO work just just just to
be clear. Yeah no I'm looking at
the NAPRO paper right now in the 16 date and
yeah and also seeing the Fischetik
paper as yeah indeed
Just again I'm just clarifying for the record
I like Justin, Justin Fischetik he's a good dude. I met him in
2011 was the first time I met him and I did a master class with
him in Arno Hazekamp over at Bedro Cannon Holland years and years
ago and he's a cool dude he's funny he reminded me of like a young Eddie
Better kind of kid but he's like really quite smart
chemist and they had a lab on the east side of the bay
for a while and that's where he collected all that data because they did
a bunch of work for a few dispensaries and they were able to really churn through
and they essentially reiterated what we had shown but yeah
and published it as if it was the first but we were actually first.
Yeah and that's I posted it up on
on Facebook or whatever it's Instagram
and so people can find
a good number of the slides though the entire link I think is
up here at the top of the room for those on Clubhouse.
So I feel like we've maybe have done like a pretty decent job on
chemotype. Does everybody feel like we've covered chemotype and phenotype
well enough? I think we just scratched the surface
honestly and yeah
I personally think it's best
Tony kind of initiated this earlier I think he posted
some of the information but you know
the term was initially coined by a Danish
interestingly he was trained as a pharmacologist
but Wilhelm Johansen
is the person who coined the term and
really the important thing here is that
genotypes are inheritable or are heritable
excuse me, phenotypes are
not heritable so for instance the variation
in a you know kind of how you were just
mentioning Ryan where a single sample
having a variation in the THC
percentage that phenotypic
variation if you select the 30%
you know run of a particular clone only you're not
going to get offspring that are all now 30 percenters
you're going to get the same offspring as you would if you
had done a run that got considerably lower THC
that variation in the phenotypic expression
of that trait is not something that's going
to be passed on. The genotype is the thing that
controls that trait in relation with the environment
and the environmental variables that influence it
that's the heritable part, the genotype not the
or the genes not the
environmental variables on phenotypic
expression. Yeah and Johansen was
doing a study on barley and
bean plants that were self-fertilized that he was
trying to be able to categorize the seeds by
the actual the way they look
he was trying to be able to pull out
different genotypes and phenotypes just from the expression of the seeds
that they produced. Yeah it's a good
point Trevor. Again I think it
doesn't really matter for growers that are pulling plants out for selection but
it's kind of one of the things you know we've got the seds in the cannabis
seed world probably because it's just about business and flash on Instagram
to a large degree but you know
I'm of the firm opinion that you don't graduate from a grower
to a breeder. Right? Like it's not something that just happens after you've
been growing through a bunch of years even though that seems to be the norm in the cannabis world.
Becoming a breeder or like a real
breeder that's able to really understand and make genetic canes
is like what Tony does is all about
and same with Trevor the information that you guys are posting.
Breeding is about understanding
meiosis and genetics and inheritance, inheritability.
That's it.
You take that set of skills and you combine it with all the
knowledge that you learned as a grower and a cannabis appreciator.
Right? Like someone that loves growing plants and looking at the variation and the detailed stuff.
You know that's kind of why I was laughing a little bit at the original
discussion that Trevor had put up. Not the discussion
the definition that Trevor had put up about chemotype being
a chemical difference between plants that were otherwise
indistinguishable. Right? Like you know if I took my mom into a
growing room with like a hundred different cultivars she couldn't distinguish one from the other.
Right? So I think really like your ability to see
variation within a crop is like how well you know the crop.
Right? And so to me
being a cannabis breeder comes maybe partly out of a relationship from
being a grower graduating from being a grower because you have to be a grower for years
and years and years to truly understand the plant and
like even be able to see the genetic variations or the
phenotypic variations that exist within a given plant or within a grow
room with a bunch of different varieties. Right? Like it's a little bit
of a trained eye. Like if I took a brand new person into my nursery and I showed
them a hundred different genetic types they wouldn't be able to understand the differences between all the
different ones. Right? You wouldn't even see the leaf variation
or the stem variation or the colors. It's just stuff that you wouldn't
notice. Right? So to me it's about
like learning all that shit and developing the knowledge of the plant
and then when you learn about like genotype and inheritance and phenotype
and even chemotype if you want to get really into the complex side of things
that's the set of knowledge that you need
to be a breeder. Right? So anyway, Anthony and
and you as well Trev, like it's very refreshing
seeing people in the industry like take initiative and
excitement and like compassion and learning about and teaching about these things because
they are the core of breeding. And so if you guys are practicing
these things then my hat's off to you.
It's a superpower. Attention to detail is like such a superpower. I totally
commend Anthony and Trevor for all the stuff they're sharing and a lot of
you too and everybody up here because I think we take it for granted.
Everything that you just said is so spot on and I think that like once you've been doing
it for so long that you totally start to take it for granted.
That attention to detail is not something that you can necessarily
teach either. It's something that becomes like a second
nature. So I just I think that's really well
articulated and I commend that too.
I got something here. I really appreciate everybody's talk tonight.
Very enlightening. Curious about the definition of
chemotype as it would relate as it would be
defined legally. If anyone knows what has been
defined legally maybe for not yet
but in the future as well for utility patents on
genetics that people breed and how that would relate to growers.
Understand where is that line drawn for a chemotype
legally. I think that's a fascinating discussion. Thank you.
Yeah. Maybe I should chime in on this one.
Considering my proximity issue.
I don't think the lines have been drawn. Let's put it that
way. There's claims that have been made and some
provisional grants that have been made about where the lines may
be. But with anything intellectual property
it's like there's claims and then there's
what is the outcome in a legal
dispute of those claims.
And that has to do with many issues related to the patent but also
issues related to who wants to invest
the money in to challenge those claims.
So if you're asking for me
to draw the lines of where this is the
edge of the playing field I can't do that. Nobody can do that truthfully.
Somebody is. Yeah. Somebody is. People are starting.
Let's put it this way. People are starting to sketch out where the boundaries should be
to their advantage. And there are like patents and claims that exist
that are recognized by the USPTO. And
like let's throw the rest of PBRs in the world as well. Like there are
also cancer IDs being registered through UPOV.
Where those lines exist is a matter
of the courts.
Well said. So it's wherever you choose to wager.
Well I mean the original question was in regards to
how do chemotypes interact with that patent or intellectual property
claim. I think that was the question right? Yeah I'm curious
how you know where's the line drawn in legally defining
a chemotype that you could get a utility
patent or actually protect that genetic. Okay so right now
there is no line drawn anywhere. There's a
series of patents that have been granted based on a specific
cannabinoid content
sorry these are I should just say I should specify these are utility patents
so there's utility patents on the use of plants
of type 2 cannabinoid content
IETHC and CBD with greater than 3% of each of those
compounds by dry weight and over 1%
terpene expression if the terpene expression is not
myrcene dominant. So it's a pretty
huge chemical class. That patent
has been granted for type 2 plants for
the therapeutic use of those plants for a listed
set of conditions. Okay.
I understand that's a pretty big net that they're casting. I'm
curious like what's the wiggle room for each of those variables
that would make distinguish someone else from getting a patent?
None. None. That's the whole thing about
the broadness of the utility. It's a land grab and a fight
to see who can get something as big and beat up to any challenges.
Yeah it's not only a land grab I gotta say because I know because I've read
the plants. It's not only a land grab it's like they have developed
those things. So they have those things developed and nobody else
has developed them. So there is that but
the claim is only on the use of
those plants for a listed and defined set of conditions.
Right? So I think a lot of people think that the
patent is actually broader than it is. It's fucking broad. Like don't get me wrong
it claims a whole bunch of shit. But it only claims the use of those
things in a given set of circumstances that is again
described in the patent. Right? True.
I just see the next decade there's gonna be a lot of development in this area
and there is a lot of different therapeutic uses and combining the different
cannabinoids and terpenes. These different ratios
and combinations have different effects and we're gonna be learning about
that as we go through the next decade as well. I just find it really fascinating
breeding this plant for desired effects and there's gonna be benefits
that are gonna need some kind of legal protection for the people developing it as well.
Yeah no and you're right dude. I just but I kinda wanna point
out if I can without trying to sound like too contrary
and I think that it's important for people in the cannabis community
that are plant breeders and that's like most of us or I think that that's
maybe a lot of us. We're not fucking doctors
figuring out what medicine works for what people. Right? We're breeding plants
and hopefully making improved plants and maybe new plants with new flavors
and new cannabinoids.
If it were me and it is me because it's what I do for a fucking living
I think my strategy would be not trying to do all the fucking research
and I say that from the point of view of I've got a degree in neuroscience
so I understand the medical aspects of cannabis pretty well. But my
core competency and what I really do is breed plants and I love genetics
and the application of genetics to cannabis. Right?
I'm not doing scientific research on how cannabis varieties
interact with patients because that's not
my job and it's also not what I'm good at. Right?
If I make a new plant and I find a new plant using a lab
and whatever else, methods, just screening or my nose or whatever it is
and I think it's special and I know that it has a special chemical
I'm going to partner with a real doctor
to do that kind of work. So for me, utility patents and all that kind of
stuff, that's not in my wheelhouse. That's not what I'm doing.
I'm not interested in doing that kind of stuff. Right? I'm interested in making
plants and growing thousands of plants and finding the special unique ones.
And then if you do find some unique ones that are special,
maybe you get some form of intellectual property protection so that I
at least have the rights to reap the rewards from those plants and not
somebody else. Right? And I would wish the same thing for Trevor and I'd wish the same
thing for Tony. Right? And Evian as well.
Right? Anybody and Seth Crawford. That's why I was
propping those guys up earlier. It's the same deal. Anybody that puts in the work
and takes the time to actually develop something new,
fucking right they should get the rights to develop that thing and earn
some reward and not some big company.
Agreed. Do you see the potential for
breeding plants that are pleasing to
the consumer, number one, but
they're pleasing to the consumer because of certain effects that the
chemotype is really responsible for. However thinly we can slice it and figure
it out. But as we figure that out, there can be FDA
trials that can prove inhalation of these chemotypes
have specific desirable effects and that can be wrapped into a genetic
that we would want to protect that so that you can afford
to pay for that kind of research and protect the profits to
really boost the development of the plant.
Yeah, dude, you need to look into a company called GW Pharmaceuticals. I don't know if you know them, but they
are a pharmaceutical company that did this whole series of studies
and there's like a multi-hundred million dollar story
about them growing cannabis and their chemotypes and breeding chemotypes to get
FDA registration and all the fucking hiccups and nonsense
that comes along with it. Right? Like, you know, when they developed Apidilax or even
when they developed Sativex, these two formulations for CBD and THC
CBD, they're stuck with the plant that
they use to register the variety, or register the medicine.
Because they've since, you know, that oil, that plant that they use that makes
a specific oil that they turn into a medicine, it's got a described
allowable variation in terpene profiles and whatever else is described in the patent.
But that oil that they make to put in the product
can't deviate from the described variation that they put in the patent.
So if they develop a new whole fucking plant that's way better
they have to start the whole FDA process over again.
So, like, not only the millions of dollars in plant development that they put in
like, they pay for millions and millions of dollars of
FDA studies. Right? To show that the plant
and the formulation that they make from the plant that's standardized
is actually better than all the other treatments. And so
that's a huge fucking risk to put on
a plant like cannabis where we're coming up with a new better version every
six months. Right? Like, you're locked in
to like a 10, 20 year registration process of a medicine.
Like, again, and that's why I was saying, I'm not
in that world, let me just finish, I'm not in that world of doing the work
with the doctors and the researchers on 100 different conditions. Like, that's way
too big a hairball to even think that I'd be so arrogant to think
I could figure any of it out. That's not my deal. My deal is make the
plants, make partnerships with doctors and provide them with
the materials to do the work. But that's it. Like, I know where my lane is and I'm sticking to it.
Respect.
I just want to add really, that's really
great points. And it's been fascinating to watch that story
kind of go down. And then I also just want to say that we had a
discussion, I believe, I don't know if it was last week or the week before, in this room.
Or a different
room, but it was basically
around the fact that we're still kind of getting clear on how beyond
utility plant patents and other types of plant patents as well.
There's also like the seed certification through Ayasca
and these other pieces that, you know, it's like right now just doing
hemp, but eventually that will kind of cross over and they don't
do the chemical with the, like Ayasca and hemp.
It's not based on anything with chemotype. It's based on all
of these other things and maybe some of the cannabinoids a little bit, but like
it's not going super deep down that rabbit
hole. So it's interesting to kind of see because when they do come
to more standardization of how you protect
these things or how you certify them and seed certification and all
of these different things, it's basically up to us
to help inform that. Otherwise, it's just going to end up falling under
what's already in place. So it's a pretty fascinating process,
but I do think that we need to actively be working towards
how those regulations come through or
come down the pipe because it's been a big concern for a very long
time and like Ryan points to. And Ryan, when you were saying that, it made me
think, well then what happens if they lose that? What happens if
they get infected with Hopslate and thyroid or something
that, you know, we still don't have long-term storage really locked
in 100% for cannabis. So it just
really opens a whole other, made me ponder, that's like a deep thought
there where you're like, what happens if they've locked it into just one cultivar
to create that medicine? That seems like a major mistake. So interesting
to ponder how the future is going to go here.
Dude, the global seed bulb that we have for like all species around
the world up in Norway or whatever it is, Svalbard, I mean that started leaking a couple
of years ago, right? We don't have even for the world's food crops, we don't even have
like a stable resource of where we can stash shit
for its, you know, so it's saved forever. Like they built that shit into a glacier.
Right? And now it's leaking and it's like because of
global warming it's essentially fucking useless. It's not useless but it's not
what they think it is. You know? So I mean, yeah.
There's more than that one though, just one though. It's not doomsday but
there is more than that one. There's like 1500 total.
That is the major centralized one for the world.
So anyway, my point is, again, it's like yeah, you're right.
We don't have that for cannabis and we sure need to get that but
I think that there is no, like, you know, fuck, there is no
anything stable and we need to recognize
that no matter how we're storing and stashing this stuff that we need to have
My friend used to call the seed company and they were like
Yeah, we got all the lines and they're over here and here but there's also the holy shit jar
you know, at my brother's cousin's place or my brother's sister's or brother's wife's place
right? That like backup idea of
when everything goes wrong you still have a place where you have all your
seeds and that's like good practice, right? To back the important shit up.
Yeah and also the, you know,
the original seed bank
at the Vavilov Institute. I just posted about Rob's
work in 94 doing some
well, Rob and Dave doing work to
preserve the genetics that were at the Vavilov Institute
which had fallen into major disrepair
with the collapse of the Soviet Union and
the whole story of the Vavilov Institute and Vavilov's work
going around the world collecting germplasm
saving it and doing the important work
of maintaining just
the largest global inventory of seeds
beginning in the 1920s and going all through
World War II
surviving the Russian Revolution, all the chaos of
that time period. You gotta have Rob on to talk
about that shit because that story is insane. People were coming into
the Institute, they wanted to take the seeds to eat, right? Because
people were broke, they had no fucking food. So they wanted to turn
the seeds into wheat for bread and these people protected them. And Dave was
like, you know, David was funding it out of his own fucking pocket.
That's why when I hear people shit talk Dave about being a fucking DEA or CIA agent
or some random nonsense about that, it just pisses me off.
Because if you knew the story from the real perspective
it's insane. But yeah, get Rob and Dave on
to talk about that stuff because there's a great story there.
Totally. And the fact that that
seed collection survived and granted different
iterations but survived the
siege of
I'm not sure what it was called during, was it
Stalingrad or one of the, wherever it's
located, it escapes me, it may have been Leningrad
but wherever it's located, there was the, during
World War II it was put under siege and the scientists literally starved
to death watching over the seeds, killing rats and
different things, you know, like keeping people away from the
seeds storage to eat it because, you know
everybody was starving to death, literally. And
they managed to save the collection
and then to hear
and it totally makes sense that that would happen again because during the collapse of the Soviet
Union in the early 90s, Russia was in an incredibly
terrible way, financially, economically, and it was one of the
you know, mortality declined
significantly in the 90s for Russian males in particular
and part of that was due to famine, malnutrition
and shit like that going on. So it's
a crazy story. And yeah, I hope, I know Peter's got
somebody scheduled on to come on but it would be really, really awesome to get Rob
and Dave to talk about their work there. And also
just to follow up on some of the earlier discussion
David Pate's been mentioned and David
Pate was similar to
the work that you guys did over at NAPRO and
at the end what you did with the in-house
lab testing
I believe David Pate was brought in by Horta Farm to do
the same thing and was their lab tech
and an expert who had been trained, if I'm
not mistaking, down in the University of
Mississippi, though I could be wrong about that, you'd know better, Ryan.
I don't think he went to UMass. Dave?
Yeah, I mean I don't want to tell too many stories
that aren't mine to tell but Dave Pate was brought in to run the
analytics at Horta Farm and
yeah, in the end
it didn't work out but in that way I think he tried
he didn't want to do a lot of, he didn't want to be around, I think
Dave Pate was a bit of a hippie, he didn't want to be around extraction chemicals
and so he spent a lot of time developing
an analytical system, like a non-GC
analytical system for cannabinoids that I don't think ever really worked out
too well.
Maybe I'll just leave it there. But they did a couple of interesting studies when they were there
when he was at Horta Farm, I mean he was the one that I said earlier
I believe it was him that came up with the whole hypothesis
about UV and elevation being
related to cannabinoid content. And so they ran a whole experiment
about that over at Horta Farm.
Yeah, and you can find those information generally
about this in the International Hemp Journal
Yeah, the Journal of Industrial, or no it wasn't the journal
yeah, the International Hemp Association Journal I think is what
they originally called it, then they changed it to the Journal of Industrial Hemp
when Hawthorne took it over. But yeah, all the back
catalogs are still about catalogs, but the back issues of that are still online
It's a pretty cool set of publications, they've got
an interview with Shoyama and the Japanese group in there
I think they discovered CBD acid
Sentes, or the, yeah, anyway
they did some interesting work back in the day, they were one of the early groups
that were doing work. But back then
when they were publishing the Journal of Industrial, or not the Journal of Industrial Hemp
the Industrial Hemp Association Journal, or International Hemp Association Journal
it was essentially Rob and Dave and a couple other people
so, you know, it's really like
who are the people in the hemp world through the eyes of Dave and Rob
It's interesting
There's some interesting old shit in there
Yeah, lots of interviews with, you mentioned the Japanese
group, and you get good historical background and kind of understand
how academic research into hemp was conducted in Japan
There's also an interview
with Ivan Bosca, I probably just butchered it
Yeah, Ivan Bosca, Bosca, and then Marietta
There's an interview with him as well
Carl Hillig, and I think Paul, or is it Paul Malberg
Yeah, Malberg, that's right. Malberg used to run
so everybody thinks that University of Mississippi was the only place licensed by the
DEA to grow dough. There was actually also
the University of Indiana, Bloomington, Indiana
and Paul Malberg had a lab there, and that's where Hillig did his
work. Rob Clark actually was enrolled in a program
there
at University of Bloomington under Malberg
and then ended up leaving and not finishing his program and went over to work with Hortifarm
And Malberg's
work, interesting, I know Russell, you would be interested in it
because it's into
primarily focused on glanular trichomes
or that seemed to be what I gathered from Malberg's
published research. Yeah, well they were
the ones that showed that THC was synthesized in the gland
They did like a silver staining experiment
They had some kind of antibody that attached to THC and they essentially took
electron micrographs of a dissected trichome and stained it
and showed that the THC was right there in the head. They also did a weird
study where they were using these individual glass
needles to selectively collect resin from
one trichome gland. So I think he did a lot
of microscopy. Funnily enough, Mark Lewis went to
Bloomington from Napro and
he swears, he was there when they were growing wheat and he swears that
they had all sorts of cannabis. They had a very diverse
cannabis culture, so whether students were lifting
plants out of the Malberg lab or what, who knows
But yeah, it's a funny little piece of American history up there
I wanted to just say really quickly that there's also a
very distinct difference between doing some in-house testing
and then having access to $500,000 sequencing
machines and different things. So I was thinking about you
Ryan recently because there's always envy when anytime
you're doing testing. I'm sitting here, actually I was thinking of you Ryan, because I'm sitting here
literally combing over all of this data for this selection and
so many of these plants didn't make the cut. So I'm
literally just sitting here combing over all the cull data while I'm listening to you
which is comical. It's like that whole conversation
around not calling it pheno-hunting anymore versus
what we're calling, you know, it's like the selection process is always
fascinating. But yeah, you know, disco
fails, or I'm going over that list right now. So I just
want to say that there are some people, I think that's
kind of for me when I realized that I love seed production at
scale. I think that's kind of what I had the pleasure of learning how
to do with hemp genetics, especially because you're like really
aiming for certain targets of trying to produce like very large
quantities of seeds at a time. And I've realized
that at one point, you know, just the same with all the compliance issues and all the other things
that without access to like the really heavy
hitting equipment of in-house testing, I kind of just felt like there was a
great divide. And you can dabble and you can play and you can do the things
but just as far as like
molecular breeding, like if you're really, really doing it
you really need very large resources
I think. And so I'd be curious, Ryan, your perception on that
like if you, you know, is it possible to, you know, if you're
really breeding at that scale or that level, is it possible
to do it without the technology? And if you are just using
like your, you know, kind of selection, your own selection process and like
the organoleptics and all of those things, or do you have to have
genomics and sequencing and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So it's just been
something I've pondered for the past like few years and
I don't know, it's fascinating to me, but also
a very different world. Even the genomics companies, or at least some of the ones
that I work with, they don't even have the $500,000 sequencers. You don't
need that stuff. They contracted it to firms that have
those machines and then they just do it as a service fee, right? So it's
like you're talking consumables plus a labor fee
rather than having to invest in half a million dollars
of equipment. Like that just doesn't make sense for most people. So I don't think
you do need to have all that stuff. Whether
it's, you know, look, for years I operated with
my nose and my lungs and brain. How did the plant make me feel
when consuming it? How does it smell? When you get access to
the lab, not only for cannabinoids, but terpenes is when you really become a lab addict
and you have access to that information on every plant, it's like
you couldn't ever possibly, you'd secure a crackhead. You couldn't possibly
consider a world where you have to go back to not knowing
the chemical breakdown of every plant, right? But you also
have to balance that crack need for fucking data
with your budget, right?
It's the reality of running a business or even doing research.
You know, I've had friends that had research companies
and their wives were like, that's it. You spend no more of our money on this
business because it really is like an addiction.
You know what I mean? Once you get so hooked to figuring it out
you'll spend anything to chase down the knowledge and that's not healthy
or smart. Great answer because sometimes I
felt like when you're compared to or up against these companies
that just have these insane budgets and insane access
to hunting, especially like
I remember actually when we were, I don't know if Brian you were there, but last time we went to ChemMed
listening to some of these people that were doing molecular breeding I was like,
okay I'm giving up. I'm not doing this anymore. But it's not true.
I mean obviously there's still like still playing but it's just like
you're playing in a different field or you have different targets and I think there's
an acceptance that you can still breed incredible things
and magic and unicorns and that they're still there and maybe you're never going to be able
to analyze the data like these crazy Israeli
molecular breeders but you're still able to
do good work and know the basics. So I guess it's just
I don't know I feel like I've had moments of losing hope
because of the competition just being so well funded
and so having access to amazing technology so that's a
great answer. I appreciate that. Yeah but remember what we were saying too
about the pubcos beating their chest. A lot of that is advertising and it's like flexing
you know, it's like the insecure
guys that go to the gym all the time and pump up their head so that because they don't feel like
they have enough on the inside. That describes pubcos to a fucking T.
Right? It's all bluster. So I'm not saying every
company is like that but there is you know, I would say take
a bit of a grain of salt. Take with a grain of salt when you see
people making claims and there's been a few companies that are
in that that I would say that about.
Because again they're trying to raise money in the stock market.
These people make their money when the stock goes up not when they
have a successful breeding program. So you know when you
hear people talk about that say oh yeah show me the plants that you've read and
why they're more successful in the marketplace. That
usually ends most of those conversations pretty fucking quickly.
The other thing that I wanted to mention
is something that you know Mark actually Mark Lewis used to say it's actually
quite true. We used
the lab as a way to look at the genome. Right? We looked at the plants
that the we looked at the chemistry that the genes
of the plants produced and from that chemistry
we inferred the genes. Right? So you can think
of that as like observing the chemotype
and inferring the genotype. And you
would prove that out you know what your thoughts about the genotype
were you'd prove it by further crosses. Right? And this
is something that Kevin sorry this is something that Trevor and I
kind of touched on briefly through Instagram this week is that like
in my opinion you're not actually selecting for genotype
until you're testing for genotype. And so you can test for
genotype using sequencing or PCR
right a targeted PCR approach and you can look at the different the genetic
differences of a given trait. That's the fast
expensive fancy way to do it.
If you had all the money in the world you'd do that with every single plant but we don't
have all the money in the world of course so nobody does that.
But really the point is that the chemistry
the chemistry the plant produces is a reflection of the genome.
Right? And so chemotype is really a reflection
of genotype or at least of possible genotypes.
And I think that we can look at phenotypes in much the same way. Right?
Like phenotypes really when you look at the definition
of phenotype the phenotype is the observable
appearance of any given trait.
Yeah I think that's really the definition right there.
It's what we can observe in a trait.
And that might be
leaf color, stem length, hair color,
eye color in people, leaf side
the number of leaf serrations, the color of the pistil, the length of the hairs of the
pistil. I mean you can get really deep down and dirty with
what is a phenotype and what are the differences in phenotype. I mean I don't know
I'm sure you have any on but you know it takes people growing a lot of
seeds to realize that like you know when you grow shitloads of seeds
you start realizing that there's like for example the leaf of the length
of the petiole so the stem of the leaf. Right?
That characteristic varies quite a lot. And in my opinion
when it's too long it's like a real pain in the ass. It's just one of
these traits that's negative. But the point is that any trait that you can look at
on the plant there's variation. Right? And that variation is a result
of the genetic type of the plant
or the genotype or the genetics that exist in that plant
and how they interact with the environment to produce
an observable trait which we call a phenotype.
Right? So anyway I don't know where I'm going with that.
You guys helped me this week with saying that
chemotype is still kind of like a changing
definition. Because for years I've
kind of struggled with the concepts because I'm like well I feel
like I got it but it is a lot of these
things I think that we're still kind of defining how exactly
they plug and play with cannabis. So it's really a valuable conversation. I really
appreciate you guys having it because not necessarily super easy things
to describe and explain to people as well.
I think it just comes with experience. So I really appreciate the deeper
dive that you guys are doing. Thank you guys for holding this conversation.
Because I think that until we really get super clear
of also when these terms and when these concepts are useful
within. Because I think people get really caught up in
knowing all the science and knowing all the things. But then it's like well when is it actually useful
to us? And when is it applicable? And I'd love
to hear like Anthony or Trevor or just other people here who are like
when are these things, when are the moments
when you're going to really utilize these things in your selection process?
I guess would be the next phase of
it is how do we apply and when do they become
times that we need solutions for what we're doing?
I think this is really
one of those things that
what Ryan was just talking about
in terms of how they were able
to use the chemotype data
which I personally and
reading through the literature in the cannabis literature
chemotype and chemical phenotype are used
interchangeably. So when we're using the word
chemotype we're just saying chemical phenotype.
That's a proxy for
genotype. And so we can use that on a practical
level and actually guide our breeding and have
some understanding of what the genotype
just through the COAs. Whereas
like there's very very few other ways
that we can do that. Like Ryan was just saying
you can use expensive PCR
you can screen it using genetic sequencing
which is kind of cost prohibitive
and you have to already kind of know what you're looking for
then the
other way you can do it is through breeding trials
where you grow, I mean literally what Mendel did with his peas was
genotyping his peas and figuring out the genotypic
frequency of the populations he was working with after he
hybridized different peas that he was growing.
We have these two methods of doing it
or we have the proxy through chemotype
and really the data, the NAPRO data gives us
a good data set for illustrating this. But it's all built
on the back of those papers, the DeMahair papers
that demonstrated
the inheritance of chemotype
and really made that link between
chemical phenotype and genotype. And so
I think through this literature base
we've been able to figure out what at least
for a certain time period during the medical days
when myself I was able to get very very cheap access
to testing became a really good proxy and
helped to facilitate all that work that people like Ringo was
doing up in Humboldt, the
Project CBD people in the Bay Area and
my mom's friend Karen Byers was one of the people
who had a number of the different CBD varieties
so we'd always get cuts from her and make
some seeds. And I wasn't, you know, I was
pretty young at the time so I wasn't necessarily hip to the CBD thing
and wasn't down to smoke it, but understood that those
genes were important and those papers gave us the tools
to kind of, you know, at least
not fuck things up completely.
Well it gave a method to the people that were paying attention. I mean, if you were paying attention
you were way ahead of most of the curve. But I mean, those were exciting
times in California, right? I mean, what was his name, Dr. The Weirdo
dude? Dr. Courtney?
The Juicer. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But I mean, man, he was giving away clones for free
and Ringo was doing his shit too and Jaime from Resin Seeds,
doing work with CBD stuff. Those were interesting times in California, right?
And even the lab dudes were, you know, and Fred Gardner and
Martin Lee, like, you know, there was a lot of educating going on around CBD
at that point in time. That was a really interesting time for the cannabis movement.
You know what I got from what you were saying again,
Trevor, is that, like, again, pointing out, chemotype is, like you said,
it means chemical phenotype, right? And so it's
like, you can think of it like as the chemical appearance
of a plant. And just like
phenotype, you might have a couple, you might have
a given appearance for the plant, either phenotypic or chemotypic
appearance of the plant or presentation of the plant, but
there might be multiple genotypes that can lead to that same
appearance or what the plant looks like or smells
like or tastes like. And that's really
what you need to discover when you really become a breeder, not just a seed
maker that's, like, growing plants and selecting it based on how it looks like
and wanting to cross it to something. Like, that's the start of the path.
Right? You start walking the path
when you can take that plant
and cross it either to itself or another plant that is
known and start making
understandings or conclusions about how traits
are inherited and how you can take that
either chemical or physical appearance of the plant
and move that through generations in a reliable way.
Right? Like, that's breeding. Right? And
if you're not doing that, in my opinion, you're not really breeding. You're just making seeds.
And the understanding
and the ability to do that comes through experimentation. Like, you're not, nobody's
born with that ability. The only way to do it
is to make crosses in a way that you can learn from the results
and then grow out the resulting seeds
and interpret the results that are present in the seeds. Right? Like,
know how to look at a population and collect data from that population and interpret
it. Right? Totally. And that's
why, you know, it's really difficult to
grasp population genetics or to kind of, like,
get what type of population we're dealing with when it's so
hybridized and also, you know,
bottlenecked or inbred.
But understanding that, how the plant
breeds, the sexual reproduction, and, you know,
the fact that it's an obligate out crosser, all these different things
is, you know, the reason why Ryan stresses these
and why, you know, I'm trying to pick up all of it
and regurgitate it.
But the reason those are the starting
point for having a discussion about breeding
is because that then informs how
you're going to be able to understand
and predict the outcomes of the crosses you make.
If you understand the reproduction system, if you understand the population
structure, and if you do crosses that are intentional
to, you know,
understand the way these traits are inherited and expressed,
whether or not they're quantitative or qualitative traits, and how to
particularly for qualitative traits,
excuse me, quantitative traits, how to
achieve gains in those, that's really
the area where it's important to understand
the population size and population
structure and how selection can affect and accomplish
your goals.
And look, that happens through collecting data. I mean,
listen, I think most of us ended up growing cannabis because we had
diversions to a whole bunch of other career paths, right?
And we all ended up growing cannabis or maybe breeding cannabis or making seeds or whatever.
But I would say that we were
probably, for the most part, probably accidental plant breeders, right?
I don't think most of us grew up from four years old thinking to ourselves,
well, I want to be a plant breeder one day when I grow up.
And so our choices ended up that we,
you know, that we're doing this job.
But really, this job is a really highly statistical collection
job. That's really what plant breeding is about, is about
recording lots of numbers and data on any given plant or hundreds
of plants individually over maybe 20
or 30 or 50 traits per plant. That's a lot of work, right?
And I think that probably most of the people that are
breeding cannabis never intended to be doing that kind of work,
right? But once you have the data and you're
looking at the data of all those plants, you can actually start
arranging them into groups either by cannabinoid or terpene profile
or leaf shape or yield or whatever the characteristics that you care about.
But when you start looking at the plant
from that point of view, that's when you really are able to start putting it back together in a way
you know, and you're not going to be able to, these patterns
that Trevor and I are talking about, like you'll never see those patterns until you start
making the crosses and growing out like
really no less than 50 or probably better
more than, even way more than 100 if you can. But once you grow 100
of these plants, and I know Evian's done it and a lot of other people have done it in this room as well,
once you grow out that many plants of a given cross,
you go through them as you're growing them and you can start
grouping them into, you can start putting them into groups of a type.
Right? And you might see various types within the plant either by leaf shape or flower
shape or smell, or you can do it by
cannabinoid content if you're collecting the data on that. But the point is
that we were doing all this work and people were breeding
plants like 50 years before we knew anything about
genetics and genetic sequencing. Right? So
this inferential technique that Trevor's been talking about
and I've been talking about where you look at the phenotype or the chemotype
and that gives you an idea of what the possible genetic
types behind that will be. Right? Like you can start
making conclusions and
understandings about like how these
traits are inherited based on
what happens when you cross a few of the
plants together in different ways and grow the offspring. Right?
There's a whole level of learning to do.
And to me, unless you have the molecular genetics techniques
or genetic sequencing, which I think is fair to say that most of us, including myself,
don't have access to for every plant,
the only way to really be able to determine genotype is
through experimentation with crosses. Right? If you're just growing plants
from seed, in most cases you can't determine the genotype just by
looking at the plant. Right? You can determine the phenotype or the
chemotype. It might be different. We're talking about males versus females. For sure you
can determine the genotype of a male plant by looking for male
flowers. But I think for most other traits you can't really
understand genotype by looking at phenotype or chemotype.
I just want to say too,
I'd be curious on everything you said is so spot on
as usual. But I really,
data collection and aggregation is not necessarily
the simplest. And I know that Russell seems to have
some, people have different techniques and different styles that it's not
and even when you're looking at what data points are you
looking for, I never, I'm a plant
person. When I started doing this I never had any idea
of the amount of technology and other things that I would
come to actually fall in love with or have real
need for and then also understanding
data and how to aggregate it and wishing that I had access to machine learning
tools. I never in my life thought that that was like
I like regenerative organic agriculture and then suddenly
actually I really want these things. And I know
that what we've used over time and that we have created
our own kind of data collection tools with varying
different pieces of software. But I would just be curious
as a group and especially like Anthony and other people here, what are people
using and how are you
refining that? Because it's such a
huge part of this, especially like it ties so directly to this conversation.
And especially when you start getting into more like when you're actually
analyzing COAs and stuff it becomes much more complicated
to actually extract the data points from things like that
and then the more data you're collecting the more you have to aggregate.
I mean you guys kind of know where I'm going with this so just be curious what your
perceptions are on that because yeah when people are breeding peas
a million years ago it wasn't a thing. And I know that when I
was just playing around with like breeding squash and things at home I never even conceived
of like when I'm just doing regular vegetable breeding
it was more just fully selecting with what I thought was
cool or just playing because I'm like more of a novice in learning from
people and playing around with it. But yeah it's really
half the battle with even having that discussion. So you can identify
a genotype or phenotype or chemotype and then what
and how did you get there? So just be very curious
what other people have done for that. Mendel was a novice
and he figured out genotype. So you know you don't
have to be a trained plant breeder to make gains.
In my earlier days I used to
use a patient driven system where since I was breeding
for a lot of medicinal purposes I would
group people together in groups of 20 or 40 people and
end up running plants through their system that they were growing
and then I'd be able to take the information from
the actual patients that were using the plants for what I was trying to breed for
and try to find out if what I was steering for was working.
And then after a long period of time I start to understand
some of the plants that I'm working with where it doesn't take me as long to actually
get some of the end game results that I'm after.
Like I stopped looking in specific cultivars for different
end traits because I know they're not going to show up
because they just never do. So if I keep wanting to hunt through specific lines
just because I have an affinity for that line I'm going to
waste a lot of time which is what I eventually find out
breeding through the amount of numbers I did. It's just hard now
these days a lot of people aren't doing it the same way that I did it.
So it's hard to quantify
the medicinal effect the way I was doing it. You can't just
run it through five or six people and find out that something's going to do
something for a specific set of ailments. You need to have a
larger patient set I believe. Because once I went from
a smaller set to a larger set I would start to find out
larger and more quantifiable information that
would help me more specifically for what I was trying to do.
I used to track all this stuff in my head because I come from the time when
if you write it down you were going to do more time. So I just learned how
to basically track as much information as I could in my head
and allow the patients that were doing the stuff in their own gardens
write that stuff down if they so chose to.
Wow I wasn't even considering end consumer data on that.
That was a whole other set of data points.
It's efficacy
of the different things. So that's really interesting
Anthony. A lot of spreadsheets
Excel
notes. That's where I'm at.
Data
I love talking about data. I don't actually talk
about data much in these rooms. I end up talking about growing a lot. But data is
actually what I do professionally. And that is
absolutely there's a lot of easy ways
to get going if you're trying to perform
basic data science modeling
apply statistical models to data
sets and you don't necessarily need
to purchase a ton of
hardware or software. There's a lot of open source stuff out
there for folks that are really interested in learning
more about the basics of data science
and data modeling. And those are the things that tend to feed into
AI artificial intelligence and machine learning
routines. There's a great Web site which
is called Kaggle K A G G
L E. And if you go out to Kaggle
Kaggle, there's a whole bunch of these really
fantastic data models that you
can check out and learn from. They have an awesome
introductory lesson that talks about the
Titanic and the sinking of the Titanic.
And they give you information about
half of the passengers and the
challenges to predict what happened to the other half of the
passengers based on whether they were
male or female, based on whether they were younger or
older, based on whether or not they were a first class
second class or third class
passenger, whether they were part of the crew.
And so there's you can use
small segments of data
to build predictive models that
help you figure out
what might happen. So, you know,
taking a sample size and then using that to
predict out what some of those results may
be. But you are correct. I mean, the
correlation of data tends to be where a lot of
challenge happens. You may have many
disparate pieces of information, but bringing them all together
tying all of the pieces and the linkage together
and then building out some data models that can produce
a statistical result does take a little
bit of effort. But there's definitely some pretty
inexpensive or open source tools out there
specifically for data science modeling
and building some of these larger statistical models to do
some analysis. And cloud storage
itself is pretty cheap. It's about three dollars
a terabyte in Amazon or in
Microsoft Azure or something along those lines. So you can
some storage also used to be a real limitation to most
folks from a home computing standpoint or from your own
personal business standpoint. You had to have your own servers
and some infrastructure and things like that. Today, you can kind of
rent that processing space
in the cloud and put that information in a
secure location that others can't access and then
use basically pay as you go processing capabilities.
So there's definitely a lot of
we can get the data together.
You can make some really, really interesting things
happen. So this is Jason and I hope that helps.
Yeah, I took a data analysis class and I feel like
I have a whole we have a whole system that we've used and I'm a little bit
more like just because I know it was a lot of effort
to build that I really think it's interesting to hear. I find I get frustrated
with I need more than what spreadsheets have to offer
at this point just within my own the way my brain works. But I really appreciate
the different people's here's like
I don't know. It's the same thing. It's like you're like breeding and farming
and then all of a sudden you're like going down this tech rabbit hole
data analysis and different things. But really, I mean, I think
some part of me still kind of craves to just
go back to the way that we used to do things where it was all just
like selection based on what
you're feeling and being and touching and
you're like I like this one. This is the one. This is the winner
and I think there's still something so beautiful in that.
I just want to encourage people that you don't need all of that stuff
in order to still play and experiment
but just the further you go down the rabbit hole I guess is that
when you start to need those tools. It's a level of data
maturity that you're getting to beyond what you've had before
and really that's part
of data dealing with data and reporting and
business intelligence and things like that is you're really trying
to produce actionable insights.
Yeah, but man when you talk to it like that it sounds so fucking dry
and painful. I don't mean to be
insulting but I think whatever you're
saying and I've had this conversation on different levels for like 20 years
so forgive me just cutting to it.
Listen, you don't give up the fucking art when you add the science.
Science is art. It's just a tool.
It's just a tool. It's another layer of knowledge that you're adding
to your process. This is not replacing
love or passion or pushing any of those selection things out of the way
in my opinion. It's adding another layer
and you know like for me
I don't feel like that other layer is a burden. Shit, it can be
work sometimes to get through but for me the passion
is getting to the place where I take that thing that I find that I love in a given
plant and I move it forward. That's the joy for me
where I can move that thing that I love at a plant and make that into a seed line.
That's where I get the joy. So I don't care
if I have to fucking lug some shit up some hills
to get there and do some math and a whole bunch of shit that I might not
really love logging through the data and I can just hire someone like Jason
to help. Then I'm all over that kind of stuff. Because again
I've said it before. It's a cheesy
kind of stupid expression but I think plant breeding is a team sport.
It's not a one man show or a one person show. It does
take the teamwork to make the dream work.
I say that
coming from a place of trying to oversee and drive
and direct breeding programs and having to coordinate with
not only horticulturalists but breeders and harvesters and making sure
everybody along the way including the guy that takes the backup library and keeps the clones
everybody's on their job. You're coordinating this big dance
of people to be able to start the
seeds, get the copies made of those plants in a backup library, grow
the plants to health, harvest the plants, send them to the lab. The lab
does the right analysis on them. You get back the data. You interpret the data
and then you send your selections back down to the guys that are propagating the clones
and keeping the winners. That's a pretty big fucking orchestra.
It's a pretty coordinated ballet. It's the most fun ever
also I will say. I think it's more the idea of
creating an elegant breeding program that's functional and efficient
is really what it comes down to. There's different levels of that.
Orchestra is a really beautiful way of putting it. I think there's a difference between
people breeding just on a personal level.
I always want to know at least four other people's opinions that I highly
highly value is also going into that equation
including the data. It's the opinions matter and
the ratings of those people matter in addition to all of the data
because it could have the most amazing
chemotypic... just the chemical profile could be
so incredible but it could just be utter shit of a plant really when you
think about it. It doesn't always line up
when you look at the scientific data versus what you're actually
seeing in a plant. The one that could look the most incredible
may not have the most incredible chemical makeup.
It's a deep dance and it's really beautiful
to be able to have the conversation around it with other people that have
put effort into the orchestra. I guess
more my brain is coming from that orchestra.
Orchestrating a larger piece is definitely when you start
to need those tools. I love that
Ryan what you said about the art. The science you don't have to lose the art.
That actually is... I'm going to hold on
to that. You can have it all.
Maybe we could define... let's define an equation.
Evian, what scale are you breeding
at? How many plants per genotype
or whatever are you working on? Is it
like a small breeder working on 100-200 plant level?
That's where more of the art comes in. But if you're on 10,000
20,000 that's where science... I don't know.
Can you identify that? Can you keep the art as you scale?
Yeah, I don't think it's...
The artist of
all artist plant breeders was Luther Burbank.
Dude didn't necessarily have the most
scientifically rigorous understanding of
heritability. He and George
Schull famously
despised each other and couldn't work together. George H. Schull was
an academically trained botanist who
coined the term heterosis and was one of the people who
made advances in that field. But Luther Burbank,
he was much more of a
huge population.
I was talking brute force. And there is...
Sorry Trevor, I'm just going to input this one thing and then let you get back to it. I'm going to pull the
Kanye. I call it brute force and we did it with the
chemical analysis screening too. When you're looking for one thing, you
just screen through shit loads of numbers and look for that one thing.
And that's an important part of a breeding program. But Burbank was the king of that.
Sorry Trevor. Yeah, no, that's totally what he did.
And he also... I feel like we took tools
out of his tool belt where
large population, you screen, you pick out the
unicorns. And even if we were
doing cultivation at sort of like a smaller scale individually,
collectively with the cannabis germplasm
genome that's been passed around over the last
30, 40 decades, or years,
not decades. We've done a lot
of that selection. And also he was...
He got lots of very exotic germplasm from all around
the world and would intentionally cross things that were
very, very divergent. So
he'd get things from Australia or New Zealand
and then hybridize those with varieties that he
had locally. And those are
just some of the techniques that he did, but that's stuff that we did.
I say collectively, we cannabis breeders historically.
David Watson, people like that who were
taking in equatorial land race varieties and
crossing those and hybridizing those with Central
Asian Afghan varieties and producing really
incredible divergent hybrids that were totally
different from what had been done before
it. And so that's one method, but I
feel like there's... Data
collection is important. The more data that people
are able to collect, the more efficiently they're able to collect it, the
less it costs for storage and analysis. All of that's great.
It's also about tailoring things to your needs.
We don't all have to do genomic
sequencing. It's probably not the most efficient way of figuring
out genotypes and achieving gains and
quantitative traits. Just traditional breeding
would probably... And the things that people were doing a hundred
years ago will probably accomplish
gains much more efficiently and a much lower price
point. And then for those of
people who can't necessarily grow out thousands of plants and
look at the distribution of the traits
that they're looking at and make the selections that people
who are able to do that are able to do, are still able
to do these things. And one of the things that I think is important is
instead of just doing one-to-one breeding,
if you're going to breed with a population like
I bred with the 88G13 hash plant, when we reproduced
it, we used multiple males and multiple females. When we
did the reproduction with the
TKM10, the F2s that
I made off of those, I used eight different males that
all were selected for the type that I was trying to select
for. And then the other, on the
female side, same thing. And, you know, Ryan's talked about
using female-female because your selection efficiency will be much greater.
And that's totally true. But in this population
and any population I'm trying to increase, I'm going to
use multiple males that are in line with my
desired goals and objectives for that population when I'm breeding
it forward. And the, you know, I'll make
the same pairings in the females where I'm not just going to be like,
this is the one female keeper that's
better than all the others. Even if there is one female keeper that's better than
all the others, I'm also going to breed those males
to multiple other females and ideally grow them out.
I think that that's just to, you know, solve for the fact that we can't.
Like, in the absence of being able to make a
like, absolute selection, particularly
off of phenotypic expression and just looking at the
characteristics of the plant, you know,
when I don't have access to a lab,
I'm going to use that method. And if I don't have the ability to
grow out thousands of plants, but I'm only growing out like a hundred.
It's important to preserve the variation
at the traits not under selection, even as
much as it is, or more so, as much as it is to preserve the variation
of those under selection. Right? So bottlenecks
for no reason, which is what you're doing when you're selecting tightly like that
is the wrong way to do it. So I'm totally joking. I
totally accept what you're doing and respect it. You know your stuff, dude.
Well, yeah, I read a lot of
posts by some guys back in the day.
It's funny. That's where all the
knowledge came from, whether it's like a scientific journal or a breeding book
like Allard or whatever. They're just a bunch of posts by some guy
with a little bit of experience doing it, right? And sharing that
information with the people that have it. You know, we were talking about science
papers earlier and it's like, you know,
it's important to remember that science, and we'll be talking about these things
and we're always talking about them, or you see a lot of people talking about these things like they're absolutes.
There are no absolutes, right? Like even a given paper.
I mean, we've had some guests talking about stuff in papers and they're just
making some wrong conclusions based on data that they've collected.
Right? And so data collection and even experimental design
to get the right data to make your conclusions, there is
a whole art in all that kind of stuff, right? And if you don't design your
experiments properly, you're going to collect data that's essentially nonsense.
And when you have nonsense data, you have nonsense conclusions.
Right? So when you read a white paper
or these journal articles, don't just think that that shit is the word
of God and that shit is the way that the world exists.
That's essentially a snapshot of our understanding of the world at that moment
in time. Right? And things change, just like our understanding
of chemotype changes. Right?
Yeah. Anyway.
Yeah. No. So many of the, you know,
you go through and you look both at lexicon
changes, but also the replication crisis
and there's plenty of issues
there. And like, I mean, shit, I just feel like
so much of cannabis confusion stemming
from the whole sativa indica thing
stems from good faith
efforts to understand the science by people at the time
who were reading the available science in the 70s.
Like leaving aside Schultz
and like the actual academics, but just the people
who were there using terms like sativa and indica,
it's not like they were that far off
from what was produced in that Schultz paper
in 1974. And so relying on that
paper was the science of the day.
And it then got like brought up into the counterculture
sort of like nomenclature. And now it's just this
like bastardized thing. But
it's not as if it was like a bad faith
effort by anyone to
poison the well. It's just science and the way we understand
these things has evolved because
1974 was a snapshot of our understanding.
Just like 2003 was a snapshot
of our understanding, you know, with the chemotype, you were talking
about the chemical phenotype earlier. Right, again, just a moment in time and our understanding
has changed since then. So I'm looking forward to doing
some episodes and diving into some of these papers because there's some interesting shit in there
when you go back and look at it in a historical context. But
yeah, it's one of the cool things about cannabis is that we are constantly
learning and there's all these people globally or
at least a network of people globally, you know, many of which are
on this discussion
that are all like learning new stuff and sharing new stuff that people are learning about
cannabis. And it's cool that we can put that information
out to you. There's a pretty big audience. Is there anybody
from the audience that has any questions about the topic or wants to chime in?
Just raise your hand. Have a shout if not someone else.
How's your evening going, Peter? Hope you're having a good
start to the new year. What was that?
I'm just saying hi and happy new year. Hope you're having a good start to the
new year. I am indeed.
Multitasking, I'm eating dinner, watching
college football playoffs, listening to the conversation,
having fun in the chat with people who
say I steal stuff.
Fun times. Well, ignore the internet
as always and enjoy your dinner. Sorry to interrupt.
Blue skies for you.
A blue skies fan.
Quality. Quality there.
We definitely get some interesting folks
chiming in on the YouTube chats. But it's
a rowdy crowd. It's a rambunctious crowd on most
of the feeds. And I love it. I love it. It's great.
It is. You develop thick skin pretty quickly.
Yeah, it's a function of the Internet. I mean, we could do a show about it, right,
Trevor?
Earlier, someone
asked each of you and your kind of system
for collecting breeding data, i.e. note-taking.
That's from Charles. Charles with no
A. I think Tony
kind of touched on his earlier. And I mentioned
mine, which I used to use when it was affordable
lab data and sent everything down
to either Steep Hill or to
I can't remember their name. There was another lab in the Bay Area.
And so I've got binders of books
that are of COAs that I used to rely on.
And now in the absence of that,
I've got kids and don't necessarily
I don't have a license. It's not my full time
or not any time paying job
to run a cannabis farm these days. I
simply go and make selections and point
and help my friends. And so I don't have any notes. I just
try and do wider selections like I had mentioned earlier.
So I'll give you a real just baseline
data sheet that Humboldt Seed Company has up on the Internet.
Their phenotype
rating sheet is
smell strength, trichome density, plant vigor,
disease resistance, plant structure, flower color,
whether purple or green, smell, fuel or fruit, flower
early, late, cannabinoid profile, THC to CBD.
That's just some general rating sheet
characteristics that some of the breeders are using.
There's some hemp ones too.
They're applied to hemp. But
BCHI or BC, there's
some acronym, but there's an international
phenotype.
Have you ever noticed that? Certain strains make you salivate? I'm like, oh, that's the one.
That does something. The cheese does that to me.
The drool rating. The drool rating, yeah.
There's the one that tickles your tank
too. I mean, you have to draw a line somewhere
about what daddy you're going to collect, right? And what can you quantify?
Hey, you mind if I chime in right here?
Do it, man. Step in.
Yeah, I just have a question about
I've learned a lot about plant breeding in the past year or so.
And the only thing that I really, the only thing that's really
confusing is pretty much in all the literature that I've been reading, or
any kind of college course videos
I've been seeing, they kind of just go right through
the statistical models. I don't know anything
about it. I guess I'm just looking, am I just looking for
basic 101 statistics to learn that?
To know where to put this data into
the actual models? There's a lot of different ones
depending on, like
the field of statistics is kind of built on
this, like
Seawall Wright, R.A. Fisher
those two developed all kinds of different statistical
methods. I'm not particularly well-versed
I'm sure Jason or Ryan or pretty much anybody else
on the panel knows the
F statistics and these different things, T statistics, etc.
But there are different equations
that have been developed for figuring out different
things. Typically what you're going to be doing from one generation
to the next is just a simple regression analysis where
you're looking at the mean trait data
from one generation to the next generation for the traits
under selection. That's like when you're
collecting large amounts of data and trying to select things
that's typically what you're talking about.
But if you're trying to figure out shit like the
inbreeding coefficient of a particular cross
or of a particular progeny, then
that's going to be a different set of statistics which is
F statistics and Seawall Wright's work. But
other people can probably chime in better.
Yeah, stats is about getting fancy with numbers, right?
Like we've been saying, you calculate that, we collect all this data
we measure traits and score them on some kind of
scale and then you compare them to other plants. You compare
one plant to another or you can compare one population
average to another population average.
So yeah, definitely statistics 101, like any good basic stats 101
course will help you kind of start understanding how to compare groups of
numbers to other groups of numbers. That's really what the math is about.
Because that's really
what stats is. It's like you're saying
we've got a population of plants, call it 100 plants
or call it 200 plants that we've grown from seed.
100 plants being one cross, 100 plants being
call it a sibling cross.
And we're looking at any trait, call it height, yield,
cannabinoid content, terpene content.
So we're measuring the amount of each of those things like how tall
is the plant, how heavy is the plant, how much cannabinoids are in a plant
or how much terpenoids are in a plant.
And so really what we're doing is we're saying
is one of these crosses on average higher
in any of those traits than the average
of the other population. That's what making crosses is about.
You're looking at different families or sub-families
from a given cross and figuring out how you can
make those plants between each other
to have the best overall average outcome.
Yeah, cool. I guess I'll look into
some basic statistics. I don't know, I'm really into this.
I got sucked in like a year ago. I'm honestly thinking
going back to school maybe for this event.
Do it man. Listen, get in there. Get right the fuck in there. Statistics
sucks. It's boring as shit. But if you can contextualize
it to something that you like, like breeding fucking cannabis,
it'll all make sense. That's the whole point of education.
I'm not saying it's the point of education. For me it's what I've found the most
beneficial. When I'm studying something I like and something I can relate
to, the knowledge just sucks right in. So if you're into
cannabis and you can make your stats example about
learning stats for cannabis, do it. You'll love it and
you'll do well. Word. That's awesome.
I've been totally sucked in. Two years ago I didn't even
know anything about cannabis basically. I've been around it for a while
but once I got into it,
my life has changed. I've just been on a crazy course.
I'm just so into it. It doesn't seem like most people are into it like the side
that I'm into. But I just want to know all these things. I want to get deep into it.
I want to work long term and actually
breed stability into something. I don't know. Anyway.
You're in a safe space right now. Yeah. I was just going to say
I'm in the same boat. Since I got into
cannabis my life has been pretty crazy.
I'm 30 something years into the journey.
Keep on the journey man. You'll love it. Cannabis is a great thing. It'll bring you to a lot of cool people.
Word. Thanks Ryan Peter.
Statistics is relatively accessible too. Community colleges,
state universities, look at continuing education
plans if you don't really want to go back to school and even worry about getting a
grade. Even just going on to Khan Academy and just
in the free statistics course.
Basic statistics classes are very easy to find
and relatively accessible. There's
statistics for dummies books too which you can if you want to study
on your own. But I definitely recommend you at least take a class
with a professor who you can ask questions
of. That's usually the best way to do some of
those classes especially when you get into, if you don't have a math
background. Some statistics it
does help to have a professor or at least a mentor or somebody to help you
with them. All right that makes sense. Yeah thanks Jason.
I think I'm pretty good at math. I don't love math so
it would definitely be good to have like a teacher or something. I'll look into that. Thanks.
I don't find statistics
is extremely complicated math. If you can do multiplication
addition and subtraction, division, all that kind of shit
you're going to get through a class. It's just a series of combinations of
formulas and knowing which formula to use.
We're not talking crazy calculus or algebra for the most part. If you can do
basic math you can do stats. No it's more so just
focusing on something I don't know.
Set theory. A lot of statistics and analysis
has to do with sets. Breaking things into sets
or taking a look at all of it and figuring out
what sets they fall into. As Ryan was mentioning
the different types of things you could be looking at or Russell
was mentioning all the things that are on the Humboldt Record site. It's what are
those things you're trying to compare. What are those
sets that you want to break things into. Is it the red shirts
and the blue shirts and the green shirts or is it
what is the percentage of shirts that have holes in the bottom.
Yeah, exactly. That's a
great way of looking at it. Right now as
we're talking I'm separating seeds out of
it's a trapia crossed with mean jeans. It's like what is
it skunk tangy times lime times skittles times lime
and it's like means he has a craziest turf profiles
right. So I'm crossing it into the trapia and my data sets
that I'm going to try to hunt are yield
for concentrate production coming out of the trapia and then terpene
profiles a complex terpene profiles coming out of mean jeans line. And so that's
the data sets that I'm interested in. As you just have to define your sets
that you're interested in and go from there. Russell
anytime you mention a seed line on the panel you have to send it to every member
of the panel. So we'll just send your address.
We're still feeding. I can do that. I can do that.
I can actually I can actually do that. We'll send out tests because we're in tester phase right now
anyways with this. So hit me up.
I support that word. Yeah. This is all
I got really interested in all of it ever since I
kind of started thinking about large populations and just numbers. It's
more so I just I just can't read the goddamn equations when they come up on the page.
But yeah.
It's interesting Ryan you made a point before which I've always thought about
when I kind of look back on like high school math and just
they never connected anything like geometry algebra
trigonometry calculus to anything in the real world.
And I mean I was almost like most
I mean even it was just like accounting math and basic math like
selling weed in college. You know you keep ledgers
and like all your friends who owed you money and
like you know like discounts
on pounds and like bulk pricing what you could
sell it for and how much you would make like then you're like totally into the math.
But all like school math and science was never grounded
in anything that resonated with you as like a practical real
world application of that math. Yeah.
Yeah. Can I. Trevor do you mind if I just say something real quick.
It's totally totally relevant and fucking hilarious
of course. Alex said something in the chat I thought
I read earlier and I think he was talking about
you know writing down notes on an individual and then once it was selected
he would burn the notes. And that was like essentially a fucking requirement under
you know your standard anti-DEA fucking not wanting to go to jail
for the rest of your life kind of approach in the States. Right. You couldn't keep
data. You kept fucking records of your plans. It was evidence.
Right. And again not to harp on this like graduating from prohibition
of legalization but it's like there's all these practices we have
to change. Like if you collect data on all your plans you can make
determinations about the genetic state of your plant
like the genotype of your plant. Right. Like and make better and better crosses
in the future. So yeah I think it's
I think it's interesting why. I mean just writing down you know just keeping
track of the sales instead of just putting the cash in your pocket. Right. I mean
Peter was talking about all that stuff
and I was like yeah all that shit was in my head. It's not gonna be written down anywhere.
Right. I'm not writing shit down. I'm not taking pictures of anything.
I'm not writing anything down. I'm not keeping any records. Absolutely.
Right. But then you can't benefit from all the benefits as you know from a
data analyst of like having records. Absolutely.
It's my number one rule at work and
everybody who works for me. That is the number one rule. Don't lose
the data. Right. That's the
in some of my jobs that was our only purpose in life was to protect
the data. Whatever that data might be in many cases we didn't even know what it was
used for but our job was to make sure that it was safe and retrievable
and reusable and usable.
Going back for at least seven years to
handle any corporate tax issues that might come up
or other types of government
requirements. I never wanted to use math
as much as I have to use it especially now. We've joked over
the past few years if we're gonna hire people that's like actually
a problem we have. I literally we started putting together like basic
math tests for people because it's
such a huge part of daily life
that I never really wanted to be part of my daily life. I don't love math
and I kind of feel forced to use it but it's true
math patterns all of that is it's like imperative to this stuff.
And I will say that you know we're blessed to be in regulated
states where you can or in countries
that are regulated but like overall there are still people
who are suffering from the fact that they can't keep data.
And you know I think it is different
it is graduating but like I think six years in a regulated state it's a different
definitely like a different we're in a different phase
and I know that there's lots of other people that are you know still in that
kind of in between gray area so you know
it's exciting to see what the next chunk of time will look like but
we're not free and clear yet.
Yeah as somebody who basically never
took any math classes and when
in college they told me I had to take math
or essentially leave
I left. I never thought I was
going to be doing or like at all interested
in the history and application of statistics and it's
pretty much all I've done for the last
five years of my life.
And so yeah it's just a matter of... But isn't that because you found
something that made math interesting to you and made you
want to lean into it?
Cannabis is the mother of invention. I will basically
learn whatever I have to to do what I want
with this plant.
I was the same way with chemistry like when I was in university I chose
a stream that I could avoid doing all these different chemistry classes
and I did geology and a bunch of other stuff and it was super interesting as well
but the deeper I got into cannabis the more I realized that I had to learn all this
chemistry stuff that I just didn't take through those set of courses
and so kind of like I think Trevor is maybe saying a little bit
if we're talking to people that are still in their learning phases
or younger don't fucking not take a course
because you feel challenged about it because you might come to a point
in time in your life that later on down the road where like Peter is saying
there's something that you're really passionate about and you will do
whatever it takes to learn the information
just so that you can really get a deeper understanding of what
you're passionate about. I really do believe
that most people can tackle a lot more than
we all think that we can tackle and I've
been there myself like I said I weathered that with chemistry.
I feel called out.
I so deeply regret all the times that I'm like why did I
not do that because now I'm like I've honestly recently been like maybe
I just want to go back to school for some specific things but
especially when I was teaching gardening to kids for a while I'm like this is a viable
career and I get that a lot from some of the
young like the youth that I have to interrelate with. They're like we're never going to
use this complicated this or that and I'm like you'd be surprised
at how much of it you actually use. All those jokes around like I'm never
going to use math and even like algebra but I do feel like there is something
like we have to figure out complicated equations a lot of the time.
They may not be directly related but it is such a thing.
Well like I said to Taylor earlier I mean go back
if you do have a study or a course that you want to take there's nothing stopping
you from going back and I think that like it's one of the things that Peter
you have with this channel is the ability
to inspire people to go back and learn about things and you know everybody that's here
and ends up on this channel is excited about cannabis right
and the central theme of cannabis and your ability
to learn about you know silly stuff like genotype, phenotype
and chemotype or genetics of the plant but like
cooking or extraction or cultivation or organic
practices or whatever aspect of the plant you know quality assurance
retail whatever you want to be involved in like you really can
it's like we really are at the beginning of the fucking
industry right and so just do the things that you're
passionate about and like challenge yourself
I think there's a lot that cannabis will bring people if they put effort into it.
That's so true now I like actually
I love learning new software and technology and I never
I mean like I've learned over years but there was a moment where I remember
my younger years I was like intimidated by some of these things
and now I kind of feel like I'm slightly addicted to it and like learning more
so it's like I never thought that this journey that I really
that's why I kind of encourage people too is like diversification of your skills
is really valuable and I've had great conversations with
other farmers it's like the reason we got into
this but then at the end of the day you know you're learning
things that you never really thought you would be learning and that
I don't know especially within the regulated framework you know it's like
we are reliant and required to do these things
so it's like we're reliant on technology and understanding
with our CTS systems
and how those CTS systems plug in and then also just as far as business
goes like you want to be an efficient successful breeder or farmer
or whatever you need to know how to run a business and I think that
prohibition was not good training wheels for
where we've all kind of ended up or a lot of us have ended up
but I feel like the regulated market is like some
sort of sadistic torture for like stoners and
farmers it's like let's grow the most
torturous bureaucratic paperwork at these people
who just want to smoke weed and get high and just laugh at
them. A thousand percent and whoever created these systems has never
farmed or touched a plant a day in their lives I'll tell you that much it's like
the opposite and I think that in any state that comes
online I've also seen there's a major issue across the board
of continuity is when new states come online very rarely
are they looking at where other states failed like everybody should be looking at
California and going where the fuck did California fail and how can we avoid that
and you kind of see it now with like New York putting like 20 million towards social
equity but then also these other states are never going to stand
chance because they never built programs out like that so
that's a deep conversation where it is sadistic
as fuck. I mean it went from like
doing business all cash to no taxes
to handshake agreements and now it's like
legal agreements like track and trace paying
exorbitant taxes to the government
Well 100% but also like we don't
we're still not legally allowed I've joked for the
past few years that like at one of these cups we have to do a
like we've always had their bank account shut down the most time awards because
it is literally like even if you're paying for
the services to use banking like technically we're still not
allowed to bank and then if you work that's a whole deep rabbit
hole but yeah it's
as far as complicated math equations go I've for a while now been wanting to like bust
out the whiteboard and just be like allegedly how broken all our
regulations are all of the things and how we're forced to operate
like this multi-billion dollar industry
on just absolute bullshit
like we're forced into this thing so at some point I think it actually would be a very fun exercise
You should! Totally make a whiteboard! Do it!
Make a whiteboard and put it on YouTube it would be great. Very cathartic
at least. Yeah well no trust me I've done it in my head at least 10 times now so
I think it's like I'm getting other people on board with it because
it is even to like sell seeds of breeders or sell genetics across the board
it's just a whole thing so anyway I could rant
probably about this for a long time but it's a real issue and I know there's
actually investigative journalists coming out there's a book coming out hopefully soon-ish
by Angela Baca that is going to help to like
showcase some of the corruption within the regulated market which I think is
going to help as states come online you know how just this preferential
license giving and all of that there's so many major issues still with
what we're doing. Is it like more fun to make a flea market expose?
I was going to say it might be fun to make a flow chart
We are the flow chart
A whole decision tree
that shows all the arrows and the directions and the redirections
Oh okay so you actually got a license well did you get a host community
agreement? Okay no well then you got to loop this way and if you did this you got to go that way
Oh did you get your $500,000 for your facility?
Oh I'm sorry did you know that there's build out too?
All the California people know who Laurie Ajax is
right?
So do you know where she works now?
What is it? It's not the DCC is it?
No no no she ran the Bureau of Cannabis Control
in California she was the top regulator she is now the
head of the Craft Brewers Trade
Association which is ironic because every regulation
in California has just destroyed craft cannabis cultivators
and now she has to lobby on behalf of craft beer
brewers
Wow that's bizarre
She came from the alcohol regulation distribution
world so that doesn't surprise me
and this is really like that right there is
a huge part of the issue we have
people who are heads of agencies
who then go from working in whatever agency
they ran
I mean look at the financial industry it's the same thing
a billion times the scale financially
that's of course going to be the way it's going to be
it's a huge problem
there's a very clear issue here and pretty much across the state
Utah Phillips
liked to say and he was a pacifist
so let's put that up front but he's like
the environment isn't dying the environment is being killed
and the people who are doing it have names and addresses
Yeah well remember everybody was anti-fucking 64
that's what for some people this was about some people understood
that it was creating a system that was unworkable and it was going to benefit few
and fuck over many right and where are you now
Oh totally yeah yeah I mean well the thing
about 64 and like people have
asked me to like criticize
Todd or to criticize people who are proponents of prop
64 and I wasn't a proponent of it
I opposed it I was on the New York Times live
like election day coverage giving the why
to vote no argument
I also knew 100%
just like everybody else in the state who was paying attention what was going to happen
like as early as June of 2015
when OMA first adult use of marijuana act
first got submitted to the secretary of state with Sean Parker's
like $50,000 donation as the initial contribution
with a pledge of a million dollars to come
that was $50,000
down payment on the writing the future
and pretty much determining the future
of California cannabis
exactly but do you feel
like if prop 64 had held firm
on the cultivation cap that
we'd be in a happier place and things would be a little
different I feel like the cultivation cap just like stacking
licenses is kind of what just
pushed it to where it is today
yeah there were a few checks
that were written in or implied
and got eliminated the big problem with prop 64
there was a provision within it that essentially said
that a rider bill would have to be passed to
clear up all of the regulatory language and essentially
finalize the act and that
gave the legislature carte blanche to do
to write the rules and the system after
the voters had passed it and it was very clear that
anything within prop 64 could be altered by the legislature
that's
fucked like one of the things about prop 215
that made it so powerful was that the legislature couldn't really alter
it they could just try to operate within it because the voters had passed it
and to deal with that they'd have to go back to the voters
so prop 64
had a bit of a poison pill and
getting rid of the acre cap was like
the fruition of that poison pill so to speak and
for people outside of the state or not
essentially prop 64 was
advertised as having a one acre cap on
overall canopy license so if you were to
max out and grow one acre of canopy that was the max that you
could hold anywhere in the state and you could only have one of these licenses
they maintained
that and created
a day to day work around that essentially allows people to stack
infinite mid tier grows
so you can have tons and tons and tons
of licenses and people have stacked together
dozens, I don't know if anybody has hundreds
of acres under cultivation but people have dozens and dozens of acres
under cultivation doing stacking methods and
as things have gone on it's just become a complete shit show
and by
I believe next year they're going to
unleash the five acre license and
so there's going to be an even, you know, another push and
another consolidation in the market where people are going to consolidate
huge tracks under
even large license types
so instead of doing the thing that was said
to be done which was give small traditional legacy operators
a five year window to operate
and have the ability to have first mover
advantage and sort of develop the market internally
before allowing outside capital and unleashing these larger
operations, we just have that happen immediately
That was like the giant
nail in the coffin right out the gate. It's not, don't
don't give fucking credence to that theory
the small will beat the big, like you can't do big
and maintain quality in the way that you can when you're doing it small
and passionately. This is still true, this is totally true
Yeah, like if small have to survive the insanity
of the current market, yes, they can flourish and a lot of
them won't. Yes, that's very true, you're right. And there are ways
of doing this. So permit efficiency is one of the things
that people have to do. Like not hiring infinite
consultants and doing the work yourself. Like
one of my close friends, he did all of his
own compliance work. And like I said earlier
I've had to learn statistics, I've had to learn the law
I've had to learn all kinds of shit. I've had to learn politics
like before I first had to do
statistics to figure out the election dynamics in my
county and help, you know
win really two very important
races. But overall we've won every race
that we actually fought in in Calabaras
over from 2017
to the present. So
one of these things is like we've had to engage in politics and we've
had to learn the laws and if you're going to operate in the state of
California, you can read all of these laws and you can do your own
compliance work, you know, except for like a biological survey
where you have to get an expert. But like otherwise, filling out the
forms, do that shit yourself. Do your site plan. My buddy's
site plan is not an engineered site plan. He made it up himself
and the state regulators are like yeah this makes so much more sense than all
the fucking engineered ones we get because it actually
conforms to everything they ask you to put in the thing. And
so you just have to read the regulations and do it yourself
where you can. Figure out
your local rules to be permit efficient and not
actually, you know, build out greenhouses that require
a permitting fee but instead build out greenhouses that
fall within smaller agricultural structures that don't have to get
permits. There's all sorts of things like this
and people need to be small, efficient, have a long term
strategy for surviving and
making it through because as we've seen with Flo Conna and
a number of other big operators, like
you know, shit's not going well. And they
keep on scaling up and scaling up and trying to get bigger and bigger
to sort of fix their already existing
scale problems but they're not fixing
they're not pivoting correctly
and they're just creating bigger problems as Flo Conna's
transitioned from a failing distributor processing
center to now a massive cultivator that's
threatening to not pay their taxes. Like that's
not a particularly good business model.
They're threatening the state with not paying their taxes?
I mean that just shuts them down, right?
Yeah, the CEO, I mean I assume it's all PR bluster
but the CEO, Michael Steinman
wrote an op-ed claiming that
they're not going to pay their taxes.
It's a good PR stunt. Making them feel like they're
attached to the small farmer, you know?
Totally. I mean they're just a microcosm of what Ryan's talking about
where you've got a company that
took advantage of the way the state system
or the local rules and regulations operate
created a processing facility. That processing facility offered a service
to all the surrounding small farms and
by offering that service, i.e. processing, drying, harvesting
or drying, trimming, etc. and packaging
and then distributing the harvest, that was
necessary. In rural areas like where I live
or up in Mendo or in Humboldt, it's incredibly
difficult to build out a compliant processing
facility on your property. A lot of places are having to build
toilets or full septic amenities
in their processing facilities just because they're building out
a building to meet the compliance
and that also has to be ADA compliant
and for a lot of folks, this is just cost prohibitive.
Flo Conna filled the need by offering
processing facilities and distribution.
A lot of small farmers worked with them. Casey O'Neill was a
small farmer. Huckleberry Farms
Johnny was a small farmer that worked with them. All those people
no longer work with them and
Casey, at least publicly, is not on
Michael Steinman's Medium post where he said he's not
going to pay the taxes. Casey's on there lighting them up and
they screwed over a lot of small farmers just on their processing
and distribution operation because they didn't have their shit
together. I have a number of friends who worked with them.
And then they took a
large influx of capital in 2019
from Gotham Green. Gotham Green is
connected through investors
that are partly owned by Kronos.
Kronos is also the large
multi-massive
conglomerate that owns RJR and various tobacco
interests. And so essentially
Flo Conna became an avenue for
massive tobacco capital to get
infused into their business.
Jason Alder had a board
position on Flo Conna's board
of directors. And so all of this created a lot of controversy, a lot
of ill will. And then after that they
shifted to becoming a cultivation
operation that I believe operates 15 acres of canopy up
there. Coming essentially
from small farmers that they had been providing services to.
And from what I understand there's a lot of
reporting about this that could happen or could drop at any point.
But it's a really
fucked up story. And it's
Flo Conna came in, operated the way that they did
and intentionally sought to muscle out
small farmers. And they're not
doing good. And I mean the small farmers aren't doing great either. But
I think the small farmers have a better long-term
forecast than the Flo Connas of the world.
Thank you Trevor. That was very informative.
That was a good full synopsis there. Appreciate it.
Word. And I hope honestly for
whenever these stories drop that we'll kind of get
the last shoe to drop and really
reveal what's been going on there. And just the intentions behind
what they've been doing from the beginning. From what I've heard
it sounds just as damning
if not more damning than Mowgli's bazinga
presentation.
I was thinking there's a lot of parallels it seems like between that and Phylos.
Maybe not the same structure wise but some parallels there.
Guys I really don't want to come off as some kind of apologist for big biz
but I know a couple of people involved in Flo Conna that are like
OGs in the industry in Humboldt.
I don't know anything about the current state of affairs there
but I have heard the facility.
There are some good folks working in that company
that were founders and shit.
I can't speak to the business decisions but inevitably when you
set up these businesses you get strapped.
Somebody invested in that company and it was an old winery I believe. Wasn't it Trevor?
That someone put in? And that's where they're kind of building it.
It's like a lab and an extraction facility and there's a whole bunch of shit going on
on that property.
Sometimes you make investments in things and then you get
stuck financially and you have to accept money from big companies.
They are invested by one of the big
tobacco companies that's for sure true.
I didn't know that they were involved in the Flo Canady although.
Stuff happens. You invest a whole bunch
of money in a project and you get in deep and then you can't pay the bills
and you have to accept money from whoever comes along.
I don't know if it was that they were courting that. I know the original people that were involved
in setting that company up were really pro
local grower in Humboldt and they intended to be the processing facility
for entry into the system for small growers.
I think that definitely
I know several people who worked there
and there's definitely a core contingent that
got involved because that was
presented as the business model and the intentions.
I'm sure
I don't think Mowgli woke up the morning of Benzingan and was like
I'm going to be public enemy number one today.
His intentions were always still
to do good.
I think Flo Cana, particularly the people
who got involved because Casey was involved
early on and even after the Kronos thing was still involved.
There's just been a lot of stuff locally
and I understand. That's something
It's almost impossible to
the way things are set up
it's a damned if you do damned if you don't situation in the regulated market.
It's fucked.
I think that it's one of those things
where this is why people shouldn't
it's going to be difficult
there's a lot of small farmers
I've got a lot of friends up in Calaveras. There are a lot of people up in Mendo
who have had to weather the storm of autos over the last
year along with everything else
but the mass production of auto flour really tanked the market
and those small farmers are taking a hit now
but I think long term just have your strategy
and your plan B to survive
and that way a few years from now
these large operators are really
I think that they're having to make forced decisions
and even though they're big
their desperation is showing
also I don't know if anybody saw the post earlier
about the Madera Grow
Is that the Dustin Grow?
Yeah and it's a big one
and they've got something
I'm not sure how many acres under cultivation this year
20 maybe 40. The plan is to expand it to
59 acres eventually but they planted in June
of this year. You can go back and you can follow along
on the grow and they maybe had
a few 6 foot tall plants in pots
including the pot
they didn't have massive incredible plants
they did a full season out there
granted it's their first year and it's a massive operation
but given their environment
Where did they say they'll be expanding to 59 acres? Was that in a press release?
That was in
comments honestly
going through and seeing how many they had
I think 20 something under cultivation this year
They won't hit 59 if they can't fucking handle
20 right?
I posted the development agreement
Development agreements are pretty fucking crazy
They're very powerful agreements
land use development agreements
but they have pretty hefty costs associated with them
and one of those costs in there is like
I think they have to pay $200,000 every
or like 3 times a year
so that's just off the top
they're having to pay nearly a million dollars for one of the fees
then there are a number of other fees that they're having to pay as well
that said this is also one of the most politically
connected operations. I just don't think that
looking at it, it's not the threat
that it looks like
the fact that they're politically connected sucks
the fact that they're able to sway and influence regulators is lame
and we should have regulators trying to support cottage industry
but that's a fucking
big fail model in my book
and many people in the comments were pointing it out because of the location
I mean try growing good herb down there
in the summer
all fucking October
it's brutal weather down there
strands
yeah I also feel like down here in SoCal
I've just been quietly watching Glasshouse build up
acre after acre after acre
hey since you have a little gap here I was wondering
Christ I see Christ came up, he usually does his report from New Zealand I'd love to hear
it's our New Zealand correspondent
peace, love and
big love out to the future
of cannabis projects
previous statements of
the old joke saying
Trevor's in the maths classroom talking to the maths tutor
I'm not ever going to use statistics and algebra
and the teacher says no Trevor but some of the smarter children are
and now that Taylor and a few of us have found our
passions, truly those wise words from our maths
teachers are ringing in our ears to pay more attention to school
but if you're brave enough you can travel back in time
and resist those times
never stop learning, especially in the cannabis industry down here
in New Zealand, we are playing catch up to
all of the rest of the world, we had DMP
certified cannabis go live two years ago
I believe now, our first facilities have been built
our first licences, our first products
to be due
halfway through this season, there will however sadly be
white labelled products from I guess whether it's yours
Australia, Germany, Canada, that will be produced
here or packaged rather of our cannabis
harvested later on April when we package
tested, packaged and sent overseas
I'd like to also say the breeding down here is going really well
I'm in charge of sadly getting rid of the
hermaphrodites, the visible traits of the hermaphrodites
with visual infection, at the 200 plant
seed field, currently looking through the
genotypes, phenotypes and demotypes, the genotype we're using
is a Poltyveramon
strain cross, which was randomly crossed in a
field in 2015, the seeds we collected from
those plants have grown up
let's say maybe a hundred different structure, spells
genotypes, phenotypes, and yeah
I'm currently searching for the sticky hickey
flavoursome, good nose for it, and these
are the ones we can see allegedly
in the market for 20 years, and testament to the big corporate
down here in New Zealand, it took the money men
to make the politicians understand that the legalisation
of cannabis was going to happen, sadly for us
smaller passion growers
we don't have the $15 million set up for the
facilities, the licensing
is well beyond anything homegrown
so that's why we're currently playing with our
$600 hemp license, as opposed to a $15,000
medicinal cannabis license
we have, I'm currently working with
a cannabis company in the North Island of Aotearoa New Zealand
and we have been given the first
outdoor contractual agreement for one of the larger medicinal
companies, we are proudly collectively moving out
of the legacy market, playing with the big fellows
who's co-popper for their
theory behind their business model was to allow
smaller farmers, the legacy growers of Aotearoa here on the East Coast
entry into the medicinal
cannabis scene here in New Zealand
sadly when the corporate company hit the
share market, and the CEOs took the business plan model
away from wanting to have
illicit, untrustworthy workers
that got stopped, thankfully they have
came to their senses
and are aware that the legacy farmers with the decades
of experience and the horticultural knowledge
of cannabis, are slightly different to the
great vine and vegetable growers
so without the big corporate in New Zealand we may
not have opened the market and hopefully if they
allow us legacy farmers to have
some form of cooperative sales input
there will be work for the smaller people
at this stage there's no home grown medicine, it's all
GMP, it's even worse, it's worse than Canada, it's worse than Britain
we've gone for New Zealand triple gold
GMP, so everything
needs to be certified, the entire facility
needs to be certified, it's a
multi-million dollar pay-to-play bracket
and as Peter was suggesting
earlier, the paperwork and the notifications
to people who have never worked in cannabis, as Evian suggested
the people that write the paperwork can't plant the people
and sadly this is where we are at the moment
but I forget who said the little people will win
we remember it's the bug bites, I believe it was the ants
the small will prevail if we continue to believe in ourselves
and cannabis culture as a collective we are
at a higher consciousness than corporate business and
we are going to the better place, in the end of this cannabis
game and the cannabis journey that we're on, information
comes thick and fast and those of us who have known
the sacred elements of the herbs and plants for decades
are now finally the righteous of saying I told you so
to the doubters and non-believers
so here I am working in Aotearoa New Zealand, it's your future
it's hapa 6 on what was
a lovely Tuesday, Tuesday the 11th
January 2022, let this be a golden
year for all of us in the cannabis industry
and I'd just like to say thank you very much to the Future Cannabis Project
once again for holding space for all of us
keen, enthusiastic horticulturalists
in the cannabis culture, God bless you
and thank you to Christ for supporting you from the future
and thank you guys, now is the time I'm gonna
cordially dip out, it's been, we're pushing what, 5 and a half
hours, what, that's crazy
so I gotta go, but it's been real, I love you guys
thanks for everything, we'll talk later soon, have a good night
and we could probably use that as our moment to wrap it up
unless anybody opposes
one more thing, as I
sniff the branches on my
cannabis, I find that the tops have
the most aromas, the mids
have certain different phenotypes
popping through, and obviously the low popcorn nuggets on the bottom
of my plants, should have stripped, but we're just going
wild style to get plant structure, have no
aromas at all, so when selecting your
phenotypes to continue, one must
sniff every branch on every plant, not just the first
branch that you see or the closest branch to you
as the entirety of the plant, each different branch
can smell slightly different
Trevor, you wanna bring us home?
Cool, well yeah, thank you everyone for
joining us tonight, and this has
been another installment of Breeding Round
the Breeder Roundtable
I didn't get to say shout out to Russell before he bounced
but he was the one who proposed this topic
it's been a great discussion, thank you everyone, Ryan
Toad, Taylor, I'm glad you hopped up, Jesse
Christ, all you guys, London Chase, everyone up here now
everyone who's been on today, thank you
everyone in the audience, and you can catch us on the Future Cannabis Project
02, where all of these shows are
archived, and yeah, you can watch them and play them
back, so thank you everyone, and yeah
I think that'll do it. Alright, with that, you wanna
can you kill the room or do I need to? I think you have to
but I'll look. Alright, with that I'm gonna end the round
Nope, I'm ending. Okay, go for it. Cool
Do you wanna say hi or
Hello
London, don't leave me hanging. I'm here, I don't know
why, oh yeah, it's on there. There he is
Can you hear me? Yes
Can you hear me? No? Probably not
Hello darkness, my old friend
Let me put my
How about now, can you hear me?
Yes, I can hear you now. Awesome
So words I learned today are
hexylbutyrate
I'm just reading
That was an eventful chat
That was an eventful long one, but I thought it was pretty good
I thought Chris' clothes summary was pretty quick and entertaining
I was definitely laughing by the end of it
It was definitely exhilarating with a lot of ups and downs there
So I'm trying to think, what's today, Monday?
We got the Dank Hour tomorrow
And you guys are talking grow journals or what's tomorrow?
We're talking about journaling, note taking
Kind of like, what would you do for data entry
Should I go measure all my branches and shit?
Can you put that word into a sentence here? Yes, can you?
Come on
Hexyl
Is that an, I think it's an acid, hold on
Hex, acids I've met
H-E-X-Y
E-X-Y-L
Butyrate, yeah it's a fatty acid ester
So
So
It occurs in animals, I assume it occurs in plants too
How about someone in the chat put that into a sentence?
Oh right, sorry
So we're doing our first IPM show tomorrow
Thank you Chad, that's why I rely on you guys to
Hex, what's
But no, we need it in a sentence though
So that's Pacific Time, Pacific Standard Time
Which is
Actually it's your current time zone too
For most of my life I was an Eastern Standard Time
Kind of guy
I have to do a bunch of recordings for the Italian company
That I work with
Hexyl butyrate being one of them
This is, yeah, what is it like
Is that like an SAT
I love the peanut
Butyrate stank
I think this is even next level, the dank stank was heavy in hexyl butyrate
There you go
So I assume it does have a smell
I'm hoping so, otherwise that sentence doesn't work at all
Yeah we will
Words we learned in five hour conversations
To another day
So what we have to do is form it into a sentence and a paragraph tomorrow
Yeah I'll leave that to you, I have no interest in
I've already forgotten the word
Alright so tomorrow we got IPM
We got the dank hour where you guys are talking journaling
Yeah
And one of these nights I need to have my Narcos conversation with my friend
Adam who is one of the producers on the
Series Narcos
And mostly that's a function of if I can
Stay up at night
Her hexyl butyrate
Was off
Yeah if you could
Work that word into a Scrabble
Win
And it would immediately combust
Alright well I'm very happy
I don't really watch college football but I do watch
The championship games
And I'm always happy when Alabama does not win
So Georgia won, not to ruin it for anyone who
Recorded it or anything but that was very satisfying
Alright
No people are still going strong with the working hexyl
Butyrate into
Sentences or gibberish
We just have hexyl butyrate as a hanger
With no sentence not encapsulated
In a sentence
We're going to find out tomorrow that we've all been spelling it
Wrong
It was like a 36 hour I cannot
Move and then slowly but it was the worst
36 hour back pain I've ever
Felt fortunately
It's in my past but as I get older I look forward to many future back issues
Um
Oh here we go
Ok that's intriguing
A subtle apple aroma
It's like cilantro
Oh yeah so speaking of what you need to pull together the uh
Some sort of cooking conversation
I remember talking about that earlier it was like
Like weeds that come in thread but it's like cooking right
Yeah I'm trying to so me and
Toad and Cheddar Bob have been chatting
About it and we're trying to figure out like should we try and like make something
And then come back after a couple weeks? I would love to see Cheddar Bob make
A lobster bisque in his kitchen
I would love to make that happen as like a cooking we need to do a cooking
It could be the fucking worst cooking show ever
But as long as he makes a lobster bisque
Or like a New England clam chowder
Is that the name? The working title right now? The fucking worst cooking show?
I'm just saying there's no shame remember this is like public access TV
There's no uh
There's no pride in the quality of
Yeah see Chad's there
So we need to have uh
Yeah different people like
Regional specialties so we could have uh
If we have some although I never really see people from like New Orleans but like a gumbo
Someone making a gumbo
A clam chowder
Cause I don't want to fucking make poutine I can make a lot more than poutine poutine's a little bit boring
Uh yeah you could aspire higher than
Than poutine? I remember uh
So I used to play
Hockey in Quebec in the summers
And I would learn like Canadian French
You didn't say French? Oh sorry I put Canadian on here
French Canadian and they're insulted by that
And I went to France
And my French was horrible and I was staying with this French family
And one of the first nights with them
We went to a restaurant and I had a seafood bisque
Or something and I wanted to impress
Them with like the like four vocabulary
Words I knew in French
And I said and because the context I learned these words
Was in uh
In Quebec and I was like
I wanted to say oh is like I taste is there crab
In the soup so I go il y a des morpions dans la soupe
Morpions is like crotch crabs
Like sexually transmitted crabs
And the father of the family was like just taking
A bite of his soup as I asked if there were like
Crabs in the soup and he spit his soup out
Like immediately when that happened it was like a life
Lesson I learned was like words don't always
Translate right like
So anyway
I mean like I've eaten I've gotten some weird shit on a plate that I didn't
Expect before in Europe but I've never asked if there were
Crotch crabs in there
It was a good soup though
I hope so
I hope so
Back to regular scheduled broadcasting
Now that we're back
Back to our regularly scheduled programming
It's funny anyways I gotta go like my wife
Like made me dinner and did nice stuff so I gotta go massage her feet or something
Hopefully she doesn't hate me
I'm solo in the house and not upset about that no wife no kids
The other day I got to go pick up groceries
By myself Peter I can't tell you how much freedom that felt
I love going to the grocery store by myself or with my kids
When Gemma was little and I was like Mr. Mom
Single dad I used to it's like we go to the grocery
We go to Trader Joe's everyday because we could walk there
And it was like something to keep her occupied
We knew all the people who worked there
They always had free samples of stuff so she was always eating free samples
Of ravioli and dessert stuff
The grocery store was like my daycare
Center
We have this lady called Nancy she is known at Bloomsons birth
I was a stay at home dad
You find little things that you do repeatedly
To make it through the tougher times
Especially when they are little
The second kid comes around and this is something all together
There is stuff everywhere
It's hard to keep on top of it
It was definitely an experience
I appreciate
Hanging out with your small human child
All the time when they are little
My dad would be out of the house by 7
And come back at 8 at night
Everyday of the week
That's the cool thing about working from home
I get to hang out with my kids
I'm not fully engaged with them all the time
You can have little moments
With your kids
I definitely see my kids more than
My dad ever saw us
My dad is never home
Dad if you are watching
It's his 91st birthday in two weeks
I have to fly down to
Florida
For the birthday
That will be a fun long flight
It's pretty bad
You can't get a direct from LA
I'd have to fly into Fort Myers
As of a couple years ago
There was no direct flight
With the amount of flights going off
It's probably still a couple ways
That's the other thing I have to deal with
If flights are all being cancelled
With that, everyone
Who is still listening to us ramble
We appreciate you
They had to get the extra 5 minutes
It's me
I'm going to put some leaves and weed into my night at home
Great plug for the shirt
I don't know if you did that on purpose
The big FCP shirt
That may or may not have been on
For the past two days
See you everyone
