E-P-A-D-M-E-A-D-M-E-A-G-M-O-M
Temple balls!
Where does that come from?
O-M-E-P-A-D-M-E-A-G-M-O-M
E-P-A-D-M-E-A-D-M-E-A-G-M-O-M
The OM!
The beginning and the end.
The Alpha, the Omega, the OM.
And God spoke, and such it was.
The OM is the beginning sound, the original chord, the thought that became...
What is.
O-M-E-P-A-D-M-E-A-D-M-E-O-M
Right? Anyhow.
So, where does soil become what it is?
There's a lot between that thought...
The first vibration...
Right?
God spoke first, and then there was a sound.
And the sound set everything into motion.
Okay, so we're speaking metaphorically, but this is also...
Although we're learning more about the things from the web telescope that I need to catch up on.
Our best understanding of how all things really work is...
Vibrations.
Everything is a vibration, right?
So, there's people who can't deal with that sound that comes out of that bowl.
Because their frequency, their vibration is not congruent with that one.
And that one is the vibration of creation.
Shucks, however many hertz this is and that thing is.
But yeah, there's a lot of time between that first vibration and the solidification of mass that became a planet.
And then what happens after that planet consolidated.
There's a whole lot of processes that occurred.
And then, so like, there wasn't originally continents, right?
There was water covering this big chunk of molten rock.
And there was a crust and magma would break through and expose itself to the atmosphere.
And that became rock.
And through time, more and more rock accumulated in masts, right?
And through mass density, it all kind of goes to the same place.
Like mass attraction.
You've got the development of the first continents, which were all magma formations.
And exposed to surface air from the core or whatever layer internal.
So massive amounts of pressure and heat because everything is getting condensed in.
And through every reaction, there's an opposite and equal reaction.
Eventually, as it condenses, things want to squirt out.
And eventually, you had enough of this mass that created that it started experiencing various movements in the rock from various forces outside of itself.
Right?
And so the gravitational pull of the rest of the planet's mass.
More attempts of the core lava magma to come up and push against the structure that had been forming.
Right?
There's weathering that's taking place on that magma.
Right?
We can see, we can look at Hawaii and it's not going to be the same thing or any of these islands that are formed from lava in the exact same way today.
Somebody asked me a question on my Instagram and it was something along the lines of how come...
How the 800 to 1000 years per inch of soil formation on average from parent material or rock correlates to regenerative farming.
And they also said Piedra Negra.
Right?
And so my response was do not confuse the geological processes from the hand of man or the advanced carbon cycle that utilizes the developments that become available from consolidated mass into minute particulates through the geological process of weathering.
And so the primary weathering events don't necessarily coincide to what we're going to be doing in controlled intensive agriculture or horticulture.
But it's good to understand those processes.
I was asked just last night through PM, do I have any videos teaching how to build a special soil for sacred plants?
And my response was short known.
I was barely awake actually this morning reading that and like wrote out a big old thing.
It's like, that's just too much information.
So basically I want to teach people to understand what soil is and how it forms so they can form it themselves through the local materials they have instead of going off into the distant lands to or mailing off around the world or having whatever shipped off to them.
Because locality is the number one factor in sustainability.
And to me it's not very sacred to the seventh generation to get supplies from far off lands to grow my sacred plant.
Sorry, that was just bugging the fuck out of me. I'm going to probably do that the other side too.
So understanding these processes and understanding what soil is and how it's formed and how we get it.
The most basic concepts for the most basic mind is where I like to be because I want everyone to understand this.
I'm not going to try and exclude anybody from because I use a bunch of big words.
I can use the big words. I can take the time to go through.
But this is the rudimentary shit off the top of my head.
And I like to pull the book out to let you know that I'm not making it up.
And so lava form, we can look at Hawaii. It takes so long.
You know, things are growing on the lava.
But that's a different process again from from the billions of years ago and the origins of landmass on the earth on the Gaia.
So there wasn't the bacteria. There wasn't the fungus necessarily.
There wasn't the diversity of biota that we have today.
We don't have all the plants. We have all the stuff that's evolved.
Right. And again, whether you believe it happened in seven days or it happened in seven or three and a half billion years.
Right. It's still way bigger than any one of us is to be greedy and destroy it.
So again, so the land was forming, weathering was occurring and the particles are breaking down.
There was definitely the primordial soup of life was occurring in the ocean before landmass occurred.
And so through wind, through wave, through whatever action, like right here, we're getting less of it.
Some people may have heard it's one of the biggest things now that I get in my YouTube feed is the dying Salt Lake.
I put a video out on it a year and a half ago.
But that was when I started starting to learn how to do it.
So, you know, there's we do get particles from the Salt Lake end up at 12,000 feet on top of the mountains here.
And that always happened even before the lake dried out.
So through the hydrological cycles, even before there was animals, microscopic particles are able to be moved around the planet.
And that goes with microbes, microbiota.
OK, so they found they found up on Mount Ogden at 12,000 feet, whatever it is over there.
The world's most renowned snowflake researcher, I want to say it's three or four years ago now, first captured this first microplastics in the snowflake.
And so we are changing the face of the earth dramatically in ways that are unnatural.
We all know that. But that's I'm exemplifying how things can be moved through the hydrological cycle and whether that was swept up in wind or if it came up with through an evaporation event.
If you've never watched like fog coming off the ocean in the central coast of California, it's pretty freaking amazing to see literally water calm seas and just boil.
It looks like it's boiling, but it's roiling. It's not even the water as it moves. It's like the sonic meter on your humidifier.
If you ever look at that and how this mist just boils off. That's what it looks like in the central coast of California when the fog and the pressure and all the gradients are just right.
And that fog starts rolling in and literally just kind of boils off the surface.
So through these different actions of evaporation, wind, and etc. You get microbes moving out of the primordial soup of the ocean into the land and breaking down and starts causing other things to occur.
You have mutations. Today in the modern spectrum and everything we look at, I just saw a post today about the pinnate cannabis mutation and how it had never been documented before.
The couple of guys who are really working with it. I'm sorry I'm terrible with names.
Someone's trying to steal that genetic from them saying that they recreated it or something when they were gifted it.
So the mutations occur, right? And it takes time. But part of it has to do with that cannabis mutation.
It might have been there as a recessive mutation that just nobody ever saw.
And now that legalization is happening, we're looking and examining these massive amounts of seed stock.
We're also getting a lot more diseases we never experienced.
So it's not impossible that that was not the first occurrence of it.
It's just we don't have it documented in the past.
I'm just speculating. It'd be neat once they get that genetics figured out to really look at the core genome and see if it exists anywhere else.
Anyhow, I digress. We're talking about primordial soil formation.
And the beginning of plate tectonics. As that mass grew, weathering occurred.
And we can assume the biological weathering occurred as well.
One of the things I try to emphasize more and more and more is that that shit takes time.
Time that we cannot perceive with our mental capacity.
The best science that we have on how long rocks break down from microbes comes from, I pound on this,
it comes from Central America, from an international research station, and the core drilled into limestone,
which is a secondary or tertiary rock formation.
It comes from multiple rounds of the carbon cycle that are occurring.
And so this was previous life forms. It's going to be one of the softest forms of rock we have.
And in fact, it can be completely eroded away with your acidic urine.
All right. Any amount of carbon dioxide in the air can be absorbed into rainfall and you have acid rain, which will also break down limestone.
So it takes time even at that. You also end up having deposition of that limestone in another position.
And so it builds up again. But the science was done. They drilled core holes.
They pulverized and took rock dust and extremely fine micron sizes and exposed it to microbes and put it into Petri dishes
for an eight year period in perfect conditions in a laboratory.
And upon that time, utilizing a electron microscope, they were able to determine etching on the micro particles of limestone
that because they controlled the environment could only have been caused by those microbes.
So those microbes are creating acid and etching away and pulling ions off of it.
Right. Eight years to have noticeable effects under an electron microscope.
Again, at that eight year period, they examined the boreholes that were exposed to nature and in tropical environment where it's warm and wet.
And there was zero noticeable effects from any weathering process whatsoever, biological or mechanical.
Water being part of mechanical. Right.
So, again, extremely long periods of time for this stuff to occur, especially before we have the biological diversity we have today
or the various different microbes that have evolved.
All right. So that lava is breaking down. It's creating a bigger mass. It's becoming dirt.
If there's microbes in it, then it actually is soil. There's life in it. Right.
And so that keeps breaking down and the mass keeps forming. There's cracks.
So the lava is going to go to the point of least resistance as it gets squeezed out. Right.
Pop a zit or whatever, or you have a cyst. It might not always come out.
The original percolate comes out of a different hole. That's where it's the least, the path of least resistance.
Just like water is going to flow, the lava is going to push out in the path of least resistance.
OK. So while there's already cracks in the mantle where it's been forming, it's going to continue to do so.
OK. And so that thing gets to be such a large size that the mass gravity, the gravity of the rest of the mass starts affecting it.
And eventually it's going to start causing it to break up. And eventually that form the different continents. Right.
But while the lava is massing, you also have the weathering. The weathering is accumulating.
It's going back into the seas. It's falling into the bottoms of the shallow lakes. It may have been pushed up by magma domes and things like that.
And so these things, these layers are getting filled in. You start getting filled in from sediments and the sediments accumulate.
Right. And through life forms in the ocean and the seas evolving, you end up having these micro.
I just talked about limestone. Right. These are diatoms.
These are the shells, the calcium shells of microscopic.
Life forms, little animals. OK, so life evolved and the stuff keeps on moving and because there's more nutrients becoming available.
And more and more becomes available. Right. And so over time, you have these different layers compression.
They might get folded over because now we have these massive forms of rock that are getting affected by both magma pushing on it,
as well as the gravitational pull of the rest of the mass. And so they start having plate tectonics occur. Right.
And you've got these you've got the molten core and you've got a crust.
And now you've got these masses of rock have formed out from that magma cooling and then erosion occurs.
And that causes particulate formation and that causes sedimentation.
And as water has as you have enough water carrying those particulates. Right.
You end up having requires so much energy to move a particulate that a single particulate can break loose.
Other particulates, once it's moving, it requires less energy and that ends up can abrade and break and break things down.
There's all these different action occurring over long periods of time to form.
Reform all this stuff. And so what I've just described is the formation of these various different parent materials. Right.
I've described the what's the guy's name? There's the name of the cycle and I'm sorry I should read that.
But I didn't know exactly where I was going today. So it's magma cools.
There's a different mass of the different elements. Right.
And so as they cool and they're able to fall out of solution, they'll crystallize and accumulate and fall out in the different structures,
crystal forms. OK. And so the magma isn't just creating lava.
There's igneous extrusive. There's igneous intrusive. And so you're intrusive is you've gotten away from the core of the earth.
And that magma starts to cool from different different reasons. It's away from the core.
It has less pressure on it. There's less friction occurring.
And so some of the first things like periodo is going to fall out and lemonade and these various different heavier elements,
you're going to drop out your iron and your magnesium drops out.
And so you get these different rocks as they solidify, as they come to the surface.
You get mafic and ultramafic. And this has to do with where they cool the magma chamber moving up through.
And then also stuff can like drop back down and get carried back up and and and reconsolidate. Right.
So I did a whole show talking this stuff with it all fresh in my head.
But the next thing can happen is more lava can come up and encroach upon the crust that are formed and or the sedimentary layers. Right.
And then you end up having formation. Second, a secondary igneous intrusive is going to be granite. Right.
Where it's already separated out and then it remelts and recrystallizes.
A secondary sedimentary that gets affected by these new magma pushes are what we call metamorphic.
OK. And metamorphic gets gets gets compressed and pressurized and recrystallization occurring in metamorphic rock that comes from sedimentary.
All right. And so those are going to be some of the harder rocks, actually, the metamorphics where they recrystallize.
But your primary igneous igneous igneous intrusives are definitely amongst the hardest.
And then through various geological activities, this stuff can get intermixed, overlaid, folded into itself, etc.
And so you can get very complex structures in rock. And.
These. End up forming what we get the parent materials of our soils. Right.
So here we are. Many, many, many, many millions, billions of years later.
And all sorts of diversity has occurred, both in rock formations, water formations, structures, gravitational pull on various structures of the Earth's surface, climate variables. Right.
And those things we know change over time. There's there's been multiple resets through asteroid strikes or whatever other massive quick changes affect.
Right. Right now we're having a huge, huge reset on on species on the Earth due to overpopulation of the apex predator that doesn't necessarily predate on directly on species,
but destroys species habitat through benign survival.
And so through that, we've done quite a bit of destruction for the rest of what evolved to exist.
And some of us are very conscious of that and like to get back to the garden.
We are all stardust and we got to get ourselves back to the garden.
Sorry, I'm not young. Crosby still is a Nash, am I? All right.
Parent material is where we got to. Right. Cool. And that's kind of where we were after I was going through the soil horizons, because understanding what's on top
depends on what's understanding what's underneath, as above, so below.
Let's take a bong hit and then I'll start in again. How y'all doing? What you smoking today?
Strange of you. The fairly clean bong today. I didn't change the water.
Now, I'm out of time, but it's clean. Ooh, ooh, ooh.
Today is going to be the last extended version for a while. I've started. I start Monday training on my new position.
They reopened the bar. My daughter's mom and I met in at the ski resort and I just happened to.
Y'all have heard me. I was on the lurch, distressed out. I thought I had a job and I was displaced by foreign exchange workers.
And apparently the corporation won't allow the managers to hire anybody until they go into full open mode.
And literally five hours after I saw they flew the positions for the bar been closed.
It was bought from a private entity and was closed for the last two years. I've been waiting and waiting and waiting to get in there.
And I jumped over and slid into the I'm going to be bar backing and training as a mixologist as well as cooking still.
But that starts and I'll be working Sundays, but I don't start till 11 o'clock.
So I'll be able to do my regular one hour on Sundays still heading on out.
And yeah, so strain review. This here is a random, random bud.
This wouldn't be something you would probably select for any sort of commercial variety.
Let me see if I can zoom it. Because of its. It's kind of LARP.
An airy right here, hold it back by my face. See if that works better.
Anyhow, gas, straight fucking gas.
11 to 8, the best fucking ski bum hours ever. I can go to the other bar after I get off.
It's just the one they play the good bands at. They don't have bands where I'm at.
Anyhow, tram club come in and say hi. Run underneath the tram with the snowbird.
This is a volunteer. I just let it grow. Some of you have seen it. It was, I tarped it.
And then it didn't, it wasn't quite finished. It stalled. It didn't revege.
But we're in September already when I stopped tarping and it just kept going for another month.
So I let it, but I got a feeling it was right where I was producing seed for.
I always think about skiing, man. This is everything is about skiing. Everything I do period.
Someone in chat says, Alex is still thinking about skiing. Yeah, literally.
That is my purpose in being. Weed is what keeps my body working and allows me to help other people.
Lately the skiing has been phenomenal. But it's all about right now.
I'm teaching my daughter how to enjoy the steeps and deeps and getting that deep powder.
I'm not getting all, you might be seeing on social media, whatever the amount of insane powder.
It's like it was 20 something years ago. I'm doing other things right now.
It'd be in a good dab. But again, so, you know, and I've got there, there was these big beautiful coal.
I was showing people this plant off and on and I was kind of getting bummed about the,
it probably would have densed up a little better if it didn't have that skip in the tarp.
Where again, it didn't really read that. It just kind of stalled for a minute and then went back into flower mode and maturing.
But again, it's like gas, kerosene, no, not kerosene, slight diesel, but I'm pinching it slightly.
I want to say there's some background tropical fruit, but it's overpowered by like pepper.
But gas is the overbearing. And then when you put it in a bag and get it out of my house, you just kind of get skunk smell swaffling off of it.
So again, I'm pretty sure this stuff is from my massive Hindu Kush.
I selected six out of 300 over two growing cycles and reversed them into each other and did IBLs of them.
Really piney overload. Someone else might get some piney coming out of this stuff too.
But the mothers I kept mainly pine overloading.
But then I also took like, I don't know, like 30 or so and just open pollinated the Hindu Kush as well.
And so I'm pretty sure this was a volunteer from that project.
There is a possibility there's something else going on there.
But I think that's what this is. So again, it's this stuff.
I dried it out to almost too dry and the dry trim and it's not coming off of my finger.
I know how to get it off.
All right.
So this one actually is something I'm tripping out on.
Somebody's been asking me for the Hindu Kush and I think I might have bred out some of the couch lock.
And that's what they were looking for.
And it kind of bummed me out because I'm like, I've been hesitant to send them the clone because now that pining and everything.
And you're still out of my stream, but it overpowers and keeps you up.
Right. And so it's all chirping stuff going on.
These plants probably don't hit much over 25 percent, 20 percent at the most.
Let's see. I'm on. Hold on. This thing's going to turn around and then come back to me again.
There we go.
The flowers, when you smoke it, has a complete different structural flavor.
So there's like this rolling like I got a pine needle in my mouth with sandalwood smoke from an incense.
And like my mouth is exploding with flavor.
There's literally mouth. I'm eating the mouth water thing.
Right. But I know I know in 10 minutes this is going to cause my mouth to be dry.
Yeah. Yeah. But I'm literally salivating.
Noble woods and spices in the smoke flavor.
And again, this one has been is.
Oh, there's that. What is it?
Sandalwood and pine needles.
I don't know how else to describe a pine needle and some sandalwood smoke.
Is. Yeah. With burning tires, burning rubber.
That's in there, too. Right.
It's got the gas. It's gas.
I can't I can't think of another most beautiful thing.
I mean, I mean, it's gas.
All right.
Right.
Hmm.
No.
Those flavors are amazing.
Here I was going to smoke some hash, but I'm just going to enjoy that stuff.
So I'll show you all some hash.
There's some pretty blonde dry sift.
This is neat. Here, let me try this one.
The colors of hash.
One of the things I like to do is.
Oh, did I misplace one?
There we go. There it is.
I like making these little snail coils.
And I realized that together that.
You can see the different.
Colors kind of doesn't show so well there, but.
Brown, black, lightly green, but these are.
You can just pull.
If I can't usually if I can't get a temple ball, but it's soft enough to where I can do the coils, I'll do that.
Right, but if it's not a self melting temple ball.
And then it shows me the different grades when I when I break it down in different ways.
Like.
There's a you can see the flat edge, right?
So this one was able to get.
Like here's this is this is a I think this one.
And this is this is a I think this one is GMO.
You can see just the teeniest the teeniest little fucking.
Ball will get a flat edge on it when you get good ripe.
So that's a.
I made a little ball out of it, but it flattened out right.
So something I've been wanting to do and experiment with for a longest of time.
Is to.
Refine the bubble hash to a higher state.
I did it. I did it. I did it.
All right, so I posted on my Instagram a picture of and people are I think not quite understand what I was saying.
But it looks like what might be your nicest blonde hash you've ever made.
And I'll show it to you here in a second.
And it melts in my fingers pressing it right.
But this is literally the shit I'm throwing out now.
And so.
The bubble being the second run or second pull of the dryest trim sift right.
I'm doing the first bounce and that stuff gets all super fucking oily and like like just melts at room temperature even.
Oh not quite as much as fresh frozen right.
The fresh frozen it like literally it melting together.
Before I've got it fully dry and I can't like reconcile it or separate the trichome so well.
It's so terpy even working in extremely cold temperatures like it is now.
We're we're in the hard freeze now.
Eleven eleven degrees at night and then we don't hit freezing in the daytime.
So we go into this we go into this hard freeze mode for about two months.
If it continues like the weathers were 20 years ago.
Which is kind of how it's shaping up ish.
So.
This is this is my junk my junk jar.
Once I started figuring out this new technique I started using right.
And what this all is now look beautiful.
Right. You'd think that's some super super fine high grade hash.
Right. And that's from the one.
One fifty to ninety which is always usually my most.
So I just grabbed a little bit right and squeezed it.
OK. I'll see that right. And it's fully.
I did a smoke test on this this morning to be sure.
I'm not going to do that again.
Right. And it's fully.
I did a smoke test on this this morning to be sure.
Yeah right. Lovely looking trash but that's it's literally like this fluff filler in the.
In the freaking.
Material and let's see if we can.
Zoom in a little bit so.
I don't know how well it's coming through.
Anyhow it wasn't.
I'm trying to watch it on the screen and not the.
Lighten right up. Sorry. So anyhow this stuff here is.
Usually there's no plant matter and usually doesn't light up.
That was scary.
I took I took about that much or more this morning put it the bong the smoke in it.
Kind of got me high.
Kind of got me high.
There's literally what this is the stocks and trichomes out of it.
Right.
It's just the stocks and the trichomes.
The stocks of the trichomes is all that is I completely went through and removed all this.
The shit out of there and this is this is what's coming out of the bottom.
The bottom if you see what I'm doing with the with the latex glove on the multiple screens.
I don't know. So.
Robin's asking if the stocks have any medicinal value and I.
I think there's some again.
I wish I had laboratories to check this shit out a little bit better.
I'm going on Frenchies talking about the science scientists did that he conglomerated.
Is be good for edibles. Yeah. And that's that's more or less.
But it's just it's literally just like filler smoking and it's the kind of got an off flavor to it.
It's not so. So what he was saying is that's contamination because it doesn't contain the medical stuff.
And he's primarily after the T.H.C. I'm looking for other things.
But once you start refining it from the flower the flower is one thing right.
In the trichome head does something different.
And so once we start refining it we really want to get it properly refined.
There's different attributes for having different.
Levels of ash right. Like I can't carry my best stuff with me.
To go out and share with people or.
Even for my own medicinal needs. Usually I don't need I don't do things anymore where I don't get to burn out the house.
I can take care of my needs and the quality is such that I'm good for several hours usually.
Or I have my fecal capsules if it's beyond that. Right.
So some like like a lot of old timers don't have dab rig.
So I'm a good hash is dabble but you put it on a pipe and it's just going to freeze.
And so having some of the lower grade stuff is not a bad idea for depending on who your consumers are.
And I don't really have a ton of consumers. It's just piles up. It's me.
But just you know I like I like to let people think in the bigger picture not just my little microscopic world.
So we can actually look at the other things.
So I'm opening up my little laptop here and give me a second to bring the gallery up.
And let's see.
Okay.
Remember which ones were which. I mean take notes on me somehow.
So I'm opening up my little laptop here and give me a second to bring the gallery up.
And let's see.
Dead air sucks. My apologies.
But it'll be worth it. You'll see what I'm talking about here. That's camera.
I know I can get there through the camera so we'll just go there. Okay here we are.
All right. Um how.
Look at that. That's the shit. That's the shit we threw out right there.
Right. This is what I'm talking about.
It looks like amazing hash but it's literally just bits and pieces of stocks. There's no trichome heads in there.
So let me see.
Wrong way.
Yeah.
Okay this is on a piece of birch plywood.
Showing the leftover shit.
I'm throwing away. I just showed you that I pressed into a ball that looks like it's great hash.
Okay.
So that's coming out the bottom of that 260 thread per inch with my rubber glove going over it.
At that point I'm not even doing the static. I do the static on the 110 above driving everything through that and threads per inch.
So on the 110 threads per inch I'm pulling out all the shit.
And then so here's final product after.
After. Okay so this is again 150 to 90 bubble that I've cleaned up.
It was a one swipe tech.
So it's extremely tiny tiny amounts of any amount of contamination in there right.
There's dark spots but for the most part this stuff you're not seeing any green. You're not seeing any stocks.
Those are like shadow or really really mature amber heads.
Right.
But when we look at let me see.
Here's another shot of the final product to show just a different spot on the pile.
I went from 55 grams to 33 grams of finished and 22 grams of waste.
That's the waste again.
I go back to.
I think I'm not 100% sure but I think I think this is what's coming off of my glove in the first pull.
Oops shit. Go back there.
So wait another waste.
Okay here we go.
So I got four photos of it as it came out of the dehydrator.
Right. So.
This is what it originally looks like. It's still clumpy.
Still clumpy.
So then I've run through a sifter.
Right. Break it down. So that's what that's what I started with.
And through static and smaller holes clean it up.
And okay so here's one thing I need to quantify about that was.
Trim from dry sift.
Which is not going to be the same thing as if you're doing bubble washes or I'm sorry your bubble washing fresh frozen.
Okay so the trichome heads fall off really easily and.
I don't have the pictures in the phone and that stuff's back in the fridge. I don't want to pull it out.
The difference in the first drop from what I just showed you I'm impressed.
The first drop just there's a lot more riper heads right.
So when I'm dry trimming knocking all that leaf and stuff off onto the silk screen the 110 threads per inch.
That stuff goes through and again you can use the static to clean up whatever.
It's just going to be much more ripe mature oily heads to start with.
And then the stuff that I'm getting off in the wash is the second pull.
And so it's a little bit less mature and a little bit more of a sandy type of not as wet of a hash after I press it.
But without they're distinct when you look at them.
When you look at them they're distinct when you taste them and stuff.
And they're going to have a distinct effect but there's still a very high quantity of THC in that second zone.
Yeah someone here is talking about the metal static dry sift.
There's so many different techniques. The metal one never worked for me.
And using the screens that I show people is the technique that works for me.
I've had people comment on here to go look at Bubble Man.
I've watched Bubble Man and doing what they're doing isn't exactly what I'm doing.
And what they're doing exactly doesn't work for me. It's damn close.
We're doing a very similar thing. I've seen them do some stuff that I'm doing too.
It could be the pH of my water causes my charge to be slightly different.
There's differences when I'm holding the pan or whatever it is.
I've seen the guys in... I think everyone's good to learn from.
People say, someone's saying Bubble Man's not the guy to learn from.
People say that Bob Ross is not the guy to learn from.
I've been painting for many years before I found out who Bob Ross was.
And it came from all these people coming up to me while I was painting in public
and making oil paintings from the scenery going, oh dude Bob Ross awesome.
But people who are serious artists give Bob Ross a bunch of shit and call him a hack.
But I would never have gotten the awards I ended up getting for my oil paintings
if I hadn't incorporated what Bob Ross was teaching into what I've been doing for years and years.
There's always something to learn from everybody if you pay attention.
And sometimes it's how not to do things.
Like the Hoffmans and gold mining.
Sorry.
George Carlin says, the average Joe you meet is an idiot, therefore by definition half of them are worse than that.
And I've changed it to say, the average Joe you meet is an idiot,
therefore by definition half of us are worse than that.
Because I'm the average Joe that it doesn't matter if I'm in my freaking...
In my realm, totally in the flow zone doing my thing
that nobody else in the world could possibly even have ever imagined.
For instance, on my skis going backwards with the cross-country binding and alpine zones.
And some people look at that and go, what the fuck is that idiot doing?
Meanwhile, they don't know that I'm like the nationally ranked superhero skier guy
doing some shit that's just beyond their level of comprehension.
And there's other things I've done. It doesn't matter what it is.
And we've all been that guy that somebody looks at and says,
what the fuck is that guy doing?
And you're doing your damn best with all the knowledge and information and materials that you have to work with.
And that's one of the things that chides my goat about people talking shit on Jorge.
That guy was teaching me how to do it.
And people talking shit about him. We're not teaching them.
You're even growing.
Back then I was doing shit.
The early 90s, I went and stood before the governor of California,
spoke for half an hour, preaching what I learned from Jack Herrera.
And at all levels of the government,
I make better hash because of Franchi.
I don't necessarily agree 100% with everything.
We definitely rubbed a little bit.
But it was over the word chief of all things.
And I'm not going to lie to you.
I'm not going to lie to you.
I'm not going to lie to you.
I'm not going to lie to you.
I'm not going to lie to you.
I'm not going to lie to you.
Over the word chief of all things.
He is very passionate about his idea of what the word chief was
and where he first encountered it.
And that should be its usage.
And to him, it was the Beldean Moroccan cannabis mixed with tobacco.
But the word, as I understand it,
is first documented from 600 years before,
500 years before tobacco was introduced to Northern Africa.
So, and it means to feel good.
And which that plants, the flower of the mountainside was,
I got a buddy named Keith actually from high school.
Boy, Kiefer, Keith, we called him Keith.
First, he's water hash method is great.
And I, like I said, I learned a ton about it.
And I developed, I developed the ice cream hash method over,
you know, for the poor man trying to create that, that, that,
that vortex and a cheap piece of machinery that you can pick up.
But, but I don't know.
I don't know what the conversation is there.
It's okay.
So I don't know.
I was rambling, went somewhere.
That was the smoke break, right?
We did a strain review and let's see,
we got into hash because I was going to smoke break hash.
We were talking, we don't got any questions for me to jump into,
or should I do something else?
I'm gonna, I need that guy's name, Kevin.
Let's see, let's see.
Dead air, dead air.
Well, parent materials where we were.
All right.
So you got these different kinds of rocks that are formed.
Tall hemp graphene.
Ooh, right.
I need to get, I need to get my, my hemp seeds growing.
Um, I don't feel like talking more dirt right now.
What's, what do I have to hand otherwise?
There's, there's, there's, there's,
there's, there's actually feeds right into just,
surface erosion control on rangelands.
The greatest amount of erosion worldwide occurs on dry regions.
These regions are generally too dry for productive rain fed agriculture.
Commonly, grazing is the only economical use of the land.
In many developing countries,
grazing is uncontrolled and excessive.
The establishment and appropriate range management practices
must be a first priority under these conditions.
Otherwise, the land is not safe for the future.
The land is not safe for the future.
The land is not safe for the future.
Otherwise, any other soil consideration,
conservation practice will fail.
Often simply controlling livestock density
and the grazing practice is sufficient to restore
depleted and eroding rangelands.
The key is to maintain good vegetative cover
and not to reduce infiltration capacities of rangelands,
which if overgrazed are characterized by low plant density,
compacted soils, surface runoff, and excessive erosion.
Fires commonly used as a management tool to increase forage production
of rangelands by removing woody vegetation.
Controlled burns, if properly managed,
should not adversely impact the hydraulic properties of soils.
Uncontrolled fires can reach temperatures
that are high enough to reduce infiltration capacities.
In any event, fires leave large areas of exposed mineral soil,
areas that are vulnerable to rainfall, impact, surface runoff,
and even the most dangerous weather conditions.
Controlled burns, if properly managed,
should not adversely impact the hydraulic properties of soils.
If rangeland is in poor condition,
reseeding and other measures may be necessary.
Reseeding may require temporary mechanical treatments
to conserve water and thereby aid vegetation establishment.
Control of wheat species may also be necessary.
That is a huge amount of information
pertaining to everything that I'm talking about.
In soil.
So many levels of things.
Compaction, aeration, vegetation,
the biota on the land.
All sorts of stuff.
Here's something that is really cool to know.
That's a great one to open up with.
Why having a full education isn't as shitty
as so many people talk it out to be.
Did you know that what we call IPM,
Integrated Pest Management, is derived from
rangeland management, pest management practices.
Okay?
And so, literally, all this stuff ties back in
to what we want to know for making that sacred plant grow.
But everything you talk about, like,
okay, so I've demonstrated that we can just throw a seed
into the soil and grow plants, right?
Like I did it here in the garden this year,
in the sand, in the dry,
and with extraordinary drought circumstances,
I've let hemp grow in the garden
where it wasn't even improved soil
and just the basic sand in two inches of rainfall a year.
Okay?
But what's one of the major factors about that soil
is that it's aerated.
It's loose.
It's not compacted.
It's able to get root development,
and there's pore spaces where there's,
maybe if we call it the third phase,
or the fourth phase of water, I'm sorry,
but that stage between liquid and gas, right?
I was teaching my daughter about sublimation
while we were out skiing
because there's these mystery clouds,
and usually the clouds that are forming,
it's just like there's no mask of cloud.
There's just snow sparkles falling out of the sky, right?
And so there's a couple of ways that can happen.
One is the snow guns are running.
They're making man-made snow.
Or two, you have sublimation,
which is water moving from solid to gaseous form,
or gaseous form back into solid.
All right?
Most people forget that's part of sublimation
is it goes both directions.
But the moisture, it's so flip and dry here,
especially when it's this cold, right?
You're getting into negatives up there,
and RHs after the storms move through
drop into below 20%,
sometimes down into 10% in single digits, right?
And it's zero degrees Fahrenheit
and no ambient air moisture out here
in the middle of the desert.
And literally, it sucks the moisture
right out of the snow,
sucks it right out of the snow,
and it evaporates ice into vapor,
and then it gets pulled up in the upper atmosphere
and gets to a point where it recondenses
and falls out, not as rain,
but it sublimates as snowfall again, right?
Okay, so all this crazy shit water does,
and we missed it.
I pulled in these buckets of water.
I put them out the freeze to make my hash,
and they overfroze last night.
It was so damn cold,
but they were like cracking and snapping
as they started to warm up here.
Okay, so in soil,
even in the driest of soil, right?
I dry farmed here in the desert
in extraordinary drought.
Without it being compacted, it's nice and loose.
There's these pore spaces,
and moisture is always present
and moving through there
until there is no more,
and it becomes bone dry.
Now, here in the desert,
without any vegetative matter on top of it,
of course, the sun sucks it right out.
It's so intense here with the radiation
at 4,500 feet,
and no moisture in the atmosphere
and no dust particulates.
We get UV radiation
that vaporizes carbon matter,
and pulls this vaporized nitrogen
out of the top of the soil and stuff.
Pretty fucking harsh conditions here,
but plants will survive, right?
I got 13-foot tall,
15-foot tall sunflowers in my yard
that don't get any extra water to them.
In our soil, there's soil moisture,
and for it to be available,
you got to have that pore space.
Compaction is one of the worst things you can do.
Compaction is...
Your roots have a hard time
moving through compacted soils.
Water doesn't penetrate, right?
That's stuff I was talking about.
That gets into the formation of soil from...
I hinted on at the beginning,
talking about where we have magma
and igneous extrusive rock
that's being exposed and weathered,
and the amount of water moving over it,
and the energy required.
When a soil is compacted,
you have...
Or fire burns it,
and you get that hydrophobic state.
Both of those will cause
a reduction in penetration
because there's no available pore space.
Surfactant doesn't necessarily always work
even with compacted soils.
You've got to mechanically break it down
one way or another.
There are ways,
depending on how it was compacted,
you can chemically soften soil,
for instance, with gypsum.
But for the most part,
you generally...
When you mechanically compress soils,
generally it's going to be clay
that gets compressed, right?
But you can compress the sands.
Some of the neat stuff I've done
is going through the forest
in areas that used to be logged and stuff,
and you have a tool that you stick into the ground,
and it tells you how compressed the soil is.
You can see,
after having removed a railroad bed,
for instance, 100 years prior,
there's still extreme amounts of compaction.
Right now, we have freeze-thaw going on,
or it will.
We just ended.
We're into hard freeze-thaw as an action
that water and cracks will expand and compress
and expand and compress, right?
As if the freeze doesn't thaw,
and it aerates your soil,
and it fluffs it up, right?
It's pretty amazing how...
But it can also split rock.
That's part of mechanical weathering,
how you build from parent material to begin with, right?
If it's a solid rock layer,
it is through freeze-thaw and water percolation.
And it's pretty amazing how,
between...
Some of the best rockfall I've seen
on the side of the mountains and stuff
occurs because of freeze-thaw,
freeze-thaw and water and soil moving in,
and it opens and slowly, over time,
pushes a crack open and stuff.
Let's see.
So, yeah,
it talks about having
the intensity
of pressures
on the land there, right?
A whole lot of stuff,
understanding the pressure
and the riparian zones, right?
If you have a creek bed,
and a lot of the forestry work I've done
going in and manipulating,
fencing off riparian zones
and creating areas for the cattle to come in
and actually drink from the stream
without destroying
all that other habitat zone and stuff.
A little place called China...
China Flat.
And I don't know how it fared from the latest storm.
I'd like to go and see it.
It ripped out the roads,
the section of highway
in Yellowstone National Park.
Crazy. That place totally...
Like, my entire discussion of soils
could be done
walking around in Yellowstone
and showing you all this shit in real time, right?
And again, hopefully, maybe next summer
I'll be able to do some of the stuff
up on the mountain
and show some of the shit in direct, real time.
China Flat.
There was...
Back 100 years ago,
when it was still being run by
the military,
when it was one of the first
national parks and stuff,
and they were taking out all the miners and whatever,
the first hotels in Mammoth
were...
service...
They needed vegetables and stuff, right?
And so this Chinese guy came up
and created a garden.
And it was literally
in an oxbow where the river cut off, right?
Okay, so the river used to go like this,
and through whatever time,
it's a higher bench,
but it would deposit
in higher flows, right?
And the stream bed runs straight through here.
In higher flows, it would deposit stuff.
And over time,
previous time, in higher flows,
there's a gravel base,
there's the bedrock material in there,
and there's stuff coming down off the mountain,
but there's a higher flood plain,
and it displays...
It's a brush-covered flood plain.
In the curve,
the position zones in the curve of the river, right?
It's a low pressure zone,
and so stuff drops out.
And the sedimentation zone.
And this guy went in there
and cleared out all the native brush and everything,
and it's a subterranean fed, right?
Because the water table
still moves across through the gravel,
even though the main flow,
if not on bedrock,
is cutting down the foul wag or deep channel.
And that's one of the places
that really got me thinking on
some of this advanced concepts
of really the living systems
and the EMICS,
Ecosystem Mimicry Energy Cycling Systems.
And so that's kind of
a little piece of artwork.
We'll see.
I'll just go pull this over there
and show you.
But the Yellowstone really...
Some of you may know,
I was an artist in residence
in Yellowstone National Park,
and I used to spend a lot of time here,
some artwork of
mammoth hot springs, right?
It's an oil painting I've done.
And there's a process to it,
just like breeding plants, right?
So there's literally
a lot of different things
that go into creating the finished product
when you really do.
And this right here painting
is a concept from...
I call it mitochondrial sporaform.
And this was actually
a copy of an original that I did.
And this is an oil paint.
And I was teaching myself oil painting.
Right?
But the interconnectivity of all things
and the space within the earth
and all that shit
and the tendency of life and the things.
And where that evolved to
was what I was talking about.
There's that blue ribbon.
And eventually,
we get into paintings like this.
And it's just the better understanding
and knowledge
and how we do things
that's sitting out of the frame there
because I got to give more fucks
about my artwork so I can sell it again.
Robin, you're there.
You were asking to see...
I don't have this set up right now.
I pulled it out.
It needs to be cleaned.
You were asking to see
the vacuum set up for...
Excuse my kitchen here, folks.
Bachelor pad.
I have been having some wonderful time
with my daughter
trying to get this place cleaned up
before I go back to work full time.
But...
So, I'm going to turn this around real quick.
Ba-da-bing.
Ba-da-bang.
Boom-da-boom.
Double boiler.
I'll show some more paintings.
Just a second.
Let me show...
Robin was asking this last week.
So, double boiler.
I've got...
The FICO is in here.
Right?
And I use isopropyl.
I don't use booze.
I use isopropyl.
I do large batches and I don't have recovery.
From here on out, though,
I really want to get one of those
five gallons full of water
and I put the burner on
extremely freaking low with gas
and just let it sit
and it drives off the gas.
I know I'm not overheating it
because what ends up happening here
is I have
this liquid.
It's the water remaining
from the 95% isopropyl.
Yeah, don't tell me what to do.
I'm teaching the scientific way you do this.
Isopropyl pulls actually way better than alcohol.
Alcohol is a tincture.
It's not FICO.
It's the best thing for people
who don't really understand
that you can get all the isopropyl out.
People have tested my stuff
and it comes out better
than what you can buy
in most freaking dispensaries or whatever
because I have a science degree
and you shit in laboratories
and I'm doing the best I can.
But again, this is a vacuum chamber
and it seals right on there
and then you vacuum out the rest of it.
All right, so if I had a laboratory,
I would actually,
I would use other solvents.
The first solvent I ever used was ether.
Contaminants, yeah,
there's contaminants everywhere.
People tell me not to use my hands to make hash.
So you can do you.
And again, most people should use booze, alcohol
because the fact that you don't have the equipment,
you don't have a double boiler
and you don't got a vacuum.
And I just pulled the vacuum out
and I got to change the oil.
But that's from pulling the last of the water
out of the isopropyl draws too.
Is why I have rust in my pump.
So no, that's the truth.
If you don't know, you don't understand,
you don't know the difference, right?
You don't know that you got to get your shit
to where it doesn't move when it's cold.
You're going to leave stuff in there, right?
I totally agree.
You don't know.
You don't know.
If you don't know how to do it, don't do it.
But if I was in a laboratory
and I had all stainless steel and glass equipment,
I'd be using acetone
because that's like the laboratory grade.
That's what people use to make aspirin
in commercial settings.
It's the proper,
it's the best polar solvent to pull everything, right?
So there's a different polarity in isopropyl
and it pulls better than alcohol.
You have to drive off all of the isopropyl.
Again, that's that on the double burner for three days.
You're saying there's contaminants.
Contaminants in the shit
that they use in the doctor's office
to keep everything sterile.
So that's a bro science comment as far as I'm concerned.
You can't show me there's contaminants in isopropyl.
I've never seen anything,
any residue whatsoever, right?
And for commercial production,
you can get like 98% lab grade even too.
So,
it's just, yeah.
The cost of ethanol.
But again,
I recommend to people for home use
to get yourself a magic butter machine
or one of those Levco herbal infusers, right?
You do a quarter ounce at a time for your head
and keep it fresh.
And I'm doing a large production for a cancer patient.
It's a whole different thing.
Okay, so someone was asking to see more artwork.
Let's see.
So this is a live oil painting
I did in about a 40 minute session.
That's 24 by 24.
Sorry about the glare.
I'm trying to get that to go away
and still maintain proportions.
This is a small version of what's called Dia de los Muertos,
the Day of the Dead, because it's November 1st
and we're skiing.
It's called the Stone Crusher.
There's some skier art.
Let's see.
This one here,
it's kind of like Robin Banks' pinch.
Here's some more of the,
that theme.
The,
let's see.
I'm on,
these are up on the wall here.
Another live one.
So this one is like Spotlight Studio.
I used to go to three different studios a week and oil paint.
Here's an early pastel.
This is what it looks like when it's snowing up at Alta.
This is literally, it's titled Wildcat 420.
And people think it's a weed reference,
but if you're on the chair at 420 in the afternoon,
you're catching the last goods of the day.
So I only work from life or my own photography.
I do my best not to use anyone else's pictures or anything.
I don't know if these are going to show up.
There's so much glare.
Chipping up on the fucking mountains, whatever.
Oh, here, let's do this.
You can see this one.
I met God and the guys of a three-toed bear walking in the woods.
And so what, what do we got here is,
this is reminisce,
memories of walking through clear cut Redwood forests.
When I was studying forestry.
And they would leave a couple of monster seed trees,
and then you have the regrowth.
There's the river running through.
And it's funny because there's, there's three feet,
but there's not three toes on any of the feet.
But anyhow, that's the name of the painting.
Yeah, I have,
I have a lot.
You thought I had a lot of seeds.
So the whole process of painting and stuff is,
is a lot like doing all these other things
and trying to think things through and think things out.
On my other channel, my personal channel,
I've got a deal where I've been,
I need to do more of them,
showing off my old paintings in a live.
But here, let's turn this around again.
And what do we got in here?
Look, here's a good comparison.
Seeds,
paintings.
I hoard, I hoard it all.
All right, look.
Stacks, stacks, stacks.
But okay, so here's, here's another one on the theme.
No audio.
Turn your sound up.
This one here is E Pluribus Unum.
The Great Bejeweled Locust,
the Pedestal of Corporatism.
And all of us down here at the bottom.
Don't get sucked into the vortex of capitalism.
Right?
No, I like, I like being right in,
right in here, signed by me.
Oh, it says to rotate.
So it took me a long time to be able to,
paint the portraitures, right?
But, oh, I don't know.
Here's, so this comes from,
some of you might know,
I spent time in the Grand Canyon
talking to medicine men.
And this is one of their sacred waterfalls.
Give you an idea, this is,
oh, the bottom 100 feet of a third-degree
waterfall.
And this is the bottom of the waterfall.
The bottom 100 feet of a 300 footer.
Here's some rock face.
This is an interesting rock.
Okay, so this is all travertine.
All this rock is accumulated deposition.
We're down in the Grand Canyon.
The Citadel.
The, the, the Egyptian Buddhist Citadel
in the Grand Canyon.
I think, I think they just found
a kind of Sazae ruins, if anything.
But, let's see.
Here's, here's the tractor from my farm.
Ouch.
All right, here's, here's hardcore.
Right, that's the guy,
that's, that's the hardcore right there.
Rick Simpson.
Yeah, I was, I was making black hash oil
long before Rick Simpson ever had cancer.
Yes.
So, yeah, this is the Urgeon Dia de Humeritos.
This is, this is, I did this as a gift
to my best friend who I couldn't make it
through the winter and pay for Christmas
for my daughter.
And he, he paid full on the barrel head
for a elbow.
And paid out, right, he had cashed it
and so he bought a full pound from me
so I could make it through a couple of months.
And as a thank you,
I created this oil painting from a photograph.
He never let me photograph him,
we skied every day, but unless we were
hiking in the backcountry, he would never stop
to let me shoot a picture.
And, um,
anyhow, yeah, that's, uh,
yeah.
This is one of my favorite models.
I got a bunch of paintings of her in here,
but kind of distorted.
It's hard to get the anatomic style right
in the, in the foreshortening,
if you look at the,
like right in here.
Right?
No, they were Rasta before I showed up.
That's not going to get along.
Saying the Rastafari is in the,
in the Grand Canyon.
And that's exactly, so Supai Reservation.
I got down there a couple of times
and I did, I did some amazing things
with, um, interacting with the people there.
And Rainbow Dash is my favorite.
How about you?
This is really hard.
Like, I, I,
you see all these, these live paintings
and stuff.
This is probably one of the hardest paintings
I've ever freaking done.
But it takes,
it takes miles and miles and miles of canvas.
Right?
You know, people jump in and I hear people saying like,
oh, you can study soil for two years
and be a soil consultant.
Like, it's like I could teach painting for,
you know, after two years.
But no, I did 20 years.
Oh, I got to rotate the device again.
Anyhow, the little, the studies,
it's a great deal.
Right?
Doing different styles like, right?
Same thing when you grow different kinds of,
genetics to understand the plant better.
So this is gray green.
And this is what the ancient,
the old masters did 500 years ago
where they did everything using this gray green.
And then they'd start putting pinks
and purples on to create.
Um, Alex Hardy.
Six Figure Ski Bum.
I've got a couple of different channels actually.
All these different genres, right?
And so like one of the reasons I started doing,
that's upside down.
One of the reasons I started doing,
this is a great example of,
of about a lesson in breeding,
looking at these paintings.
So here's an abstract piece.
This piece is created from the leftover paint
from one of my live paintings.
Right?
And then all the,
all the colors are already like there.
And so I get to play with this stuff, right?
But to be able to do that,
and have it actually have meaning,
there's, there's geometric form
and everything going on here in space.
And you can look at it.
It's just a bunch of scribbles,
but it's fucking beautiful, right?
At the same time.
Because I was able to do that or that.
And these are looking at the landscape
and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and,
and all of that leads into being able to do that, right?
So the same thing with breeding,
like one of the very first things I did,
let me show you a couple of more cool ones.
With oil painting,
when I decided to start working with color again,
was I got a bunch of cheap paint
paint and just started mixing the colors together to see what happens. This place
doesn't exist anymore. There's a bunch of condos there now. Townhouses. Shit. Fucking
glare sucks. Sorry. So, blend and you know, I stand that this is like competition
pieces actually. Right, literally it was in a competition with a thousand dollar
prize and there's people way fucking better than me. You get like four hours
to work from the time you check in and check in and bring your painting back
wet. So we, I take all the colors right and just start
blending them together and eventually I found the colors I want to work with and
why. Right, and we're talking about, I have over a thousand paintings and drawings
right. So it takes a while to really get your shit down. I studied some
masters of my own choosing. Actually when I was 14 years old I swore off our
teachers. Right, and this is all parallels to becoming a master of
anything and I'm not even close to being a master oil painter. Right, but here so
I want to come in here to show. I eventually settled on, I met a fellow, I went and
studied directly underneath and settled into the basic set of colors. Right, and
so color theory there's not just two. You see now I have two reds. There's two
blues. There's two yellows. There's actually three. That's a yellow as well.
All right, and then I would start keeping all of my leftover shit up over here and
mixing grays because gray is the most beautiful there is. Right, and that gives
us depth. Here's another one that I use and so I've gone through a few of
these things and there's, what do we got here? Here I am meeting the shaman in the
Grand Canyon with the supai. This is a pastel painting and my first wife was
there taking photographs and both of us are in the spirit world when we met.
Let's see. I was just gonna show flat storage is just full of... I'm standing
there painting that. It's 20 degrees out, whatever it is, and I'm doing these.
Here's a concept. I'd like to get... some shit took the wind out of my sails on
the painting. I need to really get back to it. I've been putting all my effort
into the breeding, but when it comes to the breeding, the same parallel.
You get to study under a couple of masters and see what they're doing.
Poseidon and the mermaids. Working at the bar, I might be able to get some young
girls to model for me for this. I have a spot with the rocks and everything, but
it needs to be summertime. Experiment, right? Look at that. I'm just mixing color.
I thought I knew how to draw. I learned how to draw eventually, right? You can see
my drawing originally. So I wanted to do it on my own. I wanted to do my own thing.
It takes a while when you didn't do your own thing to really figure it out,
right? I saw our teachers when I was 14 and here in my 30s after I quit
firefighting. These are some of my earlier trying to learn, but I also took
the time and I modeled for other artists as well when they needed me to.
It takes a lot of work to become good at anything.
Again, I tell people, get some crappy seeds. Start growing all
these fucked up land races that you would never sell or smoke in a dispensary,
but learn to plant. Find out what crossing them together does. What does
this say? I'm trying to remember where it starts. Ah, here we go.
The goddess holds the light of the stars and the darkness of the night hold unto
the pains of life for they are past. Keep your vision clear for this shall be
your future. Energy is everything, is everything, is energy, is connected, is the
same thing, is stardust, is the goddess, is light, is energy, is you, is starlight,
is energy, is everything. I am what I am. I am the light of the stars held in the
hand of the goddess. View unto others as you would have them do for you are one.
How's that for a little hidden gem sitting in a tray in the back of a
freaking... supplies. Lots of supplies. Before I was oil painting, I've jumped 80
feet off that rock right there on my skis when it's covered in snow. This is a
rocky point and that is the A-frame. Catherine's Pass there. Pastels are a
little tougher to show because they they get smudged. Anyhow, yeah, so more and more
and more and more and more. Just there's so many, so many and again I studied under
a few different masters and got my process and I got my style together and
it's the same thing. That's funny I never did get the other side did I?
Where is it at? There. This is my next show that I was gonna roll out smalls
and I just... One of the things I like doing with these paintings is um so when you
hang them right you still have that view from the side. And it actually if I
did it right now this one didn't quite often I'll do the bottom even so you can
like have it on a stairwell and see what's um so that's the top on that one
I did that kind of did it with this one.
There's a neat one. This one's called They Lived Here Could You? That's
actually the cooking hearth of an old dugout. That tree's been paved over that
hole that's a that's a parking lot for a mass transit now. Oh what's that?
Drower notes. I got some trimming to do. Where what's worse than trimming? Not
trimming! That has so many neat connotations. Shit just I'm just showing
I have art supplies all the freaking so what's not art supplies in my house is
like medicine work. The bottom of my art supplies is cords right? I don't use this
stuff much anymore. I'm trying to I mean I really really really really need to
work on my artwork for my I don't know why I stopped working on this. I really
oh I know because I was trying to teach myself how to do this shit digitally and
I have I was just about to start doing so I keep other people's art around as
well but um I'm starting to go big this was all distorted especially from this
angle it's weird how the but again this is done in less than two hours for a 40
by 36 whatever and I've got these huge ones I want to redo this anyhow whatever
but all those colors come from this is white burn ochre yellow ochre cad cad
orange cad all the real is in crimson which is the least permanent color out
here cad blue this is a blue phthalo blue and phthalo green right here is
purple made from all the really in crimson and ultramarine blue one of my
dark darks and I do most my paintings with the base of that but then I started
I changed my own style that's what the master taught me but everything came out
too cold right I can't paint like he does I paint like I do so I started
using the burnt sienna and ultramarine for my base and that brings things out
much warmer and leaves this wonderful peacock colors this one right here
appears to be black but it actually is phthalo green and all is really in
crimson all right and so when you start learning how all that shit happens all
these colors same same thing I had going here but I didn't have that section going
at the purple all right okay you can see I have dust on my palette I need to get
back to painting there's watercolors down there what strains am I working
with right now so I'm gonna show you the reality of situations right now no no
Robins asked to see how I store let things go through the winter and you're
gonna you're gonna go fuck that looks like shit and yeah it does because I've
been depressed because I didn't know about my income situation and when you
get depressed your garden gets depressed right and so I just used the vacuum this
morning because I need to start ordering bugs again I noticed it this middle of
night I had the mites were infested again so I'm a little behind moving
these back out to the greenhouse with lighting out there because I'm done
flowering in the greenhouse and I like to use the natural Sun as much as
possible and so Robins asked me how do you keep so I have 32 different mothers
right here in bonsai for me yeah they look like shit they need they're all
root bound right and they need nitrogen bad every one of them and so we get some
compost into them and whatnot but it's all the same thing right so I have this
here's 32 and I'm like I kill hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of keepers a
year and these are the ones I'm working with somebody was asking what am I
working with so where'd my book go I had I think I put it right over here all
right so what you just saw I have a list here I have three Dr. Dream squares a
BNC has a Zack Astani kush number two I have a Zack Astani kush W I have
Zack Astani rock candy I have two of those right now I have I have the
Te Puke thunder I have three cuts of that that I just ran out the seed
feminized and hopefully that's gonna be one of the ones that goes on to cookies
that's a lost strain out of New Zealand let's see so so I've got those three
cuts I have descendants of dr. dream all cure which is an inbred project I'm
working out and this is like I'm trying to trying to weed out hermaphroditization
a long time with maintaining that over what most people refer to the roadkill
skunk but it's basically the the odor I can't contain in two turkey bags in a
pelican box and that's really hard it breaks out in all these different earthy
tones and human leans and ever so descendants of dr. dream I have one two
three of those directly listed possible locket me L which is the spear of milk
and honey which is the descendant of dr. dream dr. dream all cure back crossed
into Hindu Kush and across that did picked out a couple of different
directions on that one and so the the spirit milk and honey is one of them and
I've been using that to cross into various elite cuts so still in the house
I have GMO great pie and slurry cane seven out of the elite cuts I was given
you know hermaphrodite I use the word hermaphrodite to include all intersex
someone's asking manners not the same and so there's some shit you never gonna
get rid of the end of season senescence manners right and that generally quite
often that's that's something that comes from the Afghanic restrained the the
early season sneaker and sometimes sneaker ones right and and so like the
longest time like didn't know that self and shit was bad and so that happened a
lot in the back of the day in this main old organ strain I have my dr. dream on
here and so it's a double reset it's a recessive and it comes out in different
places the biggest the worst kind of hermaphrodite is Asian comes from the
tropical stuff out of Laos and Thailand where you'll have a whole female plant
flowering away and all sudden the whole fucking branch just explodes out like a
cancer male and the whole fucking branch right that's the fucking worst of it but
so residuals of that in well cleaned up and then it gets interbred there's a
recessive and it'll pop up is somewhere along the way there'll be a little
cluster right and that's pretty rare to see that shit anymore even utilizing
older land races but it you can still occur and so that's not really what I'm
experiencing with these dr. dream it's dr. dream all cure itself has a I haven't
determined what causes it what kind of stresses if any why it does it when I
can't predict it but it days 7 to 21 occasionally in the there'll be like one
dingleberry popping out here and there if I stress it it can get a couple of
more later on and if you run it really late I don't ever see that senescence
one coming out the single manner it's generally that everything is dialed in
90% of the time that thing doesn't even have any viable pollen in it like I had
time time and time again tried to tease them out to make seeds doesn't always
work so again multiple those I'm working through the awesome mock-up meal mix oh
wait and crossed to several I had some other elites in here I have the northern
Utah hash plants and I'm working with I almost did that strain review today I'll
do that next week I have a couple of different Pakistani cuts that I have
around just I'm just observing what crosses do to them and growing them in
different conditions does but they're all derivatives of the Zakhastani line
so the Zakhastani line is Pakistani chitil kush that have inbred crossing
the purple and the green and then trying to maintain that purple as a
dominant and it's actually more of a fuchsia than the dark purple right and
then but if it gets cold it can go like fucking black right so this is this is
this is what happens when the Zakhastani gets cold is it it turns to that dark
dark purple but usually it can be it can be that fuchsia color flower or it can
be the green on the outside and break it open and it's purple on the inside
that's that's a great one so I've got my doctor dr. dream mother I have that
doubled I have Zakhastani delight in clone let's see this other page say um
oh I ran through all that this is a breath of green dragon 18 and number 9
so I've run through like 500 breath of green dragon seeds looking for I had my
original f1 run and the mother I chose from that like six generations into
cloning ended up farting out a fucking elbow of her me it's probably from a
stress but it freaked me out and I decided to just do a massive search for
other stuff and I've just pulled out all of the seed stock from all of my
breath of green dragon f2 explorations and I'm about to bust that shit out and
go into f3 again on that I do have some f3 stuff that anyhow that one is the
Yamadure Valley world of seeds male Afghan Kush that had frosty fucking not
the biggest producer but the but it'll it's the one that if you have PTSD
issues out of my breath of dragon strain that's the one you'll go after one one
who are you one gooey river excuse me one gooey river one and two so that's
the the two males that I'm reversing into each other and I've also bred back
into my hemp that had barrel in the yard that was cherry wine spectrum wolf and
that I like let just dry farm out there and so I crossed in that one gooey river
and I so I have a couple of cuts of that left that I want to reestablish that and
again that's one of those lost genetics is not anything you would ever see it's
a heritage strain that might end up having some great use that we don't know
or just just knowing that as a tribute for the fellow that grew it I got it
from a hermit and who got it from a greater hermit and the guy who grew this
stuff was total hermit that he was one of the main producers of cannabis in
New Zealand for a long time and he was killed when he was raided by the police
and so I as far as I know in the world I have the last two plants of that
genetic and I'm doing my best to preserve it and that's one of the
reasons I've had fucking anxiety the last couple months because I know selling
seeds like that and doing that work doesn't fucking pay for itself at all
and I need to have this job to keep it going I was displaced through nepotism
as well as foreign exchange workforce in the corporate tourist attraction world
is huge and I was just told by the manager like we couldn't even hire you
back on until we have full all the stores open and anyhow blah blah blah
blah blah we're talking about what strains I got going here so when gooey
rivers we have H track which is the Haasum locket meal or HPK the the Hindu
Kush crossed to dr. dream zone that's one of the one land races I didn't call
dragon series on account it's a whole different thing is back crossing and
looking for the my old original I'm gonna be going direct sales again
starting after New Year's and whenever the cookies site gets the virtual
Wonderland nursery I'm gonna be Kevin's asking to be part of that so and then
I'm there's a I got a guy from from Pro back farmers alliances just asked me to
start selling through him and I need to catch up with him I was supposed to have
a meeting with them last week and end up having too good of a time with my
daughter for a few days and he got backburner so I need to get a hold of
him and start getting these things out there
someone's asking and chatting over where you can get my seeds my work so let's
see H track Haasum locket meal or the Henry Kissinger Phoenix back crossed
into dr. dream all cure I got HM HMO I have a couple of those which is the
Haasum locket meal by GMO the spear of milk and honey and so really GMO to me
is a small producer it has great big huge trichomes an amazing high high THC
content but the plant itself to me doesn't produce in my environment
doesn't produce enough flower to grow and so I've crossed it out with the
spear of milk and honey to produce a larger producer but again it carried on
that dr. dream there's I'll let me read back up again one of the reasons I
didn't do as much reading with the GMO is because the cut I have tends to have
stress from issues and so yeah that one pulls out a little bit and and that's
one of the things that I need to really when I start getting a better packaging
or or description pages is letting everyone know which ones it's like hey
you need to pay a little more attention to this these ones here I've worked that
shit out of and yes I do a lot of stress testing and stuff and it's hard it's
hard to really separate the very best in my opinion varied medicine strains they
have specific effects that are one hit is all you need for the full effect from
minor hermaphroditization now I know a lot of people have a completely
different idea for me as to what medicine is and majority of people in
industry believe medicine is just the THC or the CBD and to me that's the
furthest from the fucking truth those those are ones the fulcrum ones the
lever and then you have to have the hands on the lever to push it to make
the force and to me as of the terpenes and the flag noise and all that stuff
right and and so you know I try and tell people when you're breeding and you're
selecting and sometimes we're looking for the we're looking to play with the
runs does the run this might be the one that she is growing the slowest as the
one that has the flower that does the thing that your patient or use your own
self-medicating patient needs let's see so the hastem locket meal rainbow
sherbert and GMO got several of those crosses that I've been working out with
something where it was pine tar skunk pine magic magic beans hook me up with
some testers of you got Tom Hills pine tar cross to a 70 skunk that was kept
up in the British Columbia and put those together and I ran tester on them and
again another fucking amazing set of terpene profiles and stuff her
maraphidite issues so I'm really trying to work that out baby dragon diaper
some of those did get on the market I had I had Peter show those in and
reemphasize the mistake I'm like after I put them up and then I tested them
myself and I pull those off the shelf those are not something we can be
selling and you know if you end up getting who's your mama there's gonna be
some insane fucking shit come out of that but there's also the possibility I
don't know how the fuck I end up getting a couple of males out of it I don't know
because I inter crossed a bunch of these elite strains that I didn't really
spend the time to mix the paint like I was telling you with this the oil I
hadn't done the work with those things I'm just like I'm gonna do this tribute
to sub cool he had the who's your daddy and I just said I'm gonna do who's your
mama I take all these elites I was given and just cross them up and it's kind of
funny it was also kind of a joke because there's so many people doing the exact
crosses and calling it a strain and this is like at this point it's like it's all
the same fucking shit you're gonna get some crazy plants out of it there's some
amazing plants out of it and but yeah there's that stuff there's I run these
testers and sometimes I got a whole bunch of plants and I have them grouped
together and a geometric formation with tags on the outside but then I got to
move them they get mixed up so I end up with the jar of I don't know what the
fuck that one was so but I think I think a lot of this is the who's your
mama where I'm just randomly grabbing it smells like blueberries and gas coming
out of here it's so funny is so often but just that whole thing is like that
where it's just a bunch of I don't know there's like four four plants in there
the chronic I don't know what the fuck this is I guess I lost track of it when
I was testing accident from chat I had an accidental pollination in my tent
blueberry cross with family seed tree pan didn't ran them Wow amazing first
first every seed cross I know others do it all the time well it you know and so
that's the thing there's there's mean gene had a really awesome meme I was I
came up with the one I need to make a meme I think I thought it was mean gene
not mean gene he's got the best means and one of it was something about the
high THC flavorless with no special medicinal action is pass something
along those lines in it it's because everyone everyone took the same fucking
plants and crossed them up boom boom boom boom boom boom and that's but ain't
nobody got the spear of milk and honey all right and no I don't send out
testers I do the testing myself all right so baby dragon diaper though that's
one I'm working on and I finally the one that had the better pine tar skunk
flavor it's just like it had more and I ended up losing the whole like well and
half of it's gone right now but my main tar crop ended up all going into the
freezer because it got seeded because that well partly because I knew it
wasn't super stable but I also was like I love playing volleyball and I played
too late and wasn't consistent on my tarpaulin and so that one wind up blowing
balls and it was right in front of the fucking fan and I really just wanted to
make some some run some runs on it to make the flavor happen whatever all
right so baby dragon diaper I did a feminized run of that and I have to
throw that whole thing away because one of the two keepers was is way unstable
intersects wise and working forward so I have I have all that seed made from the
F here's two or three on those and I'm going on the next level of those this
year st. Bernard that's one that I've been working on for a while that's a
very early early bloom in for northern latitudes that has big solid dense coal
on top and then lowers can be a little more open for washing right right people
jumping on the mean gene let's see after so I got I've got several st.
Bernard's I got the breath of red dragon number 13 still going I think I killed
off all of my f3s of those already but I'm just keeping that 13 to do some
back crossing into what's this RV CP I got to think about what the fuck that
is it's a male yeah I gotta check my notes on what that one is
Zack is standing the lights anyhow yeah so I think that's like the 30 so plants
that I've got still in bed right now again I need to pop them up we're in
hard freeze right now so like my compost piles hot but goddamn full of mice I'm
trying to deal with them and I have a couple of containers of soil that I can
pot up into though and I pulled a bunch of compost out before it went to hard
freeze and so I'm gonna move all that stuff here real soon into the greenhouse
and then like let those guys veg out hard and I'll start pulling some clones
off of things in plant and seed here also I like plant and see the on
Christmas and the day after for my tomato garden as well as my spring
rounds breeding so once we get into February about February 15th I'm at 10
hours of light and so I can do supplemental like a couple hours of
supplemental light and not pull tarps and have a flower crop going in the
spring until it's about about the second week of April I have to start pulling
tarps or shit starts reverting into into veg when you flip it right now that's
totally different from what I teach about dry farm where you put your seed
in the ground it has to mature right it's got a veg it's got to get past that
sexual maturity stage before it's able to do its flowering thing and so if
you're in a further south zone than I am like some of the folks in Afghanistan
occasionally they can pull males early season they start to show a little bit
where I am at it's you're not gonna have stress from a plant that you plant early
season and allow so I usually the first full moon in February is when my plants
naturally pop around here if I have seed spill and volunteers gone let's see let's
see I'm ready for a little smoke break and we got almost 80 people living
learning having a good time appreciate you folks that warms my soul someone
somebody put it to me one day while you're sitting at the bar and I'm
talking to five people and they're like dude you got 70 people think about that
fill this whole fucking bar room up man listen in to you everywhere really so
perspectives and appreciative gratitude to everyone for giving me the time of
day like Eagle says last night time is one of the most valuable things we've
got right when he said that I thought about all the fucking time I lay on the
floor looking at my damn phone because my body's in pain and I can't do shit
it's yeah so I'm just looking around looking to see you there's so much
fucking art digging through it's a pain that's that's something for a whole
nother here's here's something to show those there's some of the topical super
super super small amounts of cannabis mixed in with 80% coconut oil 90% coconut
oil 5% olive oil 5% beeswax right that shit's amazing the amount of work that
does there's some cedarwood oil back there there's a neat the time I smoked
that Tura I do not advise anyone but when we came to it was getting dark and
we had to cross a major river in the high Sierras it finally we couldn't do
so dark we couldn't see the path on the far side and all we had was this candle
lantern to walk through the woods tripping balls in the dark forest
here's actually have reading notes reading notes let's see there's my ugly
mug yeah here's the heater vent dries them out right this is neat so this is
called a mall stick this is so I'll brace it on something and rest my hand
on it so I can be more precise in my oil painting I also can use it as a straight
edge over my oil paints and then what's next to it here this is this is one of
my shortest kung-fu sticks that I'll use and and then right next to it
because it's winter it's inside but this is my workout sword it's an iron
rod yeah I'll see ya people talk smack to me it's been a minute right now like
that that flippin burger job fucking wrecked me but normally if I do an hour
or so working out with martial arts a day part of part of yoga stretching and
staff workout there's some more fun paintings I'll show you real quick
let's see I've got more light coming in here you can see shit better
there's me skiing there's a gas gun what the fuck's going on but to give you an
idea that's this is this is all painted in a session probably a 10-hour session
from a couple of photographs of as you can see my leather garden gloves and my
heels are not attached to the ski what's behind it
there's so here's here's when people look at my avatar and I'm chatting and
they think it's it's General Flynn but it's it's me this one needs needs the
dust knocked off it's you can only see it so let's look at that glare hate the
glare this is uh this is up at Alta in the summertime no wildflowers and studge
you see this one took me six hours down there looking at that for five hours
baby girl oh there there there it is you can see it really good no glare right
there right all right let's see this one here's fairy time at Mary Lake I had
this in pastel originally and that one got stolen I've had quite a few stolen
paintings it's kind of sucks
reflection it's really hard to photograph oil paintings on account of
the reflections yeah yeah this beard is gonna come off again some point I don't
know you're like I like it but it's sometimes I do sometimes I don't oh yeah
well I think I've shown these ones all before there's literally I have I have
I've garden shed full of paintings I was trying to show all the flat storage in
the stacks and shit but it's the same way it was my seeds right you see there's
what 20 25 offerings on on on Daga there's there's a I have a thousand my
inventory last time I did inventory had over 800 and that was a couple years ago
for different seed types right well it's the process here draw it out first some
people use a computer to take other people's photographs and project them
onto a canvas and paint it in and here's a self-portrait just touching the
surface of the snow as I cruise along so the best money I've ever made my life is
is a rendition of this painting right here a little cottonwood Canyon I did it
in the fall one day and a guy gave me 1,300 bucks for three hours here's a
competition piece Escalante those are public lands right there this is a
devil's backbone oh so here's the original mitochondrial spore form this
is so and again I was I taught it needs a wipe off the dust you know glare
everywhere yeah again that one over there I was trying to teach myself how
to oil paint by copying this one it's a little different though you see I changed
the colors in here a little processes processes the shit doesn't end this like
like I teach I show the artwork when I'm teaching about soil and weed just to
show that it's like this is doesn't just fucking happen overnight right when
someone asked me about soil if I have email or PM me ask me if I have recipe
for soil how to make your own soil from scratch it's like no I prefer to teach
people about soil so they can build their own with their local inputs and
stuff but also is we're not all capacitated to understand how to do that
not all those have green fun and I encourage everybody in if you to go
ahead and do the thing to experience it to know and appreciate what it is that
the masters are doing right and then support somebody who that's what they do
right I that's a bit like like photography right Kodak made shit tons
of money on the display case that showed a professional photograph of a
scene in our National Park right and
hobby consumerism is a massive part of the American economy consumerism and
it's the same with cannabis right and there's like so many people selling I'm
reminded of bluegrass song try to tell each other what it is we think we know a
gladly thank you for the rich man's money but I cannot buy back your
worthless pains in this land of flowing milk and honey we're standing thirsty in
the rain thirsty in all this rain right so you got somebody telling you to go
out and go out and collect all the soil from somewhere or buy shit from far off
lands and mix it all up and literally you can put the fucking seed in your
backyard in the ground and it's gonna fucking grow I've just showed that right
okay the understanding soil helps understanding the understanding how the
biota interacts and processes definitely helps right but more than anything kiss
keep it stupid simple right that's one of the biggest things one of my favorite
mottos you probably haven't actually heard me say as I haven't had it in a
minute Mike microbes are to the organic farmer as medical iridians are to the
Jedi Knight be the Jedi farmer right and so medical iridians in the Star Wars
saga are these microscopic entities that provide energy and that force and
when I eat the trueness of this is when I go out and eat organic meal from my
garden and I am consuming the life force and I am absorbing the medical iridians
it's just like my mind freaking goes my body all of the shit in my joints
relaxes right okay and it's gonna it's the same when you simplify and just make
it natural for our plants and we get the density that flower density there's
there's there's a whole different thing going on with the nutrient dense flower
from yes the the hydroponic salt fed trichome coated barely any plant there
has a purpose in a place right but when I hear somebody say you're gonna die
from moldy weed I kind of I've smoked it on purpose just to find out no
somebody's extremely sick can get
the response to some of the microbes I personally have I have severe allergic
reactions to soil microbes I used to have to wear a fine particle mask when I
ran my tree service and would dump my wood chips and they would start
composting within the chipping box right and before I figured it out I didn't
know why I was waking up in the middle of the night from mitotoxic response
throwing up violently like drenched in cold sweats okay but that's the living
complex of microbes primary decomposers getting into my sinus and my lungs as
opposed to the rapidly oxidized at high temperature decomposed components of a
that carbon form okay so a lot of that mitotoxic response is not a substance
but an irritant response and then there are but there there is some chemicals
that transfer through what we can smoke mushroom and get high you're not gonna
get as high as you do for making a tea so depending on if somebody's really
really sick yeah that and then the other thing is I don't think boitris is
the one that's gonna cause that issue so and I don't know that that that PM is
the thing that's gonna cause that issue those things tend to just like ruin the
plant and make it not really palatable no matter what
but people who are really sick and dying of cancer and have compromised immune
systems they need a lot less of something of anything to make it not
good so again we there these are these places where those controlled sterile
grows are necessary for specific you know patients but for the most part
people been doing this for a long long time I get people get off of me like my
hands like the food service that's the one that fucking kills me the most is
people like you gotta wear gloves all the time it's like do you understand
people are cross-contaminating all the fucking time because they don't change
the gloves because they don't have the mind they don't have the understanding
they don't have the knowledge to comprehend why we wear the glove in the
first place and I had that I was the kids I worked with this summer they
fucking got sick of me telling to change gloves and I realized like this isn't
like a good work environment from they're starting to be really animosity
me for awesome around I'm the senior person in the room that's not established
through the resort corporation whatever but I come back one day from running out
to get some other supplies and my assistant was fixing a burger for
somebody and he's literally breaking up raw meat well with the same gloves that
he's putting together the burger for the lady waiting at the window and touching
the vegetables and she called him on it and I'm like yeah dude I've been trying
to tell you this shit for months you can't cross-contaminate you gotta swap
gloves get like I don't use the gloves I wash my hands ten thousand fucking times
in a day yeah I won't be doing that now no more burn flesh for other people
that's that was hurting on my karma to start with notice I took one hit earlier
I'm still I'm gonna take another one and then we'll take it out with some music
here I've been rambling for over two hours the extended version today but
again no if you miss the beginning there go back and watch it I got I got
the new position and I'll be working Sundays but I'll still be able to do a
Sunday morning show so bless ups bless ups I totally was not following just the
delicacy the flavors wasn't really paying attention a whole lot to the chat
is anyone got questions you have a minute here I saw I saw people asking
about soil stuff yeah they're just feeding through and listening I really
really should do a series to be neat to just do a series of going through short
lessons and props and stuff and and again all that I gotta get the peace of
mind of the cash flow rolling here I'll drop and I'll get a program schedule and
I'm gonna start utilizing the fucking schedule book again and start scheduling
chores and shit so I get my shit done and that's how one of the most most ways
to one of the one of the best ways to become efficient with your time is to
write it all down and I was most efficient in my life when I broke my
time into 15 minute intervals in college I'll get that tight but will cheatin a's
reach compost render all the potassium and nitrogen a plant needs from a native
soils so cheatin a's is an enzyme it breaks down cheating
cheating is primarily nitrogen my primarily use of cheatin a's is it
stimulates the plants autoimmune system and put off exudates that drive away
other insects because they experience insect death smell the breaking down of
plant exoskeleton that's that's where and so I'm put cheatin a's will break
down hair and fingernails for instance and hooves and things like that so the
minor elements in those that consist of your phosphorus and potassium would be
available but nitrogen is the biggest thing coming out of but again it's not
it's not necessarily your native soil you have to have the the cheatin source
they're available right so that's that's all that's a that's a site
augmentation to the living soil systems so thanks for asking Chuck crab shells
yeah crab shells frass so for me ramble on for four and a half hours more for me
I'm getting my go to the Great Salt Lake and get the brine fly pupa shells
for my frass okay that's local to me it also has the full complex of 72 elements
in the Great Salt Lake water attached to it still and if I rinse it the salt
bails out faster than anything else and so yeah that's that's where I'm getting
from if you live close to if you live if you have access to the back door of a
seafood restaurant crab shells is you know everywhere right they've already
moved that stuff and that's part of the emix concept is is there is no waste in
the universe aside from the hand of man in his desire to appease his laziness
and greed okay and so we have landfills but everything in the landfill can be
the primary resource for something else right there's a lot more there you
actually know there's not a whole lot more roots going I have some more of it
here but if there's only a few left there on the Daga and the root skunk
cush so those are both feminized strain maroon skunk is actually from sensi
seeds River Alice by skunk number one and it was my intention somebody bought
a couple of packs of their root or Alice crosses for me to start my my
auto flower projects because I want to start from as rudimentary stuff as I
could and that ended up not being the source and at this time in my life I'm
not doing any of that kind of project so but I'd made lemonade and reverse
those into themselves and because it was a wonderful one plan plant planted the
seed into the ground on May 15th and harvested September 15th right and so it
tends towards the the sweet skunk number one it tends towards maybe a 20% 18%
great like smoking a lot of weed plant or people who don't need super high
quantities but it's a it's a real easy drop a seed in some decent soil and five
months later get yourself a pound of weed plant and those are the roots come
kush was crossed that same pollen silver reversal into Hindu Kush selects female
that I had let's see messages no roaches to you cold roaches are pretty
solid rock on brain and have a great day everyone all right cool coffee hmm the
drum sets just over here give me a second we'll just Peter Pan Peter Piper
right over first
everybody yeah I think roaches are everywhere man goes you got it if you
got a commercial kitchen you're gonna have roaches it's like rats they got
them up they got them up there at the freaking restaurant I worked at up and
freaking up and up in the Alpine zone fucking suck here's me real quick with
this we got that's a shiv wheel off a chairlift up on top there and then
here's these are my mom's wooden skis and they got little sections of the
edges you probably can't see it there but they screw in sections edges and
here's the oh and there's let's see you see it no there's glare you can't see
but here's okay this is the the old baskets let's see I wanna let's see
we'll do this rotate device yeah I'm seeing that oh so this is wool hats is
dank and I really really really want to see if I can't find that style and get
stitched on for my swag hat and dank by hard gear that I had that hat made in
1898 I think right I know there's like companies that call themselves dank
company but it's like man they just started a few years ago I've been using
that for a long time it's all wool black wool and it has that green line to it
it's solid let's see let's see oh yeah no I should show you guys pictures of me
when I was a firefighter that's the funniest shit
more videos there's a someone's asking how I see more of my work my videos here
you can search for hardy gear on the future Canada's channel or here on the
future cannabis channel 2 and I've actually got a playlist I don't have all
of my shows on there but search for hardy gear you can search for I need to
do one with the dry farm with the Belia all the shorts of that I noticed I did
not put them I'm gonna do a separate playlist of all those and accumulate the
dry farm series so but yeah there's a playlist if you go look at the playlist
on future cannabis project to channel hardy gear talks learns and teaches or
something like that I don't know but you'll see it there's like 10 playlists
and so I try to throw them in there and I can't and or just scroll through the
live presentations I do all my stuff live also follow my instagram hearty
gear at hearty gear and so hrd why is how my name is spelled at the HRT is my
my ancestral German Russian family I'm very my grandmother who taught me about
the ancestors that someone get rid of that hot girls with you fuck just get
the fuck out of here can I do that let's see hide user on this channel gone all
right um so so yeah so what I buried grandma in North Dakota it's HRT I on
the Iron Crosses from the old country right grandma told me about the old
country where I asked her when I asked her if her dad grew through him and she
showed me garments from the old country and that's so HRT I GE our gear was the
slang from whatever the decades past meaning seeds and it's kind of funny to
me it sounded weird but I threw it on there and it fits so anyhow yeah that's
a IG I teach I do little tons I have a thousand posts on IG and it's tough to
scroll through I wish I could categorize that shit trying to figure out how to
utilize I think I think I need to pin the shit up top or something I have
three pin posts but there's a little category I need to go through and see if
I can't put the soil once together and shit like that but it takes work and
time I don't get paid for it so I can't appreciate you
talks learns and listens I don't know something like that but you know I'm
gonna do I've been playing it this way for y'all and I'm gonna I'm gonna pick
it up and I'm gonna how's that for a fucking ace of acid brace alright
I'm gonna do reverse we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna change it up here and
I guess next week we're gonna have to do the Tannenbaum special
Grandma used to sing old Tannenbaum to me in the old German
Austrian
All the non-hippies dropped off just now
Thanks for pumping the seeds on the chat there
Mickey Hart used to talk about the rhythm, the beat of the drum being, well I know in the native cultures the drum is the heartbeat of the earth
Mickey talked about it being the connection to the entire universal vibration
The ohm which we began the show with
If you're interested in that beldia check out my dry farm video series there
That's what I grew was the beldia direct from seed
So we shall now raise the Mushku gods from their crypt
I'm gonna get a little crazy here on the drum
The 50 quart deadhead hippies that are still listening
Close your eyes and walk down shakedown street
Happy Birthday
I'm getting a little proud of myself, I appreciate it, I do, I do
That's funny Robin, when I was in jail people, some loved my drumming, some people wanted to fucking kill me
Because I drummed on everything in the fucking gravel cells
Can you smell the earth coming out of the vibration of the drum?
I'm saying I opened the show with the ohm, the first thought that became sound, the vibration that brought form to the universe
Music seems to be the bridge over the gulf between, then it fades out
I used to play for six hours straight
All these out on the beach, Morro Bay
Full moon, pint of mushroom tea
This is the crew, we're gonna do whatever the drums told them to
I got a bunch of skis with one leg
I don't really have a spine, the nerves of my arms are crushed in my neck
I never could play a kit too well, but I definitely like the death leopard drummer
My whole family's alpha
All of my siblings have walked away from what should have killed any mere mortal
So I don't have to put that on multiple occasions for each of us
I always talk about I have to run a mile before I can run ten
I used to absorb energy from storms
Now that my spine's been crushed, I have to lay down because my body hurts when the storms come
But when I was younger, and the storms that come through SoCal were so unseldom
I would literally just absorb energy from the wind and run up the side of mountains
And the chi, the prana
The energy that we can perceive, especially when we eat food that's been processed
It dumbs us down, we don't have the life force in it
There's twelve archetypal musicians, the artist, the athlete, the farmer, the architect
Someone asked me who I was once, and I said I'm a renaissance man
He said, that's what they said about Jim Morrison
And I said, who? He said, they
I'm like, well I'm a renaissance man, I'm the one that's they saying that it's me, I'm my own advertiser
What stops you from being the fullest human being you can possibly be?
I don't want to work either, I have to right now
Because I don't fit into society the way most folks do
So it's really hard for me to explain
That, and I hate war so much that I refuse to have an income
So that I don't have to pay taxes into a system that wages war globally
But, to get to the point, all the little trickles I had kind of collapsed
This way I get to hang out in a bar and not be drunk
I can't drink anymore anyhow, my vision's gone
It worsens my sinus infections
It worsens my sinus infections
Whatever the fuck that's from, or enhances my allergies
Alright, let's see, I got six more minutes of music and we'll have a three hour show
One and the only, three hour
I've always been a non-consumer
Freegan before the word was there
When my parents found out I was dumpster diving in college
In heat and the high life, my dad gave them my first credit card
Said, don't ever dumpster dive again
He said, if you're hungry, put it on the card
I never did
We just had desktop publishing was beginning
And I really wanted to, and I didn't quite get the energy into it
But I wanted to put a pamphlet together on how to survive on California street trees
Because even up the San Luis Obispo, there's plenty of food falling on the sidewalks to live off of
In my home, the only piece of new furniture I own were the couches I bought when my daughter was born
When her mother said she wouldn't live with a man who didn't have couches
I guess I bought these drums new
I still hang my clothes on the line when it's 23 degrees out and sunny
I taught you all about sublimation earlier
In the seventh generation
To the greater glory of God, I'm going to do this for the Lord
What is chaos? What is order?
Did somebody just say some stupid shit?
Ignorance is, ignorance does
Ah, T-man is expressing ignorance, yes
But why is it illegal? It's prescribed in the Old Testament by their God three times
Do not confuse capitalism with religion
Although most people worship the almighty God, because he's the only God they trust
The idol in their pocket
Go for a year with that, try it, see what happens
Someone just talked about didgeridoo, my first wife was Australian
She taught me about didgeridoo and the sacred form
There's a painting I got somewhere, I didn't show it, but I painted the dream time
I'm actually, oh I'm after the three hour mark here, I made it
So Chris, I don't have, this is just YouTube live, I don't have any server or app in between
So I don't know how, unless we start YouTube duo to begin with, how you can possibly come onto this
I'm not using any of those apps, I'm not using Barnyard or whatever that's called
What's the other stuff called?
Zoom, any of that shit
Religion's lame
If I had one of those apps we could totally pull off the duos or start off the whole show on duo I think
But anyhow, thanks everyone for hanging out, hope you had a great little bit of meditative vibrational groove
That's kind of like the deep end of the medicine of what cannabis does for
Kind of what the cannabis does for, soothes the mind, gets in the flow
I talk about, my new gig is, the fact is cannabis is a performance enhancing drug
If you want to call it a drug
I smoke it before I ski, it allows me to react in real time, it's a vascular dilator
It opens the alveoli and allows my oxygen to flow better
I've had, I used to smoke when I was in college, I would show up to class thinking like a fucking skunk
And the professors would trip out because I was setting the curve, right?
It's a matter of finding that right genetic that fits your body chemistry
Teach a man how to fish, he'll never go hungry again except for, I've been saying it since the 80s
There's too many of us eating the fish and it sucks
And I don't know how to deal with it other than to teach people how to eat the fish without throwing away most of the fish
Using the entire fish
Because it's really easy to just like eat a little bit of the best fillet and throw it away
And because there's a lot of fish, but all of a sudden there won't be as many fish
And there's like, we're having babies
Over 8 billion now
Love y'all, go out in the world and make it a great place with the meat suits you was given to do it in
It helps free divers hold breath
Training, I used to free dive a lot and training saved my life, holding my breath for long periods of time
I never met a rich man that inspired me to be rich, that's a new quote I had this morning with my dilemmas with money
I grew up with the richest, most powerful people in the world
After going back to reunion, I ran into a couple of them that were beset with ungodly amounts of wealth as a responsibility
And they're like, one of the nicest people in the world that I ever met
But like, they're overwhelmed with dealing with what they were bestowed
And there's a whole different level of all the stuff that I met
People who had more money than any human being would ever fucking need in a hundred lifetimes
Here's one of these strange injuries
Like, like, like, the story of the super soldier
I woke up this morning with a swollen bloody knuckle like I've been throwing left hooks on something
How's that? I have no fucking clue
Peace out y'all, appreciate you, we'll see you next week
