All right, good morning everyone. We are waiting for our third participant who maybe passed
out on his couch once again, but I figured we could just go live and see where the party
takes us. So fresh off the ski slopes in Utah, Mr. Alex Hardy.
Hello everyone.
You want to start us off with getting us all in proper sonic, what would be the opposite
of dissonance?
Harmonic.
Yeah, you want to get everyone on the same harmonic wave?
Well, you know, in the background is some live Grateful Dead from this day in history,
1991 at the Omni. Touch of gray.
Yep, I can hear it.
Dead Borghead, Deadheads unite. You might not have ever met, but we probably danced
with each other at the sheriff's all the time.
Nigerian session.
get down to below about 12% on average across crops in general before they can actually
germinate. And once they get below that, so we have that curing time if you're making
seed before you just make seed, put them in packs and send them out, they'll actually
rot inside there. They're not dried out. They're still putting off moisture and whatnot. And
you can, well, once they get to that 12% though, then they can go. And apparently I had one
in there that probably wasn't ready to go and germinated a couple of weeks after the
rest of them.
Just a little demon. Those ones definitely a little, little more cares needed. The thing
was tender little shoot.
Sprouts.
So I used to do 3000 heirloom tomatoes a year, about 3000, about 30 varieties of peppers.
I had 30 to 50 different varieties of tomatoes. I grow at a time. And like I said, 3000 peppers,
3000 tomatoes, and then another 5,000 pumpkins and squashes and other four by four blood
plants or, or tree plants and go out and plant those out in the field and whatnot.
These little micro climate adjusters, I use that poly cloth to create a little teeny micro
cold frame out in the field. Here at the home farm, I got actually furrow into the ground
instead of raise a bed because it's so sandy. The other thing it does when we have frosts
for a few more months, it creates a valley that can warm the sides and keep a little
heat trap in there.
Different ways of solving the equation in different situations.
Yeah, so that's how I've adapted that technique of potting up. I think the next stage, I show
a video doing fours when they start pushing binding. There's different kinds of binding
that it can occur though too. When you transplant, you can get what's called J root and that's
when those loose roots that are hanging, like bare rooted them, they get crimped. The ends
are pointing up and whatever and your seedlings going to... You can get the spiral binding.
People think that that just means binding on the outside of the pot, but it's not necessarily.
You can choke the seedlings stem when it wraps around and those things start growing out.
You want to pay attention to stuff like that when you're transplanting. It's starting to
push into itself. Open it up, trim those roots. If it's a tap root, you're going to want to
unwind it because it can really restrict your main growth in the annual weed plant.
Cut it off again. Yes, things can stay moist and green and whatnot as they grow. It's best
not to constrict it like that if you can avoid it. You'll see a lot of root wads and grows where
it's all exposed and it's just knotted. That's not the best way. If you can, fan things out.
You might not notice, I'm actually looking at those root wads when I look at it and adjust.
Some of them I break open and some of them I just drop them in and make a little furrow with my
hand and push it over because they're not bound. The ones that are backed up or winding or whatever,
I'll bust the end off of it and free that up. That was in the past.
I actually talked to Ron Goldie and he said he hasn't thought about this stuff in years
because I was like, do you want to come talk anions and cations? What do you want people to
take away from this one? There's literally a month's worth of posts on soils. One of those
earlier we were showing last round, just when we did the soil science talk, we're showing pictures
of how things move through the soil with water. This is what plants eat, these molecules that we
call planions and anions. We feed the soil and the soil has microbes in it. We talk about it
suggesting pH and this, that and the other. That's what all this is. It's not one little thing. It's
this huge fluid mode of chemistry happening with life. At the very least, in a hydroponic system,
that's explaining to you why you got to flush out stuff, why you got to change out your reservoir
all the time. You're sucking out more of one or the other and everything gets out of balance and
it starts locking things out. You understand this stuff and you start to learn basic chemistry.
You can't do this without understanding the life and the chemistry on the basis.
Just tying that all in, it comes from these microbes. It comes from the mineralization of
our plant matter that we put in, the organics to the most part. To a very, very minor lesser
extent, we're getting weathering, biological weathering of our rock dust that we put in there.
It's a 2% to 98% though. I'm not sure if that one hits in on the dimension. I think I'm on my little
poster. I can't even read what it is and I finally hit what I read there. It says clay particles
versus sand particles. The smaller the particle is, the more cation exchange sites. It's going
to hold more plant food. Clay is smaller than sand. Sand has very little cation exchange and
we don't even consider it holding food molecules. Basically, everything just moves through like
water. The steep water carries it. If you start adding these cation exchange sites with clay or
smaller particles of silt, you start adding that. What really has the most cation exchange sites is
the humate, the smallest particle of organic matter. It's been broken down through multiple
saprotrophic, secondary, tertiary, saprotrophic decomposers. They come in and they're eaten. You
have to have one species breaks it down to one level. The next one comes in and is breaking down
the next level. Then there's something else that's consuming the dead bodies of the fungus
and bacteria that did that. The end product is after the worms eat it. I've got posts
describing the different kinds of humates and humus and multihumor and how the different degrees of
the forest soils breaking down. Ultimately, the brondo, the stuff the plants want, is having
humate, that organic fine molecule in place for the highest CEC, cation exchange rate,
capacity of the soil within that superfine. We can add that by having our worm-fermenting compost
going in. We can add that by adding crushed shales. There are certain particular layers
between the shales and the pole seams that they crush that's just pure humate, humic acid. I add
that stuff into my soil. I throw it on my front lawn because my front lawn is pure sand. Sunsoap
right here just pretty much literally evaporates all the carbon right out of the grass. I cut it,
drop it, and leave it. That's what I was talking about there. The end of it all is you got a little
bit of CEC in the sand. You got a little more in the silt. You got a lot more in the clay.
Then you got exponentially more having that fine humate decomposed organic matter that's
been mineralized and carbon's been re-sequestered into that superfine organic matter.
Okay. Let's see if we can hear from India. Can you hear us? Do I need to do my clump fandango joke?
Hello, Cleveland. Hello, India. Okay. We will keep back to you, Alex. All right.
A little old orchard here. I'm with the whistle.
Why don't I let me throw up. We'll just go down the...
Yeah. I found actually I have everything set up. I'm going to do one of Layton's layered.
I have a bunch of rock and large and small and sand and clay access points. I'll go out and film
putting it all together. I've got another exact same size pot that I'm going to set up.
I had an artichoke in last year. It's old spent or older used. I just keep expanding my soil.
We'll do a side by side. Here we are looking at... If you saw this as a headline, you might
think that the bacteria are actually eating the rock. The story I found doesn't even
cover the science properly. There's some questions I haven't been able to follow up on
reading through the article. Basically, what they're reporting is they found this gal was
saying there's microbes doing this. All the other scientists are saying prove it. She went
and I want to see... I want to see if it's diorite, which is one of the crystals we find in granite.
It's a pretty hard rock. It's down, I want to say, in Central America someplace where she did this
and on a high peak where they have some sort of biological observatory. They drilled in
three or nine meters with a bore. They're coming up with a rock slurry, basically,
finest rock dust we can create. She's taken that and it's mixed with the upper layers and
the lower layers. It's the best I can interpret from what they printed here.
They put that in test tubes and they examined the surface of the rock particles,
the superfine dust particles before. In two and a half years, they noticed a
significant difference in the surface being etched, which they could only attribute to
these microbes they're identifying that are iron consuming. They derive energy through iron and they
can't actually eat it. What they're doing is they're absorbing a molecule. They're oxidizing
the iron out of the rock by absorbing one of its electrons. Then that breaks it free because
they've taken an electron out of it and it no longer has that... We're talking like real chemistry.
It absorbs this electron into its skin, the surface of it. It's from what they're understanding.
It sounds like there's a whole bunch of variety of different kinds of these iron
oxidizing bacteria. They're probably coming from closer up to the surface and they slurried into
this rock slurry. After two and a half years, they found a significant difference in the surface of
these micro particles using electron microscopy. We're taking the extremely fine and making it
really big to see it. In that two and a half years, they found absolutely zero indication
in the borehole that any of this occurred. It's not eating away the rock, it's eating away
these fine particles of dust. I think in the side conversation here, someone brings up some
articles talking about studies of accelerated soil growth around the world. They're pointing
out places like the San Gabriel Mountains versus the Southern Alps in New Zealand. The biological
and mechanical processes and the speed at which soil accumulates. It clearly shows the standard
equation that as plate tectonics push up a mountain and the mountain gets steeper,
stuff breaks off, especially if it's up in the snow zone, ice, freeze thaw. You have both
plants breaking stuff apart and the roots digging deep. The steeper it is, the higher
it is in elevation, the more exposed to the elements. These are all the factors. The function
of x becomes these different variables. As you get further down the slope, they find that
soil genesis is extremely slower or almost mutated to the point where it doesn't happen because you
don't have these elements of destruction that cause rocks to pulverize weather and whatnot
for these microbes to do the job. It was interesting because he pointed out,
here they mentioned in San Gabriel, this is the rocks of the mountains I climbed up as a child,
and it's decomposed granite. That stuff is actually great. If you can get the decomposed
granite native out of the ground and use that, if you're really looking for a native soil to work
with and you want aeration that has larger chunks, it's got pores, it's got the micas in a great
place, and DG is really a wonderful thing if that's all you've got. If you've got other,
better, lighter soils, you want to use those lighter soils and add to rock dust.
I grew up with that granite. That particular granite, the San Gabriel, they're ancient.
They are ancient. There's pretty good plate tectonics there. There's two
vaults running underneath our house, one under the swimming pool, one under the living room
as a child. That's definitely part of the whole deal. We have this deep black clay loam in my
house. It was amazing. You couldn't put it in a pot and grow anything, but it was great for growing
stuff in the ground. We wouldn't dig a hole and put potting soil in it because it would just fill
up with water in the ground. The other study that I was talking about, it was the Southern
Alps of New Zealand, and that's great, wacky sandstone. That's a whole other one. If there's
any nutrients in the stone, it's that great wacky. It's not even stone. You can use
your fingernail and carve into it. Actually, a whole bunch of outcrops of it in San Luis Obispo
around the college. That's the main, and some mudstones, siltstones make up those Alps.
That's a huge factor in those accelerated soil production rates beyond there being any microbes.
It is this stone that's either ancient weathered already that's igneous intrusive, which is this
old granite, or you have sedimentary metamorphics that have already gone through the carbonic cycle.
They're stuff that were deteriorated from igneous intrusives or lava or whatever and turned into
sediments in the bottom of these lakes and then were risen up again. Those will break down faster.
Let's see what we got for our buddy in India. Can he hear you?
Hello, can you hear me now?
We can definitely hear you. It's just a little quiet, but maybe you can just...
Are you on a Mac or a PC?
Oh, no, it's a computer. It's a PC computer.
Okay.
Can you hear me now? Is it better?
We can hear you. It's a little soft, but...
Okay. Just give me one moment.
Just give me a moment. I'll just plug this other one.
Okay.
Mic? Oh, no, it doesn't have a mic. I think we'll have to just work with this one.
Okay. Actually, now your audio sounds a little bit better, so you must be closer to the microphone
source with your mouth.
Yeah.
I've got something weird here. I might disappear for a second. If I do, I'll be right back.
There you go.
Hello?
Yep.
Is it any better?
Ah.
I brought it up closer to my mouth, so I don't know if it's any better now.
Yes. At that last... The last thing you said was,
I can hold it like this. I think that means you guys will be able to hear me better.
Yes. Perfect. Okay.
Good to hear your voice again.
It's like you're going to tell us all something super top secret and interesting,
so it's appropriate that we all have to lean in to hear it.
Yeah. Hi, Alex. How are you doing, man?
It's great to hear you.
Yeah.
I'm good.
I'm good.
I'm good.
I'm good.
I'm good.
I'm good.
I'm good.
I'm good.
I'm good.
I'm good.
It's been such a long time.
It's been three or four years since we chatted, huh?
Yeah. It must have been three, four years.
I don't know if you noticed or not, but basically people have been telling me that it's 2014.
Yeah. Hold on. Your audio... Something just happened to your audio. Let me...
That's better. Yep.
Okay. So, I mean, at that point in time, I used to be on Facebook.
Yep.
I mean, it was just through a random coincidence that he must have seen my account or something.
And then he used to run this page that was about land raise,
that he was getting all the land raise enthusiasts in one group so that they can do a seed trade.
It was a seed trading group, basically.
So he added me onto that group, and I think that's where we met and we started.
We exchanged some seeds.
He sent me some of his seeds like, you know, Breath of the Green Dragon,
Breath of the Purple Dragon that he has, and a few other crosses which were not named at
that point in time because I'm speaking, I think maybe 2016 or 17, somewhere around that time.
So we grew them out. I mean, they were fantastic.
And I sent him some seeds and he grew them out.
And it was just fantastic.
You know, it just completed like the whole circle.
And I was instantly able to realize, you know, this is this one complete process that we can do
not only exchange the seeds, but actually grow them out and, you know, like share reports and,
you know, picture like media.
So the other, you know, the breeder or, you know, whoever is sending the seed cannot
actually, you know, get to see some of that data, you know, how did their plant do in a
certain different environment.
And, you know, I mean, we gave him as much information as we could, I believe, you know,
and we did.
Yeah.
So I just wanted to throw it out there just to let you guys know that, you know, I and
Alex, I mean, we've known each other probably for the longest time and I can't remember
anybody else on Instagram right now that I've known for maybe that long, maybe a couple
more people.
And that's about it.
Yeah, we had a pretty good start there when it was pretty inspiring to be able to actually
communicate with somebody who was first-hand experience with some of these plants that
my mentor had told me about.
And the region, the sweet spots and the legendary zones, the hash making, at the time his experience
was just there in India.
But, and I know just like Facebook, there are some people didn't treat them so well.
We had a hard time with moving seeds around.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The people just take all the seeds.
We tried several times when in sending, saving money on stamps and stuff and just trying
to get it through customs and people would grab it.
Yeah, this one time, I mean, you know, someone just took off with like a complete package.
I mean, you know, it was already difficult to get the seeds across as it is.
And then, you know, once we got the seeds across, there was this one guy, you know,
I think in Washington and he kind of like took off with all of the seeds.
He basically like said, I'm not going to give these seeds to anyone.
I'll just keep them.
And yeah, I mean.
I think he literally said I'll burn them or flush them down the toilet before I put
anybody else in the back of this.
Yeah, because basically people got into his messages and started telling him that he needs
to, you know, give those seeds because these seeds, you know, like, I mean, they belong
to people, but he was like, no, no, no.
I'll keep them.
I'll keep this.
And he just wanted to give away my like few seeds, not all of them.
And then he ended up basically keeping all of it.
And then he like sort of blocked me and all.
But but yeah, I mean, like a lot of stuff happened at that point in time.
It wasn't that organized.
I mean, you know, we just used to do like little things and just save like a little
bit of money for like like he said, for stamps and everything.
And just just make sure, you know, we can get these trades going.
And I think that's basically what put really the foundation blocks of what basically we're
doing.
I mean, you know, Alex has been doing it forever now, especially what I'm doing now.
I think, you know, it had like a deep, deep impact on what I'm doing today.
And I could say, I mean, you know what, I wouldn't be able to do, you know, like a lot
of that if it had not been for like people like Alex, you know, who initially motivated
and, you know, helped me really.
I mean, you know, you know, get into the circle and really understand, you know, what the
dynamics are like and, you know, what really needs to be done, you know, in terms of, you
know, growing and all of the other things.
So definitely learned a lot from him.
You know, we had some other some other lessons, some things like trying to find something
to match up with my hardcore actually was one of the great lessons that's led to where
this conversation today is at the new classification by elevation and latitude.
And we're looking for something that's like, it's still snow covered here and or it's
snowing and they're up there making hash in the high elevations in Emmett Shell.
And so we realized like this might not match up this right to where just because I'm up
high, I want to produce a high elevation plant.
And then some other ones we experienced, I think, was you get some seed that was collected
from a farmer or from a wild whatever.
And we weren't able to germinate them once they got here and finding that reproducing
them closer to their origin to start with.
There's a whole bunch of lessons that got figured out for sure.
I think what would really shape this classification system would be like all of these conversations
that we started having, because once the seamless exchange, once we figured out how to get the
seeds across and everything was sorted out, really, and we were sent seeds at our will.
Well, what we started doing more and more were having these conversations that, OK,
you're in Utah and, OK, the snowfall is going to kick in at this month.
So you probably need a variety that's going to stop flowering before it starts snowing
in your region.
And that takes you back into your own backyard and you see, OK, where could I find a climate
zone that is very close to, would be a close representation to his climate zone?
And that really begets a different sort of understanding or, say, a thought process where
you could say, you know what, if these similar places, if climate having the
similar climate has such an impact on the phenotypic feature of the plant that you can
actually have a very close representation of the same plant should you be growing it
in a very similar climate and soil profile as well.
That is the sort of things that you begin to wonder and you think that is there maybe
a fixed system that we could put all of these things into and then anybody who just looks
at that system could just figure out, you know, if my variety is indigenous to this
particular region and this particular region has a certain climate zone, then this variety
should do some things which are very specific, like the flowering duration is one of those
things.
Now, the flowering duration is something which is, I mean, it's such an important thing
because it's what does the reproduction.
That's how the plant really survives its lineage every year.
So it's very critical to the plant and it's shaped absolutely according to the terroir.
I mean, you could see when you would go to Hindukush and the plant varieties basically
stop flowering after eight to 10 weeks because it basically starts snowing out there after
that.
So any plant that actually does flower beyond 10 weeks, it actually doesn't survive and
generation over generation, they make lesser and lesser seeds.
And only the plants that actually flower before the snowfall, you know, they go on
to make more and more seeds.
So eventually what you really see is like a selective pressure which is being put by the
environment and not, you know, really like people or the cultures around it.
And I'm really speaking here, you know, in terms of an isolated population that is not
being affected by human means correctly, currently.
So that sort of population really, I mean, is shaped by the selective pressure of its
terroir.
And that's why, you know, a specific climate zone, a specific, you know, altitude begets
a very certain characteristic in plants.
And if we could connect them and we could start in the ecosystem, we definitely can,
you know, make one.
We lost you.
Yeah.
And I came up with one, you know, that was around like 2019, I think.
And it wasn't so good.
I mean, it wasn't very accurate.
So, you know, I definitely thought at that point in time, you know, that it could be,
you know, shaped better.
And ever since we've been trying to do that and basically this is not like job done.
I mean, this is still work in progress.
It will be shaped by the conversations like this that we're having right now.
I mean, who knows, maybe by the end of the conversation, you know, we may end up discussing
something, you know, that helps me further, you know, shape it and create it, make it
even more specific and, you know, just more on point, you know, to say.
Yeah.
Lost you again.
Oh, no.
Hello.
Yep.
Kenny.
Okay.
Yeah.
That's it.
I mean, you know, that's what I'm really trying to say.
I'm really looking forward to this conversation, you know, how and, you know, what all we
speak about and discuss and probably, you know, I can take back some learnings and,
you know, you can possibly and, you know, other people could as well.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
So on all that, finding that plant for your spot, right?
There is.
That's where it started basically.
Yes.
That's what started the thought process.
I mean.
And there's a, somebody mentioned the other day that they, in some of the lessons I'm
showing about, about what I'm doing with soils and stuff.
And they're like, I want to be able to grow outdoors as well as I grow indoor.
And what that comes to is you got to match this as well, because you can't just take
any plant unless you're living in one of the sweet spots, which there's only so much land
and, you know, there's only so much space in the Willamette Valley.
There's only so much space in the Emerald Triangle here for us.
Or there's only so much space in the Hemichel Paradise that's available for the farmers
there to produce their churros.
Here's, you know, you've got to find what's going to work where you're at to the best
of all least limiting factors.
All right.
And that's the same thing I'm going to talk about in the soil.
It's the same thing I talk about and did matching this up for finding your medicine,
finding your breeding, finding your local production.
And yeah, that's all of this advancing everyone's thought on what are we growing and why, how
much energy do we put into, can we produce pounds for pennies by dry farming?
We can.
Right.
And this is how.
I mean, look at Afghanistan.
I mean, you know, just how much water they have.
I mean, just recently, you know, I've been posting about, you know, southern Afghanistan
and I mean, just from the looks of the place, you could see how dry and bad in that places.
I mean, except cannabis or a few of the crops that they really want to grow there.
I mean, you pretty much do not see anything growing there.
And still, I mean, the cannabis that they're growing is just so much better.
So huge.
I mean, it just doesn't seem like that, you know, the scarcity of water or, you know,
just not putting in, you know, all those bottle nutrients is really holding those people back.
So it's just that those seeds have been, you know, adapted to that area, to that soil profile
and to that climate for such a long time that, you know, that really, you know, takes precedence
or even over, you know, things like scarcity of water and over time plant varieties actually,
you know, basically they adapt to those changes because the ones that don't, you know,
they sort of, you know, get weeded out in the evolutionary process.
And right now, what we're seeing in these farms that have gone is done in southern Afghanistan
and northern Afghanistan for that matter is the genetics that have survived those climates and
are just best suited to grow in those particular regions.
And, you know, as a matter of surprise, you know, when you bring those seeds back
and you actually send, you know, try to grow them in America or in England or in India or
any other country for that matter, we actually have to go through, you know, a lot of trouble
in order to, you know, make them feel home because, you know, we may put in, you know,
all we may put in all the good things and, you know, give all the care in the world that,
you know, they couldn't get in the open under the open skies of Afghanistan.
But still being in their natural habitat, you know, just would always take precedence,
precedence, you know, even over, you know, those small little things that we could do
that those farmers going out there.
So it just matters so much to have to actually grow the plant in the correct climate,
in the correct condition.
And, you know, like Alex, you said about the limiting factors.
So as many as you could, I mean, take care of and as far as you can bring them to an
optimization zone, you know, the lesser of less of an effort that you would have to put in to grow.
And not only that, I think the other step basically is, and if someone is breeding is
basically you should be able to control the plant the way you want to.
I mean, if you want to keep the plant like, you know, tucked up in a small pot for a certain
amount of time till you're not going to be using it for breeding, you should be able
to, you know, do that.
And if you want to grow it like really big, really fast, you should be able to do that.
If you want to take cuttings, you want to root them, anything that you wish to do.
I mean, you should have like complete control over that.
And the only way I'm in that that could be achieved is by really understanding, you know,
the conditions that your plant demand and, you know, the nutrition that your plant demands,
basically, you know, the more we understand, understand that we can more, we can, you know,
drive those genetics towards optimization in terms of growing is what I'm trying to say.
And yeah, and I'm checking out some of the people that Desiree posts on his Instagram
and some of these farmers, if you follow some of, if they have accounts and whatnot, or,
you know, just, that's how I find some of these hash-icians and hash farmers and these guys that
visit these different farms in Afghanistan. You get to learn so much about their processes and,
but you can see that for sure, their farms are super dry. These guys will post videos of
drilling a well and getting their antique motor well pumps running and bringing water out to the
land. And, but yeah, it's dry, dry crops. They flood maybe once or twice if they got the money
to pay for the irrigation when it happens in the Afghanistan area. It's super dry. Looking at,
if you look at satellite pictures, there's little bands of green following the river valleys.
And desert mountains. Yeah. And, and, and there's such an interesting thing about that. I mean,
and, and this is like more of a speculated stuff, but I think when the, when an answer is not out
there, I mean, all you could do is basically speculate and then try to shape it, you know,
towards, towards the facts, you know, as much as you could. So having an, having a terroir like
this, that you only have like certain patches of green, and then you have these large distances
between them which are basically not covered by any plants. So it, it really, it really, you know,
brings about the situation where the plant needs to have a very strong odor that, you know,
travels a long distance because, you know, if a plant that actually has that ability would be
able to attract more pollinator, because you don't really have like a Himalaya, I mean,
subtropical Himalayas like situation because you go, you go to a place like Malana, you know,
you're into subtropical highlands. You don't see any part of the soil that does not have a plant
on it. It's, it's got to have some plant, nettle, some wildflower, you know, trees or cannabis,
something's going to be growing there. So, I mean, those plants really don't need to have,
that strong of an odor. I mean, because the pollinators are all around them.
There must be like a wildflower somewhere, somewhere hanging around like a cannabis plant.
So they get by. And again, you know, the kind of pollinators that are out there, when you look at
like Northwest Himalayas, you have all these bees which are attracted towards floral and, you know,
fruity smells. So most of the plants kind of carry that smell again through, I mean, this is basically
achieved over time through selective pressure once again, you know, all by itself. And when you
go back to Afghanistan, you look at all the smells, all of the smells are more, mostly like alcohol
and like these, these phenol, phenol-based smells. And those smells really help in attracting the
pollinators which are present in Afghanistan, which is like mostly beetle and, you know,
dung beetles and flesh flies. And that's one of the reasons you also end up with a lot of plants
that smell like dead flesh, because there are a lot of flesh flies out there, which help in
pollination. So, I mean, you could, you could really see, I mean, you know, how much of a difference
that a terroir could make. And if you go to things like, you know, resin texture, right? So
in Afghanistan, most of the plants have a very dried resin texture because there's like little
to no rain and there's mostly just, you know, dust blowing around. And, yeah, and it's just the best
kind of, you know, resin texture that those plants could possibly have in order to survive it. And
then you come back to subtropical Himalayas, you see there's a lot of rain that pours down during
the flowering period, then the trichomes are still on and their texture is very glistening, very
sticky. So the water just like, you know, slips through it. It just doesn't accumulate around the
buds and it really helps in, you know, mitigating the risks around, you know, having a lot of
moisture around the time when the plant is still flowering. So you could really see, you know, how
these plants have been shaped over time, over thousands, millions of years to be the best
representation of what they could be in a certain place. And then you have human ingenuity, you know,
coupled with it in places like Afghanistan or in places like Malana or in places like, you know,
Manipur and Burma, where these farmers bring in their skills of artificial selection,
farming, and, you know, these various selection techniques with which they're further able to
push it. And then, you know, those seeds are taken outside in countries like Europe and America. And
then you have, you know, people like Alex, people like yourself, you know, who know a little more
than that. And then they push the envelope a little further, hybridize them, you know, select them,
really, you know, create, narrow down a population where, you know, the end customer could just pop
two seeds and you could still find a plant, you know, that's just as good as it's advertised for.
So, I mean, you know, and it's really important that we appreciate all this whole process,
but in this whole process, that one thing that would always, you know, strike like a commonplace,
even to Alex or to me or anybody, you know, anywhere in the world is to have that sweet
spot that Alex is speaking about, having the right kind of climate, right setting, and, you know,
making sure you're on top of all of these limiting factors that are affecting, basically affecting
your growth, you know, how much you could, and to the extent that you could control them is the
extent that you could control your growth is, I think would be a fair thing to say.
For sure. Yeah. So, you've done some traveling since we spoke. I don't think,
I don't think we chatted since you went into, is it Nanda Devi? Did you make it in very far?
Did you ever make it in and collect? Is that where the red stem comes from?
Some of it, but the red stem variety, you know, that we actually tested out, that one comes
from Dhalada ranges in Himachal Pradesh. That's basically the Terai region, that's the foothills
of Himachal Pradesh in the lower, in the lower Himalayas, and it's basically called the
Shivalik region, which borders with Punjab as well. So, that's where those populations are,
and they have not been domesticated. They have, they're pretty much in their primordial state.
The only problem is that now, because, you know, those places being the kind of places where a lot
of people live, you know, you find mostly, most the human concentration in temperate zones.
Those plants, those plant populations have gotten affected by, you know, the human encroachment
because of the streetlights and so many other things, you know, the garbage that we throw,
and so many other things that we've done. So, they have changed in some ways in order to survive
a newer environment, but I think by and large, they're still pretty much in their primordial
state, and it's actually available right now because we just released the North Himalayas
one book. That's the book that basically contains all this information about Himachal Pradesh from
the lowland, you know, temperate regions all the way up to the subtropical highlands of Malana.
So, we basically included some of those varieties. We're including, yes, thank you so much. So, we,
and we've included seeds of stinging nettle. I mean, I was in Chamoli, so I collected these
stinging nettle seeds last season, and yeah, they're really nice. They're, again, it's a wild
Himalayan variety. It's a land-raised variety that is indigenous to that region. So, I mean,
if you could grow them, you could possibly try to test, you know, test for, test it for the phyto
chemicals that it contains, and, you know, map it against the varieties that you have in northern
California or Oregon or all of these other places, and see, you know, what are the differences that
they have. But, I mean, nevertheless, I mean, it's interesting. Again, it's another plant
that's a wonderful companion plant to cannabis, and it's just exciting to grow it alongside.
And then, of course, there's a book that contains all the information. So, if you guys
are looking for this, you guys will be able to find the information under my post where to get
it from, and yeah, this will be available from the fourth. But thank you very much for letting
me advertise it from your platform. Yeah, no, I want to get those out to the people so they have
an understanding. I think it's awesome that it's progressed to this, my friend. You have another
one for Afghanistan, is that correct? Yeah, yeah, the first book was for the
southern Afghanistan, and this second one is for northwest Himalayas. But because northwest Himalayas
basically contains Nepal, so parts of Nepal, India, and within India, you could say,
you know, some of the northeast India, some of the, I'm sorry, some of the Uttarakhand and
Himachal Pradesh as well. So, there was a lot of data, and I didn't really find it satisfactory
that, you know, I really push it down into like one book. I thought I would have like separate
books so we can really have a detail, you know, we could really give them time and space that they
deserve basically, you know, they just want to make sure they get all these reasons, get all the
respect and due respect that they get. Excellent. So, we'll basically be having like a series of
books coming out, you know, so people can get all of this information in like a handy book.
And I think this might be a very good way in order to put the information across to a lot
more people. Oh yeah. We may not be able to, you know, come up to my page and, you know, read all
of this information or go to website, which I'm really not able to update that much because of
being between, you know, doing some, you know, stuff here and there. So, coffee table material
here, man. This is conversation starter stuff and on all sorts of levels. Beautiful works that
you're putting out. It's really, really psyched to see this stuff. Exactly, man. Alex, just like
you said, it's the conversation starter stuff. I mean, just imagine if, you know, two people just
sit down on a coffee table and just because of that one book, if it starts a conversation around
land-raise, you know, I mean, that's all you could imagine. That's all you could imagine your book
could ever achieve. Right. Just instigating all of these, you know, conversations around, you know,
land-raise and preservation and basic understanding, you know, because it all starts with having a
basic foundational understanding of these plants and what they really are, where they come from,
and why they are the way they are and all of these things. And once you understand that, I think that
would organically begets a concern, you know, for having a preservation around it. I mean, just like
you don't have to tell people that we have to, you know, save the rhinos. I mean, we just only like
lost the last black rhino, I think in 2019. We're down to two white northern rhinos. They have some
embryos. We're hoping to be able to, but yeah, we're about to lose the rhinos. So basically,
you know, telling someone that we're going to save the rhino is not really going to help. I mean,
what people really need to understand about is the beauty of this animal. It's such a beautiful
animal that has survived so many years on this planet, right? So we have to appreciate that. Once
we appreciate that, that really brings us to a place where we can see, you know, that we have to
preserve all of these things which are so important and integral to our ecosystem in which we live
ourselves. And we wouldn't know, I mean, you know, what importance those things hold until once they're
gone and they're reduced to, you know, stories and myths. Just, I mean, I always, I mean, you know,
reiterate this thing because what you don't like is, what I didn't like as a student when I was in
school was, you know, reading about like the Dodo the bird and knowing that I could never see one,
and I could now only see one in the book about, you know, reading about the Tasmanian, you know,
tiger that I could actually would never be able to see one in real life, you know,
and these actually existed because there's a picture here, right? Right in the book.
We lose species every day on this planet Earth. Absolutely, and they're like hundreds
getting wiped out, and we'll never be able to see them. So many of these that we didn't even
know about got just wiped out that we are still yet to learn. So part of them are essential
to the food webs that create our ability to sustain life on this planet as well, and we're
literally cutting the web that just holds us here, and this is all part of why I do what I do.
It was, you know, it's for the seventh generation for us to use, not ours. We're just here borrowing
it. Yeah, and, you know, one of the motivating things is what I've seen from like the American
or the European community would be a lot of people, you know, opposing the use of, you know,
salt-based fertilizers and initialated fertilizers because people are concerned
about this microbial life that you spoke of, you know, that has this interweb of information and,
you know, interweb of, you know, flow of nutrition that basically, you know, feeds the entire planet
plants and, you know, that feeds the animals and us and basically everyone. So I mean this thought
is, it's such an altruistic thought. This movement is an altruistic movement. It's not
out of someone's personal concern. It's just out of the concern for, you know, everyone on the earth
because we as a species wouldn't exist if, you know, some of these things are wiped out tomorrow.
So I think, you know, this needs to be looked at from a very broader perspective and not just in
terms of cannabis but in terms of, you know, so many other things, you know, that we take for
granted and we don't understand that once they're gone we'll be in a lot of problems and then we
would be at the mercy of, you know, a lot of these people that people don't like in all these
companies that have the ability to create all of these things synthetically. So then you wouldn't
have any choice but to go do those options. So right now we have an option to, you know,
keep some of the things as they, you know, occur naturally but if we don't protect them,
we don't preserve them, then, you know, I mean, I don't think, you know, I really even have the
ability to, you know, fathom, you know, what kind of, you know, destruction it could cause, you know,
in terms of having not being able to live a life that, you know, we all are used to. I mean,
you could already see, I mean, with one virus out there. Yeah, I mean, it's been a complete
paradigm shift in the way we... Population dynamics is pretty standard. When any population
comes in and overgrows its host or its environment, it starts destroying its own
ability to sustain and some disease comes in and wipes it out because it's become weakened.
And that's typical. We have exponential growth of any population. It is dynamic, it's offset,
and something else comes in. You have endemic population, you have epidemic population,
and something else comes in and balances. And we destroy everything else, we're going to go
right with it, no matter of the majority. Of course, we have science and stuff, but it's not
going to save all of us. It's not going to save, you know, we have a choice to make.
Creation protectionism is something I like to say, and people get confused. Again, I'm talking
fundamentalism Christian, and it doesn't go to that as well. Because one way I respond is,
whether you believe it occurred in six days, or you understand it took billions of years,
either way, we're not entitled to just destroying it, their own greed and laziness.
Right. Yeah, I think, you know, we as human beings, we're not really in position because,
you know, we don't even understand the nature of the consciousness as it is. So, you know,
we're really not in the position to really answer in an absolute way about the nature of our
existence, you know, about things like, you know, God, religion, and all of these things. So I think
that they're basically better left to, you know, everyone's own personal judgment, and you know,
how they feel about these things, because, you know, I come from a different background. And,
you know, I'm only friends with so many people, you know, they come from different religions,
different cultures. And, and I just think it's beautiful. And it's great. And that's it, man,
that that's all, you know, that, you know, we should, we should really be able to comment
about these things, you know, in an absolute way. But yes, I think what a beautiful point that you
made was that no matter how it came to be, you know, we're absolutely nobody to, you know,
actually destroy it and just let it go to, you know, nothing.
Oblivion. Yeah.
On the other hand, it's our, it's in our power to preserve, it becomes our duty to do so that
stewardship in its most basic form. And so that's where we can be stewards of these plants. Now,
you may choose to be a preservationist and reproduce the plant in open pollination, or,
or you may decide never to grow one of these, you may find ones that work perfectly for you. And
that becomes your dominant garden production model. I'd love to see some of these medicines
get to the people who, but it's not, it's not necessarily in a profit model to produce some
of these though. So it's, it definitely becomes a stewardship and a passion thing for those of us
who believe in it. Yeah, it does. I mean, you know, I was in this audition and we were having
the conversation and it just came up, I just came up, I was speaking off, you know, how if you have
like, you know, hybridized cannabis, if you have hybridized cannabis here in, in an Asian country,
you know, it just, you know, sells for the, a ridiculous amount of money. And, you know, you
could just, you know, grow a lot of it and you could make, you know, so much, so much money. I
mean, it just, so somewhere like, like thousand dollars for an ounce and that, that sort of, you
know, it's just ridiculous. Or you could choose to, you know, use that space to grow land races
and preserve them just to see how they grow, you know, so you can just talk about it. So you could
just, you know, make some notes and, you know, have some more understanding about them, you know, or
you know, I just go to these places and I look at these populations, I bring the
seeds back and I immediately want to grow it because I want to see if I grew it, how closer
of a representation of that plant I could. And that basically is like a report card to me. It tells me,
you know, how much I've come to understand that plant and the better I could do, the better,
the closer representation that I could find to, to the plants that were growing back, where I
brought the seeds from and I think a better job I could. So it's just such a wholesome process in
itself, you know, it's a giving process, but it just depends, you know, what you find as a giving. I mean,
if the money part is, part of it is the only thing that someone is concerned, then of course it's
not so much of a giving, but if the experiences and the learnings that you could, you know, absorb
and then use that to really create a better understanding about this plant and pass it on
to other people, if you see that as giving, then there's, I mean, it's just incomparable to anything
and I think it has to appear as one of the most rewarding processes. And that's just how I
see it, maybe that's what we call passion and, you know, if yes, then yes, you know, I'm passionate
about doing that and I choose to use my space that way, just like you choose your space to, you know,
breed your own genetics. I mean, I'm sure you could also get hold of like a couple of, you know,
famous genetics and just slap them everywhere to, you know, every last plant of yours and just put
those seeds out and even you'll be able to see, sell a ton of them because, you know, the recognition
is out there, so you don't really have to do a lot of work, but I mean, you just choose not to do that,
you choose to take the actual hard way, you know, the way it should be done because it brings
learning. If we just take somebody else's work and that everything has already been done,
then we don't really learn anything out of that. I mean, when the whole world is, right, and when you do...
I gotta confess, it's 35 years now, somebody sent me a six or seven elite clones, so I am actually
gonna put a couple of those out there to help, but also it's gonna fund the rest of my work,
right, and so it's... there is a partial thing about American consumers is that name recognition
and familiarity, and this is scientifically proven, it's like, that's a fact, but so getting my name
further out there and getting people to come and see what I'm doing even more and understanding how
I took that elite clone and made it better through land-raise breeding, right, there's gonna be a
whole other door we're opening, but here it is, yeah, I went quite a ways without ever doing that,
and is it selling out or selling at this point where 99% of people are just doing that, that's
where they start, they take elites and they start crossing them, right, and not even understanding
the plant, and you grow some of these land races, they'll teach you about yourself too,
you're gonna learn about the soils and you're gonna learn about lighting in ways you never
understood, but yeah, I have to throw that confession out there, buddy, is that I did...
the clone fairy showed up and the clone fairy had good intentions is to keep the lights on.
Yeah, I mean, of course, I mean, you know, once you're in this field, I think, you know, you've
gotten along, you know, so many years, like decades without actually, you know, having to,
you know, leverage through any of those, you know, clone varieties, so I think, you know, it's sort of
like, you know, once you've paid your dues, you know, it's understandable that you have the
understanding, you have a basic fundamental understanding of the genetics, so you can just go
grab a plant and then you can start using them because, you know, we understand that you have a
basic understanding of the genetics and how they work, and even if you grab a very commercial
plant, you know, that happens to be famous, it's just that you have to attend to your customer base
as well at the end of the day because they're supporting you and they're the ones making
it possible for you that you can still carry on doing what you're doing and in a better way with
every passing day, so you have to be very mindful of their needs as well, I think it's just because
it's, again, it's an altruistic, you know, system that we're in that not only that, you know, one
party have to, you know, look that they have to help in your progression of a certain variety, I mean,
at the end of the day, you have to, you know, add value to the community and long-term value you're
already adding to the community, you know, by doing the breeding and, you know, by doing actual work
that would last for years, for decades to come and then you have to give, you know, like these
short-term value to people as well, you know, through putting out things which are like right now
famous and, you know, have commercial viability right away for them because it just has to be
both ways, I mean, everybody has to be compensated in some way and... That's what it comes down to is
I gotta provide for my daughter and I have this obsession that, you know, I could be
definitely doing other things but I have, it's like I gotta leave something besides oil paintings
for the world when I go to make it a better place. You should basically show some of those
paintings here maybe if you could, I mean, because they're amazing. I'm pretty sure
everybody already knows, I mean, he's a... Well, we're gonna have a Bob Ross style session, we'll do it
in the next week or so. Or maybe just have a session, I mean, just for the artwork.
Paint some happy trees. I gotta rig a little tripod for the phone camera.
Well, you could, yeah, you could just set the easel up kind of by that plant behind you and...
Yeah, I just, that's the kitchen and I just throw up a different something behind me each day
because I'm a bachelor and you don't want to see my kitchen.
But yeah, that's my early victory garden there is a big salad bowl I'm about to have for dinner and
then the purple inbred Pakistani Chitral Kush that's now becoming the Zakhastani Kush on the other side.
Yeah.
Can we maybe take a step back and can you give us kind of, you know, maybe concentrically
starting with your home turf, like what your journey and kind of you're someone who's explored
a region that keeps growing, right? Like from India to, you know, concentrically out now Afghanistan.
So can you kind of talk about what you're... Where you've been traveling to, to go see...
Start at the beginning. So what part of India is home turf and kind of give us a history lesson
of that and then, you know, what variations in microclimates and plants that you've noticed
and the people as you've kind of, you know, explored outward from the home turf.
Yeah. Okay.
So in one hour or less, go.
Okay, one hour. No problem. Okay. The home turf basically is Uttarakhand. So it's one of the
Himalayan states. So there are like three Himalayan states in India. That's one is Kashmir,
which is right in the north. And then you have Himachal Pradesh, you know, in descending zone
in terms of latitude, I'm telling you. So at the highest latitude around like 34 degrees to 35
degrees is what you have Kashmir. And around like 32, you have Himachal Pradesh. And then you have
Uttarakhand basically. So if you zoom into Uttarakhand, you see the, this is basically,
you know, this, this is the border between India and India.
Give me a direction, which like from Lahore, am I going south?
Yeah, no, no, no, no, you're not going south. You go towards the east. Yeah. Keep going there.
Keep going. Now go north. Go north. Go north. I'm about 40 degrees north here.
Yeah, here you are, Uttarakhand. Okay. This is it. You need to stop next to Nepal,
border with Nepal. Yes. This is, this is the, this is the state. This is a state in India,
Uttarakhand. And this is, you can see, you can see Nanda Devi National Park already. So if you
zoom into that, that's basically Chamoli. I mean, like most of the Chamoli is inside
Nanda Devi National Park. And all of these white, all this white region that you can see around it,
that's basically all, that's the Himalayan, these are the Himalayan peaks. They're all averaging
around 6,000, 7,000 meters. You have Thrissur, you have like Dunagiri, you have Nanda Devi itself,
you have Nilkanth. These are all like 7,000ers. And they're just, these are the mountains that
basically, you know, stop the monsoon from going over to the Tibetan side. Right. That's what stops
the monsoon. And then monsoon basically retreats from over here and travel bestwards one more time.
And then they have like a retreating monsoon over this Gujarat area. And then, you know, you have
these late monsoon rains sometime they see in Kandahar when they travel straight back.
But basically starting from, you know, we have, you know, done collections basically all around
this place. We have been to Nanda Devi. I'm into the last village that is on the Indian-Tibetan
border. That's Niti village. And we've done collection from there. That's a buffer zone
because that place actually has a climate very similar to Tibet. That place does not get any of
the monsoon rains because it's in the rain shadow of the Himalayas just like the rest of the Tibetan
plateau. And it just does not get any rain. It's completely like barren and very close of a
representation of what Afghanistan looks like basically. And we've done collections from there.
The only difference is that nobody has actually done anything to the plants. So the plants have
been pretty much in their primordial state more or less. So those collections have been really
important. And then coming down from there, we've come, if you start coming down a little bit, then
you enter the zone that is subtropical highlands within Chamoli. And we've done collections from
those places. And those places, even though they're only about 100 kilometers in difference,
they have stark difference in their phenotypic nature. The features that they have,
these plants, they're so different. And you can see it's only because of the difference in the
climate. Because you could go to Himachal Pradesh, the subtropical zone extends
within hundreds of kilometers. And you go around those places and you see absolutely little to no
difference amongst the plants, except for what domestication may have caused. But when you go to
Uttarakhand and your Neeti Valley, which is basically a close representation of Tibet or
Hindu Kush, you could say, Hindu Kush mountains, because it's in rain shadow and doesn't get any
of the monsoons. The plants are completely different. They grow very small. They grow
tucked to the ground. And they flower within eight to nine weeks because the place essentially gets
a snow cover by the October. So they have all of these features. And as you come down 100
kilometers down, you're basically in the subtropical zones. And the plants are basically
different. They grow taller because there's more moisture in the air. They flower a little
longer because the snow cover comes a little late during the November. And they don't
grow very small either because there's ample nutrients in the soil. And the soil profile
is different. It's not all sandy like Neeti Valley. So within Uttarakhand, I mean, Uttarakhand is such
a diverse place in itself. So when we're classifying basically varieties, it's very,
very important that we go to all of these small places and understand their climate and why
those climates are shaped that way. And then look at the plant. And that basically tells us a lot,
what the climate does to the plant. So we've actually gone ahead and done detailed
collections in that way so that we can then write some of those in concise studies and put them out.
So if you go to the website, you can actually check. There's an article that I've actually
put out on this exact thing that I just spoke of. You can go on the website. You can go in the
article section. And you can look for the article around the Uttarakhand Nanda Devi National Park.
And you'll be able to see that we've done a climate, basically a side-by-side comparison
between the climates of Neeti Valley and Urgham Valley, which are basically 100 kilometers apart
within Uttarakhand but have different climates. And hence, the plant populations are completely
different. So I mean, that's something I would really urge everyone to, I mean, whoever is
listening to go and actually take a look at that article. It basically tells you what kind of
impact climate can have on the phenotypes over time. Now, Uttarakhand is basically where I come
from. So that's basically where my village is. And that's where we started off from.
But I've been living a lot in Punjab as well. So Punjab is basically a temperate zone.
You don't basically get any of the snow there. So plants can grow all around. But just like any
other part in the world, when you're talking of temperate zones that do not get any of the
snow cover, you see most of the population covers are in these kind of areas.
So because of that, there's a lot of, the population is really dense in Punjab.
And the plant populations which were growing there, they're just constantly getting affected
by the encroachment of us human beings. We're making houses, shops, all kind of infrastructure
is being put together. And it just had to be, I mean, all of these indigenous plant varieties
that are out there has to be taken out in order to actually come up with all of that infrastructure.
So I lived for a considerable time in Punjab. And when I looked around, and I saw this place
that I used to always look every season that cannabis would come up all by itself. Now,
there is a house there. And then there was another spot that I used to see the cannabis
used to come up every year. Now, there is a shopping complex there. So that basically
gave me an organic understanding of things as well that, okay, this is something that's going
to get wiped out. I mean, this is not something that's going to stay there forever. Because
basically nobody's bothered about collecting or preserving any of this and cataloging it.
So we might need it in future. But we're just on the other hand, we're just completely
wiping it out. So that's one of the things that struck me. But I think one of the most
pivotal things that basically brought me to an understanding that I actually need to begin a
movement around it and basically see how much of an impact we could make. And the difference that
we could make is when we went to Himachal Pradesh, and we visited Malala, which is the
famous village for hash making, churros making. And the first time you go there, the amount of
plants that you see, I mean, it's just incredible. I mean, it's just thousands, hundreds and thousands
of plants growing everywhere. And if you just happen to be there around the harvest time,
the smell is basically is in the air 24 by 7. You're just smelling beautiful cannabis terpenes
all the time. I mean, it's just absolutely indescribable. You just have to be there
to experience something like this. I mean, no matter how many words I say today, but I mean,
I would really urge, I mean, if you just ever get time, come down there, experience it before that
too is gone because it does seem like that more and more of encroachment is happening, even over
there, more tourism cafes and all of this stuff, which brings more economic growth is happening,
which we cannot deny these people off. But that's basically is coming at a cost of getting rid of
the cannabis that grows around there. So if you guys do get time, you could go around there and
check out this village. It's really something to be at. And not just the Malana village,
I mean, the entire Malana Valley and Parvati Valley around it. Almost every village you have
a certain amount of natural cannabis population or domesticated cannabis population that you could
look at and make some collections out of, take them back and preserve.
So that's basically is where I've basically done work initially when I started working, but
then I had to basically circle out of that place and make sure that this same thing is happening
at other parts of the world as well. So I had friends from college and from other places as
well that were from different areas. So I started making friends and connections and started
telling other people about this, how I thought. And certainly I met people who couldn't understand
and then I met people who could understand and they joined in and slowly and steadily,
we have this network of people who all are just bent towards the same task of collecting these
varieties from all the regions we can, catalog them, capture the media, make sure it's documented
properly, stored properly. And then it's handed over to people who are in an ability and in legal
places to actually grow them and preserve them and work with them further and add to our collective
library of cannabis varieties. And it's been happening. So I'm really happy. I mean,
whatever we're trying to achieve, we have been able to achieve that to a great extent. And we
are constantly making more efforts and trying to deploy more and more resources in order to make
sure that not only we're able to uphold all of this work, we're also able to take care of another
integral portion of our work, which is basically giving back to these communities. So anytime we're
getting seeds from any of these communities, it's very important that we give back to them because
we have to work in a sustainable manner, in a symbiotic manner, and we have to ensure that
we're adding long-term value to both sides, not just to one side. So whatever resources we get,
some of that we take and give back to these regions and make sure that those people
are more capable of doing what they have been doing already and just enabling them because
there's nothing really that we can teach them or we would teach them rather because they've been
doing an absolutely fantastic job. It's us who've been lagging behind. So we just make sure any way
we find we can facilitate them towards a better life, having a better situation to work. So we
just do that in a very non-invasive manner because we have to be mindful that they're
very secluded cultures and they're not to be infringed upon in a way that it
changes the moral set. So it's basically balancing all of these activities is the key here.
It all goes hand in hand basically. And then we have outwardly expanded to
regions, to neighboring countries like Pakistan, Afghanistan. We've done collections all over
Kashmir and northeast of India and southeast Asian countries like Cambodia, Laos, Burma.
Then we've gone to desert regions of India and northern regions like Rajasthan where we went
in 2017. I'm planning to actually give out last of those seeds. I have some 500-700
seeds left from that and I'm thinking of just giving those away so that people can actually
preserve them because a lot of people have them. They're not very desirable because they come from
this desert climate, never been domesticated really and all of that. So not a lot of incentive
again behind growing and preserving them other than if you're just a real preservationist and
you really want to do this. So it comes from a real actual desert. It's a low desert, it's a
hot desert. The temperatures get up to like 130-135 Fahrenheit so like around 40-48 degrees
Celsius during the summers. So it's an amazing variety to grow actually and preserve.
It brings drought resistance for sure because it comes from a desert region. So
if anybody wants to take advantage of that characteristic, this is something they can
cross their varieties with and again select for something which is like a close representation
but have this drought resistance in it. So we've done collections over there and
hoping to release some of that in the future as well.
Yeah okay and then recently we've been trying to streamline the process and
instead of doing a lot of different places every year, just trying to focus in like one or two
broad regions every year so we can do them in more detail. So just for that matter, we did
the southern Afghanistan this year and we took six to eight months to actually completely
map out the place and map out different farms, their techniques, speak to those farmers, really
understand everything so that we could create a comprehensive document like a tour book that we
did release and people can also take advantage of all of that information. I mean it's not like
me writing it, I'm just the medium in between, just like a vessel. So it's those people's
information, I'm just passing that information to other people. So it's not really
like a book that I'm writing. So maybe someday I would love to but this is maybe like
a tour book, this is all the information these people would have communicated to you people anyways
had you been sitting on the same table. But I'm just the medium here to do that.
That's all, nothing else. What are some of the, when you talk to people
from different villages, kind of let's say around Afghanistan, what are the commonalities
and differences of what you're hearing that's kind of top of mind for people in different areas?
Like what are they thinking about, caring about, concerned about?
Yeah so it differs really for all of the places as you could imagine it would. And in a place
like Afghanistan, I mean mostly people are concerned about resources and
personal preservation because of the way the state of the matter,
and state of the infrastructure and everything is out there. And then you go back to India,
you know some places like maybe like Rajasthan or the other places like Uttar Pradesh, you know that,
or Uttarakhand. People are not exactly rich out there but you know
there's abundance. I mean the land is such that everything grows very easily and
even if you don't grow anything you could just eat out of it, it's just so good to be there.
So you definitely see differences in what their basic, very basic concern,
very fundamental concerns are. And yeah I mean, but the only thing that the only
basically common theme that I've seen, the only common thing is that everybody has their own
very specific concern about their region. Like you go to a place like Balochistan, I mean
the only one thing they could worry about all the time is basically digging another well and
getting more water out of it. I mean they can get everything I mean except for water out there.
So it's just absolutely the only thing that they can all think of and all of the money
that they get, I mean they just you know collect it and you know put it towards you know digging
new wells. Now I mean to hit the water you have to go like thousand feet, 1500 feet in order to hit
any kind of water in that place. So I mean the cost that goes into digging a well is enormous
and you know some of these resources that you know get, these people get, they're able to
actually use it to you know do these things which is fantastic. But still you could see these
concerns I mean you know they differ from like region to region. So the common theme could be
like self-preservation but I mean it's for a different thing everywhere you know. So somewhere
it's for like food, somewhere it's for water, somewhere it's for like you know being you know
safe in itself you know. You know being staying alive I mean itself because you know places have
very different state that they're in you know. Some places are not very peaceful I mean you go
to Kashmir and I mean people just have absolutely different concerns. I mean you know that they're
not concerned about food or water there, they're just concerned about you know whether or not
they'll be you know in the same state that they are today. So yeah it's just sometimes it's sad
to see even you know like the things that some of the people have to go through and but you know it
is what it is. But you know there's not much we can do I mean as much as we can you know we always try.
And people who are farming this for a living I mean what's kind of the current market? Are they
selling and into the global market for hash? Are they selling locally? Is it all consumed locally?
Is it?
So yeah I mean you go to places like Afghanistan you know they're definitely selling a lot you
know which you know gets shipped over to the neighboring countries and then you know
gets loaded onto your ships and you know gets sailed over to different parts of the world. I
mean that's absolutely not any news flash for anyone as I could imagine. So I mean those
places are I mean heavily involved in that sort of that sort of trade. But then you go to
some of the other places you know where you do have a market but again the market is not
that prolific. Like you go to Uttarakhand and you know and some of these villages you know
that do have the domesticated crops you know who do you know make some of this resin or some of
the churros. They don't actually go on to really I mean make a lot of it maybe make a few kilos and
it's like really exclusive you know goes to a few people and it's not really something that they
rely on even as income. I mean this but they still I mean just choose to do it because it's almost
like a part of their you know being of their state of being. I mean this is something that
they have to do. So market is also different in different places. You go to Kashmir you have
fantastic genetics. You have like good extractors there you know people know how to do good
extractions, dry sieving and you know they cook it in a very unique way. But there's just no buyers
out there. The buyers that are out there they can't pay the price. So but they still have a
market but it's different and then you can go to places like Himachal Pradesh but they have a good
market and you know they get a decent price and you know things are pretty much how they are in
the west. So the market and you know everything because again because just because of these
places are so much different from each other you know. All of these their markets, their
you know cultures, their fundamental problems. They're just all very different from each other.
So there were a few questions a while ago Magma Seeds asked if you've explored Bhutan and
if you have any genetics from there. My brother has gone to Bhutan. I have not.
I mean gone on a collection trip there but my brother actually went there he brought some seeds.
So I do have some possession seeds in my possession but I mean certainly that's not
no way of you know giving those seeds out to other people. I mean I would actually love to
go out to Bhutan on a collection trip and actually you know do some collections there
you know check out the plants in person and bring in those seeds and maybe then you know
see if we can you know start sharing them. But that's the region that I've had in my mind for
quite some time but again you know most of the region is like subtropical region very similar to
subtropical highlands, northeastern Himalayas and you pretty much get very similar
a similar plant that flowers for about 11 to 13 weeks. It grows tall like a Christmas tree.
It has some this bare stuff like hemp and then it has you know a fair bit of side branching but
pretty much grows like a Christmas tree again and very epically dominant. Again has fruity and
floral smells and very mild high not much of you know not very narcotic in nature basically but
good for fiber have a good size of seed I think and good for resin making for churros you know
hand rubbed or even you know ice water and great genetics I mean and then there's a lot of rain
during the flowering period there as well just like any other subtropical region of
northwestern Himalayas. So you have a variety at hand you know that's good at mitigating the
humidity related risk you know should your climate is such that your plants have to
go through a very humid state during the flowering if that's really like a problem then these are the
genetics northwestern Himalayas the subtropical regions these are the genetics that could
potentially be the population that you should be looking into in order to breed varieties that
could yield plants that'll have absolutely no problem going through a high humidity
during the during the flowering period even and batch so yeah I mean these are useful varieties.
Alex any questions or comments? Oh man you know we've kind of hit on some of the main topics I had
from before I just had a couple of different questions things like what's like the highest
elevation and is it Nanda Devi they don't let westerners in there do they? No no no Nanda Devi
didn't come you if you have to go to Niti Valley you have to take a permission
it's a government permission and that's basically subject to government I mean they can or cannot
so I actually had this other guy Alex is another Alex Landry's legacy you know you might know him
so he actually came over in 2018 and we actually went there so we couldn't really get a permit so
you know we were not really able to go all the way down to your Niti Valley so
and we had to like return it from halfway so that's a place now it's not really culture related
it's just that that's the Indo-Tibetan border so we haven't like it's not really like they don't
really like people coming there to collect like seeds you know that's not really the kind of place
they want to see that sort of things so yeah again it's hard to be in these places and you
know you talk about places like Lollap Valley that would be like the highest place I think
some of these collections would come from I mean altitude could go I mean as high as like
4 000 meters there and the place itself is at like 34 degrees north these places sorry where
can you where is that I'll zoom into it that's in northern Kashmir so you basically go to the
northern Kashmir you can go to to the to the north above Himachal you have Jammu and Kashmir
and you have Srinagar that's south and then you have to go towards the north yeah so like up in
here yeah the screen yeah like where the white or the white snowy map so you see Kupwara you'll
see Kupwara district uh Kaporda district where is it related to Srinagar north you know you go
towards west and then of like northwest northwest but a little lower a little lower and can you zoom
in can you zoom in you actually need to zoom in then it'll open up I think yeah can you zoom in a
little bit more yeah and scroll it up just wait for the names to come up actually yeah so so here
here it is this is this is Kupwara you can see the name here actually you you can see Sopore and
Kupwara next to like Muzaffarabad oh yeah yeah there we go okay yeah you can see a Kupwara
that's uh yeah this this this is Kupwara district here
yeah exactly and you can see about 4 000 meters yeah around 12 000 feet or so for us
so you can come now you can go down in Kupwara if you further you can see these ranges like uh
like like walls basically uh can you can you type Lollap valley so basically they'll
yeah so these mountains as you see I mean basically
right yeah so these mountain slopes you have natural cannabis populations on these mountains
and um yeah when the adaptations around these plants are just absolutely uh you know breathtaking
you know some of these because some of these valleys are placed in such a way that they have
these micro climates that you were speaking of Alex um maybe before I may have came into the
show because I was just listening to what you were speaking of so some of these valleys have
are situated in such a way that they have a very specific climate situation for them
because at 34 degrees north most of the most of the places are not so you know what I mean the
monsoon is not so prominent there so the rain is not that much and again the texture of the
the resin when you look at is like somewhere dry between like dry and sticky so you can see that
adaptation because 34 degree north is basically what I see as like a separation as a transition
where these subtropical highland varieties try to I mean begin to you know merge into these other
varieties which are like the short season high high latitude varieties which flower shorter and
grow in like drier seasons and like flower quicker so all of those all all of those plants have you
know some of those characteristics that you can pin down as the transition between the plants from
the better regions and plants from you know the dry regions so that's why I mean you know some of
these plants are really important and you know coming back to the microclimate that we were
speaking of in some of these valleys like Lollap so in Lollap you know uh even though it's at like
34 degrees north um the climate is absolutely bad like subtropical highlands and it's a little
more even because the humidity just stays around like 70 to 80 degrees throughout the year and it
rains heavily out there it's very specific to that particular valley and we just always wanted
to go out there and do some collections we did a couple of times we published a field report
which is uh which can be found again on the website if you just look around the website
you'll be able to find that field report should go through that it has a work of three years uh
three years worth of you know collections and field trips and in that region and
yeah so so this is basically uh one of the regions where the highest uh places are that we have been
able to collect cannabis and the other region is of course that Alex was speaking of is
uh Nanda Devi again which again goes to between 3,600 meters to 4,000 meters
and uh if you speak of Niti Valley the floor elevation for that village is 3,600 meters itself
and the mountains around them if you're collecting any any time from the mountain you know 100,
200, 300, 400 meters up and you're picking up you know plants from like 4,000 meters, 3,800 meters,
3,900 meters that's those are the altitude but at Niti Valley you uh the latitude is around like 32
uh 32 degrees really uh and it's not that high but uh but because it's in the rain shadow again
so you know the climate is completely different so again I would really urge you uh anybody
listening to really go back to the website and you know check out these articles and field reports
they will really put things into perspective and uh you'll really be able to appreciate
uh you know some of this information that we're speaking of now. Just quickly this is a
crazy visual where you can see micro climates of uh totally dry on the left and lush and green on
the right. Absolutely I mean and I mean this is just a living proof of you know how much of a
difference very small you know differences in the climate can have on on the ground I mean it could
just completely change the picture so if it could do that collectively to the entire terroir that
includes all the plants the soil rocks everything then we have to come to an understanding that you
know it is also doing it on an individual level to the cannabis plant also as a plant species
and uh and that's basically you know because you know it just we lost your audio buddy
whoops he'll be back
sorry we we lost you for a second so can you go back about yeah three or four sentences yeah I was
what I'm trying to say is the thought uh the basic thought process here is that the
burden of adaptation is on the organism and not the terroir itself because the terroir and the
climate would uh basically the climate would only change so much over the years I mean
right but the organism if it's brought from the outside then it will have the burden to adapt to
that climate and if it doesn't then it wouldn't survive in that climate or in that terroir
and if it does uh then it would only be something that is favorable to that certain terroir so
that's how important of you know understanding uh you know the small little things about climate
things about soil profile at a certain place is when you're going to really say that you want to
understand about the plant population in general or about the plant characteristics how they came
about if you want to speculate on that because that's all we could do at best all of us right
uh so if you want to be at a better place to do that I think that is the right way to do
right uh so if you want to be at a better place to do that I think that is the right way to do
just to first understand these things individually then bring that information in a collective
zone inside your head or in your notebook or in like a master task sort of like setup if you do
work on that and then you know start building your basically your concepts your thoughts from there
and you know looking at the information that you already have if you're growing on your own I mean
you get a bunch of data from that so I mean the idea is to keep collecting data and keep
you know you know crunching it keep comparing it you know doing all sorts of you know other
things like if if you know a few things like you know uh you know doing averages and you know doing
comparison way of like class distribution frequency distribution those are the things that would help
you in basically you know uh coming up with common themes and you know some things which may
be common amongst you know or how much of a variance you know two different varieties or
you know two different climates or terroir have so uh I mean it really depends I mean as far as
you can can go and you know whatever you can manage I think you should do and uh just put it
out there once you do that so that other people can also know so you touched on something about
you know the it's it's up to the organism to adapt and a while ago St Bernard's observation
booth asked uh do Indian people grow Pakistani strains and I'll kind of layer on top of that like
have you shared I mean you're you're kind of the traveler so have you shared genetics between some
of these local uh regions and I mean I'm not talking like you know the dessert strains from
the U.S. but like land race from different regions shared amongst each other does that go on
uh no see that that's something that you know we do not indulge in like I said in the beginning
you know that we the way we you know we provide resources to these places is is in a very non-invasive
way and we have to be very very careful of the fact that these are secluded cultures and when
we speak of culture you know what is a culture culture is basically all of these little components
of their lifestyle and cannabis is part of their lifestyle that's their culture
so we're really not in any position to actually do any of that I mean uh I'm sorry but that's just
not something you know that's I mean that's absolutely not possible I mean that and nobody
should be doing it this I mean if someone you know is doing uh that sort of thing I mean he's
redoing this service uh to this whole you know program because that sort of like defeats the
purpose of actually being able to you know collect these varieties because once you introduce newer
varieties of course you know they're going to create hybrids uh with the existing ones but
really it is something that should be left to those people you know when and how they feel
comfortable and organically you know ponder upon that thing or like you know come upon that thing
and start doing it because that's part of their culture part of their lifestyle it's a component
of their being so it's really their right to really decide whether or not it's something that
they want to do that's involved quite a ways from our conversations back in the day about
preserving the genetic itself and not having anthropogenic genetic pollution translocative
pollution and that's just that my mentor drilled into me that they did have those mistakes
originally that they didn't understand we'd be changing the actual gene pool of these locations
and um so some of the smaller populations uh we've heard our Jim discuss and that that uh
in the island zones those islands are so small in the tropics that those original genetics are
lost because no one preserved them they brought in other strains and there was some persecution
for a while and prohibition whatever and so those old lamb's bread and stuff are gone and uh whereas
says in the African populations there's such large gene pools that it's absorbed and and I
personally think it's all in there is double recessives and stuff because that's how we get
to these super hybrid states the science shows it reverts back to wild if you let it go
it's because that's all these double recessives that we've pulled up to become expressing and
what we desire but um yes I personally my my opinion on this stuff and my belief is that we
want to keep it keep it natural and that's awesome that you take it to the entire cultural organism
level uh it's off yeah I I mean I I obviously agree with that but I mean reality is that
you know with global everything you know the runts are gonna at some point get into
India and Afghanistan it happens yeah it happens there's no preventing it and it's just a matter of
what your choice of stewardship is and and his art has chosen the more the pure anthropological
geneticist's point of view where you know we don't we just want to observe and record and
document and preserve right and as you said if people get internet they're gonna see this stuff
and say hey how do I do this and they're gonna start you know just yeah it's impossible to keep
it away um but it's preserved what we can while we can there's a whole nother point of view too
well how about let me ask the question in a different way in your home garden when you bring
seeds back from different regions is there anything that you've noticed how it just
expresses itself totally differently than what you observed on the ground at a different
microclimate like from where you sourced it from and brought it back home and played with it
I mean because in general you know and we usually bring back any of the variety what we try to do
is provide like a very similar if not exact environment so that's not something that I have
been able to look at myself personally but what I have been able to you know observe though is that
some of these you know some of these plant seeds you know that goes back to other countries
and they have grown and they have just you know grown them in a completely different environment
um they sometimes tend to have you know differences in the way they express right away
but one of the things that I've always seen and always say is that those differences are very
subtle and they're always subtle they're never really uh okay like I'll give you an example like
if you have a strain from Afghanistan let's say from Hindu Kush I should ideally you know only
flower for about like 8 to 10 11 weeks and if that goes on if you grow it if I take it down
to equator let's say somewhere around the Caribbean and we grow it it's not going to start flowering
for like like very long like 16 weeks or 18 weeks all of a sudden or anything like that
or even close to that you know it may not uh you know complete its flowering for a certain
other reason reason that's a whole different thing but it would only you know flower for about
like you know 8 to 10 or 11 weeks as predisposed to nature so those things you know those things
really don't change to an extent that you could really say oh you know it was not uh how you know
it would have expressed itself in the other place and now it's expressing it here in a different
completely different set of terroir but what you will see is some of the you know some of the other
features of the plant you know which are not very uh you know close to the flowering which is not
very close to flowering function they seem they seem to be a little more versatile in the way they
they behave what they do is they would change uh so for example you know if
you take a broad leaf variety from northern Afghanistan and you you bring it back and you
try to grow it in an environment you know that does not really like it during the spring then
it's a little more hot like uh somewhere in India like Rajasthan the the plant wouldn't really shoot
you know really uh broad leaves you know the leaves would be a would be slightly thinner
and that is only because that would help the plant in actually growing up to a state where
it can actually you know grow into into a plant you know that can actually generate but create
flowers and then create seeds that would help in carrying on its lineage so yeah I mean in those
terms you do see some of the changes uh in plants that you know you may see differences in you know
the broadness of the leaf or you may see a difference in you know just how much you know
its side branches basically you know if that if that plant chooses over you know because plant
would always choose survival over you know having an ancillary feature like you know having more
side branches so uh you know plant could do that in marginal environments if they don't get a
specific environment you know that they came from but again those differences would not be enormous
is basically what I'm trying to say. Steph I've heard of like uh and it's more polyhybrid
leaning towards indica taken to tropical zones it kind of behaves more like what we call a sativa
where it stretches out and grows that narrower leaf and doesn't have that dense flower so much
but if it does it's not it's not adapted to uh to the mold uh over a long period of time that's
something that's not going to respond well it's gonna it's gonna have a mold issue um but we were
discussing this today on instagram where the the length of the period of flowering is probably the
least to change so so with the 120 day sativa it's gonna take 120 days no matter where you put it
so if the weather doesn't fit it's not going to be successful and uh kind of with but but yeah so
the morphology changes more than than some of those reproduction functions that have been so
well when bred over long periods of time. Just quickly I'm cognizant that uh what time is it
where you are right now? Um it's it's it's about like midnight now. Okay well why why don't we uh
let's do some rapid fire questions and then let you go to bed we can always pick it up uh we can
regroup. This is the start of many conversations. You can ask me to you know come over you know again
and you know I would absolutely you know love to uh you know speak about a different thing if you
would. I mean yeah that's absolutely fine. Yeah no there's every every I say these conversations
on land race every five minutes can be a two-hour show if we have another guest asking a couple
questions about what they're doing and so yeah these are these are deep rabbit holes that we can
go into so. Okay so rapid fire to to as you uh drift to sleep. So uh in what what's the current
state of what you can and cannot do in India? Maybe you can't do anything. Okay.
Yeah.
It's like uh it's like being in America in 1970s at the height of. 80s 80s let's let's go to the 80s.
Oh I'm sorry yeah 80s 80s I'm so sorry yeah like the 80s the higher up at the height of the drug
war or whatever that was. Yeah so it's uh okay sorry there was uh but but let me go back I was
keeping track of uh uh magma had another uh regional question. Have you sourced any seeds
from the Babas? All right we we have few I mean but that's uh again I mean uh not not something
that I'm really I mean uh I go for actually I mean my main prerogative is basically to go out
to places uh where it's being farmed and actually do collections from there because it's just easier
for me to get more information and I don't feel very comfortable you know uh you know getting seeds
when I can't get a lot of information but I whenever I get a chance with that set I'm not
trying to say that you know I wouldn't I mean I whenever I see a Baba you know I I take seeds
from them you know and I keep them in my collection you know with their name but that's not something I
would like to share with other people as of now. Okay from 619 to 664 has been very patient
uh a long time ago and he's asked it again uh uh can you talk about the Hindu Kush varieties
and which ones you like or like to smoke? The only Hindu Kush variety I mean I could really
speak speak of is um the Andhra one because that that's the one you know that I I've been working
on I mean if uh one thing that I I mean I I could really say that you know I've worked a little bit
upon uh till now is that one variety in the village I've gotten up to uh F3 generation you
know I just did a uh assessment batch I grew a bunch of females and you know just went through
them made some notes just to understand you know what the population is looking like and you know
what direction I should head into you just to reassess the whole program and everything and
it's a beautiful variety it's uh it's at the foothills of the Hindu Kush it's in Bagland
province uh Andhra Andhra is a place it's it's it's basically you know somewhere around like
thousand meters to like 1200 ish 5 1500 ish uh range meter range foothill sort of area and
a lot of domestication goes around at that part at that part of the uh that part of Hindu Kush and
you you know most of that plant varieties that you actually find there it's actually is very
interesting because it's actually a by-product of the amalgamation between you know the varieties
which are actually farmed or grown at are growing at very high altitudes of Hindu Kush because the
pot because the pollen could potentially you know survive for a very long time in you know
the you know lower humidities and you know in other uh because it's very windy as well it could
just blow down just cascade down the mountain you know down to the flatlands or the foothill region
where these Andhra is and on the other hand you know these farmers bring a lot of varieties from
like you know northern region like northern Afghanistan like like bulk region so what
they're basically doing in retrospect is basically they're getting uh these broadly
varieties which have been domesticated fantastically by you know northern Afghanistani
farmers growing them there and then they're getting cross-pollinated with the Hindu Kush
population the highland populations which are at the higher altitudes like 2000 meters maybe
2400 meters and because of that amalgamation um the population in the Andhra is such that
if you grow like let's say 50 seeds from Andhra you will be able to see majority of the plants
being you know fat leaf plants because that's more inbred more domesticated by the northern
Afghanistan farmers so they tend to show up more and more recessive uh you know more recessive
would be the narrow leaf plant that that would be a represent closer representation of the
uh you know the highland plants the pollen that cascades into these grows and you know
does the pollen contamination in these crops so you you have actually have an opportunity to have
both of these things in this one population and you can actually steer the population the broad
leaf one towards the broad leaf side and the narrow leaf one towards the narrow leaf side and
it's really interesting it even has some of those other other traits you know which are more I would
say primordial in nature which is like the red stem tree you can find that exclusively uh with
some of the narrow leaf plants in the population and you could also see it partially on some of
the broad leaf plants but it's less of course but uh on the narrow leaf plants you could see it like
more and more and you could actually you know create varieties that actually have a lot of it
uh you know have profuse like red stems and you have narrow leaflets and one more thing you know
these populations from highland regions they also bring in this one quality with them which is the
keratin carotenoid production because of you know having high light intensity at the higher altitudes
these plants actually tend to uh you know basically bleed out these uh these phytochemicals known as
uh carotenoid which basically you know protects the plant uh from from the you know high intensity
light you know and this actually you know is a characteristic that could actually be seen by the
naked eyes I mean you know you could actually see it when it's happening so when you grow a variety
you know that is adapted to high altitude like let's say subtropical highlands like malana
or you know even hindukush and a common thing that you will see is that they would have carotenoid
production during the veg period because over time they get adapted to producing carotenoid
during the early veg period because at that point in time you know the light intensity is really high
and the plant is actually trying to protect the foliage from uh from the from the photon extra
photon damage so some of these traits can actually be found in the under population
which is fantastic and for that reason I mean this is one of my favorite
varieties and this is one of the varieties that I've bugged with very closely so
um it's definitely so one of the varieties if you could find it somewhere you know definitely get it
and try to grow it you know you would absolutely love this one. So right there we just had an
intersection of deserians latitude and elevation zones and my definitions of what I use for land
race going from wild and feral and then he just described what I would classify as a garden
variety where it's there in proximity to wild populations okay and then he's taking that and
creating a land race cultivar right and and so this is where there's so many ways we can describe
these things so we have a better understanding of what it is we're communicating with and where
we're why what what we're doing with them and when somebody gets one and feeds in their garden and
understanding what's going to happen with it how diverse it's going to be and how wild or how tame
things like that and that's why I use these broader definitions and you can hear how well
he's going off into the wild in some places there's stuff where it's right at the edge of the wild
and that intersects with I gave a lot of deep thought as to where my definitions and understanding
of where land race comes from and and with forestry you're using literally wild you know
the native plant stock to create your modern breeding project it's in my understanding the
land race is the overall preservation of original genetic pools for our modern breeding projects
and even in the development of ancient wheat and grains and things like that you have the same
thing going on where you have these wild populations and you have the domestication
going on you have more domesticated stuff further away and it was it was trading back and forth
and that's inevitable period part of the question you're asking like you said it's coming from
different ranges it doesn't organically occur where this stuff trades around and stepping apart
is preservationists and not not he's trying to be the anthropological type of thing where you try
not to influence what's happening whatsoever is a different step from somebody who thinks that
their their goal and that might be their goal is in role is to go and move those genetics around
so yeah so the the last question
uh what was the most harsh weather and pest resistant strands you've encountered and what
were the environments they were in i mean you mentioned some of the desert uh stuff right from
these are all harsh environments
okay the the most uh pest resistant variety you know that i've ever come up
or like came across is lula valley undoubtedly i mean that variety is absolutely bulletproof
and not only that you know it was absolutely bulletproof you know that i then i when i
brought it back and i actually you know grew it and i found you know just quick just quickly where
is that valley a little up valley it's again northern kashmir uh the same day that we were
speaking of where it's very humid so let me just uh go back to actually climate and just
talk a little about climate one more time reiterate that it has a very wet climate
throughout the year it rains a lot rains close to a thousand mm uh every year so you can imagine
how wet it is and uh that so these populations i mean you know they can get affected by all sorts
of diseases they are all sorts of pests out there but you don't see any of the pests affecting these
populations of course and uh you know some some of the weak plants you can see they're getting
affected but when i brought them back and i grew grew them and i grew them in a spot that i know
has you know certain pests they absolutely were like almost like like they're invisible to pests
and not only in my environment then i've like shared those seeds with other people and they
have grown and they've experienced absolutely similar things they have came back and they've
said you know they've never seen you know anything like this which has a pest resistance which is just
as good as this so again you know this is something which could definitely be used uh uh you know in
breeding and you know as far as the pest resistance concern you know there's one thing that people have
to understand you know at the end of the day you know you can find a population like lola
belly that i'm speaking of which is like broadly you could find plants very easily you know which
are very resistant to pests so you could really find a plant that's really super resistant to
pests but it's not like other varieties wouldn't have that sort of plants of course even if you go
in other other varieties like let's say hindu kush or you go into eastern manipur barma bought a
variety that we collected you can definitely find plants you know one off plants or two off plants
within the certain population that have which are bulletproof and have absolute you know
resistance towards a variety of pests and diseases in the nature
but by and large that population you wouldn't say this i would call this population to be very good
to be known for this certain variety because most plant wouldn't do that a few plants would
so when you're breeding i mean what you really want to do is you want to save your time because
breeding as it is is a lengthy process so you want to take every step in breeding that cuts down your
time that that that makes it less time consuming so basically uh doing and how you do that basically
you know when you start from the top is when you're selecting the seeds to work with you have
to make sure that you select a population on the on a certain understanding that okay it already has
a certain uh you know characteristic in it which can be very easily found in it uh you know without
not only without wasting a lot of time but also you know i could have like 10 different versions
of that and then i could choose the best version of that particular trait and then i could you know
introgress that into you know my own uh you know variety that i'm breeding so i mean it's something
that we have to be mindful of when we're talking of resistance and you know diseases and another
thing you know that uh that we have to be mindful of that is not just to your environment because
you know these tests would also have different species from you know region to region so you
have to send these varieties to different regions so to test them out to really shape them um uh
so in a way that they're resistant to all of these at least to a certain regions that you
you want to grow them in professionally excellent that's that's a chunk of information for everyone
to absorb there a thurian thanks for joining us tonight so we'll let you no no he was still there i
i i was uh queuing something up um let me see if i can get this going but we appreciate your time
uh let's definitely regroup shortly um next time i will be much more nimble with google earth
it was like i was flying a sesna 172 for the first time and everyone was sitting in the back seat with
me maybe you could have maybe you could have something you know common that you know we could
commonly move our cursors on and i think or maybe if i could have the access to it i could yeah really
zoom into those places like that yeah i i and my geography will be uh better you're like
mentioning texts villages regions mountain ranges and i'm like that's a whole another
another bonus of land race uh when you start getting into land races you learn geography
yeah absolutely i mean you just get better and better at geography because you know you have to
it's an essential part because if you don't learn about the geography and even geology you know you
know you wouldn't really be able to understand you know uh you know how these plants came to be the
way they are i mean all of this that we just spoke of and you know in geology as well because then
culture yeah because you would understand you know the distribution and you know the expansion of
these varieties into you know the other parts of the world so i mean all of this becomes so
integral to the complete understanding so you know one must you know throw himself into you
know the search of all these things and you're understanding all of these things if one must
want to understand that all right well thank you and thanks for watching everyone and it's only two
and a half more hours until the hottest show on youtube with mr chad westport who's uh in the
audience right now he's probably limbering up doing his calisthenics and stretching uh but it
looks like we got bingus uh evidently that's me in the middle johnny canis seed shielded garden
uh hopefully that means we'll have uh some women representing which will be nice but uh anyway
that's uh two and a half hours from now i'll be right back here in the garage
i'm climbing a tree today and trimming okay honcho and cheddar everyone tone it down
be nice to each other uh yeah we'll begin buddy we'll be looking forward to the next one
and uh hope some folks got some good information today yeah james labb was going to jump in on
this for a bit but he was uh i think he was uh making compost outside or something so
there's always work to do and we'll catch him on one of these and we'll see what you're doing here
too and um yeah maybe we'll visit a different region of the world we'll spin the globe right
and then okay yeah that's a whole other whole other show is applying this information to places
away from india and afghanistan right um somebody mentioned to me in the chat from the first one
that united i'd like to know more information about this i do have some land races from
new zealand and he was saying that there was uh pre-human occupation three different um varieties
growing naturally there before and i wanted to clarify if that was pre-maury pre uh captain cook
or or uh exactly wow i just learned that one from you know in the chat from the i'd like to expand
that but you know in the treaty i did get some stuff from down there well what's also trippy
about that is kind of how you know like the theories on how humans made it like from one
island to you know on like canoes to you know hundreds of miles further away look at the stars
at night go out in the wild and look up and the stars are pretty much the same as they've been for
all this time it's pretty amazing once you learn how to read the star i used to be able to tell you
the time within five minutes from the stars and the sun and the moon um when you get in tune to
that kind of stuff so i used to sleep out 200 nights a year so it was there all the time in my
face right i tell how big the world is we we're learning these rabbit holes we've just opened up
just realized like wow i thought i knew something and and little did i know i'd see a jersey shore
reference in the chat cheddar bob what kind of tv are you watching he must be a he must
he must watch all the different housewives uh uh incarnations so we're learning things about our
but everyone in the chat but anyway i appreciate your time uh are you gonna hit the slopes today
or no no today is weekend and it gets too crowded the icon fast makes it horrible i'm i've got a big
old pine tree that shades the garden in the summer but it's shaded too much so it's got a 30
foot ladder into it and i'm climbing up and pruning pine tree today well if you can remember people in
the chat uh let's talk pine needles at some point because uh people have people have been talking
about pine needles uh i i always i i mean growing up we had pine trees outside you know i lived in
the country and those pine forests you know there was nothing growing below them and so my my
multiple things going on i'd like to do some chats from the forest walking around the woods if i can
get a connection out there and show people what's going on in the forest like directly but but i
guess my question and we can save this to next time but like do pine needles at some point go
from my assumption is super acidic to suddenly like amazing for other plants to survive in like
when they break down and decompose you you gotta there's there's also shade underneath there right
going on and some plants love that acid so you guys yeah so so what happens when you have the
ecological seer change right with either a fire comes through or logging or a windfall and it
opens it turns the soil over and exposes the sun right yeah so then all of a sudden it's changed
that everything oxidizes and it's no longer so you don't have so much acid issue um yeah mixing it in
and blending it around though once it goes down the river and blends it becomes you know it's mixed
in with everything else so it's uh there's a lot that happens between that that uh allelopathic
acidic state of a pine needle mat to becoming a soil that other things grow in right all right
well we'll explore that because also people are talking about uh you know uh where did i just see
that um you know about like the pining uh that's an interesting one i'd like to explore with
someone who's more of a chemist even to understand and i ask people about the growing uh and different
like like uh um abone and i were talking about the pine background on some of the skunks back
in the day and whether it was genetic or how much um and i got a fellow that comes around who's done
some uh humble growing as a as an assistant he talks about putting redwood sawdust in the holes
right and different things like that and how much that microbial versus actual chemistry of the plant
is affecting um and or the genetic that's a really big broad question in and of itself getting that
that extra pining uh yeah yeah no so you you had that up you we we had that conversation i've had
that conversation with people here in my house last week that's a big question and and uh yeah
so definitely cheddar bob is that excellent yes you were part of that too
all right well we'll explore pine needles pine cones and other big trees and derivative
broken down products website and look at those books he's got for offer that's that's like say
coffee table material everyone out there in youtube land that's uh you'll love one of those
things on your in your house not to mention the collection that comes with it native native um
interaction with the plants that that uh nettle that he sends with you right he says it grows
everywhere with those plants in natural environment and getting that top uh your cover crop
coinciding yeah explore it thanks everyone yeah and just quickly i just remembered uh if anyone
has any good home grow questions uh for chad and the crew later today uh send an email you
could take a picture you could do a video um but send it to
give me one second and uh i'll sort through any questions and hopefully we'll get at least a
question uh it's like throwing red meat into the uh into the line that yeah questions videos tips
and more if you have something you want to share it doesn't have to be a question you could be a
sharer of knowledge um maybe alex will send something to that email address
some tips for home growers but uh anyway so it doesn't shade your garden
good tip good tip i like it all right have uh i'll see a lot of you in
two under two and a half hours i'm gonna decompress for a minute need some
food for the first time today peace out everybody you're on
