All right, we are live! Thank you everybody in chat. I see you guys are
already there and already anxious. This was an episode that I was excited to do.
I always love the breeder profiles because, shoot, we're always after the
dank. So when I got the chance to speak with Raw Genetics, I was pretty darn
stoked. Man, how you doing tonight? I'm doing great, man. Thanks for having me on.
It's definitely a pleasure to be here to chat with you today. Yeah, absolutely my
pleasure. And again, we kind of got to talk a little bit the other day and that
was a fun conversation. And I know this is just gonna fly by, go real fast. So
I'll keep an eye on the clock for you because I know you're a busy man. You got
a big show to do tomorrow, right? Yeah, yeah. It's really cool. We're actually
gonna be in two locations simultaneously. I'm gonna be in downtown
Los Angeles at Grow Gen with Surfer. So if you guys want to come out, meet and
greet. First few people in line are gonna get some some seeds and stuff like that.
And then Raw Direct is also in Colorado right now doing Groovy Gravy tomorrow
about the same time. Danny Danknugs, our community leader and Southern Oregon
Soil are gonna be out there showing love and supporting the team as well in
Colorado. So yeah, it's gonna be a super big day and it should be a lot of fun
across the board for everybody. That's awesome, man. I see Southern Oregon
Soil in chat already and he had kind of helped facilitate this. So yeah, big ups.
Big ups. Man, big ups. Yeah, so it sounds like you got quite a few people on the
team there. How big is Raw Genetics? I mean, really we're pretty small. It's
mostly me and my brother that do the majority of things. But you know, we've
been very blessed with a super active community and some really great people
like Southern Oregon Soil and Danny Danknugs. And you know, there's like a
dozen moderators in the community now too. We've all met organically through
Discord and it's really just been a great experience getting to know each
other and people taking the initiative to dive in and become a part of the
experience. Like Southern Oregon Soil fired up our testing team. He was kind
of like, why don't you have a testing team? And I was like, man, you know, it's
same story as most breeders. We have a rough history with sending stuff out for
free and getting nothing back. So he was like, well, what if I can make it work?
And I was like, why would I would back that 100%? You know, and so he's been
diligently working and I know Danny jumped in there to help him. And yeah, so
just, you know, the whole Discord and the community aspect there has really been
exciting to have become more prevalent in what we're doing.
That's cool, man, when you can find good people like that, and you build a good
team, and those things kind of happen over time. And you guys have been doing
this for about roughly nine years, right?
Yeah, luckily to be here this long.
Yeah, and that's a long time. But another thing to that is, you know, and we kind
of talked about this, or I brought it up before. It's like, good work or good
people. Other good people will gravitate to that. So it's like, if you're really
doing the work, and you're really serious, other people that are serious
will find you and then that's just how the team organically builds over time.
There's nothing better than that. You know, they always say to it's like word
of mouth advertising is better than any form of advertising.
Yeah, no, it's been great. It's been great. And like you said, it's kind of
just like a magnetism thing, like as you just focused on working, keeping it
positive and moving through, you know, your goals, just kind of meet other
similar like minded people to share the experience with.
Yeah, yep. Well, let's rewind a little bit, though. I definitely want to get
into this stuff. But I always kind of like to ask how people got into cannabis.
Like, how did you find cannabis? Were you a young one? Were you late to the
game?
Yeah, I was young. I mean, I was, you know, skating, skating kid out there
just trying to do some kickflips and not get hurt bad. You know, and I think my
friends were smoking some weed. And I'm really digging back. I think the first
time I smoked weed was was in like a hallway in Iowa. Older kids, they were
smoking out of a coke can, you know, holes in that thing. And they were
puffing out of it. And I had never smoked and they're just like, Oh, yeah,
I'm into that. Sure. I took like a hit. I don't, you know, I didn't even really
get high. But I think that was like the first time probably for me, you know,
from looking all the way back. So and then I think from there, it just kind of
naturally through the years, you know, I kind of went up and down with it until I
just kind of fell in love with the plant. And, you know, I remember looking
at High Times as a kid and thinking like, Oh, wow, how do we do that? You
know, and it wasn't possible then.
It is too. And really, I mean, High Times was the only info source that I kind of
knew of back in the day. You know, I wasn't really hip to forums yet. Forums
weren't necessarily around like they are today. But yeah, the input you had was
was extremely limited compared to today.
I remember being scared. I didn't know anything about weed. You know, I was like
growing my first plants. And I remember like trying to research it on my phone
and being super concerned, like, I'm going to get in trouble for looking this
up, you know, and that's it, which is really funny to look back at that, you
know, fast forward to today and things are at, you know, where we come from. So
real concern, though. I mean, that's how I learned what proxies are and VPNs and
all this stuff. It's like, OK, I got to hide it. You know, I go to the library
and look stuff up. So, yeah, that was a real deal. But I'm glad we are where we
are today. And so you kind of, you know, you started and then yay or nay, it
wasn't a huge part of your life. Where where did growing come into it? Maybe
what was like the impetus for for starting to grow?
You know, I think I always wanted to. And as a kid, there was plenty of instances
back in Texas where like I tried, you know, like hide some shit outside, deer
would eat it or we would pop seeds and never get anywhere with it. But, you
know, as time went on, finally just got the opportunity to really start growing
and. Man, what's
it took off from there?
Yeah, it just kind of took off from there.
That's cool. You know, I kind of started to is like I was a longtime smoker, but
in the Pacific Northwest, being a skateboarder and a musician, I didn't
really need to grow because, you know, somebody that was in that instance. But,
you know, as I kind of got older,
less, less, I knew less and less people, but I also became more interested in
growing it. And so that is kind of what started me on the path was just kind of
less accessibility or maybe a desire to expand from from what I knew. Did you
have any other growing experience before? Like I killed a cactus, man.
Like plants and stuff a little bit. I always kind of liked it as a kid. You
know now. So I remember like one of the first times I really got my hands on
what excited me. I considered to be like quality seeds at the time. There was
like back Florida. There's like purple cush going around. Right. And so I was
like, oh, wow, purple cush. And my friends were like, yeah, but there's
seeds in it. And I was like, I'm going to need a bag of that immediately. So
my friend was like, well, I've got seeds. I'll give them to you. And I
remember getting the seeds and just being like, oh, my God, now I can
finally have like consistent quality, maybe, you know, because I didn't
realize what it really took to grow. And that was kind of like the foundation of
like getting some probably Cali Connect purple cush seed, perm seeds or, you
know, whatever they I guess maybe a male got left because we did have males. And
I remember that was like the first time I used a male to do like a breeding
thing. And I had no idea what I was doing at the time. But and then I
remember getting the seeds on the back end and just being like, oh, my God,
this is like a million dollars. They're everywhere. Jar of purple cush seed
crosses some bag seeds and stuff that we had. And I just remember thinking
like, wow, I'll always have good, good shit now pretty much. And I don't even
have those seeds now, of course. But it was just really funny. That's that's
one of the things really stands out to me thinking about like getting getting
going into growing and really taking the risk and the initiative, you know,
to take the swing at it.
And we probably know more about storing seeds. Now, you know, I look back to I
started with the bag seed. And then Washington had a medical system about
2010 is when it really kind of kicked off here with with dispensaries. And I
do I remember going in and the guys, you know, they're sitting there with a
jar of strawberry cough and shaking it and it had seeds in the bottom. They're
going off. I'm like, give me an eighth of that. Right. I didn't get any seeds
from it, damn it. But I was trying.
That's funny. It's funny, man. It used to be the Holy Grail, right? You smoke in
the bank, you get the bag seed. I'd be like, I don't know what this is. Put
this in a bag, write a little note on it.
Yeah, I do. I still you know, it's nice these days. I have my options are more
plentiful. But I do I still have that like cellophane of 90s bag seed sitting
in a film canister and all the early ones that I made are little bags and it's
about 10 years on. And I tested them recently because I just wanted to give
them away. And I'm like, yeah, germination isn't there.
I mean, it's it's tough, you know, when people are talking about storing them
long term. And I know I've had some that have haven't been in a refrigerator the
entire time. So I got some people out here. Oh, no worries. Yeah, I had some
that haven't been stored in a refrigerator the entire time. And I have
some that have and they got about the same success rate. So, you know, yeah,
that's just gosh, that's one of those hard ones. It's like if I knew what I knew
now, 10 years ago, I probably would have tried it. I don't and I'm not quite sure
I want to wait 10 years to find out. But I'll keep I've got better practices now
though. Yeah. Maybe time to work some of the stuff out of the vault and get it
back into proper preservation for the future. I know I think about it regularly.
I'm like, Oh, man, I need to some of the stuff, you know, you want to keep it
forever. So
well, one of the problems I ran into, as well, it's probably not as much of an
issue on your side with the, you know, a good testing program, but is you make
things and then you have to work them and then everything else gets put on the
backburner.
It's really it's definitely been an issue, right? Because there's only so
much space that you can allocate and there's only so much time or, you know,
all the variables there. So it's like, before the testing team, it's just been
us. And, you know, we try, we do have a good group of very small group of people
who were testing for us before. But yeah, you know, moving into having more people
who are interested in being a part, it's definitely going to help progress
forward. Because otherwise, it's like, alright, I got to do this one stage, this
one stage, this, you know, it's like, I can only do what you're going to hunt so
many times a year.
Yeah, I know. I totally have cut my timing down. Because again, it's like, I
like my flower crop too. But I also want to work on seed. So I'll do just small
plants for myself to test them, and then do a bigger run if everything comes out
good, but I totally have to stagger them. Usually like I time my mail to drop
pollen as soon as the flower one goes into flip. So I've got that like two week
window of no pistols over here and pollen dump over here.
But get it extracted in time.
Yeah, I'm I'm a I'm horrible. I know I'm skipping ahead here. But like, I'm
horrible at saving pollen. I've been shown I've watched people how to do it.
I can't do it to save my life. Like if saving pollen was a shoe, I'd be wearing
Velcro.
Right there with you. I know we spoke about that briefly before. And I was just
like, when people ask me, my recommendation is like try to get fresh
pollen. It's the best. So definitely fresher, the better.
Well, how long it almost kind of sounds like it may have happened at the same
time, but how long after you were growing before you're like, I want to
breed or I want to make some seeds?
Yeah, I think for like the the very initial time, like it was all kind of
happening at the same time, right? Like I got into growing a little bit, I got
those seeds, and then the mail was there. And I was like, Okay, what's the mail
gonna do? So I like left it outside, you know, just like you said, some really
small plants just kind of having a nice time with a buddy of mine. And yeah,
that was kind of just like the forte. And then fast forward, you know, over
time, I got the opportunity to come out to California, and start working in like
a large facility and all this stuff. And I was like, you know, why don't why
don't we have our own strains, right? It just made sense, because it was so easy
to make them before, even though I didn't really think about what I was
doing, just made them right. I was like, Oh, we could make something. And they're
like, you don't know what you're talking about. Back in the day, so.
That's cool. So So you do, or you've had some commercial cultivation
experience?
Yeah, so that's kind of where we started. I was, I'm definitely the guy
who went from like, one closet light to like 99 lights. So you know, I went from
like, not having any real experience, I didn't understand, or even know about
phing, you know, I was just over in my botanic care, just mixing it up. And it
just, it was all working out fine. And but yeah, I got the opportunity to come
out. And, man, it's obviously a life changing experience. It just, for the
better long term, but short term, I will definitely say, you know, going from no
knowledge and moving up to being the operator of 99 lights. It's not a
friendly thing to impose on somebody and a lot of help. You know, and it was
one plant for life back in the day or whatever. But, you know, it's, it's the
foundation of everything I learned through adversity, for sure.
Definitely. I mean, that's one thing that we always are I always hear, too.
And I've got a little commercial experience. And it's true, I always
relate it back to, you know, people, it's like, well, you just you just scale it,
you do the same thing. And I'm like, Have you ever seen, like a 2000 foot room
with clippy fans? No, you haven't.
So scaling means sometimes I guess if you run like a super tight ship, right,
and then you really understand, you know, but I said the same thing. I remember
running, you know, they were like 33 light rooms at the time. And I didn't
know shit. So I'm like cutting my teeth in there. And I remember hearing on I
want to say it was high times podcast.
I got I got a little one too.
My dogs, but they're had DNA on there. And they're talking about
dehumidifiers in large spaces. And I was like, 70 pint dehumidifier to operate,
you know, what's a pretty large space. And I pretty quickly from there, I
started to get my, my bearings on like, what controlling environment really
meant scaling up, right?
Yeah, it's, it's crazy, the amount of math that can be involved in that type
of thing, you know, the HVAC, environmental controls. And those are
always areas to you know, people, I'm sure you get this question a lot. But
people are like, you know, how can I get into the industry? Or what can I do in
the industry? It's like, you know, if you want to work in a commercial grow,
just say you have no knowledge, expect minimum wage, and then work your ass
off. That's kind of how you get up to it. But there's other areas to like, you
know, HVAC or, you know, chemistry. So
yeah, I mean, that's kind of the thing about the earliest days, right? It's
like, you didn't want to let anybody know what you're doing, or be a part of
it. So you kind of had to learn to be a jack of all trades, where you could know
about HVAC and know about all these different things. And man, it's, it's
hard to be good at all of those things, for sure.
100%. But you know, fortunately, you're, you're still here, you survived. And you
know, getting thrown to the fire is the best way to learn, you're going to make
some mistakes. But when you take it seriously enough, those mistakes stick
in your head. So you're not apt to repeat them.
Yeah, it's definitely gonna make or break you. I mean, you know, can't go too in
depth on everything, because that's a massive story on its own. But you know,
it's really like, going through not having the right things to deal with the
scale, it's just cool crumble your life if you really spend all your time trying
to fix it. So that was pretty much the outcome of that experience. But like I
said, long term, for the better.
Yeah. Let's see a comment in chat. And chat's been awesome tonight. A lot of
love for you. Australia and growing. You mean facilities aren't just a bunch of
four by four tents?
If only
I know if only I'd be I'm ready for the master grower position then if that's
the case.
That's right. I'll print the name tag right now. Master. Yes.
I own a record label to know.
I'm a dog.
Shoot. So when it came to like, kind of, you know, I started making seeds and I
just made seeds for a long time because my deal was preservation. I was in the
medical system, you were able to purchase clones, you were able to
purchase seeds if you can find them. But 2012, we voted out medical 2014 is when
everything officially launched. But I saw the writing on the wall, I knew that
medical was going to kind of fold and my access to cuts and seeds were going to
be gone. So I just started making seeds at that point. It almost sounds like
maybe it was just curiosity for you. But was it was there any other reason really
that you kind of like, I need to make some stuff?
Yeah, I think it's kind of the same thing. You know, like I got this like
tiny amount of like purple cushions back then. Right. So for me, that was like
somebody handed me gold. And my perception was like, well, I need gold
all the time. So I did get into like making those and then I had the seeds
and I don't even remember if I kept them separate or what I really did with them.
But yeah, it was just like, like you said, preservation and trying to make
sure that like I had, I still had this later in case I wanted it down the road
or whatever it was. And yeah, definitely a big factor in just kind of making
sure that as like availability wanes, you still have access.
And that's good that you found a winner, too. So the purple cush was one of your
first crosses. Do you remember what you crossed it with?
Man, honestly, like I probably made an F2 like randomly. And like I said, I had a
bunch of just like things that's like when we first started having names for
me, like Surfer Cush and a bunch of shit that doesn't really exist. You know what
I mean? So yeah, it was just crossed to like a bunch of just dope bag seeds. And
I remember when I was coming out to California, this is kind of a little bit
of a regret of mine. But at the time, I just, you know, I wasn't hip. I didn't
understand a lot of things that I've learned for time. And I was I was
mortally terrified to take the seeds with me. And it just didn't even cross my
mind to like put them in the mail to yourself or something, you know,
something realistic. And I remember like giving the seeds to like one of my
girlfriend at the time, one of her friends who like, like to grow and love
weed. And yeah, I actually did try to get them back, like just be like, Oh, dude,
send me 10 of them. Like, let me see if that was even good. Who knows? At the
time, it was amazing, right? Like we did grow some of them. And I just remember
just like giving it purple push names. And it was really, it was really exciting.
And I didn't really perceive it at the time, like it could be prevalent or be a
part of like a long term plan for my life or anything. But you know, just
looking back at it right now, I do remember like just how much fun the
experience was.
Yeah. Now, did you were you conscious at that point when you were running out,
you know, that first generation of like, Oh, I'm looking for this expression or
like, Ooh, you look like the purple cush. It was just like, dank. Yeah.
That was pretty much the goal. And I think that like, even like partially
through the run, I think actually moved like up to Orlando to go to school or
whatever. And then my buddy, I did come back down, he gave me like nugs off of
it. And I remember being so stoked. And I was like, this is so fire. Yeah, it's
just, I don't know, it's just really funny to think about. Not just not
having any clue at all what I was doing, right? I didn't know that the seeds were
going to be different. I didn't. I mean, just to be honest, I'm pretty sure
or in a podcast, like I did what didn't even really understand that the male was
gonna like pollinate the females. I think I was partially under the notion that
like the male might give me seeds, even though I've been getting in my flower,
like for years, like regs back in Texas, like brick weed and shit. But, uh, you
know, just not really knowing not really understanding. And so yeah, that's a
pretty interesting pivot to the where we are today, where it's like what we do
professionally all the time.
That kind of reminds me of the first time I walked into a room a buddy had,
you know, he's like, Hey, man, I'm behind, I really could use some help like
trimming. I was like, yeah, I like weed. I smoke weed. I'll help you. And I
walked into the room and I just saw these like bushy plants with leaves
everywhere. I'm like, that's weed. So yeah, you don't know until you know,
right? Right. Oh, man. Oh, shit. So you kind of progressed from there and you
moved around. Were you able to it didn't sound like you're able to bring seeds,
but were you able to hold on to a few things maybe over the years or anything
special to you?
I mean, over the years, yeah. Once I came out to California, but, um, you know,
from like before, definitely not. It was just the experience and the memory that
we just shared. And that's pretty much all like I have from it. Um, and then
going forward, you know, when we started running that facility, working with the
people and stuff, um, you know, I would see tons and tons of different strains.
Like we would get the strains from, you know, there were companies that would
like pre-veg stuff and they would give you mugs that were life. So it's pretty
much like they were bringing me the pre-veg plants and the bugs in. And I,
you know, I just remember running like so many, like, it was a really cool
experience across the board. And especially to be, have the opportunity to
run so many different varieties. Right. So it's like, before I even had
aspirations to dig back into breeding, I'm seeing like tons of variation OGs
for the first time, because we're popular still at the time and all that
stuff. So it was, uh, you know, in the beginning of that, I didn't keep
anything, but as we started going and I started digging into, um, reading and
starting to take that aspect serious, then I was like, Oh, if I lose a strain
today, I may not ever see it again. Right. So it's like, you need to try to
preserve it, try to hold it. Um, and then I started learning in my earliest
times when I had no space, right. You know, just nobody with nothing and try
my hardest just to hold on to like classic Skywalker and some stuff like
that, which, um, you know, I think that's probably one of the cuts I've held.
The longest is like the classic Skywalker OG. Um, and I've had it for a
good amount of years for, for myself. And, uh, you know, she's several years
older than that. So, but yeah, it's, it's a challenge to keep things,
especially long term.
It is, especially if you're mobile. Um, that's a whole nother challenge. You
know, you can always try to farm it out to a friend, but that's not to say that
they're going to have, uh, an accident or, you know, just
farm it to five friends, literally farm it out to five people. You really, truly
believe in, and you know, don't give out anything that you're too scared to see
somebody else with. And luckily for me, I'd rather see somebody else with
something that, you know, want it to be exclusive than to see it disappear. So,
that's, that's a good mindset. And, uh, honestly, uh, sharing is caring.
We make sure to have that graphic here because sharing is caring. You talked a
little bit about, uh, like OG Kush is, you know, it's kind of, it sounds around
the same timeframe where for me, strains started getting names too. Do you
remember maybe some of the popular strains that were around or maybe strains
that you gravitated to yourself?
Uh, oddly enough, it was like in the beginning it was blue dream, right? I was
like, Oh, I still like it. I'm not afraid to admit it, but yeah, I'm sorry. I want
to roll up a bunch of blue dream every day, but if you come to me with like
some fire blue dream, I'm not going to turn you down. You know what I mean? Like
she was amazing and worn out like she is for a reason. So yeah, I really
actually remember a point where I was, you know, seeing all the strains trying
to figure out how to be successful in that new environment. And blue dream
obviously was a producer for everybody. And so I literally remember saying to my,
the people that I was doing that for, I was like, I'm going to be the best at
growing blue dream, which is, that's something to do, you know? But I was
like, he was like, man, it gets the money does all the, you know, boxes are
checked, so to speak. And of course that promptly fell out from underneath, uh,
shortly after we went down that path. But you know, I think everybody
experienced the blue dream pain the same. So,
yeah, you know, that definitely happened here too. My old boss would make fun of
me because it's like, I like blue dream. I like Gorilla glue number four and I'll
order a cheese pizza. They're like, you are so boring.
I actually still love Gorilla glue. People ask me, I'm like, man, glue is
still top five. I don't really care. Like you can call it blue dreams. That's
cool. I'll still smoke.
How have I not heard that one yet?
I don't know. That's one I was, man, it was, it was ripping down here in SoCal
be like, Oh, you got blue dreams? Like, no, we're not interested in that.
Well, so Southern California really does set a lot of the tastes and trends for
the industry and therefore the country. I mean, Northern California as well,
um, but Southern California, um, a lot of, a lot of, uh, for lack of a better
term, marketing, or there's a lot of, uh, visibility. That's the word I'm
looking for.
No, you're right. It's, I mean, it's both, right? It's the marketing, it's the
visibility of it. It's, uh, the culture here in like Los Angeles and our
Southern California area, which has been really instrumental for us. And we've
been fortunate to be in this area and networking and making friends in the
industry. Um, cause you know, I can just only imagine if I was somewhere that
was more remote or rural, um, I would struggle to be able to do a lot of the
things that we have. Um, so, you know, it's really got a lot to do with where
you are, right? If you want to do something, go, go to where it's
happening. So, you know, to be, um, in the center of it, so to speak.
No, nobody moves to Iowa to become an actor.
Not a lot going out there. I got some fields and some corn.
Yeah, that's a great place to be a grower, but yeah, not a good place to be
an actor.
The place would be a farmer.
Yes. Yes. So what, what were some of the, um, or maybe not even specific
strains, but maybe kind of like a terpene profile or something that you were
after before. And, you know, I've heard people just say straight up potency. Uh,
but was there anything specific to cannabis you were looking for?
You know, I think everybody starts with potency, right? Like you just want to
have a good experience and powerful experience. But, um, as I got going, um,
I don't know, you know, I've just never been an insane fan of like hazes and
stuff like that. Um, I remember back in Florida, back in the day we used to get
haze all the time and I just, I just never really connected with the profiles.
I found a lot of them to be like low quality and I've seen a lot of really
great ones too, but I don't know. It's just my opinion that a tremendous amount
of the work that's been done in that area, they're very similar. And I think
that that opinion is probably based on the fact that I'm not a big consumer of
those flavors. And so since I don't consume them regularly, I, I struggled to
pull the nuanced terpene profiles out and enjoyed them as somebody who would
smoke Steve as regularly would. Right. So, you know, I understand the nuance
there, but for some reason they just don't really do it for me. I've always
liked, um, like Cush was obviously a big hit for everybody and cookies. And
then I would say, as I got into breeding and started taking this more seriously,
um, I just kind of enjoy quality, right? Like wherever something's unique in a,
in a good way, cause you can have unique, but it's like, man, that's just not
palatable.
It's unique for a reason. Nobody wants it.
It's overly unique, right? But you need like a, a useful, unique profile people
can connect with. And so I think because what we do, um, you know, I try to enjoy
a broad range, but still the sativas, they don't really hit for me. I do find
that like heavier, danker things do. Um, but I'm also like to the moon on candy
flavors, like I'm over the top on candy flavors. Our newest line that we just
did, um, is the slushy crosses, which is fiddle strawberry fritter. And every
single thing that we paired in that line, um, the requirement pretty much was to
have candy profile because we don't want to lose the unique quality that slushies
had. And I felt that if it was paired incorrectly, then, you know, some other
thing may be overly dominant. And then the candy is going to be so recessive
that it won't really benefit to have it in the cross. So we tried to make sure,
um, everything was paired with like a runs cross, a skittles cross, a lemon
cherry gelato cross, like whatever it is, but something that was really centered
on like a proven profile, um, to try to have that like synergy right there with
the flavors mixing.
Yeah. Proven profiles important. And you know, with the hazes too, like smoking
haze stateside, um, I'm still waiting for that super like psychedelic experience
as it's described. And I don't think it's because the strains don't have the
potential, uh, for me not having grown on myself, I just don't think they get
grown properly or long enough in most cases. And, and, you know, that's, that's
big with a lot of the hazes there. They're a lot longer. They're not exactly
commercially friendly because you get less rotations per year. Uh, and they
tend to get pulled early. And for some reason, like hazes will give my wife, uh,
like the, the paranoia or just the anxiety over here. But when we went to
Amsterdam where they're, they're really into their hazes, they treated her so
well. And then they treated me well. And I, and I've been trying to figure it out
if it was like, well, maybe they've been less focused on a THC or there's
different cannabinoids, but then it kind of like circled back to, I'm like, well,
they're probably letting it go the entire distance and that in itself.
Yeah. I mean, I've seen it. I'm sure you have too. And most people, you know, like
with the candy things, for instance, West coast connoisseur was just saying this
to me the other day. It's like, Oh, you know, we took slushies that day 65. It
was like day 65 was too long. It starts to go more fruit and less candy. Right.
Okay. Or same thing with rainbow belts, right? If you want your, your belts to
shine super hard with that candy profile, you're really looking more 60 days or
earlier. Right? So it's like that nuance of however the terpene profiles are
developing even over a two week window can drastically change the profile, the
smell, and I'm sure the experience would also change. Right. Cause you know, it's
like the terps really have a lot to do with how something connects with you. And
that's why, like when I smoke the candy, uh, like skittles, for instance, it's not
known to be strong and people like, Oh, this doesn't get me high, but I, I have
no issue with effect when I'm smoking skittles, I'm getting plenty of effect
and I'm feeling like very energetic and positive. And it's like a lot to do with
how I sense the profile and it like activates my, my sensors in my brain.
Right. I'm just like, Oh man, this gets me going. I'm like excited now. So, you
know, it's like, you got to find profiles that connect with you.
Yeah. The happy, happy profiles. Uh, when I got, you know, earlier in the medical
days, getting the strains, my first like pro strain, I always say it was a Jack's
cleaner too from TGA, super lemon head flavor, still have that one around. Uh,
and then it was a agent orange where the first like seeds that I bought and you
know, that is outrageously orange, but a lot of that TGA stuff was where I came
into it and the market up here wasn't into it. They were into their OGs, uh,
you know, blue dream. Yes. A Dutch treat, which I love too, was a Washington
staple. Um, but did you, uh, ever find or get into any of that TGA or the early
sub cool stuff? Cause that stuff to me sticks out as being fruity and flavorful.
Yeah. So it's a, it's really cool that you said that actually, uh, my, in my
first experience with seeing like cannabis seed companies like out high
times, the whole thing, you know, uh, TGA is one of the first ones, right. I saw
some cool there and whoever the people were that were part of his crew at the
time, we were trying to figure out like new stuff for the facility and all that.
Right. We're just getting into the genetics aspect of it. And, uh, I think
agent orange was one of the ones they recommended. It was obviously one of
their more prevalent ones. And, uh, I don't really remember if, you know, so
many things happen. I don't remember if I got to run them properly, but I know
like I got that. What did stand out for me was, um, that's also when I got
Candyland from granddaddy purple, uh, seat company. Right. And I also got the,
the pink seeds that we did our first breeding with from exotic at that show
too. So it was like, you know, that was like my first fourth day into seeing,
like, there are people out here that are focused on furthering these plants and
like, there's like real intent and focus behind more than just smoking pot.
Right. I'm like cool to be in the facility and like learning. I'm, I'm
becoming a part of the experience of the industry as it's growing. And yeah,
that's the TGA definitely stands out big time to me, you know, it's a rest
in peace and sub cool for sure.
Yeah, definitely. And you said, you know, direction with breeding and purpose
too. And that is where I learned a lot about terpenes because, you know, at
that time, you know, like Brian Barry cough, every strain that they came out
with, they'd be like, yo, we worked for this person and this person has this
condition and this has worked for them and now we're releasing it. And that,
you know, turned me on to getting into terpenes and like 2011 is when Ethan
Russo, it's called taming THC is the name of the paper, but it was one of Dr.
Ethan Russo's earlier papers about terpenes and, and the entourage effect.
So it was a fun time to get involved, but yeah, it was because of those fruity
flavors that up until that point I'd never experienced, you know, there's the
nineties. We didn't really have a name other than like chronic Alaskan
Thunderfuck or AK 47. Yeah.
Florida. That's what everybody would be like, Oh bro, you got kind buds. That's
some kind buds. Like that was, that was the, that and creepy. Of course, Florida
is famous for creepy. So it's like, those are the terms for sure.
That was, that was the next name out of my mouth. I'm like, okay, Florida. So you
smoked the creepy
bro. I smoked a hundred kinds of creepy.
I remember people telling me that they are smoking OG in Florida, like back
then. And I was like, bro, I, I, I honestly didn't know what OG was till I
came to California. And I have been out here for probably a year and it wasn't
until they put like an OG plant in the grow. It was like the Holy grail to
everybody when they put it in there. Right. And that was my first, like, I was
like, what? That's my friend. I was like, do you even know what OG is? Like,
what makes, what makes it, what it is? And he was like, I do know what OG is.
Like kind of explained it to me. And I was like, wow, this is, it's interesting,
you know, but as far as like getting to see like the fruity things, because I
was in that unique experience, seeing all those different strains coming in,
like every two or three months, you know, I would see like 30 new strains. It's
like just so many, so many things that we would see flavor wise.
That's cool. So did you have kind of any, maybe mentors or, you know, people who
kind of guided you along the journey or maybe selecting strains in the early
days or just what you liked? Yeah, just kind of a hands-on experience, boots on
the ground type of situation. And, you know, just trying a lot of different
things along the way. Cool. So, so nowadays, you know, fast forward a little
bit, you've been making some seeds, you're now starting to breed like with
intent. Is there anything specific that you started out going for, or maybe go
for these days? Is it the terpene profile or maybe like a morphology or a
flowering period? Are you trying to meet like certain needs out in the market?
You know, like we need a 60 day rainbow belt, something like that. Right.
Yeah, I would say it depends on the project. Just in general, I try not to make
things that will run beyond 70 because just from my experience, like 70 is sort
of the cap for commercial cultivation. So if you're making things that are
exceeding that regularly, then you better be having some big fans out there. You
know, it's not going to make the high end, the commercial cultivation side of
things. But yeah, I would say it depends on the project.
The commercial cultivation side of things. Sorry, can you can you give me that
again? Yeah, no worries. It's just basically if you were breeding, if you
had one specific thing that you're typically going for, as far as like a
terpene profile, or if you just kind of see what you get and then work off of
that. Yeah, it's a little bit of both, right? Like I'll have a goal like with
the slushies, for instance, the goal is definitely to really make sure to have
those unique candy profiles. But through the experience of hunting these and
looking for the flavors, we're also going to be selecting based on how they grow,
right? What's the rate of growth? Because we all know when we're looking at
skittles and things like that, smaller indica bush real just doesn't do a lot
of stretching, right? So to try to steer the genetics in the direction that we
want so that it can really flourish in like the commercial setting, it's
definitely going to take trying to find that one where it's got the flavor and
the performance and maybe you'll have to sacrifice. It's going to depend, right?
You may have to sacrifice to one side or the other, depending on how you're
trying to solve that problem. So yeah, everything usually does have a focus. I
would say the earliest things that we did were much less focused, it was more
topical, like, you know, we want to make OG crosses. So we'll get an OG, we'll do
OG stuff or like the creeper stuff with the pink mail that we use from exotic. I
literally was like, oh man, this thing says it's a pink OG. It's nothing about
it was an OG at all, but you know, I'm like, I'm going to make some pink OGs too
or something. So it's just like, then it was, we didn't really understand in the
earliest days, but especially now it's things are much more carefully crafted
and put together.
Sure. Yeah. And you know, it's like Skittles. That's, that's one that I've,
I probably smoked a hundred different Skittles, but I haven't had one that just
like blew me away with the flavor profile. Because again, my examples have
come from the rec market. So it is, it's one of those, it's one of those weird
things I'll hear, you know, like a hot new strain or something, or, you know,
like mother's milk. I saw that one and it was in the dispensary. I'm like, give me,
give me a gram of that. I'll try it. But it never gives me like a good
representation, which is a little frustrating.
I think that it has a lot to do with how hard it is just to get the flower through
the market. I know I have not always been the kindest to rec producers. I'm
sympathetic to their problems though, because, you know, in the earlier times
without all the regulation, it was a much more streamlined process, right? You like
cure your stuff, you process your stuff, and then it goes to the people. Now the
process is got red tape all through it. Everybody's had, you know, how long is it
sitting after processing before it gets into the jar and then it gets dispensary
and then how long does it sit there? You know, so it just makes it really hard for
like a connoisseur level experience. Same thing with hash, right? Like in the rec
market, I will typically buy rosin or something like that just because the
flower experience is so hard to enjoy. And I just kind of find like, in my area
in Southern California, 710 is is still one of the only companies that can get a
product through that I'm okay with. And their product used to be 10 times the
quality because the freshness right now, right? So much time between the press in
the time that it gets to the consumer, it's, it's dried out a little bit, you
know, there's definitely a compromise in quality, I think, on the timeframe for
that. Yeah, there definitely needs to be a better approach. Regulation is a large
hurdle to this. But in Washington, where I'm at, we're not allowed to vertically
integrate. And I think that's a huge part of it is vertical integration. If I was
able to grow it, press it, put it in the shop and get it to a consumer all in the
same week, gosh, that'd be great. But it doesn't happen.
No, especially in your in that case, like you said, you're not vertically
integrated. So it's like not a seamless handoff, like you got to work with other
companies, you're on their timeline, or their mercy. So it's like, yeah, it's
taken a lot of the innovation out of the industry, I really think, you know, like,
I feel like at one point, we were seeing new products, new, you know, it's, it's all
like an experience, right? When they come out with something new, and it comes to
the consumer side, and it's like, there aren't any new experiences beyond like
better fast acting edibles, which is the only other things I'll get in the rec
market, they make edibles phenomenally. Yeah, it's like the flowers and breaks,
it breaks me.
Yeah, no, I do. And you know, a lot of people I talked to myself, that's kind of
one of the reason that motivated people for for home cultivation is one, you know,
what goes into it. Again, it's all honor system, basically, in Washington. So if we
apply pesticides and say we don't apply pesticides, well, then we didn't apply
pesticides. So that's one of the things. Yeah, that's one of them. But you know,
people did the quality and again, freshness, too. And there's a little sense of pride,
too, when you when you grow up yourself, right, like going through, and I know I
keep saying like experience experience, but it really is right. Like, I remember,
like we showed from the earliest times when I didn't even know what breeding was. Now,
it's like the growing the plant and being a part of it and seeing when something doesn't
doesn't work. You know, if you really get in tune with it, it's it's really a great
experience. I just can't get enough of it. It's why why we push through all of the
adversities and issues that are prevalent in what we do. So yeah,
now one thing and I know that you breed a lot of these fabulous like candy strains.
Are you growing them and putting them into the rec market as well?
So through like partnerships with people, we are able to get things into the rec market.
Luckily, we have a pretty strong network of, you know, successful people, license holders
and different things like that. So it allows us to you know, when we find something that's special,
or potentially could be valuable long term for somebody's program. You know, there are places
like over in Oklahoma, we work with the Tulsa connoisseur and stuff over there.
And then there's a couple other programs that are popping up in the mix. But yeah, it does help to
take the the work we've done and then kind of put it where it can be utilized correctly. Because,
you know, we're we're basically creating, following through with testing to make sure
that everything's quality is there. And there's not intersects frequency that's unacceptable,
or whatever's going on. And we're on to testing the next stuff. And the only way to really
prove things at scale is to have those types of partnerships.
And it's interesting, too. It's great that you have people, you know, around the country in
the different markets able to do this. Again, you know, being in Southern California, you guys are
kind of trendsetters. But there are, I mean, different markets are a real thing. You know,
some some markets still want nothing but oh, gee, some markets want nothing but sour. I'm looking
at you, New York. But then there's other markets, you know, they love like candy flavors. So that
has to be a big help. Is that something that you've maybe noticed? Or can you like identify
you're like, Texas? Yeah, man, they're all about cookies in Texas. You know, I don't know too much
about all of the states. But just for an example, that does prove what you're saying. It's like
we're in Oklahoma, I think we're at the Cowboy Cup, and we were watching the award show. And I
watched orange, Tropicana drop, like literally every drop variation, imaginable, first place,
first place, first place, first place, first place. And it's like, if you come to California,
and there was a equivalent show going on, and everybody put drop up, drops not winning out
here, you know, and we're literally I'm standing there going like, you know, not because it's not
good, like Chubb's great. It cuts through flavor cuts, carry Paloma for us. And it's been phenomenal.
And I really do enjoy those profiles. But it's just like, you can see the development of the
market and the age of the market almost by the strains that they're consuming in that market.
Right. So yes, that's, that's a good tax factor to add to that. Because yeah, you know,
you can see that, right? Like, and that's, that's where that's where sativas are an easier
consumable products for most people, right? Like, you don't have to have cultivated taste for weed
to be able to enjoy orange. Yes, shit is powerful orange, right? Good or bad. It's there. And it's
the same thing with sativas, right? They're very, very like, Oh, I can taste that, you know,
but then sometimes like, some of these other more exotic flavors, you know, they may be a
little bit harder to taste. Yep. Yep. No, it's, it's interesting. You say that too. And, you know,
this is all just like hypothetical, but I was speaking with a, an older grower. He's been
around like from the seventies when there was a lot of these sativas in there. And he's like,
all of your flavor today comes from sativas. You know, we've worked ourself to a point to where
it's not again, the whole Indica sativa debate is another debate, but yeah, but the flavor is
almost kind of universal now, but it really does make me think back for people who are looking
through some of these older, like land race types of sativas. If we are going to pull some really
crazy new flavors out of there. Yeah. I mean, we're obviously deep in a stage of super polyhybrid
everything, right? Like everything's pretty poly. There's not a lot of like real P1 land race
breeding occurring or, and it's really got a lot to do with the market too, right? Like
it doesn't make sense for us and other breeders at the current climate of the market to be taking
things to like F10, right? It takes a tremendous amount of time. It's not that we don't want to
do it. It's that you guys don't want to buy it, right? Like we would be then creating something
that's very centric on what we believe it should be. And we have to hope that we share the same
taste as like the F1s and the F2s and stuff and the Fins and all this stuff we have now.
There's enough diversity that we're kind of in the magic hour where if you have the patience to
look and the foresight to know where to look, then you should be able to find like really
unique flavors. Like you said, like it all comes from like sativas and stuff back in the day,
perhaps, but it's like, man, the types of profiles we have today have got to be
improvements substantially over the weed of, you know, years before.
Yeah. And again, just the whole like legality is, you know, there weren't people popping 10,000
seeds and pheno hunting before. I mean, I'm sure there's probably a handful, but there's not
hundreds. But, you know, there's got to be hundreds of companies now doing that. So I do
think that's where we are going to find a lot of these unicorns, but we're also finding a lot of
these like weird recessive traits. And I realized that freak show took a while to work on and
stabilize and get it that way. But again, man, 10 years ago, 20 years ago, if I would have seen
that plant, I would have been like, you're from Mars, dude. What are you talking about?
Even when I see it today, I'm like, man, I guess you must just really love this. Like I get it.
It looks cool.
But I had my freak show experience.
So, man, I just feel like for me, it might not hit the mark on flavor and stuff. But like you
said, for the experience of like, look at how cool the plant is, right? Like it's, they really
look awesome. And it's like the hyper extreme side of like OGKB lovers, you know what I mean?
So it's like, it's cool. It's cool to see the morphology and the different things that it does.
But I try to like, if I see these things, I'm like removing you from my program, probably.
You know better, you know, but you know about the traits and yes, you know,
but I kind of say like freak show is like a guar concert. Everybody needs to do it once
and then you're good. Just do it once.
Yeah, I'm sure it's a great experience. It's really cool. And I'm sure like for somebody,
maybe it's the perfect experience, but I mean, I've got like Los Angeles all around me. So it's
like, I have to like, that's the competition, right? It's like Los Angeles level. Whatever's
out here is pretty much like, you know, it's that kind of trend setting and in the earliest,
and then it waves out to everybody else internationally and across the States from
here. So it's good, but you know, to keep you on your toes.
I guess, yeah, I guess I'm like thinking in my head too. I'm like, I guess this applies
to cannabis too, but there is on the scale, there is a 10 and then there is the LA 10.
Right, right. A hundred percent. It depends where you are on what your 10 is, so.
Yep. That applies to cannabis. And I guess kind of on that subject of like maybe, you know,
polyhybrids and stuff in your work and the things that you've picked up or that you're still
working with or something new that you've brought in. Have you found many true breeding plants that
will continually pass on the same expression, whether you cross it with an OG or you cross
it with a, you know, a sour? Hmm. That's a good point. I don't
know if I can say I found something that's necessarily true breeding. But if I just look
back at like French toast, I would say it was extremely dominant and maybe that's along the
lines of that. I mean, we did make a tremendous amount of French toast crosses and I would see
a lot of the same examples show up in, in all of the lines, right. It would even power out
and mute orange sometimes. So I think maybe that's an example of something that was like
true breeding. It always made like big, powerful, gassy plants. But it didn't always make like
classic pine, right. It didn't always have those sharp gases, but it did always make
like a powerful push. Like I said, even with orange, like, and I think most of us know,
like if you breed with orange, anything, it's like, everything's orange now.
And then like on, I believe it was floating Island. A couple of my friends, like they popped
the pack. There was 13 seeds in there. He actually got 13 females out of the pack,
but you know, they were looking for a cool trough variation and all they found was just like really
big, like muted oranges that were just like big, big cushy nugs. Like, yeah, maybe that's an
example, but I don't think, I don't think it's a proper example. So the answer is probably like,
I haven't found any true breeding, like that are super valuable for the long run.
Right. Right. And, and OGKB just in chat, I see them asking there it's OG kush breath.
Yeah. Absolutely. And then the most famous mutant that, that, and I would say like blissful wizard
um, is, is like the next best one, right? Like they're, they're pretty good. They're,
they're powerful, but you know, you just gotta have like that space.
Oh, okay. Is it big? Are they big? It's another mute. It's like OGKB. So there's two of them.
The four was slowest, the 32, like 32% cut. Um, like that one was pretty fast. My, my buddy,
Michael, he, he had the cut and had given it to me and, you know, it's still, I think it's stable,
but, uh, but yeah, it's just one of the, you know, slow duck footage. Just, oh boy. Yes.
Why am I growing it? Yeah, that's about it. Why am I growing this? Damn it. Cause people want it.
Does it yield? No, but people want it. Damn it. Yeah. Damn it. Um, can't hybrid it properly.
Like you couldn't get the mat. I mean, I've seen like hybrids of them. They're dank, but you just,
I don't know. You just never get that magic. I feel like. Yeah. And do you know, um,
Captain Terp here is like, do you happen to know what the OG, OGKB is made of? Is there a,
is it like a cookie Fino or is there a cookie cross in there somewhere?
I was always like under the impression this was, um, like a bag seed from cookies. Um,
I think maybe somebody possibly correct me, right. I'm certainly not a historian on the subject, but
yeah, no worries. I usually, I usually love to throw answers out, especially when I don't know
them, but this one, I can't even make one up. So I'm pretty sure if I remember, right. Like,
you know, it's, it's one of those clouded and mixed green things. Like where does OG Kush
come from? Right. It's kind of like that, but, uh, I've always been under the impression that
whoever found it, found it out of like some cookie bag seeds and it was just that power.
Um, and it was the right time for something like that to show up. So,
yeah, that's where a lot of things came from. And coincidentally, I did get one bag seed from OGKB
once. I've had it for a few years. It's still sitting there, but, uh, maybe one of these,
one of these days I'll pop it or was, it was, uh, orange. Oh gee. Was it like the OG Kush breath
that like OBS made or he crossed it with like the orange juice bud or whatever, like OG, OJSB.
Yeah, it was probably that it came from, there's a company, um, uh, Gabriel in Washington. And this
is when I was working at the rec store. So you got like the a hundred light rooms. I think I
see them on like Instagram. Gabriel's huge. And they, they're, they're cool because they have an
all Cedar drying room. Like they built out this really crazy drying room. It's all Cedar. It's
obviously super climate controlled and yeah, they, they do some good work here. It's been a while
because I don't really go to the rec stores much, but when, when you work there, when, when you work
at the rec store, it's like you get, you have enough at home, you get samples from the vendors,
but yet that one eighth comes in and you're like, you know, I need that. I got to take you home.
Yeah. When the fire's there, it speaks to you. That's why I always tell people, right? Like when
we're Fino hunting and we're looking at things and people are like, how do you know if you have
something that's a keeper? Right. Uh, I would say one of the easiest ways to know if you've got
something with potential is like, show it to 10 people. Don't tell them anything. Say nothing,
say less, give it to them, let them crack it. And if, if you get a lot of like shoulders moving,
like what's going on in this jar, you know, like then you're probably looking at something that
might have potential because it like, it made like an emotional response come from the people.
Right. And you really see it when you have like, you know, let's just say 50 for a number,
you got 50 different Finos. There's no way all 50 are winners. Like it's always,
it's always a couple that are superior. Right. So it's like, that's when you really see people's
reaction when you show it to them. And then it's like, if, if it doesn't make people react,
it's not a keeper. It's not good. Good point, man. And that obviously has to translate into
your selections and your breeding. Um, you know, again, a lot of people out here like
to, to play with stuff and to make stuff. Um, but if you're going to invest the time to line breed
or back cross or do anything, don't start with an eight, you know, it better be tens, you know,
try to grab a nine at minimum. Right. Or if you're making a compromise, it's for a reason,
right? Like have a strategic reason why you're making that not just be like, Oh, this is
convenient. This works. I mean, that, that may get you there. You know, there's more than one
way to skin a cat as they say, but, um, you know, the, the higher quality selections and that's
always going to lead to a better outcome. Yep. And, and we had a question earlier too,
from Southern VG or VT grower, um, about OG Kush. Like for you, what, what is your profile
for OG Kush? What did, what did you like about it? Uh, you know, it's like heavy pine. Typically
there's definitely some variations. There's some that don't really have the pine. They're just
like a real definitive gas. Um, and some people claim those to be the more original ones. Um,
and then there's, there's like pine, no pine. And there's like sweeter, right? Like Skywalker
is a little bit sweeter, um, than some of the other ones. I think maybe just from like the
Mazar back. I'm not familiar with Mazar, but that's just my speculation on it, you know?
Um, so he's asking like, what's the best gas or what do I consider to be? Or just,
just your personal preference really? Again, no, no right or wrong answer here is just basically,
you know, for the, the OG that you were smoking, which, which one really hit the spot for you?
Cause like you said, there is a variety out there. Uh, I like Skywalker a lot. Um, we've
had it for a long time. It's a really great one, but I've also got like the PKG cut or pure ghost
or I don't know. It's a little mysterious, whatever that really is, but that's one that's
more to like the gas gas side. Um, so yeah, I don't know. I want, as long as it's like good
flavor, right. That's pretty much my, I was like, Oh, what's your favorite one? It's too hard. I
don't get to have a favorite like that anymore. I just have a hierarchy of things. Like I'm more
excited to see something cause it's rarer or something like that. But, um, you know, just
classic quality OG, like a SFV usually real piney. It's coming to mind. Like I always loved that.
That was classic. I don't have that. So yeah, I guess maybe like piney OG, right. You're going
to really go for it. You should aim for the piney OG. I think those have the most flavor.
Nice. I like those. And then, you know, with my cushions, I, as the cush side, I tend to lean
towards the sweet stuff like Burmese cush, the pre 98 Bubba. Um, those there, there's something
magic in them for me and my stomach. Uh, it's like, you know, I, I, I started recreationally
not realizing it was medicinal. Um, now it's medicinal, but I still use it recreationally.
Kind of one of those double-edged things there. Yeah. Oh, and I see somebody here, uh,
shouting out some, some Florida names. Is this one? I haven't heard the Tallahassee two toke.
I like that though. I've heard that one. I learned like about all this, like war of
Florida breeding, you know, and it's just like living in Florida for years, Southern Florida,
going to school in Central Florida and stuff like that. Like I, I wasn't a part of the experience
there. And so I, I was like oblivious. I didn't know that people were breeding plants in Florida
and triangle cush. That's another one, right? Triangle. I used to say that was like my favorite
I haven't seen it in so long. It almost didn't even come to mind right now, but, uh, you know,
triangles like that's, that's classic man. Like triangle that's OG, right? Yeah. And there is,
there's so everything is so shrouded in mystery that it's hard to, nobody really knows. And I mean,
honestly, the only way, and I'd love to see this at some point, uh, is, you know, when we get a
good company that everybody feels comfortable with, I'd love to see a lot of genomic sequencing
because we're going to realize things are more similar than we think. But at the same time,
phenotypic expression or environmental expression, uh, is going to be different. Everybody knows the
story of, you know, a plant that came from Florida and brought to Colorado and then brought to
Washington. You got three different looking plants now. Yeah. So yeah, you can, you can definitely
see things express a little different. I've seen it kind of happen both ways. And then I've seen
some plants that like Sunset Sherbert, I've probably seen it in like a hundred environments
from great to terrible. The difference is the color. It's not the only difference. Like if
you're great, she's purple. It's amazing. It throws down. If you're not, it's green and it's sad and
it's not going to work out. Yeah. And then that's, you know, another one of those strains too. It's
like the Tropicana, uh, earlier, it just cuts through. There's no kind of mistaken, uh, where
do you have that? I've always said like, I don't know what the cookie fan would do without Sunset
Sherbert. Like whenever, however it came to truly exist was a blessing, I think for everybody,
because it really does have a unique profile. And if you just look at what cookies does,
Sunset Sherbert is at the heart of every single thing that they've done that's been really
successful. So I think that, you know, Sherb will be around for quite a while. I mean, I'm making
sure process today still, like I believe in the quality that it brings and the uniqueness. So,
and, and they're, um, like commercially viable as well, usually. So.
And that again is a huge thing. And that's not something that, you know, as like a homegrower
home breeder that we, we look for, or we even understand really, uh, in some points, but yeah,
they do have to hit that commercial viability because it's, you know, it's, it's yield per
square foot. It's not yield per plant anymore. Well, and I think that's part of why like seed
junkie had such a huge uprising, you know, a year or two ago is because like Cushman's and everything
that Cushman's hit was just massive and everybody was seeing return on their space, like never
before. Right. So it's like, everybody's going for that. And that's why I always say like,
you know, commercial cultivation has to be in the forefront of like, when you're making stuff,
because like the slushy stuff is going to be the greatest flavors, but I will be lying if I told
you every single thing that that makes is going to be like this commercially viable plant. It's not,
it's part of a plan for me to make candy a lot more commercially viable down the road. And to
find the components, you just have to invest the time. And so that's kind of where we're at with
that. Yeah. And, you know, like you were saying earlier too, it's, you know, it'd be great if in
an ideal world, when you understand this, if everybody took everything to like an F10 or
something and it became this true breeding line, but the, the market is a moving target by the
time you do that, but even by the time you're halfway there, the flavors have moved on. So it
really is, you know, market driven. It kind of sucks. It controls very heavily what we do. And
I know another thing I've said before is, you know, there's been a lot of instances where I've
made things I'm very passionate about, but I'll end up giving it out as a promotional item. Not
obviously because of quality, but just because of market climate reception of those products. Or
maybe it's like we crossed the lemon tree, right? Like people just don't buy that. And that's okay.
So for me, I'm like, I'm going to make it, I'm going to give it to you. Right. So it's like,
if you get those freebies, don't think that the freebies are just like, Oh, it's whatever
promotional packet is probably something I really wanted to make. Right. Yes. The market is just the
way it is. And the reality is that's the only way I put it in your hands. It may not even be enough
to leverage you to like buy the other really good thing that's happening. You know what I mean? So
it's like struggle with that sometimes in the market. Yeah. Well, you know, too, for people
who are getting some of your seeds in their hands and you know, if they've not had much experience
with, with like professional breeder packs, or, you know, they just haven't had the best of luck.
There really is a difference. When a person you'd like yourself puts intent and puts focus into a
plant, especially you're talking about, you know, commercial viability. That was something that
really shocked me from, you know, just playing around to trying some like professional gear,
as I like to say. There really is a difference though, right? Like you can have a winner out
of almost anywhere. Yeah. Cam, I mean, Cam and sour. Yeah, that's true. And, and for,
you know, we're talking earlier about trying to like pick out that winner or pick the unicorn.
Even though I can't grow a thousand plants to find it, I have smoked well more than a thousand
plants in my life. And so like you're saying, it's usually like you hit it and you're like,
huh? When you get that shoulder moving, you're like, okay, there might be something special
about this one. Or if you're another one, which I've definitely seen, you know, like I have a
lot of friends that do hunting. We'll all meet up. Everybody would be like firing up a bunch of
different stuff. One that really stands out to me just now, I remember we're smoking probably like,
I don't know, 30 different things, you know, and then a joint comes through to me. I take a few
rips off it. And like, as I hit it in the middle of smoking, like 30 joints, like you feel it,
you know what I mean? You feel that. And I was like, what is this? You know what I mean? And
it was a, I remembered that specific instance. It was, I believe, angry Canadian from soul fire,
you know, the homie flop hunting soul fire gear. I kind of put them on with some of his stuff.
Cause he's, he's a standup dude does great work, you know? And yeah, man, the angry Canadian,
just like, I don't know, like 30 joints. I'm like, that shit is working.
Oh man. That's rad. I love the name too. Angry Canadian. Just, I live, I live not too far from
Canada and it's bad to generalize, but damn it. They're the nicest people.
They are. That's why I'm laughing at angry Canadian. I'm like, I don't know if I've met
them. It's rare. It's rare. Yes. Yes. Yes. They do exist though. I'm sure they do.
But as far as like results, you know, putting two things together, you're like, okay,
this is usually what's passed on from this. You're kind of an X factor. We'll see what you get.
Have you had anything just like super unexpected, like a completely
different profile from them or, you know, something back from the lineage?
Oh man. Yeah, I would say so. I think in my last hunt we were running some stuff and it had like
candy rain back in it. And I don't really know what candy rain is from like the, the cookie
drops or whatever, but what I was seeing, it made me wonder if like I had accidentally
mislabeled some stuff and I had to like bring in some other noses to do a little investigation.
Like go and check this shit really quick for me because like, there's nothing that said I should
have found any type of a citrus profile. Right. But then I was just like randomly in like a couple
of things I was finding like this, like citrus, that's weird. You know what I mean? Like that I've
in the end, everybody was like, no, I don't think you messed anything up. Like, it's just
like, they look like the other plants that don't, but it's just, that's the polyhybrid for you where
you can have like extreme diversity depending on the line. Right. Like sometimes the polys line up
a little better. Sometimes they just skew, just do whatever they do. You know what I mean? So I
think that's one of those instances where I was like, where did this profile come from is very
unexpected. And maybe it was like recessive triggered from the initial cross, which is like
one of those things you can't tell when you're going to be dealing with like partner genes
that like activate and deactivate traits. Right. Like sometimes something is hyperconnected to
that trait. You don't like, like the thing you love is part of the thing you hate, right?
Damn it. You lose the part you love. Right. And so it's like, you've got to compromise in those
cases. So yeah, that's the unknown. It's like, you can't see what's happening under the hood until
you do the actual work. And the next thing, you know, you're like, oh man, I put like six months
into that. Oh, it's okay. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Let me see that it's not going to make the cut
and I'll, I'll dry my tears. I know you, you said six months and yes, that, that turns the knife in
my heart because it does. It takes me about six months, six months, six months, about three runs
before I'm like, yay or nay. Yeah. Six months. That's half a year. Damn it. So that's what I'm
saying. It's like you make a few wrong turns. You're not like really mindful or like spreading
your net broad enough. That can really hurt your program. It can really set you back and be like,
man, like, okay, so you're telling me that none of that's going to work. And honestly,
you know, if you're a breeder and you've been doing it for a while, you're going to have lines
that don't make the cut. Right. Like for instance, like you should, you should, I was like a big
starfighter fan boy, huge starfighter, huge exotic fan, you know what I mean? At the time.
And so I finally got like some starfighter stuff and I did everything I would normally do. Flower
out the males, select the best one, keep them in solo cups forever. Try to force them to freak out
and all this stuff and passed all of the tests over like the span of a few months. I'm like,
all right, cool. Make the initial crosses, got the seeds. So we're months and months and months down
the road. I'm popped the crosses. I'm flowering the crosses. The male goes complete crazy auto
intersex traits. Right. And I was like, excuse my language. I was like, what is going on here? Like
I, I covered all my bases and I stress tested, I did, you know, X, Y, Z. And in the end, and I'm
just going to be honest, like I, we still tried to run them and I've had other people that like
finish flower on them. If they don't harm, they're amazing, but they are just dream high
frequency for intersex traits there. And I don't know why it's not something I could explain to
you. I like, you know, test to see like, what, what is the balance of hormones or something?
Right. There's something going on there biologically, but, um, yeah, that's an example
of like, then I was super hyped on. And I mean, just think about that. Like I pop seeds, I flowered
male, I stress tested, I bred, I popped, I was flowering. And then the male let me know that this
was going to be a tragedy of a project. And like, literally it's just been, you know, that was, uh,
it was a fun experience. It's a fun experience. It's so diplomatic. It's a fun experience,
but that's, you know, that's plants and it's like, uh, when people will, and I hope, you know,
if like you're watching and you haven't got a lot of experience hunting, I hope that your takeaway
will be that, um, you know, it's just kind of something that's built into the plants and as
breeders, we do everything we can to steer the direction of the frequency and how often those
things occur or what triggers them. But, you know, we can't really control it. Right. So if you pop
a pack and you find one out of a pack, you got to really ask yourself what's going on and maybe
just realize it's a fail safe built in, um, did it ruin, you know, we hope obviously nobody has
that issue. We always warranty everything for people when they do. Cause we believe in what
we do and we stand behind the product. But I think like for me, if I hunt other people's gear,
which I do frequently and I've had, I've had herbs for me, I'm not hitting up the breeder.
I'm not looking for a refund. I'm like, it's, I get, it's cool. Like it's smart for me, but
yeah, I just want people to kind of, um, really ground themselves on what a bad intersex trade
is. Like you pop a pack of seeds and you get six females and four out of six harm. All right.
That's bad. Right. That's majority of everything gave you a trouble then. And at that point,
it's like, is it an isolated incident? And it's really hard to know, right? Cause if you need
to pop, like, I think humble, if I'm not mistaken, says somewhere around like 2000 plus seeds to see
the spread. Right. No breeders, not me, not the biggest dude in the world, maybe some guys in
Spain, but even they don't want to pop 2000 seeds to hunt for something. Just think about
the complexity of selecting down through 2000. I hurt my brain just to conceive what that would
mean. Like, I don't know if you could have enough weed for long enough to make those choices before
it would like degrade in quality. And you're just like blindly picky. I'm just thinking logistically,
man, can you imagine taking 2000 clones and labeling them all and keeping them just that
straight? Just that logistically is a nightmare in itself. You better be like all star revenge,
right? Like, I think it was lemon Hoco. He was like, he's like, bro, you got to get better at
revenge. And I just like, admittedly, I told him, I said, I'm really, really bad at it. And I
actually do need to follow up with him because he's a very nice gentleman. He offered to teach
me about where I'm making my mistakes. Cause like I had a really great thing. We did like a runs
back cross with 808. Um, awesome breeder. We're able to do some work with, and in the hunt, I
found an amazing expression, just a touch of strawberry, just a little gelato and like sharp
candy, but gas, right? I was like, Oh my God, it's going to go crazy for this. Right. Sold.
He's gone. He's gone forever. He's gone. I remember smoking the weed. It wasn't a great
experience. And, uh, I did, I did a bad job of trying to get her transitioning and it just
degraded in health and eventually died. And so, yeah, that's, you know, you could get good. If
you're doing like huge scale, I don't think it's even viable. Right. Right. Keep 2000 clones. How
do you even keep track of them? You need, that's somebody's full-time job. Yeah. Do we have all
2000 of these still? Yeah, man. I remember well in the, in the commercial. Yeah. We,
that we had the massive clone room and we had the decent numbers in there. It was a 60,000
square foot facility. Um, but just that magic number of 2000. Cause I remember one night
I won't say his name, but he got the clones, got everything done for the night. A lot of hard work
come back the next morning. He forgot to plug in the row of a fucking cloners.
We're just like, dude, they're like the aerial cloners. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So they were,
I'll be honest. That's not even something I've toyed with just because like they take up so
much space and there's people love them. So like, I think they, they look phenomenal. It's just not
something I do. I just kind of stick to like rock wall. Um, you know, I just, it works no need to
redesign the wheel kind of thing for me, but yeah, I mean the, the clones, the roots that come out of
those aerial cloners are amazing. Like, yeah, I love those. I use them here, uh, at home on the
personal level and the commercial level. I see why. Um, but again, once you have something that works
too, you don't necessarily need to change it. Cause with rock, well, rock was pretty fast and
you're able to see the root growth pretty quickly as well. It's, you know, it's different if you're
just tossing it in soil. Sometimes there's a little bit of a, an adjustment period for the
roots to get the right oxygen and water mix there. So it sets you back a few days. Um,
but I also appreciate too, you know, we were talking about earlier about the intersex traits
and you know, like one out of a 10 pack. Yeah. Unfortunate, but there's also that, you know,
statistical truth to everything. You might just be that one in a thousand and it's unfortunate,
but that's something people need to consider. Like you said, if it's four out of six,
there might be an issue and the breeder didn't do enough testing, but you have continually
done this type of testing to try to avoid these things. But again, that one in a thousand is
going to pop up. Or if you know, like, like let's just create some numbers. Like you got five
friends all running the same stuff and all of them also have the same problem. And let's say
in that case, it's only one or two per people, but now it's still, now you have a higher metric
to look at. And it's still not exactly encouraging to see that two people or two plants across six
and five gardens, right? Like that's 10 Herms out of whatever, 20 or, you know, a couple hundreds.
It's not ideal, right? There's always variables. Um, but yeah, it's like you said, it's kind of
good to just look at like, is it an isolated incident? Am I heavy on the gas? Like I ran a
bunch of Kim stuff and I think all know Kim is like notorious for having like a little bit of
issues. And I was not surprised that when my foot was heavy on the gas, that some gigantic
Kim crosses just went sour on me. They pollinated everything, you know what I'm saying? And I was,
you know, and I was just like, okay, um, well, yeah. What are you gonna do? Make some hash, I
guess. There you go. There you go. Yes. That's, that's a great thing these days is it's not a
lost cause anymore. Uh, if you've got a seated room, like you just gotta have some, like, I'm
not, I'm not in doubt with the skill or knowledge of like processing hash or anything. It's definitely
like an art. Like I've seen good and bad, right? We've seen people who are amazing at it. And then
I've seen people like really bad. And obviously the quality of what you start with has a lot to
do with that too. Yeah. But, and you know, to, you know, like you said, a couple of different
growers in different situations, that's an important factor to me too, because sometimes it's
one person in their environment, but if you're getting it multiple people in multiple environments,
that's another reason to kind of, you know, throw up the yellow light.
Right. Then hit the breeder up and be like, buddy, what can you do? And I'm going to be like,
I don't think you should run that again. Like, let's get you something that's going to be better
for you. Right. We'll replace it and stand behind it. Cause again, it's like, I would give you zero
if I could, I promise. There's six traits of it was scientifically possible. So maybe in the future
when they start like snipping and editing and stuff and you know, that, uh, real GMO aspect
takes over, then maybe it's, you know, but just think about the type of resources that you'd have
to invest financially to even be able to do cutting edge. I think we'll be to the, like the
polyploid to the sterile plants before we get rid of the Herme traits. I know they've identified
some alleles that can change it, but we obviously don't know everything about this plant or the
genome. Uh, but yeah, I know they're, they're working on just sterile plants and that'll
probably be the answer to, to that issue. Cause it'll never get, get agriculture, right? Like
plants that can't be pollinated so that like you protect your stock, you know, it's just going to
be, that'll be cool for like, uh, like big companies, I guess that are doing outdoors,
outdoor grows. Yeah. It secures your stock, I guess. It makes it like, oh, well, if you somehow
were able to breed with that, we're suing you now. So you've got the genetic half of it. It's
in your, it's also in this cross now. I don't know how you did that, but we're going to need your
money. Yeah. I mean, it's a real thing. It's like, make no mistake. It, there will, it will be like
that. Uh, cannabis is a commodity. It's an agricultural commodity. We've all know Monsanto,
which is now Hawthorne. Um, but yeah, I mean, their shit pollinated the farmer's field and
now that farmer has to surrender their entire crop, even though he didn't do anything other
than just get pollinated by the wind. Like you could come pick it up. You can harvest it.
I don't know how any of that works, but I'm sure it's not that kind. No, no, it's, it's
it out. It's pretty fricking disgusting, honestly. But yeah, that, that's a G and I mean, cannabis
will go there, but that's not really, you know, a lot of our worlds where we're focused, you know,
at best, you know, a lot of us are focused on craft. Um, me personally, I'd love to have craft,
uh, craft cannabis. If I, a, if I could get a license in the state, which you can't,
because there aren't any, but B if I could vertically integrate, I'd open the doors
tomorrow. I mean, that's the number one thing, you know, they really need to fix the issue in
regulation where they make it impossible for competition to exist. Competition is what brings
quality, right? It's not who's got the biggest bag and who can operate in a red for three to
five years and get the most market share. It's not quality that's power and money and finance
and a great business plan to back it. Right. Like price point nobody else can reach, but like
quality and competition. And it's the same here in California. I mean,
this was one of the craziest, coolest markets trends setting for the world. You know what I
mean? And then like they just put a stranglehold on it and they took, like I said earlier that I
just feel like they robbed our market of the innovation that we were creating, um, through
competition, right? Like if you're not competing with somebody who's doing something cooler or
more attention grabbing or better than you, you have no need to do anything different. You can
continue producing subpar sativas because they give you returns and you, you know, whatever your
game plan is, right? Cause you don't have anything to take your market share. But if quality is
there, um, then maybe your market share is not guaranteed and you're forced to be like, oh my
God, like we can't grow blue dream because people don't want to pay for it anymore. Right? There's
like 10 people that smoke this. People love blue dream. Don't get me wrong, but I'm just for
instance, you know, it's like, oh, it's, it's the fun one to kick around, bring the car, bring the
glue dreams back, bring in the competition. You know what I mean? Like let us compete, open the
market, make it doable. And I think that that's what is the best for every, every market for
cannabis, right? Like let people compete. And if you're not good, you're not able to meet the
requirements, then you'll naturally be taken from the market or you'll fail financially. And
that's just the nature of the game. But yeah, I just think it's really, that's the worst part of
California. And it's why a lot of people went to Oklahoma or like years ago, people went to Oregon,
right? Because the market was friendly. The entry price was realistic. You could go to Oregon with
like five grand and get a license. I've looked for property there. You need a million dollars.
You need like to have a building without a license. You're paying rent on it for like a
year while you're waiting to get approved. Or you need a social equity, somebody who gets a social
equity license and then try to get them to surrender it or work with them. I mean, I just
hear so much crazy, so many crazy things that people have to do to be able to compete. And it's
like, just if the average person has enough money to go get a place, there should be smaller zoned
areas that you can gain entry to. Your landlord should not be able to gouge you
five X what the building's worth because you're growing cannabis. It's like, bro,
we're getting gouged everywhere. Every cultivator is, it's like, it's the owner of the building,
it's the state, it's the government, it's the IRS. And then it's like people jacking up the
prices because now the hydro stores don't see the same turnover they used to. So all their
prices go up a little bit. It's a legal shakedown is what it is. It's almost like
if you get married, if you're going anywhere to look at a dress or a photographer or cakes,
the second you say the word wedding, bro, it's like three times the price now.
You say cannabis rent five times the price now. Money only grows on tree figuratively.
It's not really.
I'm glad that you put it the way that you did because I oftentimes say something very similar
as I call it the Amazon model. If you're getting into this, you better be prepared to lose money
for three to five years because there's people out there who are happily going to do it to get
the market share. And in Washington, there was only a limited number of licenses. There's no
multi-state operators, even though through back channels, there are now multi-state operators.
But yeah, they just kind of squeezed out the mom and pops, the tier one, tier twos,
who were trying to go on craft. And now there's a bunch of larger companies that hold
numerous licenses that don't do anything with it. Why? Because if you control supply,
you control demand. So it's very far from a free market.
Yeah, it's not fair. I mean, I don't know personally if there's like real
deep corruption going on in it, but I just know that like the things I hear,
you know, when you're, when you participate in markets and you know, people, you hear a lot of
things that aren't going to be public knowledge and how much of it's true or not, I don't know.
But the things I just hear about Los Angeles are so disheartening. I mean, the reality is like,
if you want to get a license, you just need someone who's like, knows the right people.
It's not even about really qualifies. It's like most things in life, right?
Your network is your network, right? Like somebody that I follow or whatever, they said that. And I
was like, man, that really sums it up, right? Your network is your network. And it's facts,
like who you know, regardless of your skillset can propel you up. You know what I mean? Like,
you don't have to always be good at things. You just need to know the right people in some cases.
Yeah. I'm, you know, again, being from the music industry, trust me, it's not based on talent
people, not entirely. But yeah, who you know. You see less talented or reliable or honorable
people sometimes just excelling. But I feel like, you know, if you're taking shortcuts to do it,
eventually catches up. Yeah. And that's me everywhere. Yeah. And that's one thing,
you know, that I really admire about raw genetics is the longevity. Again, you know, it's not a here
today, gone tomorrow. There are people who have that short play in mind. They're like, get in,
get out, whatever, change my screen name, do it all over again. That's not the path that you've
chosen. And that's not exactly the easiest path, but long term, personally, I feel that is the
best path. So that's something I need a hats off to, you know, and I really appreciate it. You
know, we've got such great backing in the community and the people who have been like watching us from
day one when it was pink crosses. And, you know, like you said, there's like, I feel like every
couple of years is like a boom of like micro breeders. We originate from one of those early
booms of micro breeders and like hundreds of people pop up. Everybody tries to get some
market share or whatever you want to call it. And then I feel like over the span of about two years,
most of those people have gone. New people have come. You know, it's really it's a super
competitive market and it's really hard to keep people's attention. Right. Like it's always an
attention game on our people paying attention. Are they watching? Because like if they're not
watching, then you're not continuing or you could push through, you know, but and then again, that
just circles back to like the network. Who do you know? Right. And like, where are you? Like,
we're lucky to be here. And so I think it's a combination of just drive to not give up. Right.
Just not giving up is the core of succeeding at a lot of things and network. You know, so I
appreciate it, but it's, you know, I'm sure a lot of other people have also tried to do it. It's
just very, very hard. And we were fortunate enough to like get the network of people and be able to
move through that way. Well, and then again, you know, this this relates to many things in life.
But like if you're a positive person, you tend to attract positive people. That is the realist.
That is I because I think everybody's gone through low times in their life and I'm no stranger to
that. I growing ruined my life 100 percent. Like at the end of where I learned everything,
like I said, my life was in shambles. Like that's a fact. I was destroyed.
Yeah, it's a live and learn and rebuild. But you've you've also, you know, you built that
good community around you. And again, too, when it comes to the testing and, you know, like
intersex traits or whatever, we're able to crowdsource that stuff now, which is great because
we can accomplish in one year what would take us 12 years before.
It helps to scale numbers, too, right? Like you said, there's only so much one person can do when
you're creating X amount of lines. I mean, you can do the math, right? You're limited. So it helps to
spread the net further to get that further R&D to know like, oh, across five gardens at X amount of
seeds, we only saw one, right? Because then there's like a better metric. We got bigger numbers. We
know, okay, what's the status of this garden? What's going on? What's the skill of this grower,
right? Because there's a lot of variables, which is another thing like I, you know, when I'm doing
my testing, I'm not trying to kill them. You know what I mean? Like, I'm trying to succeed here. I'm
trying to have quality things for like people to have pictures of because like I said, everybody's
visual. It's very, very visual type of thing, which is why Instagram is like the Mecca and
Twitter is not, right? I would say I wish everybody would move to Twitter a little more.
They're much more accepting and we can do all the same stuff.
Same owner in the end too, I think, or no. Jack Dorsey and then no, Facebook owns Instagram.
Sorry to derail that thought there.
Yeah, no, it's funny where Brian and Marco show the other day, we're talking about how Instagram
is really the thing. So much so to the point that you build a profile and a reputation,
it gets deleted, you're destroyed. And what do you do? You come back and you start 2.0.
Start again. I'm on like fucking 14.0. Like we just deleted the other day at 30k again,
like Instagram will not let me get much past the 30k range. And like you said, like it really is
in some senses like devastating because it takes a lot of work and effort to build that.
One moment, who knows why it's taken from you. And I will say like I've been branching out,
we're in discord really heavily and I invite everybody there and we're on Twitter now too.
So I invite everybody there, but you can really get a better glimpse of the bubble that we all
kind of operate and live inside of with Instagram when you go to Twitter, right? Like raw genetics,
30,000, or like when I go to NFT and web three stuff, like people do know who I am out there,
but it's not like on Instagram, like it's a bubble, right? Like we're very well known in our
area where the attention is at. But as soon as we move into these new sectors, it's like,
there's a lot of room for growth there. So I would just be like, if you're like me,
if you have any company, like I don't care, come on, compete over there. Let's go to the other
side and let's go do some cool stuff. And we'll get more attention over there. We can be first.
I mean, the only companies that are over there, like the Amsterdam companies, right? Like all
the old school, like the Barneys and all of those like variations, however you want to look at that.
So like, that's who, those are the people who are on Twitter, but there's millions of people
on Twitter and they want to consume news. They want to consume information. And I think, you
know, with the right push, it could really be valuable for everybody. So I think we should all,
let's Twitter it up a little bit. Yes. No, that would be interesting too. And
you mentioned the Amsterdam companies and that kind of goes back to the different flavors from
around the country, like different social media habits around the world, which is interesting.
Yeah. I do a little bit of writing for Sensey Seeds for their blog and just going through the
editing process sometimes, you know, it's interesting, just the differences between
kind of our cannabis culture and their cannabis culture. I'm sure it's very different. And that's
like people on that side want to consume sativas a lot more. Like they got a lot of love and
reverence for that area of genetics where it's like over here in America, I feel like, you know,
unless you're an older, older than me, right? It's like my generation and younger, like we're not
really fucking with that too much stuff. Right. Well, you know, to that, and that's just,
I think maturity of the market, you know, and the people that are involved in it,
not saying mature level, just age in that sense. Right. And just the way markets develop over time,
right. It's like the same way that breeding has developed over time. And now we've got
profiles that I would say didn't exist before. Right. I'm sure some of them did. I mean, there's
some pretty cool old school stuff. I remember getting like cotton candy and things like that,
and I've never seen it again. I was like, Whoa, this is really impressive. And it's like the only
time I ever saw it. Like it's probably a dozen like stories like that. Like same thing with like
blueberry. I remember getting classic, classic blueberry, just like this delicious blueberry
muffin weed. And I've, since I've been in California, I've seen it zero times in like 10
years. It's like it doesn't exist, which makes you wonder like, is it because I didn't know what
anything was? Right. Like I didn't really have a developed palette for flavor. And so I was able to
see that. And maybe now my palate wouldn't find it to be the same thing. I kind of feel like that's
why people are looking for like these skunks and all this stuff. Right. And it's like, how many
people have you seen actually find roadkill skunk in the last couple of years? Zero.
And how many breeding projects have promised that roadkill skunk is inside of it?
At least a thousand to the point where it's a bit scammy. Right. And people are like,
you know, and I'm not calling anybody, anything, no, no, no companies name other than, you know,
like some of the bigger guys that did the work. And I'm not saying that's the case, but it's like,
I think if you're really doing the work and you're consuming a lot of cannabis,
like you kind of know like this, we're not, I want to say we're not going to find it,
but maybe it's just not what we thought it was. Right. Like we could be looking
you're right in the face and just be like, all have developed into a new zone.
Yeah. It's different now. Different. Yeah. The, the, the, the options for our,
for our taste buds are a lot different too. So yeah, that, that might make it not stand out.
And it was funny. I was writing a skunk article for Sensi recently, and I didn't realize that,
that, that animal is really exclusive to North America. They don't even, yeah,
they don't even have skunks over there. So they're kind of like, what, what,
what is this roadkill skunk? I'm like, huh? Cause skunk is sweet over there for most of them,
but yeah, that's another story. Like, I mean, like GMO is the new roadkill. I don't know.
People are tired of it already. So it's like, it's coming gone guys.
Well, that, that kind of leads into my next question though, is like,
do you have like a wide range or do you have a preference with the sort of genetics that you
work with, whether it's like a new one or a classic one or something that's hype or maybe
something that's unheard of from, you know, your, your homie in the corner who's got some killer
shit, but you know, nobody knows him yet. I mean, I've got respect for it all. Obviously
hype is a big factor in, in a lot of different things, right. Because of attention, attention
is the goal. Right. And, and like, I don't get to decide where everybody's attention is.
Um, market really decides what we as breeders create, right. Because our goal,
really, I work for you, right. Without knowing anybody directly. My goal is to make sure that
I'm catering to the things that you guys want. And a lot of times that's hype centric, right.
And sometimes quality, like I said earlier, becomes promotional items, right. Not to say
that hype isn't quality, right. But it's notable that hype is the driving force for sourcing some
of these things. Right. And then we'll test them. We'll be like, are they actually good?
Like I've run a dozen of the newest cookies things over the last like year or whatever.
Not all of them were good. Not all of them went into a project, right. The ones that we liked
went into projects. The other ones, not so much, you know what I mean? So it's like,
Well, that's good to hear too, that you are being a little bit choosy and picky about what you're
working with because, yeah, that makes a difference in the end run, you know, three generations down
the line. Right. Pick and tens all the time. And then it's like, so if I like something,
I'm not going to just solely go off of what I like, because again, very subjective.
So I'm going to take those things and I want to show them to people. I want West Coast Connoisseurs
opinion. I want Umami's opinion. I want Neptune's opinion. Like all my other friends that are great
growers, Kaya and all these different people, Kush Clinic, like I want to know, like, does this
compete with like Los Angeles market? Because again, that's when people are like, how do you
gauge quality? I mean, I'm trying my hardest to compete with whatever is considered to be the
pinnacle of quality in Los Angeles, right? So it has a lot of influence on what we do. And I feel
like it waves out, you know, like whatever's popular here, maybe this year candy isn't the
most popular thing in Oklahoma or New York, but you know what, by the time we finished doing all
the work, we get all the testing done. We finally are able to do delivery of these items. I mean,
how much further down the road are we like nine months? Exactly. We might be out there by now.
Right. So it's like, we're trying to anticipate and really use market trends to help select.
And then whatever is the best tasting, right? Like flavor forward. That's kind of like our,
one of our newest hashtags we started using over like the last year. Flavor forward, because that
needs to be in the forefront, right? If we're always selecting for flavor, I would say within
reason, you can argue variables, but you're going to create more positive outcomes because
at the end of the day, what I put in my joint, I can't see it anymore, right?
This is true.
And it doesn't work for like the price points and the bag appeal. And there's, you know,
there's a lot of variables, but when I'm smoking it, that's where it matters, right? So flavor
forward, quality is paramount to everything. And, you know, definitely trying to make sure that we
get many opinions to vet my opinion, you know, against like the market itself.
That's very smart of you too. And again, that's a sign of, you know, someone who's in touch with
how business works. Just because I love it, doesn't mean the world's going to love it.
And, you know, the, you always hear about, you know, the, the, the unlabeled jar test at parties,
you put out jars and do one of my favorites never was the first jar empty. It was usually one of the
last ones. I'm like, but that's my favorite guys. Like, why, what, what, why are you missing this
one? So yeah, it's good, good to get that consensus in there. And we had a question here in chat,
as far as like cotton candy flavors, is there something that you top of your head would
recommend or somewhere where you remember that? I wish I could. I mean, all I know is
that's the goal back in the day. Nah, just, I had got weed once upon a time came to me. It was
some cotton candy. I was like, Oh, cool. That's smelled it. I mean, I don't really, it's hard to
know what that is. Right. Like, did it have so subjective, you know, all I know is at the time,
my uneducated opinion was like, wow, this really does smoke and tastes like cotton candy. But it
was, it was trap flowers from a stranger. So it's like really hard to properly contextualize and
judge that experience against like, cause that's the only time I've ever had anybody hand me cotton
candy. Right. I don't know. I would need to judge against other people. So as far as like trying to
direct somebody to it, I don't know where it is. But you know, with the candy flavors,
we're definitely looking to just find the most unique things. Will we be able to produce that
extremely unique cotton candy thing? I don't know. Right. That'd be a bit of luck. Right.
In the grand scheme of things. So if you've got some fucking fire strange here, a lot of really
tasty ones, I've got some written down and I want to get to them. I'm just like looking at the time
here. I'm like, ah, oh, I want to get to, to some of those though. But there was somebody here. What
was the question? Oh, I just had it in chat. It was, can you ask how much of his stock comes from
seed hunts versus cuts? Yeah, it's, so it, it varies. Right. Like I said, we do, we are fortunate
enough to have a great network and have access to like the new hype cuts. And then as we hunt,
right, we're always looking for quality. So, you know, was it the seed? I'm sorry, can you show me
the question again? Let me scroll back up here. I started rambling a little bit. No, it's all good.
Just cause you know, a lot of breeders they'll work with both. Actually I hear working with
cuts a lot. Right. Again, it's because the market's demand for those variations of those
products that are well known. So they want to have that. I mean, stocks versus cuts. I mean,
I guess it's a combination of both, right? Like I'm hunting, I have plenty of crosses that we make,
which are like a hundred percent original. It's like multiple selections compiling into one. And
then, you know, there's things that are like, like not that much work necessarily, but you know,
yeah, the seed stock comes from both sides for sure. And that's good too. That, that interjects
a little bit of the selection too. Yeah. I like, I mean, I like to hunt other people's stuff,
right? I can't just only run my stuff. I need to also like judge my stuff against other people. So
if I pop my work, pop their work and it's like, who's got what, you know what I mean? So it's
like, you know, you need good grounding on your competition as well. Got it. Very, yeah. Very
smart. I, now I see why you've been around for, you know, as long as you have, there's a lot of,
there's a lot of wisdom here that is just coming out nonchalantly. It's a lot of learned experience,
right? You know, we, like you said, we've, we've been here for a while. And so through that,
the evolution of things we've been able to learn and that's how we figure out how to navigate
correctly. But you know, we didn't know anything in the beginning. I would say, and I try to say
it like whenever I have opportunity, cause I know there's a lot of other people who are like
aspiring to breed, they want to make things like, and people ask me like, what do I, how do we do
it? How do you get to be breeder or whatever it is? It's like, don't stop, bro. Like when it doesn't
be good answer, when nobody's looking at you and nobody cares, nobody gives a shit anymore what
you're doing. Like you have to still do it, still go out, see people shake hands. Like you are what
you say you are. And I'm raw genetics because I went to every show and I met people I didn't know.
And I said, I'm raw genetics until people started to know who I was to some degree, right? And that
bred, it just, it's a snowballing effect, right? Like you said earlier, positivity,
and you really have to have, you know, a little bit of belief to take the risk in yourself. It'll
be the most rewarding thing that you do is to take that risk and navigate the complexities.
And that's definitely going to be the most rewarding thing for, I think, anybody.
And that's broad for any situation, right? Yeah. Yeah. You can fight through it. Be tenacious.
Don't give up. And then next thing you know, you're at the other side of this thing. And people
are asking like, how do you do that? I didn't give up, man. I just kept going. Like every time it
didn't work, I went left. Okay. I'll make a right hand turn here. I'll go shake this hand. Get these
cuts, whatever, you know, whatever it is. I'm sure there's variations. You can apply it to
almost anything you do, but like, just don't give up on whatever you're trying to do.
Yep. Amen to that. And here's, here's probably a good transition into some of your strains.
Huey Treeman asks, what of your gear are you most proud of? And that could be, you know,
something in the past or maybe even something current or both if you want to.
Yeah. You know, I love questions like this because they're always like so subjective
to the moment on what I feel. I mean, I'm proud of everything I do regardless of its success,
right? It's all part of the experience, but I would say the thing that one of the things that
I'm most proud of right now is definitely slushies. I've been saying it a lot. I put,
you know, a lot of time into creating the next line. We're allocating some of the seeds that
are limited edition into like this NFT program, you know, trying to also create some cool
unique ways to like deliver things to people and have more interactive experiences. So for me,
I'm betting big on the quality of the flavor from slushies. Like I said, flavor forward and
everything we did there, we very mindfully paired with trying to keep the flavor of slushies
forward while also helping to, you know, head in the direction of plants that can reach
commercial cultivation level, right? It's like you need a big performer with something that's
maybe a little smaller, split the difference, but maybe splitting the difference is adequate
for production still perhaps. So yeah, big on slushies right now, a lot of work into it.
And I think that it's something that the people who get it, it's going to be limited edition.
I'm kind of planning only to build forward off of it. So we'll have a portion that's
allocated to people who don't care about NFTs, don't care about Web3. And you got,
we still love you, even if you don't want to participate in this thing.
They scare me.
I get it, right? It is like, you know, we're always down to educate people if they jump
into Discord. But yeah, so we have some great limited edition things that are going to be
available there. Collaboration with Roan and Seedco and also collaboration with PhenoAddict.
So, you know, we're super excited to bring those things. Those are going to be outside of the
NFT project that we're doing. And then, you know, just kind of speak into, like I said earlier,
like don't give up on things. If I'm being honest, we've had a lot of adversities and trying to
complete some of the aspects of this project, not from like our side of like utility, creating
seeds, testing and all that's a breeze, right? But it's like art, websites, smart contracts,
all these different things, you know what I mean?
Logistics.
Right. So we I've been working for months. We're making headway. And then recently,
you know, we're working with an artist and we're partnered with Robot Farmer,
which is amazing. Shout out to Robot Farmer. They're great. And for some reason,
I think the artist just found that it was too much of a workload and nothing against them.
It's OK. I'm glad that he chose now. But, you know, we did invest a substantial amount of time
and time. Right. So it's like it's aggravating and it's stressful because it's like I'm not
an artist in that fashion. So it it leaves you to like new challenges. And the way that
we'll succeed is the same way that we did was just not stopping, not giving up, fighting through it
like I'm like, OK, if it just crumbled today, that's OK. Like whatever. We have the Internet.
We have the Internet, guys. So it's like there isn't anything that with enough motivation. I
feel like you could probably do just about anything like you can find somebody who can do it.
There's just so much opportunity. So, you know, like we're fighting through it and
I'm interviewing new artists. So, I mean, hey, if you're just throw it out there,
if you're an amazing artist and you want to be a part of a really cool NFT project,
we're looking for people who want to produce high quality art that's going to have like a
broad spread of adoption because the goal is not this year. Six months from now, the goal is just
like for Rod's like 10 years, right? Like anything we launch, we want to be backing it for the long
term and the quality of the program, seeds, the people, the interactions, all that quality is
just paramount across the board. So, yeah, stay at it, you know, like don't let anything stop you.
If you really have high conviction in doing something, you can find a way to succeed.
Yeah. And if you're in chat and you're an artist, listen up, man. Seize the opportunity.
Discord, man. Jump in. We're very available. You probably talk directly to me.
So it's like, you know, don't don't be shy. Jump in.
Yep. And this this stuff does happen. An announcement that'll be coming soon. I'm
creative director at a new place with a company that you all know. And it happened exactly like
this. They were on their podcast. They said they had a person didn't do it. We need this guy.
I am that guy. That's my background. Hit him up. Six months later, we're about to launch. So it's
yeah. Thank you, man. But yeah, take them up. If you're in here, take them up on that because,
man, you have to make things happen for yourself. Yeah. Right. Right. There's a right. There's an
opportunity. So that person is in a lot of senses. Right. Like, again, I'm just very fortunate to
even be here having this conversation with you and anybody to be watching. So it's like,
yeah, you just have to stay active and pursue the things that you're passionate about.
It's just going to be the best that you can do. I just can't say that enough. I feel like, you know,
if it's something that brings you joy, it's fulfilling. Find a way to do that.
Fucking nine to five. You don't like literally like you don't need to go to college. You don't
need to do any of that if you don't want to. You can just be active. Go out there and get that.
Yeah. Yeah. And back to the genetics. This is probably a two part question. And, you know,
I get the question, everybody's after different things. So it says, hey,
raw, what is your highest yielding strain? And again, there's obviously variables to that.
But and then also maybe what is your most exotic flavor? And I want everybody to know,
too, we'll have his website and I'll add the discord after the show in the show notes. So
you can go and take a look. And I'll actually bring up some of the offerings you have here
because, damn, that's what I'll say. So I'll let you answer the question now.
We definitely have a good amount of large producing strains, like from strawberry fritter
lines in the Georgia pie line, just a lot of really great commercial cultivars like
strawberry fritter herself, very capable of high yields and exotic flavors, fruit flavors.
I would say G code, which unfortunately I was not able to reproduce G code. The real subzero
mother was lost and just the secondary subzero was left. And they're just not similar enough
to give the same results. And so I didn't bother even to bring it back in. But I was trying to
remake G code because G code when I originally produced that, my goal was like something that
would be like an ice cream cake level of that. Right. But we're not able to reproduce it. So
she'll unlikely to have that level of glory. But I mean, exotic, powerful, easy to grow,
big yields, it's dark. And we really checks the boxes for like a lot of things people want.
Another one that's really great is the the blueberry pie, big yields. I mean, the mom alone,
she's a monster. Mainstrain pulled like I want to say they pull like three to five pounds of light
or something with the blueberry gusher cut that we used to make that. Sure. You know, that's crop
steering, of course. You know, they're really working their the metrics on how to do that,
which doesn't always give you the highest quality. But hey, I mean, it's capable of
giving you five, five pounds that in that environment anyway. So, yeah, it's not no
wonder why the blueberry pie has so many like large producing, high performing varieties inside
of it. So that's another one's definitely coming back. Georgia apple pie. I've actually it's on my
mind because I've been smoking it lately. We just took some down recently. Massive plants,
big plants, big yields. And like you get apple really well from the apple fritter side of things.
But you just kind of like you get that Cushman, that Bubba from the Georgia pie. It's like
a lot of there. So, you know, you really have the gas to offset the sweetness of the apple.
And I think that's like an apple variety that people wouldn't get bored with. Right. Like if
you're a gas smoker, you would appreciate the nuanced flavor there. Yeah. I mean, there's a
lot of great producers. I'm talking to West Coast Connoisseur. He's telling me about how like the
Rain Man cuts that we gave him are just smashing. I've had people tagging me in Rain Man, which is
Gary Payton stuff, French toast. I mean, really, like I said, we really do focus on trying to
create more varieties that are higher producers than not. I would say in the slushy line, like I
said, it's hard for me to claim that as many will be that large producers till I finish the testing
phase. But yeah, I mean, there's there's quite a few. So you just really need to ask yourself
what profile. Right. Like when people ask me, what is the best or what's my favorites like? Well,
my favorite doesn't matter as much. Right. Because I'm not you. You're going to have it.
So it's like you really need to ask yourself, like, what are the profiles that resonate with
you and give you the most rewarding experience? And then like, where do you find the best producers
that replicate that? So that would be my advice. I'm trying to pick something that yields heavy
because we got plenty of it. Right. If you're grabbing stuff, especially out of last year's
collection and all the stuff we made there, it's definitely plenty of like they're going to they're
going to return for you. And I'm looking through. OK, here's the strawberry fritters like I'm
looking through some of the pictures that we had here. And this one's got kind of a cool
kind of a cool tip. Let me share it here with everybody on the screen or sorry,
strawberry fritter. I don't know if I just said apple because apples, apples on my mind at the
moment. It's in there, man. You know, it's part of like strawberries and cream, obviously,
after we got from Exotic Mike. Yeah, some of them. This is actually the S1 here. Some of the S1s for
me. And I think this is really an environmental thing because I haven't seen this be overly
prevalent with other people. But we definitely had like some foxy girls come out. And again,
we like had just the environment that those were tested in. I would say this was more of
a stressful environment versus some of the other ones. As you can see, like we were we were too
early on the photos to we had like four different lines that we tested simultaneously and trying to
get like professional pictures of everything. Horribly time start. And literally, like,
by the time we finished, everything was like turning purple. And I just remember a little
bro was like, dude, we fucked that up. Yeah, you're right. We didn't we dropped the ball.
It's hard to time it, you know, and it's like a fine line when it's so many things. And I mean,
if you're a photographer, you already know, taking stack pictures, like,
yes, got at least two things per line, you're taking stack photos. I mean, it was a lot. It
was a massive undertaking. It was a learning experience as everything really is, you know,
it's like, you try to raise the bar and like, you know, we want to get like professional pictures
of everything, not just like your phone or whatever. And every step forward creates a
complication, which you've got to learn to be better at next time. So I'm excited to bring out
the next round of pictures after we complete testing on slushies, because my goal will
certainly to be far more photogenic color wise, right? That's that's a whole gosh, that's that's
a whole nother ballgame. And again, it's levels. It's not just a camera phone. It's not a phone,
man. It's stacking photos. I'm not a photographer. I just know that like, it's expensive. It takes
time. It's expensive. Yeah. Time is money, man. Time is money for sure. You're professional. Your
time is valuable as anybody else's. Yep. Yep. And then here's a question from chat to how do you
join the discord? Super easy. If you're on any of our social media platforms from Twitter to
Instagram, the link tree is in the bio. So just kind of go up to where it says like a little bit
about us. And if you click the link tree, it'll open up and it'll show you various profiles that
discord our website, it kind of just centralizes access to a few things there to make it simple.
So Lincoln bio, it's a little corny to say, but definitely just check the you know, the bio on
most of our pages, and that'll give you access. And a nuance there is if you're a new discord user,
make sure you read when you go to the welcome tab, because you will need to click on the unicorn to
open the channel. Okay, like the way this works, because I know like a lot of cannabis people are
very new to discord, right? So yeah, option, which is good. But by clicking the unicorn,
it applies a role on your profile. And that role is what has access to the channels. So by clicking
the unicorn, you become verified, and verified people can access the channels. So just a nuance
there. If anybody's having some hiccups, getting getting in, right, we do it to stop bots make it
a little complicated. And it's a little more fun this way. Nice and Sir Sir dirty has found it
link tree raw genetics I found good deal and your mailman says thanks. So he's got that hooked up.
And and, you know, again, I realized we're, we're hitting the time limit right now.
For you, you've got a busy day tomorrow. Again, I want everybody I want you to tell them about
the multi state activities going on tomorrow. But I did see earlier today, you just had a recent drop.
Do you want to maybe tell everybody about the newest drop that you have? And if it's
still available? Yeah, no, that's great. I'm actually pretty sure it's still available. Because
as we've stated, like Instagram just really doesn't have much love. And I recently got like
pictures taken down and all this stuff. And as soon as you do, you're like in the band pool. So
I'm pretty invisible right now. But yeah, here we've got cocoa. So cocoa is one of the crosses
we made in the last round of Georgia pie, I've kind of like held back a little bit, right, try
to bring something out later. The lemon pepper was just like a really big, great producing strain,
really more cushy power than lemon, not really get much lemon out of it. So I think originally
lemon pepper was supposed to be like Rick Ross's strain, because he's like got the wings, lemon
pepper wings and all that stuff. But I don't know which which way they went on that. But yeah,
the lemon pepper definitely just big, icy. And then you know, we hit it with the Georgia pie,
which is another massive producer makes a lot of hash makers to fortunately. And so these are
very, very easy to grow, they get large, quick, they give you a big return, not super colorful,
right, you're going to get like that green, that classic green weed, but it's going to have that
power, it's going to have that sedative effect. And like I said, you're going to get tremendous
returns on your investment with time. Nice. And I'm actually one of the one of
the people out there who you know, I'm bringing green back. Right. I mean, you can't see it when
you're smoking it, right. So like, we should learn to love both love quality, right? Quality
is everything like, and it's like, I would even say the same thing to like my synthetic and my
organic growers. I know some of you guys be feuding out there about just quality in general. And like
for me, I love both sides. If it's synthetic, it's organic, I only care about quality, right? So it's
like if it's burning, right? If the in like the enjoyment, smoke, the flavor, the temperature,
all those things are hitting for me, like, I just care about quality.
That's a good thing to care about, man. Good thing to care about.
Otherwise, you just get kind of hung up, you know, I don't want to, I don't want to like box myself
in with a mentality. And I feel like if quality really is always paramount, then the end user,
the people who are like, make it all possible for us to even do this, have these ideas and do these
things. They benefit as they should, right? Like you guys should be getting the true return. And
that's why we try to mindfully pair things, right? Try to make sure like to create a good experience,
because I've had so many bad ones, right? I've had shit experiences. I've run,
hear from every breeder, all of my, you know, all the people out there and I got all the competition.
And yeah, I mean, it's like, I just want to bring quality to people. I want to make sure that you
have a great experience with the money you spend with raw genetics.
That's awesome, man. And again, that's, that's the long play. That's what that's what keeps you
around for a long time. So I'll be excited to pick up gear of yours 10 years from now,
and just be like, he finally got the cotton candy.
Bro, we're gonna go crazy if I see that thing.
Yes.
I don't know what that, I don't even know what that was. But it was some,
it was one of the earliest intros like, man, this shit tastes interesting.
It doesn't all taste like dog shit.
Really? It's not all brick wheat. Like the earliest days in Texas.
Right. Well, I don't think I mentioned this before. I thought of mentioning it, but
I forgot it till now. But I was speaking earlier with somebody and I mentioned Rob from Cannabis
Lifestyle TV, because I can't take credit for it, but he, we were talking, you know,
what's important to him. And he says, you know, it's like, it's not for him. It's not really about
cannabinoids or potency anymore, because anything you smoke at this point, this day and age should
get you stoned. So for him, it is, it's all about the terpenes. It's all about the flavors. That's
what he's looking for. And, you know, when you're talking about that earlier, yeah, that just
clicked again, because it's right. You know, every, everything you smoke these days should
get you stoned. More or less, right. I mean, like, like cannabis has come so far from when I was a
kid to where I am, where it is now. And I can only imagine where it'll be in like 10 years from now.
But yeah, it's the flavor is the most important thing. It's what will make you remember something,
right? Like I remember cotton candy, whatever, whatever it was, right. Because of the flavor,
not because it was like, this is the coolest weed I've ever seen or anything like that. Right. Like,
good point. It's like flavors and same thing with skunk, right? Like everybody with skunks and all
these things, it's that whatever the flavor, whatever the memory, like it captured that
moment. And I would say it has a lot to do with like that profile. Cause otherwise it's like,
we're just smoking weed. And like you said, weed is going to get you high in most cases. So you're
probably good to go. If that's what you care about. Yeah. Yep. See it, seeing some love for
the burnt toast and here in chat right now. Thank you. Yeah. She's actually been winning
cups down in Columbia, a major shout out to home grow TV and Dakota. And you know,
those guys down there, I did an interview with him not too long back and it was really great
chat with him learning a little bit about the scene down there. And yeah, he was able to get
like a burnt toast cut from a friend of his and actually got two first place cups with it,
which is great. Cause I always knew, I always knew that's cup winning, but it's, it's very
complex to try to get your things into cups in America. Like there's so many variables,
like unless I'm there and able to actually be doing the entry, I'm just not really controlled.
It's not a fair competition for all the breeders, right? We should have a real breeder cup somehow.
One day it would be amazing. Nice. We got, we got, like I said, I like to compete. It's all,
all it's okay. If I lose, I don't care. I'll learn. Right. Right. I don't lose. I learn.
I'll be back, bro. I'll see you again. Green ghost in chat. I just smoked a
quarter of burnt toast in Illinois. Nice. Yeah. I loved it because the French toast is like a
very potent, like push OG cross. Right. And the burner cookie is like the real original Finley cut.
We actually got it when we got sunset Sherbert from like the cookie fam, people, whoever they
were. And the, the burner and sunset came together and the burner was like the mother or whatever,
the feminine that's actually in the cross. So that's tested at 32, a bunch of different times,
like back in the day when we used to have a lot of testing and stuff done. So yeah, man,
like those things are powerhouses, like powerhouses. Great. It's a great cookie cross.
Like you actually can get returns with it. Interesting. Well, I just say that cause
everybody knows how much I love cookies. I'm getting the no love for cookies.
Beer stroke, beer stroke. No, I got love for, I got love for the, uh, the cannabis, but the,
the brand man. Anyways, it's always fun to pick on number one, right? You always got to pick on
the block and I always started fights with the bigger kids. So you're the big guy. Everybody's
got an opinion about yourself. Exactly. It's nothing more than that. And there's one guy
in chat who always reminds me that. Yeah. It's a lot of the strains all like smoke. I'll be like,
man, I really love this one. He's like, you know, there's cookies in there. Right, bro. I'm like,
shut up, man. Every time he gets me every time it's good though. Um, but Hey, uh, I know you
got a busy day tomorrow. Can you please tell people, because actually you're going to be in
multiple States tomorrow and people can find your genetics and actually speak to somebody from raw
genetics. So can you maybe fill people in, uh, on these two events going on? Yeah, absolutely. I
know we briefly touched on it, um, in the beginning there, obviously that was a couple
hours ago at this point. So, uh, tomorrow at noon, I'm going to be in downtown Los Angeles
at grow generation. Um, they're having an event. It's a breeder tour. I'll be there with surfer.
So it's a great opportunity to come out, meet me, meet surfer. I know the first 20 people in line
are getting packs of seeds. We'll have packs of seeds, um, as incentives for people to,
you know, invest a little with grow gen through the day. And also I'm going to bring a little
bit of swag just to share. Um, you know, we'll have some stuff that people wanted to grab
something as well. And growers choice gave us a bunch of hats, a bunch of hoodies, a bunch of
real great stuff to also hand out to people. So that's going to be in downtown Los Angeles at
grow gen starting at noon tomorrow. And then, um, my little bro rod direct, he's going to be over
in Colorado. He's actually out there right now. They're doing groovy gravy is what the event is
called. Um, so it's a genetics focused event. It's really great. Um, I think it's only about
four or five hours long, so it's not a tremendously long, like festival type of show kind of get in
there and get great deals. Um, I know our friend Tiki mad man's going to be out there doing sick
deals. We're doing sick deals. We've got the Fino attic collab. We've got your first opportunity
to grab some slushy stuff there too. Um, Neptune seed bank is going to be there. They're actually
supporting the event. So I know that there's going to be numerous other breeders. If you just
look at our Instagram, you'll be able to see the flyer, um, but definitely go out,
see rod direct, get an opportunity to meet some of our community members that are becoming part
of the team. Like Danny dank nugs. He's going to be out there representing as well as, uh, Oregon
Southern soil. It's a mouthful. We're going to have to work on that. Let's go back to those.
But, uh, yeah, man, the, the team is going to be out there in full effect, man. They came out
there showing love and, uh, they're helping to make sure everybody's going to be well taken care
of and nobody has to wait in the meatless line or anything like that. So, you know, I hope that
we'll either see you at grow gym tomorrow, or you'll have an opportunity to come out and see
the team in Colorado. Um, and yeah, spend a little time and get to know us. Cool, man. That'll be fun.
And that would be an opportunity and that's something I'd just love to be in attendance.
Anyhow, just to soak up the atmosphere. Yeah, it should be a good time. I'll have some gifts,
right? I have some stuff with me. Maybe I'll have a little slushy stuff with me and, uh,
you know, we'll see who shows up to say hi, but yeah, I plan to have a flag to share.
Yep. And, and, and if it's, if you can't get a ticket, I'm sure there's always a parking lot
party somewhere around. Oh yeah. We're going to be parking lot pimping that one for sure.
So we're planning to take care of people for whatever they need out there. So
that's how it goes, man. CDs out of the trunk. There you go, man. Classic. Yep. Well,
shit, man. Kind of, kind of like our phone call the other day, I could keep this going another
two hours. So I will, I will just kind of gracefully let you go. But I do want to ask,
cause this is something I always love to ask of all the guests and the answer could be no. Um,
but is there anything that I didn't ask you about or something that you wanted to talk about tonight
that we didn't quite get to? No, I think, you know, you covered most of the bases,
a lot of stuff. Um, and I'm always happy to like answer more questions, but the, the only thing I
always want to make sure to say is just like, I really appreciate everybody's time for in, you
know, viewing this, listening to what we have to say, you for inviting us here and having interest
in raw genetics and, you know, just genuinely everybody who supported what we've done over the
last few years. Um, it's really only possible because people like what we're doing and support
it and they come out and see us and like people watching this right now. So just really, I want
to thank everybody who's been a part of my experience getting to here now, um, in making
these genetics available, you know, to everybody. So just really a thank you across the board for
everybody. Word, man. Well said, and thank you for your time. I know chat was enjoying this,
uh, and I enjoy you chat, you know, thank you for participating. Thanks for getting in some
of your questions and having a good time with us on a Friday night. I know there's a million places
we could be, but we're here right now and we're together and that's an awesome part of this
community. So much love everybody in chat and big ups to you raw genetics again, for all that you've
done and all that you're going to continue to do. Looking forward to that. And I will, um, I already
have, uh, the website in the description. I will make sure to add the discord and you, uh, you said
YouTube as well. Uh, so we don't really have a YouTube just, you know, when we've done events
with amazing people like yourself, like this. Uh, so I know there's like the one with homegrow
TV, but if you want to see a few interviews with us, there are a couple that are in the discord
under, I think it's a channel called interviews with raw. And we've done some in the past with
like, uh, do grow show, which is, you know, they're friends of ours. So, um, but yeah.
Awesome. Okay. I'll, I'll make sure to get the Instagram and the discord down in the description.
So everybody could click on that. Um, but yeah, man, have a good time tomorrow. Thanks again for
coming tonight. And, uh, I will go ahead and, uh, hit the, hit the end broadcast button. Everybody
go out there, have a wonderful evening and, uh, be well.
