Hello, hello everybody and we are back for another week of the daycower.
I am, you know, maybe not as high energy as usual.
It's been a draining week.
We, I spent the last five days at Spanavis doing a bunch of work, but that's beside the
point.
We have an amazing guest with us, Dr.
Alan Au.
I'm excited to have you on stage and join us for the conversation.
And so I'll bring everybody up and to come up and say, Hey, how's it going?
Welcome, uh, doctor.
First off, let's just get the ball rolling.
Why don't you give a little bit of an introduction about yourself and maybe if you could also
answer our usual kind of our starting question, I like to get things working up is, is,
because clearly you're not, you know, you're not in this as, as just a casual thing.
It's not like a little job for you or something, you know, is it, you're clearly very
passionate after, after doing my research and seeing what you do.
Um, you seem to really, really care and put a lot of effort in your community.
Um, so there's, there's a point usually for people that are advocates for the plant or
advocates for this industry where it switches from, you know, just consumption to
advocacy.
Was there a point in time where that happened and welcome to the day?
Yeah, man, that's so much to unpack.
So, um, my name is Dr.
Alan Au.
I'm a registered pharmacist, lifelong New Jersey native, uh, born and raised in Edison, New
Jersey.
So, um, I, I started my traditional path of pharmacy.
I went to school at Rutgers university, six years, graduated at farm dean.
I was like, all right, I'm going to go make an impact on the retail environment, on patient
care and the healthcare.
And I started working and realized real quick, I was for one of the big box stores that, um,
it's not about that in real life.
Um, they had more of a focus on metrics, more of the KPIs and the corporate standards.
And so I, I got, I was really disenfranchised.
I left the big box stores.
I worked for independent mom and shop pharmacies for almost 10 years.
Um, so that's when I really developed my patient advocacy skills, being able to, you know,
diagnose, uh, patient history, medication profiles, and really think outside of the box
when it comes to patient care.
Um, in 2018, I got involved in the cannabis industry because I saw something that was
really untapped the potential of the plant.
And you know, the more you research about it, the more you realize that people have been
keeping this under wraps for so long.
And we're just starting to realize that the science, uh, of everything that's going on.
So I decided to explore that.
Um, I, I became the vice president of one of the vertically integrated medical operators
here in New Jersey.
So did that for about two and a half years, did a lot of operations management, staff
training, staff, uh, SOPs, education.
And then, um, the company was getting bought out.
So I decided to pursue my own venture.
I am currently the founder and president of plants and prescription.
We're a medical consulting firm I'll do here in their medical one-on-one patient
consultations.
But the majority of my time is spent doing educational gigs.
Um, and in the meantime, uh, we recently applied for a retail cannabis license here in
New Jersey as well.
Uh, for the last two years, that's what I've been working on.
And, um, you know, New Jersey is shrouded in a lot of legislation and regulatory
hurdles.
So, uh, what I thought would be operational in a year is now taking us about two, two
and a half years.
So we're hoping to launch by the end of this year.
Uh, it's bigger dispensary.
Um, our motto is live with intention, live with vigor.
So it's going to be a health focused cannabis dispensary.
Um, really taking patient populations, giving them the education and, you know, looking
beyond just the recreational component, because that's a huge part of this industry.
And without embracing that kind of culture, um, you can't impart that on patients to begin
with. So, um, that's just a little bit about what I do on any given day.
I'll have four or five different hats, including, you know, full-time dad to kids, uh,
with my regular, you know, regular 40 hour per week job.
Um, so this is a side hustle of a side hustle and glad to be here.
Thanks so much for having me.
I love that.
You know, it's, it's all about family for me.
I got two little kids.
We just moved like across the world to try and give them a little bit better balance and a bit
of better of a life.
But it's, it's interesting.
Now I'm going to, I'm going to be, I'm going to be the dumb ass in the room for a second and
take a moment and pause.
Cause you know, I don't know what the fuck a PharmD is exactly, you know, like, I mean, I
hate to be overly simple and simple about it, but what exactly is a PharmD?
This is a term that we're not as commonly seen.
This is something that we're seeing pop up more and more in our day to day life.
Um, but it's something that not everybody might be familiar with.
So could you go into exactly what that is and what your responsibilities are?
Sure.
So, so if you think about the chain of command, what happens when you're sick, right?
Like, um, the first part is you go see a doctor.
Your, your physician is your subject matter expert on diagnosis, on figuring out what's wrong
with you.
And then they eventually prescribe medication.
Um, but you know, that medication, depending on what it's for, whether it's an antibiotic,
something acute, um, you go to your pharmacy and you show up with a prescription and that's
where we take over.
Usually in the traditional sense of retail pharmacists is there to evaluate medication
profiles because, uh, drug, drug interactions are serious and they can be fatal as well.
So we'll take a kind of snapshot of your entire medication profile.
Uh, make sure that there's no drug, drug interactions in the pharmacy.
Uh, we can counsel on side effects.
We can counsel on, um, how to use medical devices.
We can give immunizations in the pharmacy.
So there's, we're kind of like the middlemen of the healthcare.
We want to make sure your doctor's orders make it to you in the right bottle with the right
direction so that you as a patient, uh, that leaves the pharmacy can have something really
simply packaged up one tablet twice a day for 10 days.
And you know, the, the basis of our profession is just harm reduction, right?
We want to make sure that we take care of our patients by not doing harm, making sure
they are aware of side effects that may happen from their medication.
But on the other side of that coin, it's how to improve your life.
So we're familiar with OTC, nutraceuticals, herbal medications, uh, homeopathic remedies.
There's a whole natural medicine section of our industry that's now kind of, kind of
turning towards a functional medicine.
And a lot of pharmacies are heading that space as well.
So, uh, we're the middleman between your physicians that diagnosed and prescribed
into, you get to the medication.
A very, very critical part.
I mean, we need a team of people to really keep our community and everything moving
forward.
So it's, it's, I love how you broke that down.
It's really, really simple and really, really easy for everybody to understand.
Now, now, I mean, let's hop into the cannabis conversation and just get things rolling
there. And I'd like to know, like, is there negative interactions with cannabis and other
drugs that we're seeing in society nowadays?
Are these things that are happening?
Like we always see the, the, the, the rhetoric or the constant talk of like negativity
towards cannabis, people trying to, you know, continue with prohibition and all these
other problems that come up.
And one thing that I've heard before is, you know, it's really quite dangerous to have it
casually in your society because, you know, you never know, you could be taking one drug
and it could blow you up.
So is this, is this something that actually happens?
Let's call a spade a spade, right?
Like cannabis is safe.
Like no, no matter what anyone said, says the hysteria behind the end.
And like you said, the rhetoric, cannabis is a safe vehicle that, you know, has been used for
millennia for medicine.
So when it comes to severe side effects, like we all kind of know the basics, right?
There's dry mouth, dry eyes, that you get the munchies, your appetite.
But then, you know, nowadays we are getting into this territory where people have consumed
higher dosages of concentrates, vaporization, dabbing, whatnot.
And CHS, cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome is becoming a real issue.
Nothing life threatening, but also it's to the point where people end up in emergency
rooms. So when you think of the public hysteria, that's what I
envision on a larger scale.
But from day to day patient consumption, recreational consumers, whatnot, it's safe.
You don't necessarily need a lot of oversight to safely use cannabis.
I think that's the underlying theme.
Awesome. So like, you know, if I take real living cannabis, my head won't explode.
It's a good note to be taking forward.
So I wanted to open up a little bit and jump down to Damon, as we were talking a little
bit earlier, but some of the questions that we might have for Affirmative D and I think he
might have one or two up to him ready to go.
Are you there?
I think you're muted. Yeah, I am muted.
Thank you, Dr.
Au for coming on tonight.
I guess my question, it's I'd really like to just pick your brain about like T-Max and
elimination half-life.
And also to compliment you on like, this is pretty wonderful because you don't see very
many pharmacists and people in your field, you know, say cannabis is harmless and go like
that. So that kind of like that was nice to hear.
But what do you know about like T-Max with cannabis?
We'll go with like smoked and the elimination half-life with it.
Sure. And this kind of falls more in the realm of people that study chemistry.
Like last week you guys had Dr.
Miyabi on and she would be a hundred times more qualified to talk about that.
Like what the pharmacist role and not just counting like what I know, but at the same time
for a pharmacokinetic standpoint of how rapidly a drug is onset versus what the duration of
action is. We have to know the basics and what you can kind of think of when you basic
blood tender education, right?
If you smoke something, if you inhale it, vaporization, anything that ends up in your
lungs is going to have an onset of about 15 to 20 minutes.
It's very quick onset and the duration of action usually lasts about three to four hours.
Whereas you take your edibles, anything that's orally ingested that has to go through the
digestive tract goes through metabolism in the liver, turns into 11-hydroxy THC.
So onset is about one to two hours and generally lasts anywhere between eight to 12.
Also, depending on the food that you eat that night, your body type, there's a lot of
personal chemistry that goes into these decision makings.
But generally I tell my patients about eight to 12 hours, give yourself that room in case
it lasts a little bit longer and you don't want to need to be somewhere and still feel
uncomfortable.
Awesome, awesome.
So I mean, this brings up a second point to me and we're kind of there's a little chat
going on in the side about kind of chemicals and what's being used on cannabis.
I think we'll touch on that a little bit.
What I really want to know is like, you know, actually, I totally spaced on that question
because I'm very tired, so I'm going to go right into that question.
What are our thoughts on the worries of chemical use, pesticides and other things being
added to our cannabis?
And what are you, what are there, is there anything that you're seeing problematic
showing up in your area?
I will say there's a lot of fear mongering in the chemistry.
Like everyone's looking for a reason to get outraged and upset.
And lab shopping happens to be one of the things that, you know, I personally don't
agree with about how people will go shopping for labs that either hide their pesticide
heavy metal results or will dock, you know, fakely put cannabinoid profiles on your
your labels because that's doing a disservice to your end consumer.
Right. Like they have their expectation levels about purchasing something based on the
COA. And then when they get home and, you know, the difference between 20 percent THC
and 22 is going to be insignificant.
But when you see, you know, flower testing at thirty four or thirty six, 40 percent, I
mean, that's a red flag in my book, because not only are you trying to take that conscious
approach of what am I consuming?
If you have that as your basis, your label of I'm consuming 36 percent THC, it's like,
well, are you really like that?
That's kind of what the label says.
But that's my personal opinion.
But as far as heavy metals and pesticides, we don't universally have a good way of
enforcing what that should look like.
Like, what are your minimum thresholds that you need to meet?
The presence of something doesn't automatically make it harmful.
There are certain things that shouldn't end up in product that does.
But I don't think there's any state that has testing regulations that are really up to
par to where it needs to be. Like, I'm coming from the pharma world where every batch of
drug has a test that they have to either pass, fail.
There's no kind of gray area in between.
And that's exactly where the cannabis industry is operating right now.
Like states have different thresholds.
States have different testing requirements.
So I don't have any states that I really would say is the prime example of what we
should be following.
Well, I'll just interject for a second.
The issue with metals in particular is that we know hemp and cannabis variety sequester
metals from the soil.
So you're going to see them in concentrates.
And the thing that compounds that is that the instrumentation these days is very
sophisticated and able to read trace amounts in the sub part per million, part per
billion regime.
And when you're looking at part per billion in anything, you know, and the produce that
you get at Whole Foods, it's like taking a lint brush to New York City sidewalk.
You're going to find anything and everything in there.
Yeah. And is that is that like making patients aware of that?
Is that necessarily a good thing or bad thing?
Like patients should know exactly what's in their cannabis.
But what happens when something's highlighted to the one part per million?
Is that a safe level for ingestion?
And that really depends on what your consumption habits are.
If you're consuming it frequently via inhalation versus via ingestion, your gut can
usually tolerate a lot more things rather than your pulmonary pathway.
So the question is, like, does that benefit my consumer knowing that?
And how do I counsel someone on that?
If I see something in a COA, is it worth pointing out that like, hey, this did test hot
for heavy metals?
And I don't know the answer to that question.
I'm putting a lot of theoreticals out there because based on how I counsel my patients,
you take a pretty much holistic picture of what they're doing with their life, not only
medication, but lifestyle.
You want to make sure that the products that you give them are lab tested and regulated.
And part of participating in the legalized industry, especially in New Jersey, where
we're coming online, we have that ability to be able to read a COA and confidently tell
our consumers what's in our products.
Well put, and I find like one thing that people often forget, especially like myself, I
find myself forgetting this sometimes because I'm in a recreational and there's a fully
legal market in Canada, but there's a lot of people using this as medicine.
And this is a medicine focused conversation.
And people need to be able to understand what's there and what's moving forward.
I think it's very important.
It's also about quality of life for a lot of these people.
It's not just, you know, I simply need a drug to get through or make me.
It's like a full on quality of life change for some people.
So when we get into this, like, I think this opens up a big question about labeling, you
know, like what are we putting on the label and why and how?
I mean, beside the testing issues, is it necessary?
Right. Or do we need to be digging into things like are we are we putting down too many
things? Are we not putting enough?
Do we need full terpene profiles being taken on on our plants?
What's your thoughts on what's necessarily important, especially maybe for us and my
for your scientists or your pharmacy?
This is not as necessary to know.
But, you know, your end user, the person that's taking the medicine, what needs to be on
that label? Yeah.
So let me take a step back.
And if you think about it from a medical patient approach, right, like the society as a
whole, people who are not casual cannabis consumers, they go to a pharmacy to pick up
their medication and it's neatly packaged for them.
It's not like they're making an active decision on what medication they're choosing
because the pharmacist gives them package, has the label and directions and the quantity
and how many you're supposed to take per day.
So if you want to know about the side effects, like a package insert comes with every
medication so you can simply look it up.
But here in the cannabis industry, when you when you say medical cannabis, right, like I
have a bunch of patients that would come into our medical cannabis dispensary and just
ask me like, OK, what's good for me?
And then they realize like, hey, I have the full autonomy to purchase whatever product I
want. So there's literally 30 SKUs out there that have the same amount of THC, the
same amount of terpene or same percentage of terpenes available.
So how do I make that decision?
And to them, that changes the process of choosing and treating it as medicine.
So if you really want to take an intentional approach about dosage and consumption
habits, the basics I underlie is like what cannabinoids are you taking?
How often are you taking them and what is the dosage that you're taking per session?
Those are the three big questions.
And without having a label to be able to identify that and to journal it, you're
shooting in the dark, really.
Like I get that experimentation is kind of part of the process of finding what dose is
right for you. But a lot of people don't have that luxury and don't have that willpower
to make those decisions on their own.
They want somebody to tell them how to take their medicine because that's what they're
used to when they go to a pharmacy, when they go to the doctor's office, to go to the
hospital. So putting the responsibility on the patient, some people don't react well to
that. And so the basics I tell them, like take a journal, take a log.
I advocate for the mobile app Tetragram a lot because you can document everything that
you're taking as well as how you're feeling a simple set of questions.
But taking that intentional approach requires labeling to be standardized.
And and that goes across the board because, again, state by state piecemeal, what's on a
label in New Jersey may not be on a label in California, in Colorado and so on and so
forth. So but when you go to a pharmacy, your brand name Lipitor for cholesterol is
going to be the same brand name Lipitor you get on the West Coast because we have a
standardization that operates federally.
We have an NDC, a National Drug Code.
We have standard packing.
We have standard labeling across the nation.
And that's why so the continuation of care is easy, even between states, between hospital
systems and pharmacies.
There's one unit that we all kind of abide by and kind of our source of truth.
And we don't have that with cannabis.
So as far as labeling requirements and what I think should go on there at the bare minimum,
your cannabinoid profile, your terpene profile and your serving size, that that becomes
incredibly important because like I mean, we've all had those those sessions where you
take one too many edibles and you look at the package like, oh, shit, like a serving size
is half a tablet and or half a strip instead of one strip.
That's just from my personal experience, at least.
Like I was in so I was lucky enough to hang out with some of the judges for some of the
competitions at Spanibus, which was just awesome.
One of them happened to be an edible competition.
And as a as a, you know, a trained chef, this is an area that I really like to dig into.
Man, there was some fucking dangerous shit in those packs.
I can like in some of the cookies, like they didn't even taste like cookie.
They just taste like like just hard butter of terpene of like cannabinoids.
It's like these things like we need the accuracy, I think is so critical and important on
them. You can take too much.
So, you know, like Johnny, do you want to jump in and have a question here?
Yeah, I mean, it's just thinking, you know, with how rigid everything is in the rest of
the, you know, the pharmacy realm and that the smokeable flour, it seems like a
potentially risky thing to put on the shelves.
It's really hard to standardize.
I mean, it's a it's a plant that's growing.
There's a lot of places where things that microbial contamination can happen.
You know, it's impossible to completely avoid it.
So having a controlled environment is like essential.
But even then, you can still run into microbial issues.
And it just seems like that smokeable flour might not be the answer for a lot of people
with compromised immune systems because of these things, because it's hard to standardize
and control. I would agree to a certain extent because you're right.
Anything that ends up in your lungs is there's always going to be a risk of a
higher risk of taking something ingestible.
But from a physician and pharmacist, the medical standpoint, there's a clear
distinction that we need to kind of discuss volume based percentages on labels versus
milligram, which is a unit of weight.
So a lot of people don't understand the differences and they see like 22 percent THC,
but that is 22 percent of THC by volume of whatever, like an eighth ounce of product in
front of you. If you put that on a scale and weigh it as a unit of weight, that's how you
get milligrams of THC.
So there is not a one to one distinction.
And we're getting a little off topic here.
So I'll go back to your question at the end.
But I just wanted to make that highlight because when you see a concentrate or a vape
cartridge that's 97 percent THC, you're like, oh, wow, that's extremely potent.
But like, what does that translate into into milligrams of how much you're consuming?
Because your length of draw, your lung capacity and if you're if you're smoking versus
vaporization, all of that impacts how much THC ends up in your body.
And as far as I know, there's no calculator that is going to be accurate.
Like there's no pharmacokinetic studies about how many milligrams of THC are actually in
your product. You can calculate it based on a mathematical equation, like THC A times
point eight seven seven, which is the molecular weight of the non acidic THC.
And then you can calculate it based on how much you're consuming.
If you're weighing out on a scale one gram, you can safely calculate it based on the
molecular weight of the non acidic THC.
And if you're weighing out on a scale one gram, you can safely calculate the milligram
THC. But how much of that is actually ending up in your body versus how much of it is
combusting and going to waste when you're not inhaling?
That's the question that no one can seem to answer.
So from dosing standpoint, smoking, vaporization, anything via inhalation, it's a lot
figure out it's hard to teach someone to figure out what the right dose is with inhalation
because of those simple measures.
So I always usually end up recommending either a tincture, which is the most easily
titratable form.
You can go you have your concentration of one milligram per ml and you can slowly titrate
up and down in half units, two point five to three milligrams to three point five to
four and so on so forth.
So I usually start with tinctures as my go to.
But the people that need the acute relief, there is a subset of patients that will still
benefit from inhaling cannabis products.
But back to your point about the safety profile for anyone that's immunocompromised,
anyone that's ever had lung issues like lung cancer, pulmonary fibrosis, cystic fibrosis,
COPD, asthma, I would never recommend that as a first line therapy just because of those
simple reasons. Like don't mess with your lungs more than you have to.
I like the taste of them when they're smoked, though.
No, I like this point and I think there's you know, I think there's there's a dose for
everybody. Not everybody's a heavy consumer through inhalation.
I think it's pretty obvious stuff.
Now, one thing you touched on that I thought was interesting.
Oh, sorry. Go ahead.
Question really super fast.
So, Alan, like, OK, so like people who smoke cigars, they don't actually like inhale into
their lungs. They just kind of bring it into their mouth, let it sit around and and then
exhale. And I know that there's got to be some like absorption through your thin mucosal
membrane on the inside of your mouth.
Is it is that a potential way for people to like smoke and to get the enjoyment of the
smoke without like hurting their lungs?
That's a good question.
I really haven't thought about that because I don't know anyone that would do that.
Not because it's not a real thing.
I mean, theoretically, yeah, if you want to just enjoy it for the flavor and taste, you
know, use the Bill Clinton excuse.
I did not inhale.
Sometimes I'll do that.
I'll be like, well, I don't really feel like getting particularly high by any means, but
I do feel like enjoying a nice, like tasty puff.
So I'll sit there and casually smoke and not really do the Bill Clinton thing.
And it's it's nice. And you will you'll have a completely different feeling.
But you do still get kind of stoned, you know, just passively smoking like that.
So, yeah.
Yeah. Because like I said, you can really impact how how high you're getting or how your
lungs are like, you know, if you go and you smoke a gravity bong and you clear the whole
thing, it's going to be you know, it's going to crush your lungs.
But, you know, if you take a little baby puff, it's going to be completely different.
So, you know, technique has a big part of the whole thing, I think.
Great. Yeah.
One question I want to address, Dr.
Anna, you asked the question that is pretty much a hot topic for debate.
All cannabis is medicinal.
I mean, I'd love I want to hear your thoughts first on what the answer to that question
is. I personally think it is because I think that no matter how you're utilizing
your cannabis, whether it be for treating for a specific condition, indication, you
know, whatever, you know, like I'm taking this for chronic pain.
Of course, that's medicinal.
But on the other hand, I think that a lot of people utilize cannabis as a method of
relaxation, de-stressing, like anti-anxiety, all that stuff.
And I feel like that's also medicinal as well.
You know, everybody has really complex lives and things going on and stresses and stuff.
And I and I feel like that's also medicinal.
Like, you know.
Yeah, no, I and so you're taking it from the viewpoint of a therapeutic outlet.
And so, yeah, I agree with you 100 percent.
But when when I think of this question, objectively speaking, right, like when you consume
cannabis, THC is going to bind to your CB1 receptors in your endocannabinoid system,
regardless of if you're using therapeutically or for relaxation or for anything else in
between. You're ingesting cannabinoids in one way, shape or form, and it's binding to
your endocannabinoid system and triggering that physiological tree, the physiological
responses in your body.
So when you you can't deny the fact that that's happening, that's exactly why you feel
the euphoric effects, why you feel all the side effects as well.
But you're getting the anti inflammatory benefits.
You're getting the neurologic protection.
All of that is happening, whether your intention is there or not.
And that's kind of how I view that question.
Objectively speaking, the cannabinoids are entering your body and binding to your ECS
system and causing a response.
So, yes, all cannabis is medicinal in that sense.
I agree.
Agreed.
I think we all agree with that one.
I think that's a big for sure.
So one thing that we were kind of tapping on a little bit before that I'd like to dig
into a little bit more is max dosage.
You know, one thing like like like I mentioned earlier, the extremely high edibles that we
see on the market sometimes in Canada, we have restrictions on how much
individual dosage you can actually put in a container or an individual item.
It's kind of ridiculous.
Like we have these tiny little packets and you can only buy so many.
And then like the pop came out, you only get 10 milligrams.
You can't even really drink much.
So my question is like, what what's an appropriate where where do we need to start
drawing some safety lines?
And we're talking about, you know, end of care help for medicinal patients.
I know there's a very different protocol.
We're talking about sometimes very, very, very high levels of dosages.
But for your average human being that's using this therapeutically or or, you know,
medicinally, as it were, what do you think are kind of where where should we be fitting
and where should we be trying to trying to hit?
Yeah, typical protocols with any kind of they've studied pain protocols, mainly or
there's the most evidence for pain protocols.
And they generally start if you're cannabis naive, you start with a high dose of
if you're cannabis naive, you start anywhere between the one to two point five
milligrams of THC.
And that's kind of the starting point.
If you're experienced, two point five milligram is a perfect starting dose for
ingestible products.
Unfortunately, with inhalation, we talked about all the the nuances of how to
calculate a dose.
So objectively speaking, two point five milligrams of something taken orally or
submucosally, sublingually, that would be the best place to start.
And then you gradually work up intervals of two point five milligrams.
I will say this, though, the biphasic response is something that people don't really
understand or talk about that much.
So I always draw that graph out for my patients to really give them a sense of why
cannabis is really unique from a therapeutic standpoint.
So if you're if you're looking at I wish I had a paper here, so I'm going to nerd it out a
little. You have your X axis and your Y axis.
If you imagine a graph like so typical, typical things like opiates, they have a linear
response. So on your X axis, you have your dose.
And then on your Y axis right over here, you have your efficacy rate.
Right. So the higher your dose increases, your efficacy rate and therapeutic response
goes in a linear fashion.
So if you imagine like a straight line, the higher dose you take, the more effective it is.
And so what happens when your oxycodone stops working?
Two point five milligram just doesn't cut anymore.
The doctor will increase it to five milligrams to seven point five to ten to thirty to
eighty. And so it follows that curve because at some point your body stops responding.
There's tolerance levels and you need to give more in order to feel the same therapeutic
response. But with cannabis, we have the same X axis and Y axis and you have essentially
what's known as a bell curve.
So the bell curve is the biphasic response.
You can keep on going and taking a larger and larger, larger dose.
But your therapeutic effects plateaus at some point.
That's what we call the sweet spot.
So if you consume more than that, you're not getting any more medicinal benefit for either
pain relief or appetite stimulation.
And you're just introducing more negative side effects to or your chances of having a
negative side effect are a lot higher.
So understanding the biphasic risk dose response is really crucial to understanding like,
hey, I need to find where that sweet spot is.
I want to try not to take more than I need to because number one, it's not doing me any
more good. And number two, I'm just wasting my product from a monetary standpoint.
And I'm thinking a lot of these concepts are drawn from an economical decision of making
sure that my patients don't have to pay that much out of pocket because cannabis is not
covered by third party insurance.
And a lot of them who are unsure if the product is going to work for them, they're
spending a lot of money experimenting with products.
So that's just kind of a caveat throughout there.
So that sweet spot on top of the bell curve, that's really what we're looking at from a
dose response. And unfortunately, that's different for every single person based on their
body size, based on their tolerance, based on their prior history, their experience.
There's even a whole section of pharmacogenetics.
Your genetic predisposition can cause you to experience edibles very differently, as
in, you know, you could take 100 milligrams of edibles and feel nothing.
So there's a whole field that has not been explored yet about genetics.
But all of that plays into what is considered the dose that is perfect for you as a
patient. I hope that I didn't ramble too much.
No, you nailed it. I really do think you nailed that.
Did anybody have a response to question to follow up with?
Go ahead. Oh, Anna, go ahead.
I'm sorry. Oh, I was just going to mention that Alan and myself,
both of us are in New Jersey, so there is no home growing.
So although that is a really good alternative for a lot of patients in many states, they
can grow their own plants, know that, you know, and be able to, you know, grow whatever
they need and not waste money on product.
Here in New Jersey, everybody has to go through a dispensary, whether it be medicinal or
now there's, you know, adult use.
But yeah.
So with Alan's advice and counseling, patients are able to, you know, kind of figure out
the right dosing and not just waste their money on dispensary products is really the
only legal way of getting cannabis here in New Jersey.
Unless you want to go across the borders or whatever.
I'm glad you said legal because wise guys have been bringing weed into Jersey ever
since I was that high.
I mean, I think there's a lot of things that go on in New Jersey that are, you know, like
not exactly legal, but like we'll try to keep it legal on this show.
It's it's the home of the wise guys, though, right?
I mean, come on, Tony Soprano and everyone.
If there's money to be made, whether it's video games, weed or any kind of vice, the
mob is there and they're making money at it.
Believe you me. And it's not just the Italian mob either.
Side note, if you've ever been to New Jersey, you know, there's a lot of places to hide
bodies.
Yeah, I was I was at a I was at a CBD show a couple couple years ago and I was
approached by this this Indian gentleman and his brother and they owned like 15
convenience stores in like the Jersey City area, like Jersey City, Hoboken.
Yeah. And they were really interested in what they wanted to sell CBD products, but
they were unsure about whether it was against the law or not.
And it was just it was that whole, you know, they were there.
I think they've gotten into the whole alternative cannabinoid market like most bodega
and convenience store owners these days.
But the cool thing is, is if once you get one of those groups as a client, they usually
have multiple stores.
So it's a great it's a great client to get if you get them.
Same thing with gas stations, too.
You can't own just one.
He gets right.
They own like 10 of them.
So it's cool.
Oh, I the question I wanted to ask for our guests.
Thank you. I really enjoyed meeting you and hearing about your story.
You know, if if the cannabis plant teaches us anything, it teaches us a lot of things,
but teaches us anything.
It kind of teaches us the the shortcomings of of traditional I don't I won't even call
Western medicine.
I don't even know what it is.
Single ingredient medicine.
That's what it is.
Right. FDA approved drugs.
Right. You were talking about it before in the critical role you play in dispensing life
saving medications from things that help people with blood pressure to triglycerides, to,
you know, pain to cancer.
I mean, the list is endless.
Right. Single ingredient.
Single ingredient active pharmaceuticals.
If you watch the evening news, I swear to God, it's brought to you by the pharmaceutical
industry. There's all these drugs with all these names like Ozimbic and Sky Rizzy.
And they see these families frolicking down at the beach as though that has something to
do with some life saving drug.
But I guess the question I have for you, and it's great to see that you've kind of like
crossed over to understand the value of cannabis and that there is medication in this
plant that consists of multiple active ingredients, which trying to fit in a retroactive
way into the pharmaceutical FDA process of single active ingredient medicine is
problematic for all the reasons we already know, not just including dose, but, you
know, that, you know, two different varieties grown by two different growers come out two
different ways. So I guess the question I'd like to ask is, like, how do you think we
could convince more people in your profession that there is a medicine and sometimes it
doesn't always come in a bottle?
Sometimes you can grow it in your garden or you could buy it, I guess, at a dispensary or,
you know, sift it out of the bottom of a bubble hash bag.
I mean, I think cannabis is not a drug, right?
It's not. Drugs are made by pharmaceutical companies and that go through that rigorous
process of FDA approval.
But cannabis just isn't isn't there.
It should be grandfathered in, you know, like like herbal medicine should like it used to
be. And so I guess like how do we convince more people in your profession to adopt your
viewpoint of that cannabis plays a role in helping humans maintain their health?
Certainly there's still a need for life saving medications, you know, right?
Like when people get sick or, you know, my father is alive today, he's 87 years old,
takes two handfuls of pills twice a day.
You talk about drug drug interactions, you know, I don't think they know how two of those
drugs interact with each other, let alone the six of them that he takes twice a day,
washing it down with a Bud Light.
You know, it's just it's amazing to think that, again, in this single plant, there's so
many active ingredients that can take the place of all those pharmaceuticals that people
are taking constantly.
But how do you balance that and how do you get the people in your profession to understand
the real value of of cannabis and human consumption that can maybe curb the need for
these life saving single ingredient FDA approved drugs?
Man, that is an absolutely loaded question, and I have so many thoughts, like I'm a very
transparent person and I'll just spitball it as it is.
The honest truth is that's not going to happen.
And the main reason is big pharma dictates what the medical industry looks like.
The reason why there's so many drugs that are single molecule, single receptor, that's what
we've known from the beginning of the pharmaceutical industry.
It's number one, because it's easy to study.
It eliminates any kind of variables.
X causes Y and that's it.
But at the same time, it's patentable, right?
Like all these pharmaceutical companies that are doing this different stages of clinical
trials to bring a drug to market, they're spending millions of dollars on clinical trials
in the expectation that they're able to patent a product and sell it to the pharmacy level.
Like you may be paying a copay, but your health insurance is covering the cost of it.
We all know how much it costs to manufacture pills.
It could be pennies from India, from China.
But meanwhile, there's some life seeing medications that are four thousand dollars a
tablet. And you don't see those costs as the end consumer.
But that's where the pharmaceutical industry is making money.
So from the patent standpoint, it's hard to study not two, not three.
But now we have the cannabis plant that has 144 different active cannabinoids and
different terpenes all working simultaneously.
How do you wrap your head around that?
And the answer is you can't.
So the pharmaceutical industry is not never going to move there quite yet.
Like we have Epidiolex, which is a FDA approved medication for seizures for Lennox-Gastaut
syndrome, for more refractory seizures usually found in pediatric epileptic patients.
So they were able to patent cannabidiol CBD as a prescription item.
And we all know...
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
They don't have a patent on the structure itself.
The structure itself is a public structure that was patented years ago by Roger Adams.
But that's well off patent.
So they do not own the structure of CBD itself.
Now, they do have the registration itself and certain aspects of the formulation they
have patented, but not the active ingredient itself.
I think that's the conundrum.
You're absolutely right. And the extraction process that they use, they patent that as
well. But when you think of pharmaceuticals, like all the different cannabinoid profiles
that you may find on a COA, it's not proprietary until it's patentable.
You can have the best genetics and you can have different growing cultivation environments
that yield a different ratio of cannabinoids, whether it's THC, CBG, CBN, and so on, so
forth. But the pharma industry is not going to necessarily be able to handle that from
studying it. From the clinical standpoint, it's causation versus correlation.
That's what they're always trying to prove.
And the more variables you throw into the conversation, the less likely you're going to
get a result that is able to be put onto market.
That's just my opinion from the pharma side.
Now, from regular practitioner side, how do you get people involved with cannabis based
medicine? You have to stop treating cannabis as a commodity.
And what I mean by that is our health care system has become reactionary.
You only go see a physician when there's something wrong.
And the expectation is I take all these pills and continue my lifestyle and these pills
will take care of my diabetes, my hypertension, my A1C level, my triglyceride levels.
And that is not the way it should be.
Like taking a step back, lifestyle approaches, meditation, a lot of these kind of
non-pharmacologic options are not talked about enough.
And I think that's where the conversation needs to lead to, because I think of cannabis as
an adjunct or like a nutraceutical supplement more than I consider it a pharmaceutical
grade medication.
So being able to integrate cannabis into your lifestyle so that, you know, you can
consciously deal with your anxiety, you can consciously deal with your appetite versus
going to the doctor, expecting them to give you a prescription that's going to solve the
problems. But I don't have to take personal responsibility to try and fix anything
myself. So because I'm just going to rely on the pharma industry.
And that's how we end up with, you know, elderly patients that are on 12, 13 different
medications a day.
That that's not normal.
You think about your body's missing 12 to 13 different ingredients like that doesn't make
sense. So from the health care practitioner on the ground floor standpoint, just taking a
more holistic approach to patient care, making sure that you take any kind of
non-pharmacologic options available first before writing a prescription.
That's just my personal opinion.
Well, there's those who believe that the pharmaceutical industry's mantra is not to cure
disease, it's to hook customers for life and it's to get them to suck on the teeth of our
medical dictatorship that we live in, in this this medical health care nightmare where
billions of dollars are being spent unnecessarily on the salaries of people who run
medical insurance companies.
So don't get me started on this.
But what we're going to do is take a quick little break.
The thing that's liberating about cannabis is you can grow your own medicine.
That's it.
We're going to take a quick little break.
We'll be right back after these.
Why? Hello. Hello.
Hello. We are back and better than ever excited to be sitting back, chilling out and enjoying
the conversation with each and every one of you.
We've had a lot of fun talking so far with Dr.
Alan Au and I really want to dig into this because one thing that you mentioned in the
earlier part of the show is is cheap and making sure that not cheap, but trying to make sure
that people get their value for money.
And this this this bell curve that we see with with the use and I've been in that hole.
I've been in that position where I've like consumed so much over such a period of time that
I was really just maintaining a certain level of normality in my mind.
So my question for this is is about consumption breaks.
First, I'd like to ask a little bit about, you know, high level consumers, people that are
consuming a lot of cannabis over long periods of time or the risks or the worries when
people decide to just all of a sudden, you know, no longer consume after, you know, 20
something plus years.
And then also what it what where is where does the balance come from?
Like the frequency of what we would call consumption breaks, is it necessary?
And how often would we look at doing these type of things and for how long?
Yeah. And then we get into the realm of the conversation of like the difference between
addiction, dependency, withdrawal, like a lot of these more key terms you'll hear from
drugs of abuse, like just because cannabis is a schedule one substance, the legal
definition is that a has no medical value and B has a high potential for abuse.
Like we can't change that legal definition.
But working with patients one on one, like we clearly see that it's not as severe as if
you were to try to get off opiates or get off alcohol.
The addiction part of it, I talk a lot about with my patients that are consuming
frequently and heavily, right?
Because it's not necessarily physiologically addicting.
So your body does not physically require cannabis to function.
I mean, yeah, you may be a little bit cranky, but you're not going to go through
withdrawal symptoms like if you're trying to get off alcohol.
Delirium tremens is the term where you have seizures from chronic alcoholism and trying
to remove that substance from your body.
Opiate withdrawal, like we've all seen stringers out on the couch that are just
sweating. They can't control their body temperature, their core regulation.
It takes them about a week in order to feel like themselves again.
If you decide to stop opiates, kind of cold turkey and deal with it.
So with cannabis, I talk a lot more in terms of what is your relationship with the plant?
Like, are you using this as a therapeutic mechanism?
Or are you kind of using it for an escape?
And that kind of reframes the patient's mindset about what are they truly using cannabis
for? Like, yeah, sure.
You and I can enjoy smoking once in a while.
But are you using it because it's habitual, like because it gives you comfort or are you
using it because you really genuinely can't sleep at night and you need something before
bedtime? So having them ask, you know, legit questions to them.
So like, be transparent with yourself.
Me as a practitioner, I'm going to come from this objectively and I'm going to want
what's best for you. But at the end of the day, because of patient autonomy, because
that cannabis is so freely accessible, either through legalized outlets in your dispensary
or the licit market, the legacy market, like I can't control your habits and dose like
I can control it from a pharmacy standpoint.
If a if a person ends up in a pharmacy where they want Percocet and it's like, yeah,
your doctor only gave you 40 and that's it.
I'm sorry. You have to go back and see them.
But with cannabis, you can go to the dispensary and buy an ounce a day at a time if you
really wanted to. So exploring those relationship questions about what it is that you're
looking to achieve.
And number two, is that consumption impacting other areas of your life like the DSM
five is the kind of golden standard that psychologists use to determine if you have
cannabis use disorder or substance use disorder of any kind.
One of the key factors and questions that ask is like, is this impacting your
relationships? Is this impacting the time that it takes to obtain your product?
It alludes to like drug seeking behavior of some sort.
But those are the types of things that you have to be honest with yourself about because I
can give you that information, but it's up to you to consciously follow that protocol.
Or if you go off track, if you start consuming more than you want to, then that's on
you. Like just exploring the benefits and the negativities that come with over
excess cannabis consumption.
I think that's the key factor.
Did you say cannabis use disorder?
Yeah. So cannabis use disorder is an actual diagnostic, like a codable diagnosis
code for the ICD 11.
Do you think in any way, Alan, I mean, maybe I'm just being kind of like pie eyed when I
think about it is just that that's just that that that's just an artificial outcome of
prohibition. You know, if cannabis use was normalized and it wasn't something that that
people after they get into their adolescence sometimes go off the proverbial deep end, you
know, and just just, you know, get sucked into it, because I'm wondering again, like
it's kind of like just a way of saying that, well, you're using too much cannabis or the
cannabis that you're using is no longer acting in a beneficial way.
I mean, what is how does that clinically how do you draw the line with a patient that that
has that and one that doesn't?
Yeah, it's a spectrum.
It's a list of 11 questions that if you score like I forgot what the point system is like
two to four points out of the 11.
It's mild and then moderate and then severe.
And then again, there's no pharmacological interventions that can, you know, replace
cannabis use.
It's just about bringing that to attention.
Like a lot of rehab programs are built for if you have opioid use disorder, right?
There is an anecdote or antidote for opiates, which is the lock.
So so it's a way to kind of get off of opiates.
And same thing with alcohol.
There are drugs that can deter you, pharmaceutical items that can deter you from consuming
alcohol. But for cannabis, we don't really have that.
So it's more about if you were need to be admitted into an inpatient setting, like the
diagnosis for you being admitted that they're going to build to the insurance company is
cannabis use disorder and which is defined by fulfilling X amount of points out of this
11 point system.
I think you bring up a really good point, Alan, and I'm really digging this whole
conversation and really excited to have you on the show.
But, you know, talking about how you can have, you know, potential adverse effects,
either because you become habitually kind of addicted to it or maybe you your dose is
higher than you expected or that maybe you should have based on all sorts of, you know,
the parameters that you talked about.
Since you interact probably more with folks who are looking to be on the medical side
of things, do you think that you interact with folks that are maybe more susceptible
to some of these negative effects?
And if you think so or maybe if not, have you seen adverse effects in your patients?
You know, we talk about EHS and other things, but, you know, what about.
Yeah. Tell me more about that.
Yeah. One of the biggest patient population that is at risk are the elderly.
So anyone defined by like 60 and up because they're already prone for risks and falls.
So if you think about the psychoactivity of THC to the unsuspecting consumer, like it
may be not a big deal if you over consume.
But for the elderly that are probably already on a list of medications, sometimes I've
or a lot of elderly, unfortunately, are on sleep aids or benzodiazepines like Xanax or
Klonopin. And when you compound that with cannabis, the effects can can be it's not
one plus one is two, it's one plus one is three.
And that's one of the key populations that I always tend to focus on.
And I dose more conservatively than others.
So instead of doing like five milligram edibles, which any normal person could probably
tolerate, I would start them at two point five.
So elderly patients are one.
And on the other side of that spectrum, pediatric patients, so patients that have medical
cards that are under the age of 21, usually like 16 and under, is kind of where I give
special attention to because they're usually dealing with some kind of like Tourette's,
ADHD, you know, agoraphobia, which is like the form of anxiety where you can't even
leave the house, like things of that nature.
Because to the developing brain, having higher amounts of THC is not necessarily
recommended either.
So you want to, again, find that sweet spot that will help them therapeutically, but also
not introduce them to something they don't need.
So, yeah, those two populations I definitely take more attention towards.
Now, are you?
Oh, I'm sorry.
One quick question, Lenin, are your doses, regardless of the patient's body weight or
age? Yeah, generally, when you start and unless they're like severely obese, like a
BMI of like 35 or higher, I that in that case, I will probably.
You know, dose them a little bit higher.
But if they're cannabis naive, there's nothing wrong with starting low and increasing
the dose because you can always give more, but you can't take back ever.
That's what I warn my customers and patients, like wait the full hour or two before
taking the next dose, because we've all been in that situation where take one doesn't
feel anything, take two, take three, and then all of a sudden they're on their couch for
six hours. So you can always take more.
But you can never take back.
Somebody was bringing this up in the back chat here, and I got to bring this up, too,
because I find this very, very interesting and something that I just want a lot more
knowledge on. We always talk about THC and CBD, you know, like these are two things that
are just just commonplace and there's so many like what are you in your, you know, your
perspective seen and understanding in these space?
Because they're also like one of the things that we see, too, is they're not really like
so low-able, you know, like there's not like a huge amount of THC found in a lot of
plants, you know, so it's very hard to create very refined THC primary products.
Right. So my question is, like, what what do you see in the space right now and how are
maybe these novel cannabinoids or less spoken about cannabinoids potentially being used?
Yeah. And so when I entered in this industry, like I was really shocked that THC, everyone
was talking about THC, THC, THC.
There's literally a thousand SKUs that contain THC.
And for recreational consumer, like, yeah, you have your consumption preferences for
beverage versus a baked good.
But at the end of the day, you're it's a singular ingredient that this plant produces.
And I was asking, like, why don't people talk about the minor cannabinoids or the rare
cannabinoids? And so like you're starting to get pockets of people that understand that
it's not just about THC, but the mixed mixing of them in ratios.
And again, Miyabi's session from last week was really cool.
She's been very vocal about posting about what she consumes, like a 40 40 20 mix.
And I personally want to see that industry thrive, like figure out instead of cultivation
practices that will maximize your yield of THC, figure out a cultivation practice that can
isolate CBG in higher amounts than CBD or THCA or THCV.
Right. That is the scientist in me that really wants to see that happen on the cultivation
front, whether it be through genetic breeding or actual cultivation practices that can
steer the plant towards growing a certain cannabinoid, even if it means like harvesting
earlier for a higher CBC concentrate because it's the mother cannabinoid.
Right. I'm just making that up because like that's what I conceptually understand.
But have cultivators try doing that?
Like have they tested product that is immature for their CBC concentrations?
Like, I don't know the answer to that question.
Maybe Dr. Anna, like you might be able to answer that, right?
They have, from what I understand.
I know a lot of people who grow type three cannabis and there is definitely a target
window and it's going to be cultivar specific as well.
What cannabinoids are at highest levels when you harvest.
But kind of the rule of thumb that I heard is that if you're going for CBG, that you're
going to be harvesting much earlier than you would if you were going for high THC.
And same with terpene content.
And there's going to be this kind of evolution as the plant matures.
Yeah. Yeah, that's awesome.
And from my pharmacy background, like I dabbled in compounding pharmacy.
So compounding pharmacy is using raw API, active pharmaceutical ingredients to create
something that doesn't exist commercially on a market.
A lot of hormone replacement therapy is exactly that, where they'll draw levels of your
testosterone, your estrogen levels and make a specific formula or ratio of ingredients
for this one patient.
So I have always been interested in having that route where you have a singular ingredient
and then you can have, you know, your build a bar almost like you mix your own ratios
to see what works for you.
Obviously, that's kind of different, like experimenting with active pharmaceutical ingredients
versus getting something that's commercially packaged.
Like our industry is not quite there yet, especially in New Jersey.
Like maybe in California or some of the more mature markets where those are more readily
available. But that's something I definitely want to explore.
Even using hemp derived products with tinctures.
Tinctures is the next best solution.
You have three different tincture bottles.
You make a log of what you're taking, you know, five drops of one, two drops of CBG, one
drop of THCA.
You know, the acidic form of THC is actually used and sold separately.
Healer.com Dr.
Justin Sulak has a tincture and he markets THCA, the acidic version of THC.
And, you know, it's been it's been tremendous for his patients.
So I'm definitely looking to explore that option.
But because of regulations and the way that our regulatory bodies are emerging in newer
markets, we don't have that luxury and capability of offering that product selection,
especially if they're hemp based versus, you know, marijuana or cannabis based.
It's all cannabis.
I'm just going to throw that out there.
But I wanted to do any paper is like the legal definition that we have to go by is not
yeah, no. And yeah, it's a flawed legal definition when it comes down to it.
But I wanted what I'd like to know is like one thing that you can really help a lot of
people with because they might not necessarily get the opportunity to to get in front of a
doctor like yourself or in front of people like that actually really care about their
patients and want to help them using these methods and stuff.
So what are some things or signs or or or steps people can take to ensure that, you
know, their farm is out for them and not out for, you know, the highest, you know, extra
dollars for this, this or that, you know, is there is all farm bees have a natural
tendency to take care of people or their problematic ones?
And how can we know that, you know, everybody's here to take care of one another?
You know what I mean? Like it seems to be something that happens a lot.
I, for one, have had a doctor before that did push me not necessarily away from cannabis,
but pushed me into a lot of like other other pills for attention deficit disorder, medicine
and stuff like that. And it was just like it didn't really make any sense.
So how do you, you know, prevent things like that from happening from for your regular
person? Yeah, I will tell you this, like after working in the cannabis industry, it's a
real humbling experience because every time I'm in a room with people that doesn't have
to be medical professionals, I learn something new every single time, 100%.
Like there I've met nurses, I've met teachers, I've met psychologists, I've met people
with no high school degree that know more about cannabis than I do.
And, you know, I'm always willing to explore a conversation as long as that translates
to my patient is getting the best care because everyone has their own practice and their
own approach. But making sure that we take an objective look at an assessment of this
patient, that's that's the key part.
It's not if I go up to my butt tender and they're like, oh, yeah, I use this, I use
that. And, you know, it works for me.
And I'm going to recommend that because of that, like that's an instant red flag for
me. Like they're not taking an objective approach to the person that's sitting in front
of them. Like, sure, you can use your personal experience and give recommendations on
products. But at the end of the day, without asking a series of questions like what is
your experience, how do you prefer to consume?
What is your preferred route of administration?
Like these are all questions that pertain to that are very specific and unique.
So from the patient care perspective, I think that line of education to your butt tenders
would be your first kind of way to get the streamline, like building that bridge between
health care and modern day health care and cannabis.
Your butt tender should not be giving up medical advice.
I make sure I train all of my staff and will train all my staff of what they can and
cannot say. And having a provider in the background like myself, that's a little more
familiar if there are more serious drug drug interactions, some more severe cases like
that's always going to be a resource.
And there are pharmacists out there in the wild like cannabis pharmacists.
A lot of my personal colleagues that I've met are from LinkedIn.
Like everyone kind of knows Dr.
Cody Peterson. He's notorious around the industry.
He's building a coalition in California that that is filled with pharmacists that are
working specifically with cannabis.
Being able to access those resources like they're very they're always willing to have a
conversation. And that just goes for nurses, any kind of professional degrees.
Like I would say, just don't use that as your validation.
Just because I have a PharmD under my name doesn't mean that I know more than the next
person. It's just that I understand how to take an objective approach in taking care of
my patient a little bit better than the other person might be.
If you think about it like that.
Yeah, I respect that.
Does anybody have any follow up?
Like I have a couple of notes here and a couple of questions.
I also like to open the floor up a little bit for people that are interested in asking a
question that relates to what we're talking about to Dr.
Allen or to the panel.
But does anybody else have any questions or comments that they want to throw before I
maybe pop one of those one or two of these up?
I saw Lori asking what I use and I'm an edibles guy.
Like I prefer I like joints.
Like don't get me wrong in social settings.
But I discovered I'll tell you my backstory actually if we have time like do we have time?
Yes, we do.
We have about 20 minutes.
I was one of those naysayers back in the day.
Like I have a very distinct memory of being in college and you know I was in pharmacy
school so I was studying all the time and I would come home from studying at like 3 a.m.
and these guys that I lived with they'd be on the couch smoking weed and playing Mario
Kart. Right.
Like I would wake up for class at 8 a.m.
and these guys would still be there smoking weed playing Mario Kart.
And I had this negative view like man these guys are so lazy.
And like I fell into cannabis really late.
So these guys are tremendously successful and still one of my very good friends now.
And now I understand why.
Like I understood what I didn't know before.
I found out really late in life and I'm kind of really grateful for that because it gave
me the opportunity to look at it in a different light.
So I fell into cannabis late and I started using edibles as my go to.
After I had my first kid, parenthood changes your perspective on a lot of things.
So I would have the type of anxiety where I would have racing thoughts.
I wouldn't be able to sleep and it would just keep on going.
I'd lie awake in my bed with my eyes wide open until 2, 3, 4 a.m.
sometimes. So consuming a 10 milligram edible was enough for me.
And so I've always been drawn a little bit more to the edible realm.
But I also will enjoy a smoke anytime.
Like if you guys are ever around the neighborhood like I still have to meet up with Dr.
Anna and light one up.
You know.
What exit are you at Alan?
I'm right in the middle of Jersey.
So if you fold Jersey in half this way or this way I'm right in the middle.
Yeah. That's the joke in Jersey.
What exit?
123 off the parkway.
I'm 57.
74.
74.
It's great to see it in Jersey because Jersey there's always been a good weed tradition.
But as you know, it's a huge bastion of the pharmaceutical industry.
There's Merck and Siba Geigy and just huge pharmaceutical presence.
Johnson and Johnson.
Right. A lot of a lot of drugs get made in Jersey.
So the pharmaceutical lobby is very, very strong.
So it was really important that Murphy had, you know, some kind of support because it's all about the money.
You know. Yeah.
Agreed. Yeah.
Like you said, you think that the way the program is rolling out in Jersey, it's been fair on kind of like a social equity kind of basis.
Oh man. Don't get me started.
Come on, man.
No, no.
Now you have to talk.
You cannot start a statement on this show with don't get me started because we got to get started.
You got to tell me a little bit about that.
As a whole, social equity.
A lot of these regulations are written with good intention and they look great on paper.
And the whoever's up for election this year will be able to confidently say, yes, we promote social equity and here's how.
But the way that it plays out to the actual operators, it doesn't exist.
Like in New Jersey, they gave social equity operators.
Yeah, we're going to grade your application first to give you your conditional license.
And so everyone is racing to the starting line.
And yeah, like if you had a previous cannabis related offense or arrest history, they would grade your application first.
And like, OK, good.
You got your conditional license.
You can't operate with it.
You can't. You know, it doesn't give you access to capital.
It doesn't give you access to resources.
So like you have a sheet of paper that's worth nothing but the writing on it.
Right. And that's what our social equity turned into in Jersey.
And we're still feeling the brunt of it.
I would love to see data and statistics about the number of operators that actually open their doors, how much money they're getting and from whom, like what kind of agreements, the operating agreements they're signing in order to, you know, are they going to give up that social equity position after two years?
Right. When it's legal to do so, like all of those things are not going to play out until two, three years in a more mature industry here in Jersey.
But social equity in Jersey is virtually a scam.
Just lip service.
Yeah. Lip service. Exactly that.
Awesome. So I do have one here, and I thought this was kind of interesting that you brought up.
And one thing that we don't talk about is like, you know, your genetic ability to, you know, how much it affects you.
Because it seems to be all over the place, right?
Like, like you mentioned earlier, you might increase the dosage if the person happens to be at a very high body mass index.
You might. And but what exactly is kind of the effect?
What are the things that, you know, affect the effectiveness of cannabis in a person or individual?
Yeah. So cytochrome P450.
This is a system that we talk a lot about when drug-drug interactions.
So there's a lot of drugs that will either increase levels or decrease levels based on enzymes that are present in your body that are part of cytochrome P450.
So the thought process is like not being able to get high off of edibles is that you are lacking one of the enzymes that metabolizes it.
So it's instead not breaking down your body and just getting excreted through the urine.
That is the thought process.
But again, I think Dr. Anna might be a little bit better qualified to talk about that from the back end.
What do you think?
So I'm a plant geneticist and I don't actually work with genes.
And as far as like people genes go, it's off my plate.
But I was actually just talking to Tess about this.
You know, there I know there are people out there that edibles just don't affect them at all.
Like they can eat a whole pan of brownies and they're just fine.
Which I think is a mutation in one of the enzymes that converts something in the liver.
And so it all just gets eliminated.
But I don't know much about it.
And I don't know.
I've never really met or heard of anybody who like is unable to feel anything from smoking.
Do you think that that's more linked to just like oversaturating the like your cannabinoid, like your endocannabinoid system?
Like are these people who don't feel the effects of edibles?
Are they do they not feel them because they have consumed a lot and kind of built up a tolerance or they have a natural ability?
At least the people I've heard of, like they're consuming like a thousand up to three thousand milligrams of edibles, which would lay anybody out on their ass.
Like no matter how seasoned and how saturated your system is, they just don't feel anything.
It's been literally a genetic, like physiological.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's been a long time, but I do I I remember reading up about the pharmacology and how it's processed and what's processed into a long time ago.
But it has been a while. And I'm a microbiologist.
So physiology and that is really cool.
I do know, though, that edibles affect me and I know I'm a cytochrome P450 poor metabolizer because when I was in college, I sold my body to science so that I could get money from from FDA clinical trials.
And so they sequenced me and they knew they told me I was a poor metabolizer, a cytochrome P450 mutant, and I couldn't participate in the trial.
And I was like, man, that's twelve hundred bucks.
But anyway, does the guy in the back edibles do affect me?
But I don't know.
There's different there's more than just sip for 52.
There's lots of different liver enzymes.
So I think that that's just the major one.
But yeah, and then there could be like mutations or alterations in the cannabinoid receptors, too, that maybe they bind to regular, you know,
they feel something from smoking, but then they don't get anything from it.
Maybe they're yeah, maybe they're sensitive to just regular THC or Delta nine, but not the metabolite like eleven whatever hydroxy THC.
What do you think? Yeah.
We are mutants.
I know that. OK, well, what do you mean?
What do I think?
I just wonder if it's random.
I know I do know somebody in particular where the guy in the back where edibles do not affect them.
Right. Like he can easily do a hundred, two hundred fifty milligram dose.
And, you know, there's he's like, well, give me more.
Right. Smoking, on the other hand, normal user.
It affects them the same way.
You know, like two gram cone last probably, you know, a good day.
Right. This person's really sick, too, with a gastro problem.
But edibles don't affect them at all.
Right. Like they can just it's a waste of money.
Right. Like to get at that point where they have to especially here where everything's dosed in 10 milligrams.
It's a huge, huge waste of money for them.
What about another level?
What if microbes in your gut are breaking down and helping to break down some of these cannabinoids and other ingredients?
We know that they do it for all sorts of other things.
Yeah, that's why I'm friends with you.
Because that's your.
That's right, too.
Dun, dun, dun.
OK, Alan, you're the expert.
What do you think?
No, it's all case studies right now.
And I have the same thing.
Like I know people that will tell me this.
And I mean, I don't have the means to set up a clinical trial to really figure out what's going on inside of them.
And the the home baked brownies, that conversation always fun, because like unless you're using like a homogenized mixer, like I've had edibles where one side of the pan was definitely a stronger than the other side.
And, you know, that's not a good baseline for experimentation.
Just throwing that out there.
I think it would be really easy to assess with just a basic like excretion analysis on, you know, people who can eat edibles and metabolize normally and then people who can eat edibles and nothing happens, like do a side by side excretion analysis and find out, are they excreting like just nothing happens or is it even a different metabolite or like what's going on?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, especially with edibles, because have you ever met anybody who hasn't been able to get high on just smoking?
I've met people who don't get high on edibles like you guys, but I've never met anybody who like smoking has not affected them.
Like, it affects everybody differently, but I've never met anybody who says, oh, I can smoke like till the cows come home and nothing happens.
Unless you start dabbing and then I think it's hard to go back, but I don't know.
You guys tell me.
It's like drinking water from a fire hose.
Well, I'm talking about just, you know, normal people, like even from the get go, like, let's say it's our, you know, we've only been smoking for a week.
And, you know, most people would be like, yeah, I'm pretty good.
And you're like, I'm feeling this, I'm getting high.
And someone's like, I don't feel anything.
All right, let's keep smoking and let's put a, you know, respirator on them and see.
No, don't do that.
Don't do that.
People don't do that.
But you know what I mean?
Like, I've never met anybody who wasn't affected.
So these are foreign molecules, these these phytocannabinoids.
So our liver wants to break them down in the metabolism.
And yeah, the most promiscuous enzymes in there are these families of oxidases which start hydroxylating these molecules all over the place.
And so that brings up the earlier thread from earlier today, Anna, right?
So Anna tags me in this thread where a company is now selling a THC metabolite as a product, you know.
So coming to the shelves and dispensaries near you, THC metabolites, here they come.
They're being sold.
Five thousand a kilo.
Come get yours now.
My question is, those compounds at nail temperature, like if you were to take a dab of those compounds, they'd instantly
turn to Delta-8, regardless of what that guy says.
So, but anyway, that's chemistry.
Can't keep chemistry from happening.
Yeah, mean old Dr.
Mark on LinkedIn who never has anything positive to say.
I know.
They always think I'm like Debbie Downer and it's like, yo, dude, I'm just breaking down the chemistry for you.
Yeah, it is.
It's not like I'm being mean.
I'm just stating the facts.
You can have your own opinion.
You can't have your own chemistry.
Chemistry is universal throughout.
Right.
So one last question for the evening, can combining THC and other large quantities above their cannabinoids like CBD and CBD trigger
hypernesis?
So when when patients are cannabis naive, I will tell them to also get CBD products, whether it be from a dispensary or from your local smoke shop, because in the case that you
over consume THC, I've found personally and also from my patient base, like taking another cannabinoid that will not necessarily antagonize the receptors that are bonding to THC, but it decreases the effect of the psychoactivity.
So it's not necessarily a direct competition, but things like CBD, they alter the binding site.
CBD is the promiscuous molecule that we talk about a lot of times, right?
So not only does it bind to cannabinoid receptors in the ECS, but it can change the shape of how of the actual receptor itself.
So it causes THC to bind differently at that point, which elicits a different response.
So for patients that are cannabis naive, I will tell them just like have some CBD on hand either through a vape cart of some sort, some rapid inhalation, because with edibles, like you're still going to be waiting and by then, like, who knows what's going to happen.
So usually a CBD or like a one to one ratio THC, CBD, vape cart handy, just to counteract some of the psychoactivity if you're starting to feel that paranoia feel the anxiety.
Again, I don't know if that's scientifically sound, but just based on anecdotal experience and also my patient base, that's generally what my practice is.
All right, and I got last ringer for you here.
Now, as someone who has had to supply medicine for a lot of people and seen cannabis firsthand in all these spaces, can you tell me about an experience that maybe was a little bit changing for you?
Someone where it really, really changed their lives?
Yeah.
Oh, this is a great question.
It was a 30 year old male.
He came to medical dispensary.
Like our medical program was very basic, right?
Like, you just need to have a card and you get into the dispensary.
So he told me the sob story that I heard, like something.
It was incredibly tragic.
He was 30 years old.
He lost his wife and two kids in a car accident.
And he was like, Doc, I want to sleep.
I want to forget.
And cannabis helps me do that.
So when I learned about cannabis in school, it was in a class called Drugs and Toxicology.
Right. We talk about euphoria as a negative side effect.
But that opened my eyes and had the conversation that, hey, euphoria could be your target effect that you want from cannabis.
Like being able to sleep, being able to forget.
That's the huge premise of why a lot of veterans, people suffering from PTSD will use cannabis as their baseline.
So me not being able to judge someone physically for them coming in the room to them telling me that story, that changed my entire perspective of how I look at cannabis.
Like we talk a lot about the negative side effects of cannabis in school.
And that's all you see in the headlines, you know, like a lot of misinformation that gets out there.
But until you're in a room with someone that's truly suffering and cannabis helps them, you can't really change that mind frame or mindset.
So that was my personal story of really what changed my heart and the way that I look and approach cannabis based medicine as a whole.
Now, if anybody has any last question, comments or statements.
I was just going to say in relation to the second to last question about CHS and the combination of cannabinoids potentially like helping with a CHS flare up.
It's my understanding that any cannabinoid, once you've got CHS and it's really out of control, like any cannabinoid can trigger that.
And it's not a combination.
And even synthetic cannabinoids that are completely manufactured in a lab, not even from the plant can trigger CHS.
So cannabis, hyperemesis, as far as we know, is it's rare, really rare.
But for folks that do have it, it can be triggered by any kind of cannabinoid.
And the way that it's treated with hot showers and capsaicin leads us to believe that it's not anything to do with postpartum.
It's not anything to do with pesticides or neem because the treatment for those kinds of toxins, they don't respond to those kind of treatments.
So I just wanted to jump in there and kind of clear up that.
Awesome.
Awesome. So, Ellen, how can we support you?
Like, so, I mean, as we're at the end of the episode, we end this always the same way.
And it is, how do we support what you're doing?
First, thank you for your time.
Thank you for coming in and joining us for the conversation.
It's been awesome.
But my question, my last question for you, where can we find you and how can we support you in the community and in your community actions?
Yeah. And thanks so much for inviting me on the show.
Like, being part of groups like these where everyone is just really not here necessarily for an agenda and just to talk science and to talk responsible consumption.
Like we've all we're all avid consumers, but at the same time, like being able to openly and freely discuss things on this type of platform.
Like, thank you so much for providing that.
So that's my thank you to you.
But for me personally, like I'm really active on LinkedIn.
A lot of my thoughts are out there in the world just because I want the world to see what through the lens of me.
And when I opened my dispensary, it's going to be VigorDispensary.com.
We're going to be an adult use retailer in New Jersey.
So my proof of concept that I hope to accomplish in the next year is to be able to get this education information out to the masses.
So beyond just the recreational consumers, people in nursing homes, people in senior citizen centers, 55 and up communities, and even going down to like local gym studios, to yoga studios, acupuncture.
Any kind of holistic services to be able to combine professions like this and use cannabis as part of integrative health.
That's the message I want to put out to the world.
So if there are other practitioners, nurses, medical professionals, even educators that are interested in this path, like speak out, like use this platform.
Everyone has their voice and opinions, but make sure you can back it by facts and science.
And not just because you were contracted by some guy to sell you HHC-11-Hydroxy-LMNOP.
That's what I see a lot on social media.
So just weeding out through the bullshit.
That's kind of what I ask everyone to do.
Take an intelligent approach, be truthful, be honest, and make sure that you just advocate for this plant that we all love.
That's it.
Awesome.
Well said.
And now we have next week, next week today, we have Kyle Boyard coming on.
We're going to talk about testing and that fun area.
It's going to be a great conversation.
And actually following that, I just got final confirmation.
And I'm excited because this is probably a really Canadian sounding thing because this is exciting for me being Canadian.
We have Ross Robliotti coming on.
And if you know who he's a gold medal Olympic snowboarder that was famously kicked off.
Almost got his medals taken away for famously smoking cannabis in the gondola on the way up the mountain to compete in the gold.
I don't know if that's the whole story there, London.
We'll get the story.
I'm going to get the story.
But yeah, I won a gold medal at the 98 Nagano Olympics.
So I was like 14, whatever.
Right. I was older than that, but nobody needs to know how old I am.
So, yeah, that's that's coming up after Kyle.
And Kyle's great.
Kyle's awesome.
Kyle's a really fun conversation as well.
Every Tuesday we have fantastic fun conversations.
So with that, I bid you all farewell and have a great evening.
Thanks, guys.
Bye.
