Good, I was all on my lonesome for so long.
I saw that, I got distracted on something else.
Came back and saw you waiting.
Yeah, it's always fun sometimes when you get these things rolling in
with the organization and everything like that. It can be a little bit hectic.
But it's good. How are you doing?
It's okay, man. It's going. You know, same old, same old.
I'm a moderator now.
You have the power. I have the power. If anyone wants to come up and say anything.
Did
Trevor and other folks say they would join him?
Yeah, everybody should be along any minute.
We were kind of up in the air a little bit there, but everybody was like,
well, good for six and hopefully they should be along any time.
I was scrambling because dinner and family and stuff.
Oh yeah, it's later here.
Just got folks off to bed.
Yeah, I'll go see what's taking so long.
But we are up and live and while I have you, I might as well take the opportunity
and ask. Just that way we get the conversation started.
Can you tell me a little bit about the
Lemoncello from the Canine Folk?
Actually, you know what's been driving me the most?
I'd love to know about the don that you have that's your heritage
cut that's used in the Snazz, if you don't mind.
Here I am, rambling away.
I'm not really sure my mic is on.
Lemoncello is really just a
sweet skunk plant itself.
It's the old school BC clone.
There's a lot of sweet skunks that got passed around. People started calling it the Ireland sweet skunk.
The Ireland sweet skunk is this cut crossed with white widow and then
inbred. It's a totally different plant.
I was talking to myself, thinking that I had a live mic.
The sweet skunk is like a hazy plant. When you cross it
with other things, it gets stomped all over.
The traits are quite recessive. The traits that are important
identifying traits of the variety are quite recessive, seemingly, in a lot of
crosses. When you make a self of it,
you do get a little bit of variation in the structure.
What I mean by that is you get a lot of
more fox tailed, thin plants that come out of the mix.
The nose is relatively true
to type.
The self is a good way to
recapture that terpene profile or that scent profile.
The dom is an old plant.
Funnily enough, it's also terpenelline dominant.
The sweet skunk is terpenelline dominant, but it's got a bunch of other stuff going on that gives it this really
incensing kind of nose to it. The dom is a plant that I selected
from a line called blue domino.
I was growing years and years and years ago and we had a spider mite problem.
I decided to grab a bunch of seeds and grow them from
seed rather than
missing a cycle or trying to remother these plants up.
I just deal with the mite issue and grow these crops from seed. I bought a bunch of these blue domino seeds.
They were all over the place. It was not a type.
Even though it had a seed line, it was not a type.
Every plant was totally different in terms of scent, structure, yield, everything.
I don't think I've seen
a population that was so polyhybrid. That's just what happens when you cross
polyhybrid plants together. You get a total lack of consistency
in the offspring. I selected a couple of
interesting individuals from that and line bred them. I ended up with this really
incredibly stinky plant.
It was a really, really stinky plant
that was terpeneally dominant but it had all the phyla.
We now know all the phyla are those skunky, funk tones.
You kind of
asked me about those two things. Limoncello is the sweet skunk side of the thing.
I was doing that pollen project and making the self. I hit a bunch of selfs.
I hit a bunch of other stuff. One of those things being the domino plant or the dom.
You got this terpeneally
haze getting down with this terpeneally
funk. It's a lot like train wreck but with phyla
and thicker buds. That's really what it is.
I don't know if that answers the question but that's a little background on them.
They're really stretchy. If people are growing those and thinking they're going to be
treating these plants like a cush, you're in for
a shock.
Flower plants, much smaller than you expect to
or put clones in and flip them immediately. You can end up with spears
like two, three foot tall spears. If you veg them up with three plants
you're going to have six, seven foot plants.
Beware of you growing those things.
That's a great tip because I got a whole bunch down to do some
start to finish video projects. I've got a couple of each that will be running.
I'll do the start to finish flower. Hey Peter, how's it going?
I hope you're doing well. Normally, just one last thing. I'm not sorry
before we get to you. Those plants
really throw a lot of side branches. They got really
strong side branching. It's kind of like the opposite of apical dominants.
They really throw those side branches that catch up. It's one of those plants
that you can top it right before it goes into flower and not have
too bad of an effect from doing that. In fact, that's
one way to help them stay a little bit stockier. I also don't
feed them a bunch of nitrogen in their first couple of weeks of flower
because when they're stretching you're pumping them full of nitrogen.
How are you Peter?
What's up? Sounds like kitchen duty.
How is everybody else doing today? I'm on baby duty.
Goes on for
15 years or so, right?
Asmodee, I can never say his name
properly. I always feel terrible, has asked if you're going to explain the
highly scientific term of strand this evening.
I don't know if that came through.
Nomenclature
is a funny thing because people get all bent
out of shape when you're trying to use the right words for whatever reason.
Either they haven't heard them before or it challenges
what they know or they think you're being pedantic. The truth
is that when we say don't use words
like strain and use cultivar or variety, it's
because there's inherent information
that's built into those words.
If I'm talking to Trevor, and Trevor's
obviously not here yet, but if I was talking to Trevor
I could call a plant
or a cultivar or variety. There's all this inherent information
that's built into those words that Trevor understands
because he understands what those words mean.
If you're at this point where you're still
thinking about strains and talking about strains,
for your average consumer, who cares?
It means the same thing to call it a strain.
If you're a cultivator
or even a little more deeper
and more serious in thinking about these concepts as either a seed
producer or a seed breeder, the reason I started getting all
correct about these words is because
when we use these words
the inherent information is built into the symbol. A word is just a symbol
for something. When we use the
right word, there's all this inherent information that's built in. For example, if I call
a cultivar a plant, or if I call a plant a cultivar,
I'm essentially saying that that plant doesn't breed true
and in that case should really be
only propagated from clones. Because when you take
clones of a cultivar, the type that that represents
that symbol or name represents always repeats itself.
i.e. they're clones. That might seem
inherently obvious. But let's use that
with the word, let's attach a word onto that concept
and say, okay, we've got Blue Dream. Blue Dream is really a cultivar.
There's a couple of different cultivars that actually have the name Blue Dream
that are, I would say, in the same family.
The most popular one that's really known to be really large
out of Santa Cruz and very widespread is a Myrcene
dominant plant. It's just a huge yielder and a bunch of people
have made seeds from it. It's Myrcene
dominant with a Pinene chaser. It's kind of like Myrcene-Pinene
co-dominant with a little bit more Myrcene in it. The sibling
or what seemingly is the sibling plant looks similar. It has
much thinner leaves, but it's Pinene dominant with
a Myrcene kicker or a little bit of Myrcene. It's much more
prevalent in Pinene. So it's kind of got like, one's Myrcene
dominant with Pinene and one's Pinene
quite a higher degree of Pinene
in the plant with a little bit of Myrcene. So you can look at those two
sibling plants or what I suspect are siblings because I encountered
these plants as clones, not as seeds. They have the same
terpene complement, but the arrangement and the order
of the terpenes in those two different plants is different.
That's kind of common in like a
somewhat true breeding line. Now if you take that Myrcene dominant
plant, the big one that's really popular and everybody was growing around Cali
call it like 2010-2011, it was really, really popular
back then. And you self that plant or you cross that
plant to something else, none of the plants that come from that cross
look like the parents or very few of them do. And so that's
kind of the definition of what we call a cultivar. And so when you say Blue Dream
is a cultivar, you're essentially saying to someone, this plant is a clone.
It's best
propagated, if you're trying to get uniform crops for pounds for
sale for the market, for example, you're best
to propagate that from clone, not from seed. And if you, if somebody
comes along and has seed that's called Blue Dream, you should also
be like thinking to yourself, hey, wait a second, Blue Dream's a cultivar.
It doesn't breed true when it's mated. So
if we're buying seeds that are named Blue Dream,
remember that name represents the type.
The name is just a symbol for that type. If you
then attach that name to a bunch of seeds that don't
reproduce the type, in my opinion, that's misleading.
And I think that people, maybe not this audience, but
the general cannabis community as a whole
and I would say this is way more prevalent in the smoker
consumer side of the industry that are maybe not quite as inclined to the producers.
They just think that
if I buy Blue Dream at the dispensary, then it's going to be whatever is in the bag.
And then if I go out and buy seeds from some totally different person, and they're
also Blue Dream, it's going to be the same thing.
And because of the way that cannabis mates when propagated to a seed,
that's really rare.
It's really rare for you to be able to identify a type and then buy a seed line
with that same name and have those plants represent that type.
From that context,
when you say, hey, Blue Dream is a cultivar, it's like I said before,
there's all this inherent information that's built into that word. And so if you
understand what that word means or what the word cultivar means,
then you can get all this kind of hidden information
just when knowledgeable people say, hey, this is a cultivar, this is a variety.
So anyway, maybe that was rambling, but
I don't know if that'll get the conversation off the kick.
I think it's a good way to start. It's important to get in
the context. I think you've touched on that really well.
Depending on who it is, your everyday consumer and your everyday person,
it doesn't need to be specifically inundated with all these very specific
terms and can be relative. But when you're talking on a higher level and trying
to communicate things fast, appropriately, and get a lot across,
because that's what you're trying to do. We're talking about volumes of numbers of plants that are huge.
It's important to be able to be as quick and concise
and on the same page as possible. And little basic things
can really help facilitate that to happen further.
And if we're all on the same page, we can develop a lot faster.
Yeah, and I know it comes off as pedantic,
but it's really not about that. It's trying to
educate people and raise the level of
discussion in the community. Because, again,
you've got to understand where I came from in this. I didn't just
grow up and decide to start hating on the word strain.
I realized that that word was really
it led to all this
industry-wide misleading of the customer.
Again, strain, cultivar,
variety, they're really words that describe a biological
type. It's like that thing I made a few months back and put up on IG,
the flowchart of is it a cultivar or a strain or a variety?
All those words mean the same thing.
We're identifying a particular cannabis type or a cat breed
or a dog breed or a cow breed.
I don't mean with the word strain,
but the idea of this is a type
that has either been created or found, either created through
matings of humans. Let's look at some of these stupid
little tiny little dogs like Pomeranians or whatever.
That type could never exist in the wild. It wouldn't make it.
Through artificial selections and human interference,
we've been able to create that type.
We've got different types of tomatoes
and different types of corn and different types of dogs.
We also have different types of cats.
I like to say that these words all work interchangeably within each other.
They have slight variational differences
between the terms, but they all work interchangeably together.
Yeah, well, I would disagree
with that. If you're talking at a very surface level,
they're interchangeable.
Wouldn't that mean they are interchangeable?
Again, trying to say where I came from on Weiser and Harping on this, I want people
that are buying my seeds to understand that there's inherent
variation in the seeds.
I'm not going to take an OG off the market and cross it with
something else and then call the seeds OG.
If I have an informed customer that knows what OG is,
that recognizes that scent profile and that high cannabinoid concentration,
and they grow a hybrid and I've called it OG, and those plants
that come up don't look like OG, then I feel
like I'm misleading someone.
My idea has always been, or my perspective
has always been, educate my
customers so that they understand the
variation inherent in my products.
I'm not trying to... I mean, it would be nice if the
entire industry came along for the ride, but
again, I'm not going to get too bent out of shape whether
people use the nomenclature or not. All
I can do is teach the people that are...
call it my audience or whatever.
If that goes somewhere great, who cares?
I'm not trying to outchange the world.
I just want my clients and customers to
feel like I haven't misled them.
That's really where it came from. And then just the idea of putting it out there
to teach people the option. We were having this conversation on Instagram
about what's the proper terminology for backcrossing or what's the
proper symbol for a backcross. Really,
BC, BX, they're both... who cares? They're both the same thing.
Somebody recently posted this evening, like, well, I think
it's weird that you're trying to tell everybody how to do it. I'm not
trying to tell everybody how to do it or that there's only one way.
All I'm saying is in the regular plant breeding world, they
use BC, not BX. And so
for some reason, a certain subset of people think,
oh, you're trying to regulate our speech and tell us what we have to say. I'm really not at all.
All I'm telling you is that in these
other industries, backcross is denoted by BC,
not BX. And BX is kind of one of these things that we use
in the cannabis industry. I use both, right? Because to me,
language is about trying to convey
information. And so if people understand BX, when I say BX
and not BC, I'm going to use BX because the idea is to get the information
across. But I feel, like I said, with strain,
I feel the strain is a little bit different because although on the general
surface level, yeah, everybody understands what you're talking about, but
when you're truly trying to convey information about how a plant breeds
and mates and breeds true, it's really important to use
words like cultivar because then people have an expectation of all those
things.
Yeah, I think you're touching on something great because when we look
at something like a peanut butter breath, right, there
was no cultivar, quote unquote, released. It was a seed
variety. So with that being said, there's really no consistent
one set variety that you would see in the market.
And it kind of puts us in one of those positions where the
consumer, they look to get peanut butter breath because they hear great things, they
see great things, and maybe came across it and experienced great
things. But then they run into plant identification
where you see the BX, you see the F1, F2,
S1s, and so on.
And I think that is very important for the consumer
and the new growers coming in to understand
the difference between, because that's actually a major
contributing factor to what you actually have in front of you because
you can have the same name as somebody else and have two totally different
things. And not even be just so
different of a thing, like two totally different worlds almost.
But yes, I think you're touching on something. Maybe I came in at
the end and was coming at the end.
Well, yeah, I like what you're saying there because it's like you said
with the peanut butter breath or whatever. That's a special plant or an individual or
a subset of an individual from a population. And excuse my ignorance, I don't know
what family it came out of. But you know what I mean?
If that plant is a rare individual, call it 1 in 100,
1 in 200. For people to find plants
that are like that and have to go back to the original population that it came from
is kind of a fool's errand.
Whereas if people understood, hey, no, this plant is a cultivar and if you want to have
this bud, you've got to go and get
the clone from this guy. And there's a lot of species
that work that way. If you're growing
flowers or you collect orchids or whatever, most people aren't
making their own crosses. You're going and buying types that have already
been discovered by someone that's done the work.
There's a bunch of stuff that has shaped
where we are. But for example, you go and buy vegetable seeds like onion seeds
or tomato seeds or pepper seeds. You plant those seeds that you buy from the
garden company. They all come up and they all look the same. And so it's really
not
weird that people expect to plant cannabis seeds named
Blue Dream and have all the plants come up the same.
But because of the way that cannabis breathes
and the way that we have bred it over the past 30 years,
those two things equally hand in hand
has created a situation where we have all these seed families
with names, but
the names don't represent a type.
If you're a first-time grower,
Joe, and you've been smoking for a couple of years,
you know Blue Dream and OG, and you know Sour Diesel, and you know cookies, and then you
say, I really like the Sour Diesel. I want to go out and
grow my own Sour Diesel. So I'm going to go on the internet and buy some seeds.
Oh, these ones are labeled Sour Diesel. You buy the Sour Diesel seeds and they come.
You take them home and you grow them. And the plants look nothing like the bud looks
nothing like what you know as Sour Diesel. And so again,
the idea is to create an industry
where people around the globe can talk about these things
and share an appreciation and an enthusiasm
for the variety of flavors that exist in cannabis
and have the same experience. And right now,
that's really not very possible.
This is hard because we're still trying to break down
geno, pheno, and chemotypes. Just even understanding that is just
you know, one of the starting points
that we need to look at as well is even just within that, you can
be looking at whole different worlds of plants and phenotypical
expressions just even with one set of variety.
Just working with geno, pheno, and chemo. So it's like, but I'm
definitely with you, man. We definitely need to get to a higher level of understanding
as a collective because the seed market is vicious right now.
The clone market is vicious right now. There's a lot of stuff
being purchased based upon names. And the names
are very misleading. The people don't know where these
lines are coming from, who had the original cut
to what to make what. And you know, it's
so much that comes behind this genetic game. So I definitely
think these rooms are necessary for us to wake these types of things up.
Do you think a chemotype naming system would be
helpful? Where you just kind of remove the name and it's like,
grow it, test it, you see the specific ratio of
cannabinoids and terpenes and that falls into some sort of bucket of like,
that's chemotype number 47?
Yeah, so the problem with chemotype for using it, I mean look, you're not wrong.
I think, again, we have to understand where
evolution of that chemotype word came in the cannabis community.
Sorry, related to cannabis research and the cannabis industry.
Pretty early on, call it late
60s, we realized that cannabis produces THC and THC
is a drug that gets you high. But they weren't doing very
deep characterization of these plants, or at least on large scale.
Like maybe, you know, there's a few people doing it
at a university lab and somebody comes, so they're analyzing like plants,
say some grad student is looking at like 100 cannabis plants
because they're trying to see what chemical variation exists within the species.
Are there some with low THC, some with high THC, right? We knew that hemp
had low THC and high CBD. So pretty soon they figured out
there's a couple of different chemical types. There's the high THC ones and there's the high CBD ones.
And then they identified some other compounds in the plant.
Like, for example, they found like a CBDV plant or a THCV plant.
Right? And so those things were presented
as new chemical types or chemical varieties
or chemical phenotypes, right? Which is what chemotype means,
is a chemical phenotype. And so as these new
chemotypes were found, remember, they're only looking at
the cannabinoids. Nobody was looking at the terpene profiles or the other
volatiles that were in these plants. They were only using the cannabinoids
as the line to divide
different groups of plants, right?
And it kind of, when it comes to
classification of types, I mean, how far deep down into
classifying, you know, things do we have
to go? So say we're classifying people, right?
And we're going to say, okay, we're going to classify people by their hair color.
So you got the brown haired people, you got the blonde haired people, and then you got
the redheads. Let's call it black haired people as well.
So black haired, brown haired, blonde, and redheads.
So we've just essentially chopped up the entire world into four groups.
But then, oh, there's these white people that have
six toes, right? So it's like, does that mean
that they get their own sub-classification?
And so what traits do we prioritize when we're
classifying? And in classifying everything, I was having this conversation
with Matt Gates just briefly the other day.
We were just riffing on this a little bit in a private discussion.
And it becomes like, where do you stop subdividing?
What is enough to stop subdividing
the plants? And so when we approached this, when I was working with
Napro a bunch of years ago, we kind of developed the first terpene-based
classification system because terpenes are
built in the genetic lineage of the plant, but they're also kind of
shaped by the environment. Plants with a specific terpene profile
might do better or worse in the presence of a given pest,
for example. And so you can kind of look
at geography or geographical distribution by looking at the terpenes. And then we
added cannabinoids on top of that as a two-factor
way of looking at things. And so you end up with,
for example, terpene plants. So we were making
these type 2 cannabis varieties. And so type 2 cannabis
varieties, for those that don't know, are plants that produce THC
and CBD. And so in order to do that, we have
these plants with what we call the flavor class profile or the flavor profile from the
THC parent. So one example for that type of plant
would be train wreck. So train wreck is predominant in terpeneline, and
it's like, call it in the 20% range THC. And so to make
the type 2, what we have to do is cross that plant to a CBD plant and then
shuffle the genes for a couple of generations until we end up with a plant that is
CBD dominant but also terpeneline dominant. And then once you have
the terpeneline dominant CBD plant and the terpeneline dominant THC plant,
if you cross those two plants together, you should end up with
these type 2 50% CBD, 50% THC
terpeneline dominant plants. Okay. So
we've just created three categories of plants, right? They're all in the terpeneline class,
but when you add the second factor of cannabinoids,
we've now got three separate classes. The THC dominant, almost
no CBD type 1 plant. We've got the type 2
balanced THC to CBD profile. And then we've got the type 3
CBD dominant terpeneline dominant plant.
And so you can do this with
pinene dominant plants or osemine dominant plants or myrcene dominant plants
or beta-caroline dominant plants, right? Or limonene dominant
plants. You can really start creating all these different
subdivisions in all those different terpene profiles.
We'll say that I wanted to add on, so those are two
sets of chemicals, right? So we've got chemical types with cannabinoids
that also have different terpenoids, right?
We'll say we want to further divide those classes by plants that have
flavonoids, for example.
And so you're going to have the terpeneline dominant plants that have flavonoids and the terpeneline
dominant plants that don't have flavonoids. Or terpeneline
dominant plants that have thiols in them, like skunky thiol plant.
Or terpeneline dominant plants that don't have thiols in them.
And at what point in time is it enough
to start saying these are all grouped together or those grouped together?
Because I mean, essentially, it's like you said, Peter, that number
47, that number might get up to like 150 different
chemotypes if we start factoring in probably more.
If we start factoring in all the different combinations of terpenoids, cannabinoids,
thiols, esters, and
flavonoids, it's like
when do we stop getting so detailed?
And that's like a rhetorical question, right?
I don't think there is an answer to that. But I don't know. Trevor, how are you doing?
I'm doing pretty good. How about you, Ryan? Good to hear your voice.
Yeah, just rambling away about stuff again.
Indeed. But no, that's
I always have that issue with taxonomy.
I both love and
hate it because it seems somewhat arbitrary.
You can just break down
classifications infinitely.
So definitely just to make sense of the world,
those arbitrary sort of distinctions and just being
like, okay, we're going to use cannabinoids as the thing and then
leave out the other, the variety of
different chemicals that would complicate the chemotype taxonomy
or it's not really a taxonomy, a classification system.
You know, it makes sense just
for ease and consumability of a
schema, but it certainly is incomplete and fails to
really grasp the complexity of everything.
But I also, I feel like what you guys did at NatPro
established the first sort of
baseline for us to be able to
say, if people look at some of that data, they can go back and be like, oh,
what is Trainwreck? What is Blue Dream?
What is OG? And can kind of put them into
the terpene and cannabinoid classification system that actually
visually demonstrates the distinctions
and variation between these different varieties and kind of
captured it at a time and a place before
it all, the great washing out has happened in these last couple
years. Yeah, it was a way to understand it.
You know, it came out of like, we're just screening so many plants in the lab
and you end up with like this big pile of lab reports and you're like, oh, I've seen
one that was kind of like this before. And so you start laying all the lab reports out
on a table, right? And it's like, oh, here's one,
here's another one with pinene, right? And so you start a pinene pile,
right? And it's kind of like
just getting like five card decks that are
shuffled together and handed to you. Like you'd start looking at
them and be like, oh, these are all cards, okay? I guess they're a type. And you start going through
them, you'd be like, oh, look, there's black ones and red ones. Oh, look, the red ones have two different
shapes, right? And so we kind of like just intuitively
separate them. I mean, we didn't really do that much work other than
notice the pattern that already existed, right? And
in doing so, we realized like there's certain
combinations of terpenes and cannabinoids that existed in the marketplace or in the species
and there's certain combinations that didn't exist. And then
it became about like, can we
breed those combinations that don't exist?
Can we create them? And sure enough, we could.
And so it's just
I don't know. It's like once you've done it and sorted them,
we all like cannabis, obviously. I'm sure a lot of people
don't like they appreciate the variation. It's not just about finding cookies
every single time and getting them baked as you can. And so
the natural analogy that comes up is like wine,
right? Like the indica, I'm going to use these indica sativa words
in air quotes, indica and sativa is kind of like saying
red and white wine, right? Whereas
each of the red and the white can be subdivided. And I've said
this a hundred times on here, I'm sure. But the red and the white types can each be
subdivided into many different types that are different based on their chemical profiles.
And we can do the same thing with cannabis,
right? And so we've kind of learned about cannabis or learned to
consume cannabis in a market where it was like, or at least I did
and probably anybody my age group, it was like
you'd smoke what you could get, right? What was available.
And now the newest
consumers are going to be able to come in and say, hey, can I, you know, I can try
type two varieties with THC and CBD or I can try all these different terpene profiles.
Right. And so it's going to be a different,
I think we're going to develop different consumers. I mean, I know a lot of, you know,
ladies in their thirties, they like, you know, they like drinking white wine, right?
But they learned that because they had access to all the different types. And so I think
as people also have access to all the different types of cannabis, they're going to learn
that, hey, I like these ones and they really work with my neurochemistry and
these other ones, maybe not so much, right? Not only in flavor, but also in
you know, perceived effect. Sam, welcome
up. Did you have a question?
Yeah, it's one of those things where it's like a lot of the people I work with,
they still just call it weed. Like getting them just
to even call something by its name is already a struggle on a patient
advocate level. To where
we remove some of the names that people are just now starting to get used to.
How's education going to keep up with this? Because I think that's a big thing when it comes to
end user consumption, where you have the liquor reps who go
bar to bar and buy their liquor and hand it out. Is that going to be
kind of the same thing where you're looking at where you're kind of classifying
based off the chemotypes or phenotypes or even terpene profiles
that you're going to start to need to have like a lemonene rep
or a pinene rep or somebody there that knows that
terpene to do the education for the inpatient?
Or is that just going to be passed over bud time-wise?
That's challenging because for one, it's going to
boil down to the individuals and the businesses because
obviously not every business is ran the exact same.
So standards are going to be different across the board. So until
there is some type of standards that are set that
kind of rank either the staff
at a dispensary or the dispensary itself, then
we're going to continue to have these problems because with
TANACON just happening here in Oklahoma, I'm not a big fan of going to conventions, but
I go to them just to meet and greet the people
that I know are going to be there. But at the same time, a lot of the businesses
that are there, I start asking them technical questions and they can't answer
me. They require me having to talk to someone that's not even
necessarily there. And for me, every business
that I personally represent, I personally want to know
the ins and outs. So that way if someone asks me a question like
what cultivars do you have that are going to be pinene
dominant or going to have pinene as
the main terpene except for
someone that is growing, most of the time people
can't really even answer a lot of these questions unless
they have the ability to have that COA. And there's even been times where
I've asked bud tenders that have the COA accessible to them and
they still try to dodge or avoid being able
to answer that question. So until we have
some standards, unfortunately most people don't
get to meet individuals like are on this panel right now
because I know that every single person that's up here right now, if you do
a cultivar and you were trying to advocate
for a business or a grow and someone came up to you and
asked you some of these questions, you'd be able to just answer them. You know, just
with a snap of the finger, you wouldn't even think twice about it. And unfortunately
we don't have enough outlets for education because
that needs to happen for me at the collegiate level
besides your places like Oaks or Dan and stuff like that.
Yeah, I mean I'm in Canada
so as far as like
reps going around
representing stuff, that's outside the regulations. You're actually not even allowed to
do that. So the
problem you described is definitely not trivial. It's a real issue.
It has fallen to the
bud tenders because they're the point of sale, right? They're the point of
contact between the industry and the consumer. And in my opinion, generally
they've done a completely terrible job.
The FidoFax that we developed at NAPRO
for the terpene profiles, essentially for presenting that information, that was really
designed for dispensaries. It was designed so
that bud tenders at this dispensary network
would essentially have all the data about a given cultivar
to be able to share with the consumer. And we did stuff
like we color coded the terpenes
which seems kind of obvious, but nobody had done it back then.
Everybody was color coding the cannabinoids on these lab reports
and we decided, no, color code the terpenes, it's way more informative.
And then we started making these associations between, for example
like linalool. The color we chose for linalool on the graph
was the lavender color because there's
an association between linalool and lavender. Same thing, limonene was
yellow to kind of hint at that lemon scent.
So yeah, black beta-cariopheline
was like dark, it was like black pepper kind of thing.
We designed this lab report system
that kind of paired those colors with
we did a scent spider graph essentially
that it painted a picture of what the nose
of the plant would be like. Anyway, you can
find that on phytofacts.info for those people that haven't
seen it, but SC Labs has now licensed that technology
or that lab report format. So you get lab
tests from SC Labs in California, you get
the lab report presented in that format. Because again, it is
it's quite, again, it's about being informative
to the consumer. You're trying to
find a way to give, because it's boring to
look at a graph. If someone hands you a lab report and it's got
two pages long and a page and a half is just
this long chart of all these different numbers
and you scroll down the column of numbers and you see
a big one, then you have to go, well this number is high, then you have to
look over to the left and see which terpene it represents. It's really not a good
way to present information. What we wanted to do was present that information
in a way that was like using the visual system
using colors and patterns
to be able to present information so that people can actually look at
a terpene profile and recognize it as a visual pattern
rather than trying to decipher, is this number
higher than this number? It's just a lot more user
friendly, was kind of why we did it.
As an end consumer, that's one of the issues I have. I'll go and I'll ask the
bud tender, my terpenes of choice, you name three of them,
linalool, kerophyllene, and lemonene. I always
ask, what's the highest
you have in kerophyllene right now? Almost every single time the bud tender is always
like, let me go grab the manager real quick, because I don't know. Then it usually
ends up down this whole path of me educating the bud tender of
my terpenes, why I'm chasing these, is this reason why?
To me, there's like a lack of
most people know like fireball.
Like the fireball promoter, when they come out, everybody's taking
shots of fireball or having fireball drinks. Same thing with the crown
rep, the bullet rep, all of those reps in the bar industry come around
and one of the things they do is they teach the bar tender new drinks, new
recipes, new things about the product that we didn't know before. I don't really see that
in the cannabis industry yet. Well, like I said, in Canada
the regulations prevent it. I bet you when you guys get federal regulations
in this space that they'll also prohibit that kind of stuff as well.
Alcohol in Canada was no different too.
50, 60 years ago, if you went into a
liquor store, it was like a pharmacy. You'd fill out your order and you'd
take it to the pharmacist kind of guy and all the liquor was kept behind
him. You certainly couldn't be trusted to be
present with the alcohol before you had purchased it. That's
kind of the same model that they're taking with cannabis. All these really
obvious things that you'd want to do from an educational perspective,
you have to
remember, they're just not possible and you have to understand the context why.
The regulators essentially see cannabis
like tobacco. They think that we're all just going to use
these education
sessions or this type of education in order to get people to buy more product.
You know what? Of course there's people that are going to do that.
What it does is the regulation essentially
cuts off the educators at the knees.
Again, growing
pains of becoming a real industry and growing
out of prohibition when the regulators have this mentality or the lawmakers
have this mentality that we're still a bunch of
drug addicts that need to be regulated.
I think that's the primary issue
is that it's just, at least here in California,
the way the regulatory system is set up, it's
incredibly difficult, particularly if you're, for instance, a small
farmer, to be able to interface not just
with the retail establishment
but with bud tenders and things like that.
It's definitely not conducive. I think California
is probably the worst example
in the country here in the United States
because it's
yeah, the race to the bottom
has just completely taken over the state and it's really
made it so that the lowest common denominator
there's just so much cannabis here in terms
of production that at this point
if you're relying on a retail
establishment or on a bud tender for information
or for the interface, you're probably going to be in your position, Sam, of
having to do the educating and be the educated consumer
who then goes and unfortunately has to teach
your bud tender or whoever you have to interact
with about the ins and outs of cannabis.
Yeah, well that's what I meant when I was saying that the
bud tenders haven't done a really good job. It's not their fault, they haven't been
trained properly. But it's kind of like going to
a McDonald's and ask the person at the counter how much sodium is
in a burger. It's kind of that level of
service, unfortunately.
And that's not only a reflection of the industry, it's
probably a reflection of the clientele.
Sam, I'm sure you're the anomaly.
I know when I go into a dispensary, not that it ever happens, but if I
am with a friend or someone and they want to go get legal weed for whatever
reason, God knows why you would do that. But if someone wanted to go and buy weed,
I kind of go into these stores and they just don't know how to
handle me. I mean, I'm
way, way, way more informed than anybody in the store.
That's not bragging,
that's just a factor of my work.
You go in and how do you have a conversation with them about the products
when they don't even know anything about the products themselves. They don't even know where to start those
conversations. They're like, oh yeah, it's got lots of terps. That's about the level of
information that you're going to get. Oh, well what terp's in it? Oh, well let's look on the package.
Great. Well, I didn't really need you to do that, but of course I can't
handle the package.
It's a mess. And again, these are like these post-prohibition
problems, where it's like the people that are creating the laws and the regulations,
they're still pandering to the Puritans who are telling them that
cannabis is a dangerous drug and we have to do everything we can to regulate it to protect
the children. It kind of
just leaves us in this position. What do you do?
And that's where I kind of get frustrated, because
here in Ohio, the bud tenders are only allowed to make FDA-regulated claims.
Surprise, surprise, they can't make any claims.
But it's one of those things where the advocacy has had to step up, but at the same
time, even the advocacy, getting a CEO away from one of these cultivators
is like next to impossible, because they call it quote-unquote trade
secrets. And it's just like, this is just
a lot of it is that bureaucracy aspect,
but at the same time, I don't see anybody trying to challenge the bureaucracy
while it's going on. Because a lot of people will just be like, oh, that's
just the way the book says it has to be right now.
Look, anything that I can divine about a product through a lab testing
is a fucking trade secret. I'm sorry. Anybody saying that COA is a trade secret
is they're lying or hiding something from you intentionally.
There's absolutely no reason for anybody
not to provide the chemical constituents that are in a product they're selling.
And it's not like it's hidden information.
It's just that the sample needs to go to a lab
and then you can divine or you can understand all that information. So that's not
a trade secret.
Oh, yeah. I just when I got told that I was like, OK, cool.
And I reached out to the Ohio Pharmacy board and asked for COA for the batch number
and they just sent it to me. So that's where I was like, is it a trade secret or is it
public information? No, it's public information.
Yeah, that's public information.
Well, the question is, then why is the question I would have
the managers like, why are you trying to hide this information from me?
You know. It just doesn't make
sense. To me, that shows the lack of trustworthiness.
I wouldn't support a producer that did that.
Or just a total lack of knowledge whatsoever.
There's a lot of people paid minimum wage to do positions they're probably not capable
of doing. That being said, as somebody that owns a business, you should be educating
your people.
Yeah, well, it's like I said, it's like, you know, it's like McDonald's level
of service and whose fault is it? Is it
the employee's fault that he doesn't know or she or he doesn't know there's
like however much sodium or fat in a burger? No, they're not taught that stuff.
It's the trainers. Right. And so that all has to be
valued by the employer.
To me, that's all part of the brand.
Right. And so I
think that there is a market for
customers like Sam or potentially myself or Trevor
or people, you know, London, people that are educated, you know, Chase
as well. I mean, people that are educated about.
I don't think it's too much to ask for anybody to be able to walk into any dispenser and
say, hey, do you have like a little dominant variety that's like a type two
or a mix of THC and CBD? They should know the products. Right.
And the sad truth is that
the cannabinoid ratios are not cannabinoid ratios.
THC content rules the entire supply chain.
Right. From growers to processors to distributors,
everybody. It's all about, you know, but tenders
as well. It's all about THC and customers. That's what they're asking for.
So that's what they're asking for. Why are you going to provide anything else?
It just it's going to take time for this market to develop. And I think
unfortunately, those people that are kind of on the advance cutting edge, you're
going to be waiting for it. Like you're always going to be ahead of the market.
Right. So, yeah.
We just got to set a better example so that we can do better
for the consumers of tomorrow. Right.
And that's where my question of like, how are we going to get
the nomenclatures and the names and that kind of standardization
without the education? Because to me, those kind of go hand in hand.
Like if I tell somebody I have GG4, they
have an idea of what that's supposed to smell and taste like. Whereas
if I were to tell them like, this is phenotype two,
I don't think a lot of people would grasp what a phenotype is.
Ignorance
is bliss, man. Like
learning takes work. It takes effort.
Right. And people are happy to be experts that know nothing. But as long
as they feel like they're experts and they've got their they understand their place in the world,
they're happy. Right. It's going to take
especially with the regulations the way they are, it's going to take people that are passionate about it
sharing this kind of information and it trickling down.
And the trickle down doesn't always happen the way we want to.
People are talking about terps. They don't know what those words mean.
Unfortunately, but they've understood now that terps are
important. Right. And
like I sat on the advisory board for the Emerald Cup this year
where we came up with these categories. We essentially implemented the NAPRON system for classification
into the Emerald Cup, but we didn't do it by terpene profile.
You know, we didn't call the classes like
terpene-lead dominant or beta-keratinophen-dominant, for example. They got named
like desserts or gas or, you know, exotics
kind of like tropical notes. Right. And
that's because like as much as we wanted to do the terpene class
thing, it's just over people's heads. Right. Like you start
some people like look at a graph or they look at a chart or even a poster
on the wall and it says terpene-lead, their mind turns off immediately.
Right. Like it just it seems too hard for them to
understand. But if you put up a picture of a pine cone and you
say pine, that's really easy to understand. Right.
And so we have to recognize that like I
think the level that we're talking on is probably above most consumers
heads. And you have to meet people where they're at.
Right. Like you have to teach people the level that they're
at. It doesn't do any good to start coming in and saying
you know, I've got a terpene-lead dominant variety with
like 8.7 milligrams of, you know, whatever
and start talking about thiols and fredolin and all these like
flavonoids that are in the plant. That's geek stuff. Right. Like
there might be like 1% of the cannabis-using
population that understands cannabis or cares about cannabis on that level.
Right. And if we're trying to teach to people at that level, we're just
going to lose everybody in the first place. Right. So you really have to do
back it down and say like, oh, we've got like flavor, different flavor
classes and you got like the sweet stuff and the fruit stuff
and then you got the gassy stuff. Right. And you kind of have to kind of
inch people along bit by bit so they can understand. Right.
Hey, I got some
to ask. Russell actually brought up today's subject for it
and I was wondering if he had any specific like statements or things
that he wanted to dig into today while we're having the discussion because it was technically
his idea for today's title. You have anything for us, Russell?
Yeah, it's funny. Yeah, I've been like sort of patiently listening. My phone
it's been I was just bouncing around like my phone lost
battery earlier. So I like was with my son and lost
track of half of the conversation because my wife's first day at work.
Yada, yada, yada, you know, hashtag family, hashtag dads.
Anyways, now I got that out of the way.
I just I caught a piece of what Robert was saying
kind of in the wings, like listening and just like curious
about what went down with the Emerald Cup thing.
And so I thought that like what he said makes a lot of sense. It's like
essentially you just have to simplify it. I like
to believe in a world where everyone becomes nerds
and likes to talk about these terpenes and more
complex classification systems that we have in life.
It'd be nice to believe that. But unfortunately, live in this
sort of paradigm we're in and just simplifying it down.
You know, I guess it it makes sense.
It's I don't know. You know, I
there's a lot a lot of things going on.
It's like if there's a way to
you know, Indica versus Sativa, it's like that whole thing is obviously
being it's like been dominant in the industry. But yet it's sort of like
in the new emerging classification groups
seems like it's not as popular. And it's I mean,
I'd be interested in, you know, like from a really just sort of
baseline layman's perspective to me, Indica and Sativa.
It's like Indica's like couch lock, sleepy, pain relief,
stony high. Sativa is like up, clear, go out,
work high, you know. And so those general classifications to me like
that, that just that simple baseline separation between
the two makes sense. But then when you have all these hybrids,
none of that makes sense when you when you start mixing them all together.
And so, you know, that is just rattling around in my
head and, you know, like the narrow leaf versus broad leaf thing.
That's interesting, too. And it's like
Ryan said, there's just like so many ways you can classify things.
But most people, I don't know, when they just like have a product,
they just want fruit, gas, dessert,
you know, it's just unfortunate sort of set of
consequences we have to navigate when we're
engaging with like the populace. And so I don't
know. I'm just I'm glad everyone's talking about all this stuff.
I just think I just think the conversation itself is actually the important
part, because it's a conversation. It's like the modulator, like if cannabis
is the modulator, the supreme modulator of the human
body, then we, in effect, are like it's
it's armed. So is it worth getting high? And it's
modulating us and we're communicating and like discussing these topics. We're sort of like
modulating the progression of the entire topic itself,
you know, so just having a conversation is important. I think
I'm kind of rambling. I'm trying to think if there's anything on my
mind, but I've got about 100 million other things there, too. So
if you guys just keep talking about stuff, I'm sure the ideas will pop back
in my head as the conversation progresses.
All right. That's about it.
Mr. Branstad, what's up?
What's going on? I just saw the title and thought
it was interesting. What did I miss?
London, give him the recap. I'm eating dinner. But Eric probably has some thoughts on these
topics. So we wanted to kind of have a discussion
about like nomenclature and classifications and how kind of the
industry has been moving forward. We started off
kind of talking about like using the proper
nomenclature in, you know, work and trying to communicate
properly and fast and depending on what situation you're at. It depends
on the context that you're using. And Russell was just bringing up kind of
Sativa Indica, kind of was asking kind of everybody's thoughts on that.
I have a specific question that kind of I'm wondering for you, because we've been on this
subject of education when it comes to these levels of classifications
and discussion points like Russell just said and brought up about
how, you know, Sativa Indica was used in these
two kind of realms of fashion. I know they're not like technically correct,
but like what's kind of the level of education and what are
people talking about? Because you have an interesting perspective where you talk to a lot of
variability about store growers. Like what's the average education
level of the people working in the facilities
as your grower level? Or are they being, you know, taken care of
and learning and developing the correct terminology that we all
kind of work and ideally do? Or is there a lot of like
kitchen slang that goes around, as I would say, is like people that
still think cold water boils faster than hot water.
Like they would say stuff like that or weird, weird science
stuff that isn't exactly true. Like what do you see in this space?
Oh man, that's a good question. It's all over the place to be
honest. I mean, a lot of people seem educated from, you know, at the
higher level of certain things. But, you know, when you look at product or go to
certain areas, you're like, really, you know, it's, you know,
everybody knows something, but it doesn't turn out like it's supposed to type of deal.
You know, and it's funny when I go to a lot of
places, I do got to give a little shout out to the Future Cannabis Project
because there's a lot of people that'll stop in the breezeways or the
head house or in hallways or something and be like, I know you or I've heard
your voice before and you've been on the Future Cannabis Project or
you know Kevin Jodery or something because we've been on a couple times together
and so it's kind of funny. So there's always actually people that are
into learning and, you know, not all of them are the decision makers.
A lot of them are plant techs and whatnot. Those are the guys that are digging into all the different
info, watching YouTube videos and kind of doing the stuff that you would
think that the higher level people would be doing in the managerial or
even higher positions in some cases and it's really far and few between
for those people and when it comes to the educational
side of things, it's kind of like, you know, there's two things out there. I know with
the Fido Facts that have been out there for a while and the way SC
Labs has worked with them and how they've had us scoring or judging or
looking at the Emerald Cup based on the terpene profiles and then you have what
Kevin Jodery's been doing with the Gandhi from when he was, you know,
having the golden tarps and doing the judging then and
going off, you know, four types of scents where it was
you know, floral, gas, earth and fruit
and so, you know, it was interesting to see the comments
on SC Labs because a lot of people are going crazy because a lot of, you know,
and I didn't realize the Fido Facts or what they were trying to do was replace
you know, maybe the idea of sativa and indica and I
don't necessarily think that's necessary because we're talking about terpenes
and, you know, the entourage effect and other aspects
so I didn't really understand why one thing has
to be replaced with another set of educational
outlooks or perspectives. I think it can all kind of
evolve together or maybe I'm missing it, I don't know.
It is my classification system. I have
created my own system. It is the best system in the world and everyone
must use my system. There's no arguing over it because it's my
system. Sorry.
Sorry, I'm trance. Trance.
I literally
stood up and stood up straighter. I heard like a weird French accent like
I'm not back in the kitchen. Don't do this to me.
Chase, I'm wondering like because you have a similar perspective
as well and I was wondering if you would, I think that's really interesting.
I find like managers, like when you get into the higher level, when you're
spending most of your time designing and planning and organizing
how the systems will roll out, the reason and why
you do the systems and learning those parts often get
trumped over, you know, actually learning like the science
behind it, you know what I mean? Like what's your thoughts?
Well, for me, the science only goes as
far as what the bottom line is going
to result in for
doing some of these things. Unfortunately, Russell,
actually Eric was very correct with the standpoint that most of the
people that are trying to learn at a higher level are not necessarily
the business owners, but the people that are working for
a lot of these operations. So I found that
for me, I have to kind of adjust to whatever
environment that I'm in because if you are speaking to somebody
in terms that we would use talking amongst ourselves
on the breeder's roundtable versus what we would be speaking to
just an average cannabis business owner that's just
looking at being able to turn a profit and they don't really care
much more about that. Unfortunately,
there are a lot of people that are in cannabis that act like they give a shit about
the next person, but
it changes very rapidly whenever it hurts their bottom
line. So I find that education is the
most valuable tool that we can all have, but also getting away from
some of the bad aspects because when
we start a new project and we start looking for talent,
there's one of two schools of thought. You either get somebody
that is extremely competent, but at the same
time, you bring their good and their bad habits to your operation.
So therefore, if you have a different SOP
that you want that person to follow, then it's going to turn into a pissing
contest. Well, I did it this way at my last job or we did
it this way, which yes, I understand that there's all kinds of
different ways to get the same desired outcome, but
for me, it all boils down to efficiency, being able
to keep your labor costs relatively low and being able
to have consistency of product. I think that that's what most of us are trying to accomplish
in the space, but at the same time, we know
that sometimes it's easier to take someone that has
no understanding of cannabis and teaching them
to the curriculum that you find advantageous
to your particular business model. And then I tend to have
an employee that you're not getting as much pushback, you're not
fighting with them, you're not getting someone that's trying to
pull the politics card where they get
other people to become disgruntled because unfortunately
I know that a lot of business owners do look at
sabotage and instead of taking responsibility for their failures
either being too cheap whenever they set up their facility
or their operation or they're trying to cut corners to save costs,
but then when something happens as a result of cutting those corners,
the first thing that they do is they want to blame the grower or they want to
blame this, that and the other before they really
look in the mirror and say, hey, it's because of this
that this in turn happened, cause and effect.
I think that it's extremely important to
continue the educational process, but I'm really
excited to see once cannabis gets rescheduled
and you start seeing more universities that are actually teaching curriculum
that we can all get behind that is putting
out correct information that's not bro science or anecdotal stuff, but
it's actually based upon real peer-reviewed science
that benefits us all at the end of the day.
And the industry more importantly.
Yeah, those are all important. I think what Chase was talking about was pretty
right on with this, highlights the complexities, cause it's like you have
the business class that deals with nomenclature and then you have the consumer class
that deals with nomenclature and then you have subsets within each
and so I don't know, it's just like, I don't know, being able to transition
between ideas, you know, it's like if I'm talking to someone on
strain link, I tend to use the word strain because I know
that they know what strain means, but if I'm talking to, trying to talk to Ryan or Trevor
or Jesse from Biowortex or whoever, I'm trying to use words like
selections or be more specific with how I communicate
so I don't know, there's a lot to just being able to
sort of straddle multiple worlds and be able to
communicate across all types of nomenclature available.
I don't know, something like that at least. At least in the meanwhile.
And then, I don't know, it's just, you know,
it's like you're always going to be battling the subsets of like the
business consumer class versus like the science nerdy class.
There's, you know, there's complexities with archetypes within those
constructs that will like buy for position. So, you know, I don't know, it's
fun. Overall, it's fun. I like talking about it. I'm glad we're talking about it.
So, I'm eating dinner right now and Eric, I don't know if you touched
on it, but have you started testing the Emerald Cup
entries?
Yeah, it was kind of bittersweet this year for me, honestly.
I got all my entries, but they
had postponed the judges meeting for a week and so the week that I had set
aside to be here, I kind of counted on that first meeting and so when they
postponed it, I got my samples on a Saturday
or whatever and then I had to hit the road on Monday or Tuesday and I
wasn't, I was gone for a week basically and
then I had a week to basically judge and I got
through most of the categories except for one or two
actually one and I submitted
all my stuff because I couldn't go to the final judges meeting because I actually had
to go to a celebration of life for my father-in-law
so I did most of my stuff remote, but
it was a short amount of time. Like I said, I took a small
category which was the third party certification
which was I think only like a dozen entries or something or less
with me to Maine when I went to the regen conference so
while the speakers were doing their thing, I was in the back grinding and smelling
and rolling doobies trying to keep
the job going, but the indoor category was the biggest this year
and they separated the sun grown into sun grown
meaning it should be full term, sun grown, no type of
hoop house or lights, contraptions or anything
nothing that was depth and then sun grown greenhouse would
be something that could be a hoop house, could be manual depths, no
lights or anything like that because they ran into a thing
last year where with sun grown licenses there are people that pull tarps and do
depths and so it kind of took away from that competition against
full term so to speak and so
sun grown, sun grown greenhouse and then of course mixed light
and then indoor and third party certification and this year
the third party certification were some heaters, I was impressed
like last year they weren't so hot, but the third party
certification would be something that would be dragonfly earth medicine certified
or sun and earth certified or clean green certified or some
sort of certification and so something like that you wouldn't find
out until they announced the winners and the farm and then maybe
figure out through their brand or Instagram what they're certified
by, but nevertheless it was kind of a weak category last year and it was super
good and the indoor category, as big as it was, it's not
my favorite category and a lot of
dessert, if you look at the classifications SC
labs are the cards they gave us, it's a lot of the desserts, a lot
of I think ice cream cake
type of tarps and gelatos and things which are great sometimes
but it's hard to judge one against another after a while
and that was definitely a tough category
let's put it that way. Did you see
anything new pop up in terms, like if you think of last year to this year
like were there any new flavor profiles or anything?
I mean, you know, because they
classify it in different, you know, they don't, so they keep it
in the sun grown and the greenhouse, oh no, there's the personal use
category also, I can't forget the personal use and so they put a sticker on
each jar and the jar has the number with the class, you know
the sun grown S number, whatever, and then there's a
sticker on it that's either yellow, purple
green, orange, red and so
on and they basically classify these terpene
profiles as orange being Jackson Hays
well, sorry, red being Jackson Hays, orange
being tropical and floral, the kind
of a rainbow, or no, yellow, can I just interrupt you on why
that is? So the red in the, what we were talking
about in the Phytoflax earlier, which is the lab report format that SC
Labs Yeah, that's what they built this off of. Yeah, so I was part of that
of creating that system. So the red is because
we were talking about earlier, we said that Linalool was
purple, red is terpene on the graph
and so Jack and Trainwreck
and that family of plants are terpene-dominant
that's why they've got the red on them. Right, so then
the tropical floral would be Osemene. Yeah, Osemene is orange
exactly. So Osemene is kind of like
a variety that we made a few years back, this one a couple years ago
called Happy Pineapple, but that's an Osemene dominant
plant with certain esters that kind of give it that tropical
pineapple scent. So it is like
the terpenes do back up those dessert and flavor
classes like we're talking about, but yeah
it's just one step too far for the average consumer to understand
that like, you know, to learn words like
terpenylene and osemene, right, because they're kind of weird words, it's easier to call them
tropical and like, you know, whatever pine or whatever
you're calling them. Well, it works
really good for hemp. I mean, you know, they're not worried about
how high the CBD is in some flower basically and so I mean
I think in some ways, as you know, the hemp really is a little bit more keen on
terps when it comes to smokable flower and some things versus how we're looking at it
because this is their way to gauge, you know, good quality
smokable hemp flowers, the terps, and so
it's funny, the pinene being the exotics
and there's very few pinene entries being the green
and, you know, considering that being in the exotics and there was two
in the sun-grown category that, you know,
they were good terps, they didn't like, you know, it wasn't like super blow you away
like exotic in your mind maybe, but they were definitely interesting
and man, they probably got me the most fucked up out of any
joints that I had smoked, like amazing, like I don't know what those
were and if I can find the farm or whatever along
the way after this is over to check
that out or see what that was, but there's definitely not much pinene
a lot more linalool this year, you know, as far as that
I think the purple and then the murcine, so I mean
definitely not much linalool or pinene, but
a lot more this year than last year
so that part was definitely interesting, but yeah, as far
as the indoor go, it's definitely flooded with the beta-caryophyllene
and the lemonade, which in some ways
you can get them to kind of smell the same, some of them smell gassy
when you squeeze them and then you grind it and it starts to cake up
on you or get that dessert smell and so that's what I noticed with a lot
of these and I'd clean my grinder and I'd try to clean my tray
off to make sure it wasn't tripping sometimes because there was a lot of
cake that ended up, or dessert that came out
of a lot of things when you grinded it up and you could see some, you know, like
gelonades in there and things like that, maybe some of the more gassier
with a little bit of the citrus in there type of things
but overall it was a lot of shiny, fancy, cool looking indoor stuff
but very different looking but similar in term
Yeah, well that's kind of the thing, I mean those
like, you know, there's so many entries for the dessert
classes, you know, the beta-caryophyllene and lemonade classes and the gas
that's what the market wants, right? Like that's
really the vast majority of shit on the market these days falls into those classes
and, you know, the true pinene plants like you're talking about, I mean
that's what I would consider like the real old school hazes are kind of
in that pinene class to me. The terpenelene
class, those are like the more modern, what we call
Dutch hazes, right? But yeah, the true
old school haze with that, you know, it doesn't surprise me that you
found the meatball and poten more, you know, rippety
it just tells me that that's probably in the flavor class that you like, I really like those things
as well. I find them very clear and very like
a focused high and it's a little more energetic
it's not lethargic and kind of tiring
and even though it's not the highest, they're usually not the highest
in THC, you kind of feel them a little more and I think it has
to do with that kind of up alertness that you get from those
you know, those entourage molecules.
Yeah, it was fun. That was definitely for sure fun.
Definitely the terpenelene and
osamine, there were definitely more of those categories and some of those are pretty
fire. I mean, a lot of the judges actually like, you know, enjoy that
too and so finding some good ones in those, you know,
particular terp areas or categories are super nice
and there's some fire ones for sure over the course of time
and the effect is definitely important. I mean, that definitely makes a good mark for
things and it doesn't
go unnoticed. Well, it's kind of one of the
ideas behind doing this, you know, we've been
talking with this, with the ASC boys for a few years and they kind of finally just got the lab
report format worked out in the last year and a half or so, I don't know
exactly how long it's been, but you know, the idea has always been to
have the Emerald Cup do this for intake
so it's kind of like a dog breeding event
where it's like, you know, you judge the German Shepherds against the German
Shepherds and the labs against the labs and the
Dachshunds against the Dachshunds, right? And then you also have the best in show.
Right? And like you said, those pinene plants are rare this
year and the osamine ones as well. They're not, like, right now
the market is completely saturated with the dessert, right? Beta-carotene
and vitamin E plants. But the idea is to, like,
educate, you know, using things like
the Emerald Cup to educate consumers and the idea
is that it's like, you know, I mean, let's face it, the Emerald Cup is like
a pretty big competition. I think it has, like, a cultural impact,
right? Like, what happens in the Emerald Cup kind of trickles down to other markets
because it's, like, you know, it's kind of seen as, like, the big event, right?
And the idea being that, like,
next year, hopefully more people will come back with
more Linalool varieties, more osamine varieties, more pinene varieties.
Right? And so the idea is that hopefully that bolsters those classes in the future.
But it's trickledown, right?
Like, the education's slow and it takes time, so
events like this are incredibly important to that kind of thing, right?
Well, yeah, and to your
point, you know, in some ways it did kind of shape things because
you know, just if you kind of look at it, and it might be
anecdotal or not, I don't know, but, you know, the Ridgeline runs,
you know, two years ago from
Ridgeline Farms. Was it two years ago? Yeah, I think it was almost,
I'm losing track of time because of COVID or whatever, but the Ridgeline
runs, and that one was sun-grown, you know,
I believe it was a sun-grown, but, you know, for pole tarps type of deal, and so, you know,
that one was a debt, but it was the sun-grown category, I believe. And then,
you know, there was
an ice cream cake, I think got second place of mixed light
two years ago from Josh D. And then last year,
the ice cream cake from Mixed Light was local cannabis company
or whatever, and the thing about a lot of those, it's like the judges aren't just
deserted out and looking for that, but some of these joints,
you know, especially when you're having it out with some other things, just smoke
to the bitter end, like the filter tastes good type of thing.
You know, it was just hard to deny some of these things, and, you know,
certain versions are better than others, but it definitely,
you know, I think has made an impact.
Well, that's great. I mean, that's what it's all about, right?
Having people understand and appreciate, like, the
diversity of the species, so, you know, we're not all doing the same
thing. I think it's also part of a healthy market, right?
But, yeah, unfortunately, these things take time when we're so focused on
just THC, right? Again, I feel like I've got to point it out.
For those that don't know, the highest THC sample in the cup
has never won the Emerald Cup.
It's never been preferred by the
unbiased set of judges,
right, that are judging blindly. They've never picked the highest THC plant.
And so it's kind of funny that, like,
the general consensus in the market is that the best weed has the highest THC content,
right? It's not really true.
Yeah, I think they're trying to aggregate some of that data over the years because
they've been testing for a while now, and in some cases, you know,
maybe it's just THC, not necessarily terpenes, but we can tell
over the years, you know, the THC content of
the top 10 or top 20 of some of these things, and that's definitely a
true statement. I don't think any of the winners have ever been the highest
THC in most cases, and
therefore, it's good to evaluate it by the terps and kind of look
at this in these different categories and see which way the
market actually goes. I think it's kind of interesting for sure
because it's definitely changed over the years. That's for
sure. I think that the breeders have also gotten popular, you know, the breeders
have gotten involved and gotten into the markets and created nurseries or
created businesses and kind of helped push this too,
I think. Yeah, the thing that does
correlate with the winners is the terpene content, funnily enough, not necessarily the terpene
profile, but the winners are collectively always
in the higher end of terpene production, right? So I think that kind
of tells a lot of the story right there.
Yeah, that's really interesting, actually. I find that fascinating.
Yeah, I'm interested to see how things play
out this year. I know historically it's always been one
of the main...the Emerald Cup was almost
like people's annual seed drop happened at
the Emerald Cup, a lot of the different breeders.
It'll be interesting to see if there's still an emphasis in terms of
the actual, not so much the competition, but the booths
and the people who are present there, just how much of the
breeders are able to be there, how much seeds are
part of the overall scene,
or if it's shifted. I have a feeling it's shifted quite a bit,
mostly because, while there are some breeders who have got
nursery licenses, the difficulty
with getting all of the different license types necessary to be able
to do retail sale at these events is really difficult. I know the Emerald Cup
has done a number of things to try and help facilitate that
and address some of the things that went wrong during the harvest ball.
And so I look forward, because I'm going to be down there, and I look forward to
seeing how things work out and just what's available
on the seed side of things and genetics and really what's
the vibe of the Cup is now that
it's shifted down to LA. It should be interesting.
Trevor, we need to send you in there
like a naked streaker at a baseball game and see how
many BCC agents come and try to tackle you.
I'll just walk around with a
box and see what happens.
You need like a see-through backpack full of
weed.
What's the press release
going around or whatever I saw today or something about them not
getting the permit and moving it to the
Montalban Center or something?
Wait, say that again?
It's on the blacklist and I saw it somewhere else
and it's saying that Green Street didn't get the permit or something
for the event.
Eric, hey, it's Robert.
I did hear something about the Green Street dropped the ball or something.
But from what I've heard,
we're trying to connect them with a new place, at least the people I talk to.
But yeah, it's not going to be at Green Street as far as I know.
I just pulled up an article so I'm going to try to flip
to the web page while I'm talking. It says,
Much-hyped Green Street Cannabis Festival faces setback.
Released April 11, 2020. In hopes of becoming the
SXSW of weed, the City of Los Angeles has interrupted the
Green Street Cannabis Festival's plan. Wait, this is different. What is this?
I don't even know what I'm looking at.
What the hell? What is this?
Yeah, Gary's part of the deal.
Gary's part of the Green Street deal.
Yeah, I see something from four hours ago.
Much-hyped Green Street Cannabis Festival faces high setback.
I think that's what you were just talking about, Russell, right?
Yeah, Gary V. Sweet.
Why is the Emerald Cup partnering with Green Street?
Because they're trying to move to LA and Green Street was already trying to have their festival,
I believe. The Green Street Festival was already something that was supposed to be
happening and because Tim was moving to LA,
he didn't necessarily have a venue and they wanted to team up because they were
throwing the festival. The Emerald Cup was going to be part of the
Green Street Festival, basically. So if the Green Street
Festival doesn't happen, then the Emerald Cup part can't happen.
Essentially.
Thanks for clarifying that, Eric. That actually makes a lot of sense.
I missed all that. My
connection crapped up just as you were explaining it.
Eric basically said that the Green Street event is connected
to Emerald Cup, that Tim was trying to get all linked in through
them since they were moving to LA and getting set up for the first time or whatever.
Because Green Street is losing their event permit,
the Emerald Cup is tied to that event and now also has to
stick and move to find a new venue.
Well, this should be interesting.
So if we can get the speakeasy set up in time,
can we do it there as an unregulated market event?
Get back to the roots?
Not a bad idea.
Everyone with boxes.
Crying emoji!
But yeah, no, this really
sucks. That's unfortunate to hear.
I just skimmed that article.
Robert, you alluded to the fact that there may be
some alternatives that are being sought. I really hope
that some alternative is able to
be figured out because that would be a big bummer.
Not have the actual
event side of the competition.
I'll try to get the scoop when it comes in.
Don't want to have to spread any kind of weird rumors or anything.
It's definitely not happening at Green Street, as we all know.
Some connections were made to a promoter
that throws big events down there and they're going over
some feasibility options, I believe.
Not really a part of that, but I'm in those circles, so I should know.
It looks like from the article it said the Montalban. That's what Eric
said. The article says the same thing, so maybe it's being moved to the Montalban.
Very possible they've already made that decision.
I'll probably see Tim on Wednesday.
Nice.
What's that remind me of? The Montalban. What is that from?
Ricardo.
The black guy is like Dr. Montalban.
I'm having a movie gap moment. Just ignore
what I'm saying. He was on the Fantasy Island.
I'm looking at him right now.
He was also on Star Trek, The Wrath of Khan.
Nice.
Yeah, he was Tattoo's boss.
We watched Fantasy Island. The plane.
How do I bring it back?
Should I do a reset?
I guess we're at an hour and 40 minutes.
Did you know, while there's a lot of people in the room
and a lot of people in the chat, that three of
the people here have goods on Dagadot Garden
that you can check out at the top there and enjoy their gear.
Just saying. It's available. Go check it out.
There's my one plug.
That was an amazing change of pace.
I was thinking to all the people in the clubhouse chat,
if you have a bunch of smart people on stage, if you have any questions
or comments, feel free to jump up.
Don't all raise your hands at once.
Jump up, jump up and get down. Get out your seats and jump around.
Pack it up, pack it in.
Pack it up, pack it in. Let's begin.
You got to get the real nasally.
Jason, Gideon, surely you're not lacking for
things to say, nor are you, Chris Guerrero. I see both of you in the chat.
I got to take off. Thanks for having me up.
We're doing a seed swap May 7th up in Nevada City.
Eric, you want to give us a debrief on your
greenhut? Where are you seeing the most work? You mentioned Florida,
I think on LinkedIn and Arizona.
Yeah, I just finished those projects and I just went to Southern California
and looked at a new one that I'm checking out in Desert Hot Springs.
Hopefully I can stay in California, work
a little closer than Florida for a while would be nice.
Yeah, that's about it.
I mean, yeah.
Had a lot of great success at all these places and typically the last four years
it looks like that. Guys, I got an early morning tomorrow so I'll make it off of here.
It was a pleasure getting to chat with everybody. It's nice hearing everyone's voice. You guys have a
wonderful evening and talk to you guys later.
Peace. Peace, guys.
My connection keeps crapping out every time I ask a question and someone answers it.
In Florida, I assume
humidity is one of the major issues?
Yeah, definitely. They do some crazy shit out there with greenhouses
and these big Turkish dehumidifiers that are insane.
There's things that I've never seen before and it's all
vertically integrated out there. There's a lot more money involved
and there's a lot different deal when you grow your own, extract your own.
Dispensaries are all your own and everything is
same package, label, colors, nothing really.
It's not exciting on the retail side, but
from the equipment side,
there's a lot of old greenhouses out there.
I'm sorry, guys. I got jammed too. I got family
obligations and shit.
I got to go. It's been real. I wish I got on earlier.
I feel like I missed all the good stuff that Trevor and Ryan are talking about.
I'll come back around. I appreciate
everyone.
Jesus, dude. Good night and
swallow your food.
Sorry, everyone's
continually interrupted you, Eric.
I'm listening.
Fuck. Anyone else
got to go before, you know,
Florida greenhouses are a trip for sure. They fucking make them
with cinder block walls because of hurricanes and then just have the
hoops as the roofs in some cases. It's surprising
some of the stuff you would see out there, but like I said, these
big desiccant dehumidifiers that sound like jet engines
and stuff you wouldn't normally do, like I said,
because the price of cannabis is worth more. You wouldn't put some of these things
in a greenhouse in California, let's say.
It's hard to control the greenhouses. They still get really hot
no matter what certain times of the year. Then in the wintertime, they don't have heaters in them.
You got to tell them to add heat because it gets cold in the wintertime.
There's a lot of little things, but
it's just kind of funny. The humidity
isn't that big of a deal a lot of times. I always say this in a lot of the talks
that I've given on your shows and other things, that the exposure to plants
causes them to overheat and sweat and create the humidity within
the environment itself. A lot of times, the humidity you're trying to get
rid of isn't the relative humidity of the area outside
or whatever. It's the humidity inside, mostly created
by the plants with the exposure to this extreme sunlight.
Greenhouse covers, shade cloths, or climate screens
can help with that kind of thing. People resort to
crazy dehumidifiers and AC systems that would normally
be for a warehouse or something to make
a greenhouse work. I think
Ryan brought up consistency or whatever. It's really hard to have
consistency. They try to run so many different flavors
for the menu, let's say, that it makes it really tough to make consistency
out of that, too, because you're moving things from one area to another or one zone to another.
A lot of these greenhouses work differently from one corner of the
greenhouse to another corner as far as the different bays go.
Trying to dial in what goes appropriately in what areas and things like that.
Strategies for the summer and the winter, not just turning on the heat,
but plant density, veg times in the
starter houses or whatever. It constantly is
changing. You don't really have very long.
Every two months, every time you harvest or something, the seasons change.
That's the crazy part. Overall, we had hoops outside
pulling tarps just like we would here.
Actually, we're having good success. Sometimes the year is tougher
than others, but also trying to get people like the spray team to not spray
in the evening times and do things that we normally wouldn't do in our
greenhouses that they might do in some of these other ones.
Getting them to understand the support system and
how you can grow good cannabis without all the crazy mechanisms was
awesome, too. Seeing people pull tarps on an MSO
is always cool. Somebody on here, I think, or
somewhere said, you've got to get me pictures of a Chad pulling tarps. I wanted to say
it's not like that because all the people that are in Florida, the growers
and things like that are all cannabis people. Some of them travel from
state to state, from legal state to another, trying to find their groove
in cannabis. You meet a lot of passionate people
that actually, like I said, a lot of the people at the Florida site are
all over the future cannabis project shows and learn all kinds
of things from those. It's definitely kind of like a family vibe
on the farm, that's for sure. Originally,
I was the first person that said I had to go and everybody
jumped in. I know you asked a question, but hopefully that
kind of answered it. Trevor, hopefully you'll be at the seed swab
May 7th up in Nevada City. It's starting to shape up.
We've got to get Bam to be there early. Robbery coming.
I'll definitely be there. I'll hit up Bam.
I'm sure we can try and rouse him up along with
a whole number of people down, hopefully, from Calavera.
Cool, thank you guys.
Yeah, cool. Everybody's welcome. Ryan, everybody
Nevada City, California, May 7th. Stay tuned for the details.
Thanks again, Peter. London, have a good one, guys.
Hey, Eric, are you coming up to Hoot...oh, never mind.
I was going to ask Eric something. There's an event here in Southern Humboldt
next weekend. Hoogleville, they're doing a bunch of
talks on biological farming
with cannabis. Yeah, no, I
need to find someone to film that.
Yeah, I'm hoping to come. I just live a few minutes away.
Oh, cool. Do you want to film
it, Robert? I could help. I have some camera
experience. Hit me up on the DM. Basically, I have
Larry so far who's volunteered.
I need to find one more person. Do you know
Duff? Duff is a film guy and a cannabis guy.
Do you want to connect us? I don't have a way to get
a hold of him. I was just thinking.
Like D-U-C-K, Duff? No, Duff, D-U-F-F.
Like Duff beer? Yeah.
Got it.
Either way, I'd lend a hand. Just hit me up.
I appreciate that. Joey hit me up today and he was like,
do we have someone to film me yet? And I was like, oh, shit, that's this coming weekend.
Let me work on that.
Sorry, so the seed swap is in
Grass Valley or where is it? Yeah, he said
it's in Grass Valley.
Yeah, over on Eric's turf for sure.
Yeah, if I wasn't chained in L.A.
with three little kids, I would start
road tripping for some of this stuff. Yeah, sometimes you've got
to pick strategically depending on where you're trying to go
with either your business or your education.
Yeah, Trevor, you have to tell me how you sell your wife on
letting you out of the house for this stuff.
Family trips are always a good
cover. You bring the crew. Exactly.
Ah, that's the move.
So the room was on nomenclature. I know I came in the end.
What was talked about?
Who would like to summarize?
I missed most of the early part, so I don't know what was
initially spoken on, but I know Ryan covered a lot of stuff
in depth on different categorizations,
both scientific pop,
pseudoscientific, and also his work
that he's done over the years in terms of classification.
And I think one of the
sort of impetus for the discussion is just
a lot of online posts about
nomenclature within the cannabis world and breeding
and the recent
SC Labs article that Alex posted about
Indica and Sativa and how
all of these nomenclature distinctions
and changes are kind of leaving us
in a sort of
I think confused place right now.
We almost need a council, a nomenclature council
that makes decisions and we can
organize from there. We all have
great ideas, and Alex, his idea of
separating out the judging by the terpenes, what
terpenes and combinations of terpenes and what's commonly found
in abundance and then breaking it down into different categories
is a great way for the judging part. And then, I don't
know if you guys discussed
genetic breeding. You got your F1s and
back crosses and self
and just different ways to come to an agreement on
okay, this is how it's going to be.
Yeah, no, that's really the impetus for the discussion
and I think a lot of what I missed early on. I kind of came in midstream
but I know that you just
summarized perfectly everything that's been in the air
that sort of brought this discussion about.
That's awesome. I guess I'll check out the replays later.
But either way, love to be a part of anything
evolving in that space.
I'm trying to let world, I see your hand risen. I'm trying to give you
the opportunity to come up and you're welcome to do so.
Come on up if you want.
Yeah, I was trying to
bring world up as well. But yeah, Robert
that similarly. I think
the more clarity we can have on nomenclature and I think
part of the discussion earlier and something I wanted to mention when we were
discussing it is that there's a commercial element
in the cannabis industry where
there's no rules there. Marketing is marketing. It's a
scheme. It is what it is. There's nothing you can really
that we collectively or individually can do
other than make decisions and choices with how
we want to spend our money but to the extent that we even engage
in commercial cannabis consumption on that level. But
more importantly and I think what these discussions
are helpful for and what social media and
kind of the people that I feel Ryan that you're speaking to
and that you've helped to communicate with in the cannabis
community is a academically
inclined, scientifically inclined subset of
the community that really cares about nomenclature and wants to
try and get things right and speak with the
correct terminology and not just try and reinvent
the wheel or use terms that don't actually mean anything
in a scientific sense so that when we go and do
sort of start to bridge these gaps and barriers
that we can communicate in ways that are actually coherent
and don't lead to unproductive conversations
and sort of like a stoner stereotype
but instead produce generative discussions and collaboration
between experts and non-experts.
At least give a road map to follow
especially because there's a lot of new people coming into cannabis
and really it's like there's no
if you weren't a stoner 20 years ago you might not know
half this shit. But then again if you're a university
scientist, you know what I mean, they're never going to understand what the hell we're talking
about.
Totally. It's one of those things where it's
I think there's a lot of learning both ways and it's interesting going over
some of the papers we had
somebody on who
wrote a paper on genetic mosaicism and
the term had been genetic drift in the cannabis community
for a long time and the paper kind of cleared up at least
for me and generally some terminology distinctions
or confusion but
it's still important to read those papers and Ryan was really good at
breaking the paper down and reading them
critically and also
having a cannabis background you're able to recognize
and just basic science. When you're dealing with
N1 your descriptive claims
are not actually that powerful.
What's up guys can you hear me?
Oh okay sorry I haven't stepped up and spoke
yet but love all the stuff, listened to all of them
really informative stuff but some of the questions
that I've had, I know everyone's talked about
intersex quite a bit but the question I was
thinking is how do you ethically release a
line and it's over 2, 3%,
5% intersex. Should people be
labeling these because I've opened up a lot of seeds
indoor and greenhouse and I'm surprised the amount of intersex
ratios on pretty well known people, I'm not trying to
name anybody. Any thoughts on that?
Yeah I mean
I'm not pointing the finger at you I'm just saying
there's a huge environmental component to intersex
expressions so you might have a breeder that's
working a line within his context and he doesn't see it
it's also I mean let's be
frank here how many people are really growing out 100
plants right even from a given seed line I think probably
most breeders are definitely not doing that.
So when you like it's hard to see those percentage things like you're only
growing out 15-20 plants you know you could
conceivably miss that intersex thing right and you get people
come along growing either more seeds or collectively
they grow a population of breeder cells call it
50-10 packs of seeds that's 500 packs or 500 seeds sorry
out of those 500 seeds you might have 15 plants that are intersex
right and so
I think there's a lot of not trying to
blame anybody but there's a lot of blame to go around in terms of
I'm sure the breeder practices have a role
for sure cultivation practices have a role
and how do you tease those things apart?
So you know it just might be that
your conditions are significantly different from the breeders conditions and
you know if you grew the plants in the conditions that the breeder used
maybe there's no problem or at least there's
some degree of that right so yeah it's a tough one
and cannabis is intersex right it has a lot of plants that are intersex
that hormonal balance between you know a male
a pistilet or a stamina flower being produced is
there's a lot of factors that can tip
that balance so something to think about
you know I don't think that there is going to be a solution until
we have a much broader understanding of
actually all the factors that come into play with regards to intersexuality
and cannabis. Yeah I mean and I've been
I'm here in southern Oregon so I've seen a lot of fields of you know
all chemotypes just keep it at that
you know like in hemp right you see you know decent people
that are breeding hemp you know you're going to get one
out of every thousand or two in a hemp plant right so they're
always there but when you get that ratio I'm just trying to think at some point
when people want to actually do a field for extraction for you know THC for
adult use or whatever right you know it's almost impossible
to depend on the seed line if you're going to have you know even
5% it's a lot of walking and a lot of loss you know
so I'm just wondering you know because I've been
playing around with breeding helping some friends out for you know a number of years
and I'm still trying to open up stuff myself I bred just to make sure
you know if you plant a hundred of these what are they going to do you know
So I wanted to bring up a point
you know from my understanding and experience and working
with cannabis that
intersex is a survival technique
it's a dormant trait that's in mostly
all cannabis there's probably very few land-raised
varieties that don't but from my
experimentation and guessing and whatnot
and growing all sorts of different genetics that
fertilization has a lot to do with that so when you take a
seed from its naturally
growing climate and you bring it to a different latitude
or even a different part of the world or you're tweaking it indoors one way
or another it triggers that
survival dormancy that
creates that intersex and the breeders
job really is to take the seeds that you can get
and grow on your farm and do trials
and while you're doing those trials you're weeding out those intersex plants
and the more you breed them with each other by
selective breeding you'll end up with a seed
that is good for your latitude and your climate but
if you were to take that same seed to another climate there goes your
intersex again and your percentages go up so really
my guess work would be the fact that
it's just not climatized and like
I don't know if Ryan mentioned this but if you do exactly
what the grower did and if you're in an indoor situation like I heard of a plant
the other day if the mom if you don't give it 22 hours
of daylight you're automatically going to go
and flower you're going to have Hermes in your clones
so it gets that intricate you can literally
climatize something to be on a different planet
I totally can agree with some of that
stuff but I've walked a hundred acre field with no more
than a thousand and that's in hemp maybe it's not bred as much
cookies in OG are in a lot of these seed varieties
I'm not complaining I'm just trying to find out ultimately how do you
get some of these varietals to be stable
maybe making true F1's kind of like Oregon CBD does
and do something like that so you won't have that
high rate I've made seeds myself that have had high hermaphrates
that I planted them in the same greenhouse I bred them in the same room I bred them in
so I've done the same thing I'm just wondering
I've never really sold any of those seeds I've kind of made them for
a few groups of people that wanted them
so just throwing it out there
I guess you want to find this winter you get 10 or 20
seeds I usually buy like 30 or 40 seeds of somebody's stuff to really open it up
and look but everyone's different
I'm just trying to look at the future of if people wanted
to plant an acre of seeds and they're
feminized for field production for whatever you want to do
losing 10-20% is pretty
hard I did it last year with some seeds I'm not going to mention who it is
but they're very well known in the Cali rec industry and I definitely got them now was that my
environment could the tarps have gone off I don't know
another question well let's answer the first one first
I think truthfully
a lot of the intersex can be explained by people that don't
know what the hell they're doing breeding plants
a lot of people just go for flavor or potency and then they breed it thinking that everything else is going to
fall in line and there's all these genetic interactions that can happen
you know
complementation whatever that can lead to intersexuality
I personally don't think that intersexuality
is a survival mechanism I think
intersexuality is like a man-human or a human
maintained trait if you look at natural populations
that don't like aside from Thai
most of them don't have a ton of intersexuality in them
and I think that people saying that late
attempt by the plant to produce seeds doesn't even actually make a lot of sense
by the time plants are spouting bananas
or at least the late flowering plants are spouting bananas
they don't have enough time to mature a seed
you have to wait 4 weeks for a seed to be formed
so something putting out a male flower
a week before the frost comes
I don't see that as a good explanation
it's kind of like
anthropomorphizing the plant
plants don't think and act in those ways
humans do and so we think that all other
organisms do but I don't really think there's a lot of space between that
yeah well I've just
some good interesting questions
and I know people have done this before
I've read a few different lines
doing fast flowering or reversing an auto donor
to a photos, photo dependent stuff
I know Oregon CBD does that, it's like all the people trying to rip off their seeds and make F2s
they got 30% auto flowers
I've done that with pretty good success
it's hard to grow full term stuff in the upper regions of the country
fully outside
that's a thing I wanted to mess around with
so far so good
do you ever do any of that Ryan?
breeding for earliness?
or just somehow auto flowers in it
I don't know the way I've done it, I've done it both as receiver and donor
both in hemp and type 1
just to make it faster flowering
I've seen pretty big fields of that up here in Oregon
it's pretty interesting, I've seen some
ruderalis traits, because they all end up being photo dependent
it was nice, because you can
get in a crop in mid to late September
whatever you want to call it, wedding cake, ice cream cake, jet fuel gelato
and it was normally done in mid October and it's a month early
it's like a dose dependent effect
if you've got two versions of the auto gene
the plant is auto flowering, if you've got one copy of the auto gene
i.e. the plant is heterozygous for that
trait, that's what they call a fast
or a quick
it's kind of like a little trick, if it's good for one generation
and like you said, you try to inbreed those plants
you have 25% of the plants that are going to be auto flowering, 50% are going to be quick
and the other 25% are going to be regular photo period plants
the only thing that you would continuously do is if you wanted
to make a full auto line of something
you can go in multiple directions after that one, but I was doing them just with the
intent of trying to get out of this bad weather
we got 25 degrees in late September last year, and I'm right on the border
of Oregon and Cali, so things happen
and it's just another way to, and then maybe even hunting out a couple cultivars
out of those that you really like, and doing something else
with them, but...
to me those things are a little far away from commercialization, I think what we need to do is
cross the autos to the flavor plants and then breed them for a few generations
until you have flavor class autos
and then once you have those flavor class autos, like for example
say you make a terpenelline dominant auto flowering plant
where all the line is terpenelline dominant and auto flowering, once you have
that plant, cross it back to traymech, and then you've got
a flavor class plant that's early for all of them
but you probably wouldn't inbreed those seeds
you'd only use the hybrid for planting
right?
Oregon CBD does that on a good amount of their varieties
they sell, just to get, because they're up in Oregon
and it's just something that they've done, I know people do it
to make auto seeds, but a few people I know have been doing this just for like you said
just to get out of the field in and out
anyways, I'm kind of playing around with it, I'm liking it
we'll see
so how are we doing here guys? We are at 2 hours and 15 minutes
it is 8.30 at night
we feel we need to cover a couple more points
should we start thinking about winding down the
I'm good with whatever, but we could probably start winding it down
one thing I just wanted to mention real quick, because I threw the paper up
there, was that
when this paper goes over some of the genetic details
and identifies, it really builds on the Ann Michelle Foe's
paper and her dissertation from
2014, it confirms a lot of her work
but
I think it really drives home the point that
I would honestly say that
if anything, the unethical
thing that's happening right now is people making claims
one way or another about whether or not their
plants intersect or not because
of the lack of testing
to really do testing and to prove and demonstrate
or make these claims substantiated
you've got to do multi-environment
testing and you need to do it in a randomized fashion
that actually can back up the claims that are being
made using large scale population and nobody's
really doing that and a lot of that's because of regulations, a lot of that's
because it just is incredibly time consuming and expensive
to do it, so it's really the
idea that somebody grew out some plants in an
indoor grow, in a closet, or
a tent, or even in a large
warehouse or outdoor facility
doesn't actually give any real
validity to assertions about testing your
seeds that you're selling because unless you've done it in
multiple environments you really can't say or know how your plants are going
to respond in different environments, so really
today unless you're buying perhaps from Oregon
CBD or somebody that's operating more at that type of scale
you're buying seeds from somebody who's
not really operating the same ways
that traditional crop breeders operate
and that's not to say that there aren't really good seeds out there
but you will find intersex traits and I agree
with Ryan, it does, if you read
on like minocious cannabis versus diocious cannabis
it's pretty clear that in hemp varieties they have to intentionally maintain
minocious varieties that you can't just like
set it and forget it, a reversion will inevitably happen
unless you actively and consciously maintain the minocious
line, so
we can choose and do the work to breed
away from it, but it's going to take time, it's going to take scale
and resources that Prohibition
just hasn't allowed people to bring to bear on cannabis and
now as we move forward we're going to be able to start doing that
world that sounds like you're doing work that's like, you know, you're playing
around with some of these things and I think that's a good thing, the more
that people like us are able to
start operating at a larger scale and start breeding things that are
acclimatized varieties or cultivars like London mentioned
and like sounds like you're doing, that's all gravy.
Yep, totally agree on that, I'm just
kind of looking at the future, you know, if things are going to be a little bit
more like hemp in the coming years, then
hopefully we can do as much work as we can and make sure that
good stable seeds are available, you know,
that's all, no big deal.
Yeah, definitely, and I just, you know, it's one of those things
where so many of the popular
varieties that are out there stem from known bag seeds
that water almost all herbs.
I mean I recently bought some hemp seeds just to
kind of look at, make some one-to-ones while I was at it, a phenomenal hemp,
different than I've seen, and I've seen all the hemp
varietals that people put out in the last five years, it's really nice,
one of them all intersects besides like two of them out of like 30
seeds, but the other one was really good, so it's there with
everything, because people are kind of doing the same thing with the hemp and trying to find the
terpene dominant, you know, tea varietal to, you know, cross back
in and select out the ones that, you know, only have
CBD in them. So, just R&D,
costly, but
you know, I'm still going to do it, got a lot of seeds that are going to go out
in some fields and kind of test some stuff out,
see how it goes.
For anybody focused on the hemp world,
is any hemp production or exploration in terms
of genetics being focused on things besides
extraction and smokable flower, like textiles and
fiber and all the other uses of hemp?
I know that in areas in Nebraska
and all that, I think there was one person in all of Oregon
at a hemp conference I went to a few years ago that was doing it for, you know,
grain is what they call it, not seed, not oil,
but grains for like horses, but most of that's in
the middle of the country, and I don't know, I think people would get uproars
to do that kind of fiber crops around all the
adult use and CBD flower here in Oregon,
but I mean, everyone's got a right to farm, I'm not,
I don't know. Yeah, there are, I think there's some like kind of
big herding facility in North Carolina, there's one in Colorado,
I think there's going to be one in Texas, so
yeah.
I was going to mention there's a farm down in
South San Joaquin Valley in California that's working with
several varieties, and they did a collection
last crop, they got a really late
flowering hemp that grows super tall, I think it starts flowering
in September. It starts initiating flower
in September, and the seeds are the size of a green pea almost.
Yeah, they even have those dual crops where you kind of can
collect all the seed on the top, and then
collect the fiber. Yeah, the issue with that is
that the fiber, you know, once it gets to
a certain point, it takes longer to ret, and then
the fiber, it loses some quality, some tensile strength
and some other qualities. Yeah, and then the fact of
trying to truck it to another facility, the cost is
pretty crazy, but they're probably doing it just for seeds,
and that valley, I'm familiar with that valley. Yeah, these guys
converted a cotton gin that's over an acre in size
that will process, they used it already to process
some of their hemp into long fiber.
Oh, nice. Yeah, good stuff.
But we don't have weavers and stuff that can handle it, so it's just like, what do we
do with it? That's in California?
Yeah, it's down in Riverdale, it's where the
Riverdale's where the gin is, and
down in, I think it's, I'm trying to remember the town,
but it's in Kings County.
Yeah, that's cool. It'll be fun to see when hemp
finally is beyond just extraction and
flout. Everybody always talks about all the
biomaterial use cases for hemp, and
I just don't really see anyone doing anything on that front.
It's actually, I mean, it's pretty amazing how many people are
jumping on to the fiber side, especially down in
Texas, like I already mentioned, North Carolina,
and also the Midwest, and
I think Montana may even be pushing that direction.
But it really has to do with supply chain issues
and processing, because, I mean,
there's so many things we can actually do with hemp. It's the
manufacturing side that needs to develop, really,
before the farmers really plant too many acreage.
Yeah, I've always thought about it kind of like, petroleum has had
a hundred and something years to build the infrastructure to turn
oil into every conceivable material, but hemp
has not. There is a
company out of Florida that has, I think, a research
farm somewhere, not in Florida, but they
have a closed-loop hemp grow, and they grow
immature plants, and they take the immature plants and
they convert, they run it through a pyrolyzation
process, and they trap the biogas
from it as it's pyrolyzing
into carbon, and then they take the carbon and then weave them
in the nanotubes, and are making like a
graphene-type product, and they're also refining that graphene
into diamonds for drill bits and saws
and things like that. Yeah, I was just going to say,
it seems like it's ramping up a lot. I know Cornell has a program now, they have a
master's program for hemp, specifically, and it seems to be
a lot of it is based on fiber and seed production, so
I think that's going to be pretty big in New York State pretty soon.
Also, thinking about actually signing up for
it, I guess I've got to thank a lot of you guys.
Peter, definitely. Rod, 100%. Definitely Trevor.
So, yay.
Thanks for jumping up.
You think a lot of the hemp production in New York State may go towards
interesting kind of fiber
type production?
Which also implies that on, I don't know if it was Robert or World,
that the processing
plants and facilities will be put into place in New York State to
convert it to the next kind of form factor.
I would guess so. I mean, I'm not the best person to ask, but
I'm from upstate New York where
all this goes on, and it's not really a great
climate to really, if you're trying to grow plants
outside, it's not really that great. So, hemp seems kind of
hemp for fiber and for seed and textile and things like that. It seems like
that's going to be the main focus.
I don't know. I think it's just going to blow up. I don't really
have a ton to back it up with right now.
Hopefully they're not by the new adult use facilities
in New York. It's a lot
of pollen.
I have no idea where they would set up. I feel like a lot of it is really just
going to be inside. It's not the best
climate for growing smuggled plants, especially the kind of plants
that we are used to.
You need some pretty hardy stuff.
There might be pollen flying.
Unfortunately,
it's become an issue
between the...it's just kind of
been unfortunate. There's been
a political divide for years between the
high THC cannabis world and the
hemp world, which is unfortunate.
One person I wanted to just mention here since we're talking about
hemp is Richard Rose. Richard Rose
has been in the hemp industry for a long time.
He has the Richard Rose Report and he is
v underscore hemp underscore nut
on Instagram. If you want
information on hemp economics and what has happened
in the global hemp
industry over the last 30 years,
he is one of the best resources.
I find his post about
particularly economics. He'll do things like he'll take
out a graph and will
essentially annotate the graph to show exactly what
decisions when caused different production spikes, caused
different price collapses, and all of the different
sort of policy side decisions that ended up producing
all of the different economic consequences. He can
demonstrate it very clearly in a graph. If you want to
know what's happened historically in the
hemp field and what's probably going to happen
going forward, he's definitely somebody who knows his stuff.
Again, that's Richard Rose.
I actually had an email draft queued up to him from this morning
because he had posted something on Verins and I was like
forever I always see his stuff and I'm like I need to get
this guy on at some point. Definitely should
reach out. He's very nice. We've interacted on Instagram
a few times. My mom and
some of her friends are long time hemp people.
They made a big deal
about he is incredibly
knowledgeable and really one of the pioneers in the
hemp industry in the United States.
Richard definitely knows his stuff. There's no doubt about it.
In the hemp world.
That's really awesome. I'm not actually a hemp guy.
I probably should say that. That's just where
all the research is. That's definitely where I'm trying to go. That's what I'm thinking for now.
Also, Ryan, you like my profile picture?
I'm sorry. I missed that. I like your profile picture?
Do you like my profile picture?
The dog? Bro, that's you, man.
What am I looking at?
That's you, man. Oh, you're Taylor.
That's fucking hilarious.
That was 2004 or
2005 in Vancouver. You know what it was?
It was actually like two or three days before Mark Emery's
shop was raided by the DEA when he was
raided to get down to the state.
Our friends owned a bank across the street where they were turning it into a nightclub
or they were trying to. In the meantime, we built
a grow room in there for Jorge because
the High Times grew up and they were shooting a video.
We were, funnily enough, right across the street from Mark Emery's shop
and the DEA were all over that place
getting ready for the raid the next couple of days.
We were building this grow room in the bank across the street.
That was where we filmed that little thing. So funny.
What was it? The High Times?
I can't even remember what it was. What the video was called.
It was an instructional video
on how to build a grow room. I think it was his own thing.
It was done by High Times. It was under his name.
High Times actually owned that character.
Before Jorge started being himself
he had this stupid wig character.
Everything that was done with that wig character was
owned by HT. That actually makes a lot of sense.
That's funny.
They paid for him to come up and we took him around all these different shows all over Vancouver and Vancouver Island.
I found a random video
and suddenly this picture shows up. That's pretty funny, man.
Yeah.
Speaking of pollen drift,
the pollen after the last six years of hemp up here,
even rec farms that get seeded out,
or the seeds come from a crop that gets tilled in, they don't use the field anymore,
all those seeds are even, like the last few weeks, they've been two, three inches all over the place.
A male can come up out of that with barely any water
and then just drops pollen.
It's kind of a problem out here in southern Oregon.
Pretty bad one.
It's so short-sighted.
At least in the Triangle,
I don't think they allow for hemp unless it's a really special use.
Just because of that.
But Oregon, it's a little different over here.
Big hemp fields right next to the adult use.
Didn't help the market either.
Kind of what happened three years ago with hemp is kind of what's happening with cannabis.
It's just an oversupply.
I think over 90% of the hemp fields this year were tested positive,
high THC.
Probably another contributing factor to the market.
That's cleaned up quite a bit over here. Pretty nice.
What are you guys dabbling on or smoking on?
I'm going to talk weed for a sec.
Sour DI-95.
I've got some GMO rosin and some
Code Red.
I have not PHO'd in years, but this stuff is nice.
I've got some GMO rosin pen.
It's pretty nice.
Puffing on some fire slurricane rosin.
Weird, this plant, I was not very happy with it at first.
The plant I was actually quite happy with.
The flower had an interesting flavor, but it was kind of mild.
I felt like even when I started getting to know the rosin,
I would smoke it and I would feel less high than I was.
It kind of straightened me out in a weird way.
It's actually quite nice. Interesting headspace.
It's very cerebral.
That's another one of those plants that
is pretty sensitive. Even as a known cultivar
around here. It's like Purple Punch and Dosie's.
It's known to banana out. A lot of people had seeds from just self-sabotaging
and not pulling their tarps.
One of the nice things about being
in Canada is the double-edged sword.
You don't get to access the clone market the same way that a lot of you guys do.
We get the seeds, obviously.
We do our own selections. We rely a lot on our own selections rather than
doing the whole clone trade thing.
We just don't allow plants like that
into the rotation.
Those kind of days are getting kind of hard because the hoplite
I definitely went on that whole thing last year.
70% of my partners' rosin was loaded with it.
I had to start over. I actually just tested some
seeds. It was a 3000 seed sample with CSP Labs in Sacramento.
It came up positive in the
high 20s range or however they tested it.
That was interesting when all the stock completely came
from a nursery that had
three negative tests for hoplite. I don't know.
It's just one of those things. Might as well try it. It's 3000 seeds to submit.
For what it's worth.
I'm curious
Trevor, if you got any of those
puck crosses. I never got a hold of those. Those disappear immediately.
I got them.
I've been fetching them.
What's that?
I didn't get the...
BX1.
Everyone was kind of jocking
that other one. I actually can't think of it. The Lebanese.
Those are great looking plants. They all look uniform. I tested
the BX1 for just sex tests.
Just space. Trying to
plant too many seeds and stuff like that. They all came out female. I had them
tested. We'll see how they come out.
I popped the Pacific Northwest
Ash plant puck BX1 cross.
They've
I believe I've got five females.
Out of a total of 13
plants. There's still like three or four that haven't sexed.
I'm pretty stoked on the ratios so far.
They're
very striking. I need to take pictures of everything again.
I've got mango tie from
the real seed
company. A bunch of Malawi crosses that I've
made. Some Malawi stuff that I gave to Masonic.
A cross to the Wilson.
All of those next to the
puck back cross are just so striking in terms of their difference.
The really narrow leaf varieties. Super
thin. Super lanky. These pucks that are just
short squat. Super fat leaves.
It's going to be fun to grow those out next to each other and
see how they do.
It sounds like it's going to be really cool.
Same thing. It seems like that
is kind of dominant. The puck or the north. I can't remember what he crossed.
All those three out crosses he made. They all
look kind of similar to that northwest puck.
I'm pretty stoked. I have plants that I've
got that are a little slower to grow.
It's a beautiful looking plant.
I have a bunch of the Masonic seeds I got.
It just winds well. It just opens up stuff.
I'm a seed junkie too. I've got some rainbow bells 3.0 from
Archive. That's looking pretty good too.
Some skunk tech stuff. A bunch of stuff.
Why not?
What's going on with you Ryan?
Unless you're going to say something Trevor.
I'm just doing dabs. That's all. Nothing exciting.
That's sick man.
I broke my glass piece a couple weeks ago.
I don't smoke flowers. I'm kind of on a
extremely melty hash diet. I've been hitting this
Puffco peak and a couple other little vaporizers. They just don't do it compared
to getting it up nice and hot.
I've been using that peak for a
while. I really miss that.
Having an actual quartz banger and shit. I've got to get back into that.
I just find the temps. It's more
of a heat perspective. The peak. Those kind of vapy devices.
They're really nice for flavor.
I just don't find that they hit the same way.
I find it feels like that feeling when you step into a hot
sauna and there's a lot of water in the air.
It's more of a steam hit than a smoke hit.
That might be good from a health perspective.
I find I cough a lot differently too.
Steam kind of hit.
I feel like steam is probably actually worse for your lungs.
Some random nurse told me that. I just believed her.
Is this the shutdown time or does anybody else have any
commentary on topic or anything else?
Anyone in the audience want to say something?
Raise your hand.
I just want to thank all you guys for
doing all these. I've listened to them all. I love it.
I've just gained so much.
A little bit of everything. I appreciate all the work you guys did.
Anything you need to do.
I honestly owe you guys everything. Thanks dudes.
It's very kind of you. I think everybody on the panel here
does it for love.
Hoping people like you pick it up and come at this
from a little different than we have. It's community. We appreciate you guys
as much as you appreciate us. I'm sure.
More than you know my man. It's dope.
My wife is just asking me when I'm going to come upstairs.
The universe is telling us something Peter.
I agree.
Okay. That'll be call it then.
That is the universal sign for
evening is over. When the family members start to agitate.
Okay. Cool. I will let you guys go.
Sure.
Cheers all.
Thanks Brian. Thanks Trevor. Thank you everybody. I appreciate you all.
Thanks world and Taylor for coming up on stage. Sometimes it's like nerve
wracking for people to do that a little bit. I think it's bad
ass that you guys did. I think more people should do it more often. Sometimes I feel like
I should just invite a bunch of people up just for the fuck of it.
Because I think it can drive some really good conversations. I appreciate you.
Yeah. I'm glad we actually motivated to do this
for anybody who wasn't in on the DMs.
We were like are we going to do something. Do we do something. Does anybody
feel like doing something. And we did it.
So it's in retrospect that you're like I'm glad we did that.
Yeah. I'm always down to talk. I just
usually don't have anything to raise my hand for.
All right. With that I will kill this room.
Okey doke.
Okey doke.
Can you hear me.
Oh no. I'm still alive. I'm still going.
I've shut down too many rooms by accident lately.
Hey Google turn on other lights.
One second.
I have my wrong lamp. My hair going. We had quite the conversation.
And quite a fun evening. I know I enjoy it.
I see Chad Westport crawling around in there.
There's Dank Drew. I saw you chatting around.
I see Guerrero there.
I see you smiling out. Clap clap. Clap on clap off.
Thank you Google. I appreciate your support as well.
But anyways.
You can go check out 2bucks. You can go check out all of the people that you listened to tonight.
Most of them have
lines that are carried on Dagadoc Garden.
Check out all the other videos. Everything else going on.
Let's have a quick little re-bait. Because it is Monday.
And those of you that have already been listening for 2 hours and 48 minutes.
And are still maintaining in the room.
Even though the intelligent people have left. And it's just this dumb asshole.
I see you just bombing out real quick.
Let's have a little look at what's going on later in the week.
Because there is stuff. There is stuff happening.
I see you just got two pretty decent sized.
He's a California grower. A little smaller home grow.
Not your big gardens or those big conversations that we have.
I'm excited to get into a little bit more of a space and chat with a good buddy of mine.
Which will be really exciting.
I say really exciting way too often. We're going to stop saying that.
But Cannabis for breakfast. Then we have the Dank Hour on tomorrow night.
We're going to talk about Erica E. Haverson. We're going to be talking about Tiny E. Paper.
And that is. They're very cool.
We were talking about hemp earlier tonight. We're going to talk about hemp tomorrow night as well.
And it's going to be fun. Because we're going to learn a little bit more about a different space.
That will be very good. I mean last week we talked about hemp as well.
I don't know why we keep talking about hemp.
Because it's all just cannabis. Isn't it?
As we do every single Wednesday.
We have Growing With Marco. A fantastic show.
That everybody needs to be a part of.
I have the wrong camera set up. Do you guys want to see?
Some flower?
While I'm listing it off. See if I can do it while listing it off.
I don't have any flower going anyway.
On Wednesday. Thursday we have Brian and Layton at 10am to 1pm.
Yes.
Thursday we have Brian and Layton on from 10am to 1pm.
And then we have Joda Herb on at 4pm.
I'm not too sure what they're talking about.
But that's going to be a genius show.
And as you guys always see Jason getting in the conversation.
It is good Friday. It is Easter weekend.
It has been so crazy.
My god damn mother was in town last week. It was exhausting.
But it was wonderful to have her here.
We have Perfectly Imperfect Grow Show on Saturday from 2pm to 4pm.
Again another shout out to Chad Westport. We appreciate the fuck out of you.
His flyer he made 419 the fungus gnat show.
What else we got Easter weekend.
I've got a harvest on Monday. So we'll probably do a live harvest.
We're just taking down some seed plants actually.
They got funky. I'll actually show you guys some of them.
I hit some of my Lemon Kush headband.
Two of my Phenos with Acapulco Gold.
Like a Landrace Bodhi.
We're going to harvest three of them.
Because they've ripened up and are ready to go.
The other ones we're going to let carry out a little bit.
See if we can get a little bit more flower.
We're going to do that on Monday.
And Guerlero I see you there. Do you see me? You hear me.
You should come and join me for that as well.
It's really hard to do the screen thing without any help.
By yourself while you're harvesting a bunch of plants.
It's not easy.
You're welcome to do so next time.
We'll try and do another Breeder Roundtable next week.
I look forward to growing with each and every one of you.
I will see you all next week for another episode of Breeders Roundtable.
I'll see you tomorrow morning. I'll see you tomorrow afternoon.
We'll see you around. Happy growing.
