Ah yes, when you wake up and you feel like you need a little up, when you're down and
out and you need to get a little higher, if you feel like you need a blessing and you
feel a little high today, welcome to the church of Kal-i-ha, Kal-i-ha, Kal-i-ha.
Welcome to Kal-i-ha episode 61, Jamaica. I'm your host Chen Zoniko, also known as Vince
Nicoletti, and this week we have a special holiday episode for you. Jamaica is the first
in a new series of retrospectives called A Work in Progress. It is a story of my search
for Rastafarians and their herb and what really happened and the lessons learned. This episode
is a true story and is dedicated to the memory of Joe Frank, Richard Hirschman, and Rieford
Ward. Jamaica. I went to Jamaica when I was 18 in 1975. My oldest brother Chris, my music
mentor and fellow cannabis enthusiast, had told me about a people called Rastafarians
who smoked herb as part of their religion. He also briefly mentioned someone named Bob
Marley, a Jamaican magician, who would be in town soon and Chris was going to see him
at the Roxy. Meanwhile, it was approaching the second summer after I finished high school
and I had some money after selling high-grade Colombian herb that whole year. And hearing
my brother's story of the Rastafarians in Jamaica, I bought myself a round-trip ticket
and early in July flew to Montego Bay, Jamaica. I got a cab from the airport and found an
old hotel which had once been a colonial mansion. It was all white and the rooms were sparse.
It had a certain stuffiness about it. It had hardwood floors and there was a weird vibe
to the place. The room was so sparsely furnished there was just a bed and one small bedside
table. There was a balcony that opened onto a view of the expansive lawn that spread out
in front of the mansion to a view of the bay off to the west and the Caribbean to the north.
It was mid-afternoon in July and after depositing my things in my room I decided to go find
some Jamaican herb. Walking down the hotel's driveway to the street, I found girls calling
out to me and dealers trying to sell weed. I asked one to get me some herb and he said
we had to get a cab and go up into the hills to find it. I got a cab and we drove up the
winding streets into the hills of Montego Bay near a botanical garden surrounded by
a little shanty town and a few shops and lots of people just hanging out in doorways on
the street. We hopped out of the cab in front of the botanical garden and immediately my
guide told me to walk 20 feet behind him and as we walked all eyes were on me, the only
white guy around. That was a new experience for me. After a bit of a walk he told me to
wait by the garden and he went in. Not long after he emerged with a small brown bag filled
with somewhat dried leaves. It was July and there were no buds yet, too early in the season
and too late from the one before. And it was then that I found out you couldn't buy rolling
papers in Jamaica. Also, cannabis was illegal in Jamaica at the time. I remember taking
a cab back to the hotel by myself. I was told I could roll up a spliff and a bit of paper
from a thin paper bag. I thought I didn't relish. I was beginning to wonder why I hadn't
brought a bud or two of my Colombian and a pack of zigzags. Back at my hotel I rolled
up some leaves and some paper from a small thin white paper bag and as I took a few puffs
realized my room was in no way airtight. That night in the dining room of the hotel I met
a tourist couple in their 20s from South Carolina. They had rented a car and tomorrow they were
driving to the west end of the island to a place called Negril where there were tropical
beaches and fun in the sun. They asked me if I wanted to go with them and I said sure.
I figured they wanted another guy for security and I was cool with that. Surely Montego Bay
wasn't what I had imagined Jamaica to be like. The next day we were on the way out of Montego
Bay driving down the Palm Line Coast above volcanic rock cliffs and white sand beaches
to Negril. I had dreams of that drive for years. This was my first trip out of the country
and I learned two important things that I would take away for future travels. One, the
countryside has friendlier people than the big city usually and two, traveling by yourself
allows you to experience a destiny that is 100% your own. I don't remember the names
of the couple that drove me to Negril but I am grateful for their help in getting there.
Negril has a long coconut palm clad beach which gradually fades into cliffs of volcanic
rock as West End Road heads west and then turns south at the west end of the island.
I rented myself a canvas tent under the coconut palms on the white sands of the Negril Yacht
Club. The biggest yacht there was a dugout log that was fashioned into a canoe. From
the Negril Yacht Club, West End Road was dirt and continued west for about a mile
past the Oweemoway Lodge, named after the song The Lion Sleeps Tonight, which had little
wooden huts for rent and from there the road went up a way and turned south. And there
I found Rick's Cafe. Rick's Cafe was clearly named after Rick's Cafe Americain, Humphrey
Bogart's Club and the movie Casablanca. It was an open air tropical bar just set back
from the cliffs 35 feet above the Caribbean Sea below. An oval bar with a palm thatched
roof and no walls which had a spectacular view of the sunset. There were tourists sipping
piña coladas and drinking red stripes while enjoying the view. Just south of the bar was
a miniature cove where people were jumping and diving from the cliff. There were regulars
at Rick's and one was the diver who clearly stood out. He was doing pipe two and a half
into the water below. During my time in the Negril, I went from timidly jumping first
feet from that cliff to pulling off one and a half in tandem with the diver guy. I was
on the gymnastics team in high school and one of my teammates had had a diving board
where we practiced dives. And so I knew how to dive but had never dived from a 35 foot
cliff. The main character of the bar was Rick himself. Richard Hirschman was an expatriate
American from New York who had settled in Jamaica and enjoyed his days snorkeling in
front of the cafe. We became friends and ended up knowing each other for a few years after
that and eventually I lost touch with him. Rick had a certain world weariness about him
and wasn't far from a tropical version of Bogart's character Rick Blaine. Except for
the philanthropic movement of refugees and he didn't run guns. Although I did meet him
the next year in Miami for 35 pounds of Colombian. But that is another story. Back at my tent
that first day in Negril, I met a 40 year old Rastafarian who hung out at the Negril
yacht club whose name was Reiford Ward. He had some herb, mostly leaves and a small battery
powered cassette player. He had only one cassette and it was Naughty Dread by Bob Marley and
the Wailers. We smoked leaves in my tent as the sun was going down and I listened to reggae
for the first time in my life. Reiford put on side two first. So Joss Sey started playing.
The music had an instant effect on me. The funky percussion, the horns, the guitar and
Bob singing I and I, I know Lego and where I am I shall abide. It was exotic to my ears
and gave me a good feeling. A feeling of honor and hope and culture. It was a profound moment
and even I knew it at the time. Bob singing about Jamaica and me looking at Reiford Ward's
two foot long dreads. Disa dreadlock he said as the song playing referenced the word. The
music gave me a somewhat enlightened and encapsulated cultural perspective about Jamaica, Reiford
Ward and reggae music. And there was Bob Marley singing. Cold ground was my bed last night
and rock was my pillow too. This was a seminal moment in my life. A milestone and a great
influence on me musically speaking. When I would eventually go home I would end up turning
all my friends on to reggae and Bob Marley. Naughty Dread became my soundtrack to Jamaica.
Reiford Ward and I became friends and we listened to Naughty Dread whenever we were together.
Reiford was a vegetarian and cooked his own food which consisted mostly of vegetable ital
soup because he had lost most of his teeth from lack of dental care. One day we went
on a trip up into the hills of Westmoreland and after hiking up a steep jungle clad slope
we came to a clearing and there surrounded by the jungle was Reiford's grow. It was July
and the six foot tall ganja plants only had leaves. Corn was growing around the ganja.
We started a fire and roasted some corn and leaved dry, smoked them and ate the corn.
Afterwards we stopped by his mom's house somewhere in the rolling hills of Westmoreland. He introduced
me to his mom and she served us lunch. Later we took a bus back to Negril. The road was
lined with tall grasses and the sun was in the west. Sunlight glistened off grass blades,
palm trees appeared and passed as the bus drove toward Negril.
West End Road between Wick's Cafe and the Negril Yacht Club became a daily walk. I remember
the mango vendor that would push a cart up and down the road singing out, mongos, sweet
and juicy mongos. He indeed had sweet and juicy mangoes and I bought many from him.
For a while I stayed at the Owima Way Lodge on West End Road which had teeny wooden huts
that were barely a step up from my canvas tent at the Negril Yacht Club. Bermuda grass
grew between the huts and it was more lively than the Yacht Club. While there I met an
American guy from Florida who was a few years older than me at the time who had overstayed
his visa by six months and who offered to buy mine for $100. I sold it to him because
I had a round trip ticket and wasn't going to overstay my visa which was on file and
so I reasoned I wouldn't need it and I didn't. I also remember driving to the Western Union
office in Westmoreland to wire my mom for money. A week later I came back to pick up
the money. Thanks mom.
As it turned out, Rick was the only guy around who had any buds. He had a quarter pound bag
of brown Columbian bud pieces and shake. We had become friends and regularly watched the
sun set over the West Caribbean while talking about Jamaica, music, weed and most interestingly
the bar patrons. One glorious afternoon the sun was setting and was halfway down in the
water when a pair of jumping dolphins silhouetted the orange disc. There was also a cute blonde
from Florida who I met at Rick's Cafe and who had taken a fancy to me. Somehow we ended
up naked in the shower back at her hotel which was the first hot shower I had taken
in weeks. She was sharing a room with her girlfriends and privacy was at a premium.
She was there for the weekend and it was a short affair. A fond memory and yet I can't
remember her name.
There was a Jamaican lady who sold psilocybin mushroom tea from a little stand in the roundabout
near the Negril Yacht Club. She bottled the tea in old rum bottles and lined them up
on the stand's counter. One evening I bought one from her and drank it. I sat on the beach
coming on to the tea, looking north toward Cuba. It was a beautiful afternoon and the
sun was setting. Now I'm from California and I had only seen wild lightning once in my
life from my Uncle Bob's roof in Jacksonville, Florida when I was in the 10th grade. And
there are other contributing factors to my reactions that evening but we'll address the
background of my psychology later.
Sunset faded to darkness and I started seeing flashes of light on the horizon to the north.
Each flash illuminated giant thunderclouds and then the thunderclouds morphed into mushroom
clouds and then each flash of light became an atomic bomb flash. Somehow Reefer Ward
was with me and I was telling him, I think the U.S. is dropping atomic bombs on Cuba.
He looked at me as if I was high and then after a moment of realization the vision melted
back into a thunderstorm on the horizon. Reefer Ward and I never spoke after I left Negril
and somehow I would like to thank him after all these years. He would be 87 now and of
those Jamaicans I know now, none have any reports of him. I did get a letter from his
niece who I never met saying how she saw me and loves me and will I come back for
her. My stay in Jamaica was a life changing experience if only for the introduction to
reggae but there was so much more magic in my experience. It has stayed with me all these
years. Rick Hirschman and I exchanged numbers and a year later he called me from Miami with
business and we'll save that for another story.
Epilogue. Reefer Ward taught me many things. One of them was how to grow lambs bread which
is really a growing technique and not a strain. Become a Cali High Patron right now by going
to patreon.com slash Cali High LA and donating $25 and I will send you the secret to growing
lambs bread. For those of you at the $100 level, I will also send 10 Afghan land-raised
seeds for you to practice with. So far, our fundraising efforts have fallen on deaf ears.
And so we come to you this holiday with an urgent request. This Christmas, keep the gift
that keeps on giving and be generous so we can keep the lights on here at Cali High.
Without your help, there may be no Cali High. Because it becomes more and more difficult
to justify to my wife and kids why I am doing interviews and writing stories that no one
wants to donate a few bucks for. Donate now and you will receive good karma points that
will be redeemable at the pearly gates. St. Peter himself will personally thank you and
you can jump the line straight into heaven without ID. Thanks from Cali High. Don't forget
patreon.com slash Cali High LA. We appreciate it. Happy Holidays and a Merry and a Happy
Chris Kwanzika from all of us here at Cali High.
This has been written and trademarked. Donate to Cali High at patreon.com slash Cali High LA.
Please like, follow and subscribe to Cali High on YouTube. Email us with any questions to calihighpodcasts
at gmail.com. We're on Instagram at Cali High LA and all podcast platforms in audio.
Cali High is a Chantzoneco production. Stay safe, be blessed, Merry and a Happy Chris Kwanzika
and a Happy New Year.
