and you're live. How's it going everybody? This is Chef Alex. Down low is John the Gross
Base Killer. Up top is Sticky Richie and down in the right is Jason, Cape Medics Ungrown.
I hope you guys are all doing good tonight. We're going to talk about some closed-loop
farming up here in New England in the Northeast. So Jason, I just wanted to start by asking you
to give a small introduction on your background to cannabis and what brought you to the lifestyle
and the methodology that you are able to live now. You showed me and John some beautiful terpene-rich
flower that was grown in open sun in greenhouses. And yeah, that's kind of what we're all about. So
I'll let you kind of give your introduction there and we'll keep it moving. Sounds good. Yeah,
I'm Jason. I'm Cape Medics Ungrown on Instagram and I've been growing cannabis at different levels
I guess for over 20 years now. So I started out in the swamps outside starting plants
under fluorescence and then just doing small little gorilla spaces and slowly progressed up
to different styles. Did some perpetual indoor for a few years and then about eight years ago,
I bought the current property that I'm on and went to a total sun-grown model basically.
Just a little bit of supplemental light for starts and whatnot. And yeah, that's basically a brief
background. So I've been doing it for a while both on the traditional side back when I first started
before things got legal and now doing it under the medical program here in Maine as a caregiver.
And yeah, that's basically how I'm doing it. I've been doing regenerative type practices for about
I'd say the past seven years is when I really started getting to the regenerative
type stuff, closed loops, basically mimicking nature and all aspects of cultivation as much
as possible. So yeah. Awesome. Thank you for sharing that little bit of background with the
listeners here. So we're excited to have you on, sorry, a little computer issue right there. We're
excited to have you on and excited to talk about the methodology and some of the hard work that
you've been putting in and also kind of shine a little bit of light at some interesting projects
that you're up to and that you've been up to. I know a little later on we'll talk about genetics,
but most importantly and forefront here is I understand that you're trying to put together
a class for closed loop farming on your farm in the next couple of months here.
Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Trying to do a little project just to mainly for patients and caregivers
just so they can get a grasping aspect of how to do things more regeneratively and grow all their
own medicine basically under the sun. Basically seed to finish basically is what I want to cover
on the whole thing and do a farm tour, tell them more about the practices that I incorporate onto
my farm and see how they could incorporate some of those into their own gardening and produce some
high quality sun grown for themselves so they could have medicine for themselves at a very low
cost compared to what you could get it from either in a dispensary or from another caregiver even.
So yeah, I'm trying to get that going and I also provide plants to patients. I've been doing that
for probably the past gosh almost 10 years or more I would say as far as seed starts and clones,
but I've mainly been focusing on the seed starts to patients in the past few years just because I
find that they do better for patients because they're basically seeds that I've made and
acclimated to the area so you're going to have a better shot at having a finished product that
finishes early and is resistant to the conditions that you're going to see in Maine that can be very
harsh compared to other climates around the world for growing. So yeah.
That's very important work. I mean we were talking about touching on that last night when
Rich and Alex and I were talking because Rich is doing a lot of the same things, getting these
varietals to work here so that they are feasible and we can make our own best medicine.
Yeah, for sure. It's very important. I mean it's kind of a crapshoot whether or not you
take a clone and put it out unless you've run it multiple times and know what it's going to do,
whether or not it's going to finish in your climate, whether it's going to be resistant
to mold, bugs, all that stuff that comes with the territory as far as growing outside.
So having varieties that are going to finish early in my situation is very key. So I like
to be done by September with a lot of my varieties if I can. And yeah, resistance is huge.
So I try to incorporate things that I've bred on the farm over the years that are early finishing
and resistant and then cross those into other strains to bring down the flower time and increase
the resistance. And then you can also retain some of those qualities from the clone as far
as flavor and effect and then have something that's going to finish in a nice time frame and
also be resistant to Mother Nature and all the things that come with growing outside.
The only thing I would add to that is the seeds work better as well for beginners,
outdoor growers, because it sometimes can be tricky for new growers to take a clone and make
that transition without slowing it down a little. And in these short seasons, that time of growth
can be pretty important. Whereas that seed with that fresh vigor tends to do better for that
first time grower through that transition of wherever they decide to plant it and all of those
steps. Sometimes the clone will take a hit and slow down and not be as productive. So I'm right
there with you. I also believe in a bond with this plant that we're growing, that when we're
growing our medicine, we do connect with the plant. And if you connect with the plant at an
earlier age, it really vibes into your own frequency and tunes. And maybe that's why it
can become your better medicine from the seed, because you've really made this bond from the
inception. Yeah, I totally agree. I think that has something to do with acclimation as well,
just your personal acclimation with the plant. I think it's important that we're starting...
Go ahead. Sorry, there was some drag there. I think it's important that we're starting these
plants from seed and that they can really get deep into the earth before we're starting to
see the growth and the potential that's coming out of each genetic. Like Rich was saying, the
clones cannot necessarily be as strong of a plant. And the genetics that you've been working with,
I noticed have been some really good tried and true genes from some of Gene... Well,
in Gene's work and some of CSI Humboldt's work amongst them.
I would agree with him. The list I've seen looked like some really nice work put together.
Maybe you could talk a little bit about some of those for a little bit before we get into your
class and stuff. Yeah, for sure. Me and Gene definitely is known for putting out some
killer work for outdoors for sure. And the Cherry West, that one does really good here for me. It's
sorry, super early finishing and anything you cross it with, it makes that at least a few weeks
earlier than what it was prior. So it's a really good one for breeding and resistance as well. So
it's... That's a really good one. It is a little tricky as far as lining it up with the light
cycle. If you have it on a long light cycle and then move it right out, you might have... It might
go into flower on you early. So I try... All my starts, I try to line up with the day that I'm
going to anticipate putting them out into the field anyways on veg. So there's no weirdness
with the light cycle going on when they go outside. But... Yeah. There's other ones much
like that. That old blueberry cut is almost like a semi-automatic like that. It kind of triggers
with the slightest hit change. Some of those pinkleberries definitely are very sensitive,
much like that. Yeah, for sure. There's definitely a few strains like that. But as long as... I've
noticed when I... That's what I've done for the past six years or more is just line the light
cycle up to June 1st pretty much in veg, and then you're good to go pretty much with almost every
strain. Very rarely will you have one weird out on you and go into early flower as long as you have
it lined up properly with the natural light cycle it's going to be on once you set them out
in the field. I use June 1st as my date as well as the... Yeah. Yeah. I mean, usually I'll plant
on either side of that, but that's like the set point. Yeah. And then depending on weather, you
can either put them out a little bit earlier or a little bit later depending on what we get. But
it's been very nice as far as early go the past few years. We haven't been getting those super
wet Junes that we used to get. The plants would just sit there when you put them out. You put
them out, they would grow it all for June. And then July, they will just explode. But yeah.
Really, really lucky with our seasons on both ends for the last couple of years.
Yeah, for sure. But it's hard to tell. Things are a lot less predictable for now. So we'll see.
We'll see what happens. That's why it's good to have a bunch of different strains that
will fit different windows and all that stuff. Definitely. When we talk about your class,
is this a single day class or a multi day class? Yeah. No, it's gonna be a single day thing where
I just go through everything that I do. And I'm gonna also provide plants for people
to take home with them. So that's gonna be a perk. So yeah. Excellent. Have you picked a date
yet for this? Or are there multiple dates? Or is it a reoccurring class? Or is it once a season?
It's gonna be once a season for now. But it's just gonna be small, just probably 25 people
at the most. And yeah, nothing too big. Just to give people that are super interested in a chance
to learn more and get some cool plants that'll do good for the New England weather. But yeah,
that's the plan. And I was thinking June 1st, just so people can have plants ready to go right when
they're ready to be put in the ground pretty much so they don't have to worry about taking care of
them. They can just go right into the ground more or less all hardened off and stuff. Nice.
The hard work going into the selection has already been done ahead of time.
Yeah, for sure. Yeah, I'm actually just getting ready to start seeds here coming up in the next
couple days, making the picks of what I want to do this year and the upcoming breeding and all that
stuff. So it's exciting time. Are you gonna pop any more of that Maindoe dope? Oh yeah, those are
getting ready. I'm gonna do a bunch of those this year because they're nice and early, nice and
purple, super nice terpene zone. Beautiful color, yes. Beautiful. Yeah, all of them were like
different shades of purple in basically September 15th to September 30th finish time on them. So
can't really beat that as far as I'm concerned at my spot. So that's awesome. Yeah, that's perfect
timing for sure. Yeah, and it's all CSI Humboldt stock is what that was made from. It was made from
a Maindoe perp across the T1000, which is the triangle cush across the Urkel. That was the mom
and that was an early finishing one that finished September 15th. Then I pollinated that with the
Maindoe perp times the Maindoe perp times Pakistani Chitral Kush. So it's like a Maindoe perp type
back crossing seed form pretty much so. But yeah, it's really cool. I had some cold hardy.
Yeah, for sure. It finishes early. At least I grew eight of them last year and not one of them
went out of September. So I'm sure there'll be a few that go later just because I didn't run a
super huge population. But so they don't even need the cold hardiness as much just because they
hopefully are going to be done before they see that cold. Right. Yeah, that's one of my goals is
early finishing because my property gets cold fast because I get the influence from Mount
Washington. Yeah. So it gets like September 15th. I've had like hard freezes where it's like 20
degrees for sustained amounts of time. So it's like your seasons pretty much over at that point
with that cold of temperatures. They can take light frosts but hard freezes like that.
They can limp through to the end to try to finish up. But once that happens, it's pretty much
game over. We're at a similar situation where I'm at but it's because of an elevation thing.
And the elevation every once in a while hits us really early and it can definitely take out a
season really early. Other times we might make it all the way through October into November and be
OK. But it's a real roll of the dice. Yeah, exactly. Back to that point you were talking
about of having them finish early instead of worrying about other things. It seems like in
that September time around me, I have to make sure that I'm super resistant to stuff like PM and
stuff because that's when that that time of year right before the cold in that September zone is
where it's just really fungally dominant in the air and all kinds of stuff is there. So
that's where the other hurdle of the early finishing varietals is there. You have to
be almost bulletproof to finish where I'm at in that window of time. Yeah, you got to kind of find
the sweet spot for your area as far as when things are blooming, as far as fungal things go and stuff
like that. If it's too early, then you're going to get like heavier botrytis pressure I've seen.
Septoria. Yeah, septoria, all that stuff. So you need to kind of find the
sweet spot for your area. It really is finding the right cultivars for your farm and where you're
located, at least in New England from what I've found. I mean, in all the parts you can grow.
More things, of course. Now, of course, right now you were saying September 15th is typically
your target for a majority of your work. I'm sure you have some that might trickle down after that.
I have a couple of your, actually two or three of your packs here that I was able to get some of
your stuff one of the times we were hanging out. And what I think I'm going to dig into this season
from your stuff that I was really excited about was the Lemon Party BXF3.
Yeah. That you worked on further. And then the, let me see, the Straw Nana Farm Auto as well.
Both of those things that I'm going to dig into. Yeah, for sure. Can you tell me about the Lemon
Party a little bit more and which way you selected for it and the finish time on that?
Yeah. So the Lemon Party, the ones that you got, I'm pretty sure those were from this past
year with the September 15th finishing pheno of that one. And those were originally obtained from
CSI Humboldt as well. And so those were first popped, I want to say 2020, the first selection
of those were made, or the first seeds of those were made. So I made those in the greenhouse in,
I want to say it was spring and made a bunch of them and then popped them for the upcoming season
and planted a bunch of them out. And that one finished this year, September 15th. So I,
super early, like chunky, completely done on September 15th. So basically it's all CSI stuff
in that one, but just selected on the farm, three different times on the farm and super resistant,
like no leaf issues at all, no mold. So that one's super cool. And then the Strawberry Nana
times the Farm Auto is a Strawberry Banana Auto from Fast Buds. And then I put a male,
it's called, I call it the Farm Auto because it's just an auto that I've been
breeding on the farm for, since 2019, I've been doing that one, just
open pollination basically on that. And it's originally from Mephisto gear that I got at the
regenerative conference out in Humboldt from some people in Alaska. And it was the 24 carat
cross to the TRT, something like that auto. I can't remember exactly, some weird thing like that,
but they said it was originally out of Mephisto gear and it's really cool, really fast,
super tasty for autos. And it's got like a little bit of a citrus to it type thing. So I haven't
grown any of those Strawberry times that out yet, but those should be pretty cool, I would think.
And hopefully they'll have some hash making capabilities in that auto as far as water
extraction is concerned. I remember at the... That I'm going to be looking for out of those.
Right, yeah, for sure. The heads on that Friesland,
what was it? MOB. I squished it. Remember I showed you, I think I showed you, I took pictures. I was
like, wow, this is beautiful. Could you tell me what again that one was? That was the bubble gum
S1 from CSI times the Friesland MOB Royal Kush. And... Fire. Yeah, that one was really cool,
for sure. So the Friesland MOB Royal Kush, that was made, I wanna say 2018, from a
Friesland female that finished like August 28th. It was ridiculously early. And then I put
two different types of pollen on that. I put the MOB Royal Kush and then the...
What was it? The GG4 Royal Kush. So I went two different ways with that one. And those are just
adds early mix for everything. And it just makes for a really nice crosses, super vigorous. Like
those bubble gum plants. The bubble gum plants, I thought I was gonna kill them. I thought, well,
I thought I killed them. Something happened to the greenhouse last year, so I put them out.
And they looked like little straggle plants that were gonna die. So I double planted those spots.
And the ones that I originally planted end up getting like 12 feet tall and just ridiculous.
We just came back out of nowhere. It was pretty amazing how much bigger those ones out on.
But in the resin on is really nice, super flavorful. It's got the Royal comes through
out of them, but they, I think they'll make good hash too. I haven't watched any of the trikes.
I think they'll wash well. Absolutely. But yeah, it's cool. And then it was the bubble gum.
S1 was the mom. Yeah. I just popped some. Yeah. The Friesland MOB Royal.
Yeah. I'm not sure. I popped some of CSI's bubble gum, headband times bubble gum. And I'm
got a bunch of those out right now about to flower soon. Hopefully if I can squeeze them in.
Yeah. That one checked all the boxes for me because it's squished beautiful as a flower
and looked beautiful. It had some beautiful color to it. I believe it was purple too. Like it wasn't,
it was not as purple as the main dough one, but it definitely was a beautiful lavender purple.
As I recall, I don't know. It was definitely, definitely have some color.
Almost like this, the FCP shirt. Yeah, exactly.
And the turps on the, I think it was the platinum, platinum Skittles.
Was it to the Cherry West as well? Yeah. That that's another exciting one that I'd like to get
into. There's a couple of questions here from a few minutes ago that I'll dip into here. First one
is 710 DP or yeah. 710 DP. What's going on man? For someone in the Northeast, what would,
let me see, does that show up on the bottom? There we go. Yes. Sorry. Learning all these clicks.
What would be the first couple of loops to close Jason and Reed?
They can be super simple. Making your own compost. That's a big one. I mean cover crops,
companion planting. If you can incorporate animals into your garden, that's a big one.
I was going to say your chickens. You didn't get, you didn't have to feed your chickens for three
months and they kept the predators down and yeah, and you didn't have to feed them.
And then you got all this beautiful chicken manure. I mean it's very hot. I'm sure you need
to do something and let it sit, but you're making the best compost right there. Right. Yeah. I mean
when the, I've had chickens just like wander in my garden during the off season, like for many years
and they just basically naturally add nutrition to the soil and pest control. So it's a win-win
really. And you get eggs and meat, so you can't really beat it. There's 25 of them out there
right now ranging around, just scratching at the ground and finding stuff and they're loving it.
They were in the high tunnel all winter. There was 90 of them just a few months ago.
I got to eat. Yeah, I know. I was just saying.
I was just going to say high tunnels and greenhouses are a great place to winter them.
Yeah, for sure. I have a farmer's friend, high tunnel, and they loved it in there all winter.
But yeah, they're coming out now that the snow started to melt and starting to range around and
dig for bugs and all that stuff. So yeah, I love having chickens and it's one of the
best things you can have on a farm, I think. Totally agree. We have chickens on our farm as
well. We have the full-time laying flock that just is always around. I've had a few
chickens actually born there from the flock now. So it's kind of a self-sustained flock
in itself now. They pretty much give us all the eggs we can eat still once you figure out how to
keep them going through the winter and all those little tricks. You got eggs all the time and then
they're making food for your plants all winter with their bedding and stuff. There's a lot of
tricks you can do to keep the stink down in your coops by using some natural farming techniques.
There's all kinds of stuff that you could do with the chickens to help your property. Not only do
they scratch up areas and pick bugs and predators, we use them to rotate. We raise pasture
free-range chickens for the pasture for broilers that we sell as broilers. We run those behind
the ruminants, like the sheep that go through the pasture, so that when the chickens come through
behind them, they eat all the bugs and maggots on the poop. It's extra free food, like you're
talking about. Ways to get not food from the store where you have to go buy it, drive it in.
These are things that you can do with your own property by just using timing and a little bit
of knowledge. Chickens are a great way, I agree, as a first step. Or compost, maybe compost and
then chickens. Then you work your way up to other animals, if that's your thing.
To follow up on that, how about something that would be something more difficult of a loop to
close that might take some practice or getting used to? I don't know about difficult, I'm trying
to think. It's kind of like a progression, more or less. Once you start, it kind of
snowballs and you keep building more and more things. It's like maybe more infrastructure type
things, like collecting rainwater. That might be a little bit more advanced because you actually
have to build something in order to do it. Worm farming, I like free-range worm farming. Once you
have night crawlers and stuff established on your property, as long as you're supplying them with
the right habitat, they're going to be there forever, pretty much. I added European night
crawlers to my property when I first got here. Basically, anywhere there's any type of organic
matter, there's going to be worms under there. If you put down a tarp and let it sit there and
uncover it, it's going to be just covered in worms and worm castings and all that stuff.
That's another pretty easy thing to do as far as incorporating worms into your system. Once you
have them there and are able to know what they like, basically anything organic, wood chips,
leaves, all that stuff, they basically are going to be there forever providing a constant nutrition
and aeration to your area. Basically, the whole property is basically a big worm farm,
a free-range worm farm. Beautiful. That is pretty awesome. I'm going to follow up with
one more question. There is another couple in here, but I'm going to stick with this one for now,
just because I can touch on this too. I'm curious to hear Jason and you, Rich, as well,
on this. Radical Cannabis is asking about breeding autos with photos.
It says it should show up on the bottom. There we go. It says, has anyone bred autoflowers with
photo periods to create fast-flowering photos? Curious about shortening flowering times for
sativa dominant on our short season? After that question, actually, maybe Rich, you can follow up
with talking about the Mexican sativa that you guys have been working on for a while.
I'll start with yes. In my experience, you can do an F1 cross with a photo period to an autoflower.
Typically, people will take a photo because autoflowers, up until more recently, were
more available as feminized varieties only. Now, you can find some regulars. I think Jason has some
regs too. You can outcross the photo periods that way. At that point, the F1 seeds, most of them
are going to be photo period. You'll be able to find some autoflowering ones where you can move
the line forward with autoflowering lines. If that's your goal, then totally, yeah.
There's some people on the market that are specifically making F1 photo to autocrosses
and hunting the photo period lines, but they're shortening it up. On those F1s is where you're
going to find those shorter finishing photo periods. From what I've seen, anything you might
be able to add to that, Jason? I haven't personally done the autoflower to photo periods myself. I've
kept them separate, but definitely, people are doing it. It's definitely something that I want
to do in the future. It's definitely been in the pool for a while. There's also a lot of
other autoflower tendencies, I feel like, in other varieties other than just ruderalis that can be
found just a matter of looking. I think people attribute to ruderalis mainly, but I think
just from what I've seen, there's other autoflower tendencies in other traditionally
known as photo period species, more or less. I've never actually done it myself.
Oops. Yeah, I have not either. Mixed between. I've dabbled in both individually, but
I've never mixed the two. I think he asked me to talk about the Mexican sativa real quick.
It was first purchased by one of our tight inner circle in like a
98 trip to Amsterdam, I think. It was Sensi Seeds. We were kind of giggling at my buddy when he
bought them because we were all buying the fast flowering anything but Mexican sativa, basically.
That was probably the last possible thing anybody of us would have bought when we went there
at that time, but he did. He was hellbent on growing it in the northeast. The first couple
times he did it, December came around. They're about 15 feet tall, and there's no real budding
yet too much, but he managed to continue it through a bunch of years. Then after a while,
it's at a point now where right where we're at, the pure ones are, by November 1st,
they're pretty solid. They're really nice. That's about as quick as they get though,
but it was crossed with a sour diesel from, I think it was actually the Humboldt Seed Company,
like a sour diesel, one of their seed packs that somebody hunted out and crossed to this.
That plant is ridiculous. That one finishes now on the earlier side of October, but it still has
the poency on that Mexican. It's too much for me personally. I don't like the angsty, really
energetic, heart palpitation. This one's almost violently that way. It's not for me,
but the people who do love that, I really, really love it. You back, Alex?
I'm back. Now, since I have a second, let me follow up. I think Radical wanted to know,
if it mattered for the pollen donor, which way is what? In my experience, I can't say that
I've done too much of that work. I would say, depending on your goal and what you want,
you would have to base that decision on what you want your outcome to be, whether it's going to be
what you want your flower to look like, or if you want the finishing time to be your goal,
and then it's work from there. If I had to choose, I would probably pick a photo period to be the mom
and just because you'll probably find a higher percent chance of having super frosty,
tighter nugs to choose from out of your hunt, rather than the root of Rallis being
the mom. This is all speculation too. Let's do trials and do both ways. Any insight there on that
from either of you guys? Then there's another question from D.C. we'll follow up with you.
Yeah. Well, it'd be easier to select your traits using a photo period as far as breeding is
concerned. If you wanted to keep that clone, you know what I mean, as far as it's going to be
harder. You'll have to go through a lot more female autos to be like, all right, that's the
female auto that I want. Then you're not going to be able to keep that female auto.
So picking the male out of that population, the auto population, like you said, would be
easier as far as matching up the desirable traits out of the mom you wanted to retain,
and then keep the fast flowering from the male auto type thing. I think it'd be easier that way
as far as if you're selecting for terpenes and all that stuff out of the mom. Then the dad's
basically there for the early finish. So I think to follow up on radical with that radical cannabis
is the early finish. If you're working with a sativa mom, you're probably going to want
to pick a shorter finishing auto flowering male as opposed to a longer finishing auto flowering
male. If your goal is to be shortening a sativa variety photo period, that helps, I think,
from my point of view. Then 710DP was asking you, Jason, what water systems are you using?
What KNF to DOM techniques are you using for your farm and the inputs? And what are your favorite
inputs that you make? So I have a few different water systems. I have
right in front of my property... Not in front... On my property, the front portion of it is about
a quarter of it is wetland with a small stream running through it and a little pond. So I'll
pump water out of that as needed until it dries up. It's usually good until end of July,
beginning of August, something like that. Then it'll usually dry up and then come back in the
fall. And then I also have a well that I had drilled six years ago, I wanna say. So I can
use that when needed. And I have collected rain in the past too. So basically between those three
methods for water is concerned. And I don't do any traditional KNF, I would say. I do open type
teas, just weed teas, basically. Whatever is basically alive and fresh at the time when I'm
making the tea as far as plants go, they can be... I basically... I don't do any real weeding at all
in my garden. I pretty much just chop and drop everything as needed. I do use companion plantings
and all that stuff. So I'll just harvest companion plantings. There's certain plants
in the garden that have... They're just weeds, but they're terpene rich and you can smell the
terpenes on. So you just cut all those up, put it in a big barrel with water, let that sit for about
a week and give it a stir a couple of times and aerate it for 24 hours after about a week.
And then just apply it like a liquid fertilizer on everything and super easy, super simple.
And that's more of like a JADAM type thing, I guess. But yeah, those are... I think that's...
But you always have your chickens running around everywhere, right?
I don't have them in the garden.
Just only at the end of the year, right? Yeah, I saw them.
Yeah, I don't have them in the garden. I have another garden down at the other end,
at the front of the property, which is fenced in too, where I put the chickens in when I have herb
growing in there as far as after it starts to flower. I just don't...
I don't like the... I want the manure to get worked into the soil and stuff before flowering
happens. I don't want any type of dust blowing up and having manure on the buds or anything like
that. So I kind of restrict them in that way. So that's one of the things. I've definitely seen
people do it and have their animals in the garden at the same time and have no problems at all. But
just for me, it's kind of just to avoid any type of issues with mold or pathogens as far as...
for manure dust or anything like that. And I also put a layer of mulch down and all that stuff
before planting to keep that down and separated at the right time and all that stuff.
I can attribute... I know that I've seen some very high quality, meticulously aged flower come out of
your curador, so to speak. I believe some over a year old stuff that was very well cured. So
I know that when you send your chickens through to condition the ground on your garden, and I'm
glad that you were able to go over that because that was something I wondered. I was like, how did...
so you'll have to send them through and then mulch afterwards. And I love that.
And on your full sun stuff, I don't know if I'm correct. I believe one time you mentioned under
some of the larger plants, you have quite a bit of soil over a couple of yards. Am I right with that?
Yeah, the larger plants have about four yards of soil compost type mix.
So yeah, they have plenty of room to grow. So they pretty much have unlimited. And I've been
like kind of like when I first set up the farm, it was like individual beds for each plant. And
slowly they've been moving into like just one big massive... unlimited growth to grow wherever they
want. Beautiful. Yeah. So they can just once they get in, they can just go. So it takes away from
the amount of time you have to start them as far as getting them larger before you put them in the
ground. You can still get... Under those soil mounds? Any wood under those soil mounds at all?
Like any hugel style? There's some wood when I was clearing. There's some. It's not like...
I didn't dig down and put wood in just because of the type of soil that is there. It
didn't make sense to do that. So there is like brush clippings and stuff like that when I was
clearing the area to do the garden. So when I was clearing it, this was... I picked the area that was
already partially cleared. My land was logged like selectively probably 10 years prior to me getting
it. So I picked one area that was already like cleared partially and then just cut that down
more. And then a bunch of the brush just put that down as kind of a base layer. And then I got top
soil from a local farm right up the road and compost and brought in some of that just because
it's super rocky soil. So it would have taken me a long time to get started if I didn't do that.
And yeah, use the brush as a base layer and then just pile the soil on top. And then mulched the
first year and started doing cover crops and all that stuff and just continually adding and building
to the soil that way pretty much. So it's hugel-esque. I wouldn't call it a traditional
full-on hugel. I know those are huge trees. You're growing trees out there.
Mendo dope style.
You can make a light stand out of that one. You had the big thing around. You had all...
I was like, what was that? Oh, oh, that was his trellis or that was... You had this...
Yeah, yeah. Describe.
Yeah, I don't do much support anymore.
How would you describe that?
So basically all I do for support is I just use one... They're called high stakes.
And they're five feet tall. And then they have like five different levels in their metal,
and you can reuse them every year. And so just one of those goes on each plant,
and that just gives the inner branches basically support so they can get a little bit bigger and
give them a little bit of support. And yeah, that's all I do for support pretty much once
they get out in the field. No need for staking or anything like that. It makes it super easy.
I used to do staking and then a big cage around the outside type thing with trellis.
Like the first couple of years I was here, it was like a lot of work and it didn't really
benefit me at all. And I could get the same results, if not better, with just that one
cage and reuse it every year. And it works out great.
Now, are the high stakes... Those are different than... You had, I believe you had one particular
plant that was quite beautiful. And you had some greenhouse parts that you dismantled that you had,
like you made a specific kind of trellis out of that to support it?
That was just for a...
That was just for a... Like they were crossed... Yeah, that was just a little greenhouse covering.
That wasn't plant support. That was just to extend the season a little bit, a little small
season extender, mini type greenhouse, just because... I see, okay. Yeah. It was a stream
that wasn't quite finished and I was like, all right, let's build a little impromptu
dome type greenhouse over it to just try to bring it along a little further.
Right on, now we're talking. Yeah.
Great, thank you.
How many pounds did you get off of that one that Alex was talking about?
You told us there was something 10 or 12 pounds, I think you got off of that one?
The biggest plant I've ever measured was like nine and a half or something like that.
Oh, nine.
But I don't really weigh my plants very thoroughly, to be honest. So
yeah, it gets trimmed... It doesn't all get trimmed up at once either, so it's like trim
a pound here, trim a pound there type thing. But yeah, they average like three to five,
I would say.
To be able to get that larger size one just out of that specific situation is a beautiful
feat to be able to get down in such a short season in Maine, so big props, kudos to you
for that for sure. It's definitely an inspiration, no doubt.
Thanks. Yeah, one of the things that helps, I think, with the big plants is starting them
in a big pot if you can, if you have the space. I like starting some of them in large pots,
like three gallons or larger, and then they have basically only one time where they're going to
have any type of transplant stress, and it helps them a lot as far as just getting a good start
and being able to not have their tap root really messed with that much, and they can just,
once they get in the ground, just go for it more or less.
An unlimited space for their roots to go definitely helps out a lot.
For sure. Now, you'll be starting this season with your seed stock from last season,
I'm sure some from before that, but do you have any particular flavors that you're
excited to move forward or try to tighten up and hardy for our area?
Yeah, so I wanna do a lot of the Platinum's, not a lot,
but I'm gonna do a whole row of the Platinum Skittles times that Cherry West.
I did a few small testers in the greenhouse last year, and they all came out really nice
and tasty, and my buddy did one that was like August 30th finish time, and then my other friend
had one that was like beginning of September, so I think it's gonna be a super early type variety
that'll do really well here, and the tastes are really cool mixed with that Cherry West,
and that one, and also the Early Lime, across to the Lemon G Dr. Who, those ones I made two
years ago. Yeah, those ones I think are gonna be really cool. I made those two years ago,
but I didn't grow any of them last year, but the mom on those Early Limes was out of
some Lime Sky Jaro Oji times... Yeah, Lime Pop Kush times Sky Jaro Oji from Mean Gene from
Mendocino. It's something like F2'd out of that, and then the Progeny out of one of them was super
early. Yeah, those ones. Yep. But the Early Lime, those ones were done... Those ones, which was the
mom on that one, were done like the middle of August, so I'm hoping those are gonna be some
beginning of September type finishing stuff with the Lemon G Dr. Who on there, and that Lemon G Dr.
Who is like super, super lemony astringent type herb that's super resistant because of the terpene
profile, it seems, and those were some super big plants when I grew them, the Lemon G Dr. Who,
when I grew them two years ago, so I think that combo is gonna be really cool with the Lemon and
Lime mixed together. Yeah, man, that sounds awesome. I'd like to... I think I gave you some
of my... You gave me farm autos and I gave you garden autos, I think, and those garden autos were
like volunteer, and I just heard Gene in the background in my head like, breed with the
volunteers. So I found the pollen from those Sour Stomper Thor's Hammers, and I was like, quick,
hit some on that, and I only got, I think, 50 or 100 seeds. I gave you, I think, 20 or so, and
I still have 20 or 40. Rich, I have some for you, but that's what I have. I'm digging into here soon,
and that sounds like a fun thing to work into that, but now I'm like, okay, what of Jason's
and Rich's am I gonna get into? I know the East Coast Snow Blower, the Lemon Party BX3,
the Early Lime Dr. Who, but then there was the other... I was like, the Straw Nana Otto, I kind
of have to put in the back for now, just because I heard you talk about that.
You also gave me some of the Platinum Skittles Cherry West, and what did you just say, August
something? Yeah, my buddy pulled one that was completely done at the end of August, and
then my other friend had one at the beginning of September, so they're gonna be early,
I'm pretty sure. I got a late start on those ones, because I direct seeded them in,
I don't even remember, end of July, beginning of August, so they didn't really... I couldn't
really get a tell exactly from my own experience as far as finish times on them, but they were fast
as far as I was concerned, as far as maturity going into flower, but two of my buddies grew
them and they finished fast for them, so I imagine that there's gonna be some fast ones in there with
the Cherry West, because the Cherry West, that one finishes first week of September for me.
Right, yeah, they definitely... They have that look of... If you grew them inside,
they would definitely have those nice voluptuous bracts that just stack on top of each other.
Yeah, so that's one I'm definitely excited for, those Z-terps stick out, you know.
Yeah, I mean, I think there's really... The phytocannabinoids are all like so loud on his
stuff and Rich's stuff, because it is in the sun, and that really brings out the plant's full
expression, the full potential for its organoleptic qualities. So I think there's a lot
that we take for granted from the sun that we don't get from indoor, even the medicinal quality.
The combination of soil and sun, right? Yeah, there it is right there in that comment. I think
the sun does bring out the plant's full potential, but that fertile, fertile, fertile soil with tons
of organic matter and life in there, that's the other part there, right? Where it's just the two
together are what create just the amazing... And that's also what creates flower that'll
cure and last for a year and still taste good. That's like...
Like Kyle puts them in a sandstorm.
Indoor doesn't really produce that kind of power.
Indoor doesn't really create that kind of...
That's why it can be stored.
Yep.
Yeah.
That's why it can be stored on Jason's farm for a year, a year plus or however long you got some
stuff, and it's just a dream to smoke. So kudos. And it's the methodology, every step along the
way, the care is there. It's like hard work, dedication. It shines through. It really does.
And to be able to have that product without the necessary need for all of these bells and whistles
and to be able to have something out-compete that, it shows that it is the methodology.
But it's not just the methodology. It's the heart and the care and the soul and the love that goes
into it too, because you can try to do it, but if the intention's not there, then it's just not
gonna be the same. All right. Cheers to that.
I'm trying to get my PC fixed right now. Yeah.
Light up.
Yeah. It's very inspirational.
Being here in the suburbs, it's like, we can create that, the best, well, not the best,
but we have ways of creating really good living soils and beds and people are killing it,
but it's really the sun and then the grounding as well. You're in the actual earth and it's
its energies, its vibrations, its frequency, you're plugged in.
We can go on and talk about grounding, but you guys are in the soil. So like in the ground,
those are the two disconnections that we have as good as we can grow indoors,
that sun and that grounding and connection.
I was wondering if we could go a little bit deeper into what you were saying earlier, which I find to
be very important that people don't think about as much. It's like the planning of your actual
beds. We were talking about the diverse plantings and such and using different plants for different
smells and all of those things. We do a lot of the same things here. And for instance, we found
Borage to be an amazing little wall that we planted a row on the edge of the garden of Borage
and it gets to be like this. It's a beautiful blue flower. It's all kinds of great things in itself,
just as the plant itself. But we found this added benefit that the bunnies that were out there,
they don't like running through it. And it created like a fence that actually kept them out
of our garden, which is super cool. So just using plants for other things that you might not think
of and kind of the planning it takes to create each bed. I'm wondering if you plan those out
in the winter, so to speak, or are they just kind of all natural, have been growing there and you
just kind of let things do their own? I know people have a lot of different methods about
how they steward their land. And I was just curious about those beds and like how much you
plan that or how much you just kind of steer what's naturally happening. I do a little bit of
both. I do some planning and planting and then I do some just let it go type things. So I have
I like yarrow a lot. So in the edge of all the beds, I had yarrow naturally here. And I also
started some other colors from Johnny's, their Colorado mix. So along the edges, I have yarrow
planted and that's a perennial that comes back every year. And if you cut it back, it'll actually
bloom a couple times, depending on the variety. And that brings in so many beneficials on those
low white flowers. It's pretty crazy. And it's actually very fragrant as well. The foliage and
stuff, when you chop it up, it's super terpene rich. So I think there's also like a interaction
within the like pheromones of the plants and having like terpene rich plants around as far as
in the air, in the root system, all that stuff as well. So I like to have terpene rich plants around.
I like lemon balm. So I'll start lemon balm a lot and I'll plug one or two lemon balms in next to
each plant. And then when I start my plants, the big ones, they're going to be going out into the
field. I'll plant alyssum and other things in right in the pot to start with. So when the plant's
growing, it'll hold like small alyssums right at the base. And then those will fill in and create
like a little living mulch right around the very bottom of the plant. But yeah, it's a combination
of both planting out some things and then letting the natural stuff go as well. But I think companion
plants are really important as far as just keeping the biodiversity up of the plants and the animals
within your garden. The more things you have, the less pest pressure you're going to have as far as
I'm concerned. Like I had aphids one year in the greenhouse and once I put the plants out in the
field, they basically just disappear just because there's so many beneficial predators around to
take care of everything. So it's really just a matter of... Yeah, exactly. It's just a matter of
creating an ecosystem that's diverse and basically friendly to all the beneficials that are going to
eat anything that might pop up that's going to be an issue. And when you do that, it highly reduces
any type of pest pressure that you have. And definitely I think the terpene interaction
among the plants does something as far as bringing out terpenes in the cannabis plant itself.
I agree. And you said the sweet alyssum or the alyssum plants anyway. I remember
Jimmy Myers talking about putting the sweet alyssum in the greenhouse. And I think he said
away from the plants because it would... The beneficial predators like the wasps, I think the
Colmani ervy and the Colmani... Aphidius colmani and the Aphidius ervy would go to the sweet alyssum
and they would have a food source there and then they would go back and continue
or they would live there. And then when the aphids would come back, they would
go back from the alyssum. So I like that. You have to be mindful of where...
Banker plants.
Strategic of where you're putting certain... Yeah, exactly. And where you're putting them. But
when you put them outside of the greenhouse and the greenhouse gets less pressure, that's even better.
Any thoughts on paramagnetic rocks in the garden beds
or indoor panel? So yeah, I'm reading more and more about this and I add quite a bit of rock dust.
I haven't been adding crystals per se to the beds, but I do have some that in the yard that I do keep
in the yard that I do keep near my garden. I know that like Gage Green and Dragonfly,
they incorporate some crystals into their planting methodology. But yeah, I'm definitely
hip to that and learning more about it and incorporating it more and more as we go. And
that goes with planting with the moon cycles too and reading a little bit of
biodynamic stuff and the Farmer's Almanac and seeing what moons you're planting on.
So I'm still learning, but getting deeper and deeper into it. It's so much to know and so
much to learn, but definitely I think my garden's getting healthier as I'm going. It's not getting
worse, though. It's a good sign. What about you guys? Oh, I definitely have rocks in my dirt for
sure. It's definitely not a rock-free zone. Yeah. And adding rocks on the surface creates another,
like I'll have like just a big boulder right on a bed just sitting there and that creates another
little environment for other types of creatures and all that stuff. That's basically a mulch.
A rock is basically a part of your mulching system more or less, but that's going to create
different habitats for like salamanders and other type of insects and all that type of stuff. So it's
basically another way of creating a little micro environment for beneficials.
Okay. So in addition to that, Rotten Skateboards follows up with, I've heard it brings earth
frequencies and harmonies indoors, a way to tap into earth indoors. I can't really recall that
study. So John and I were more recently talking about like grounding plants. John for a while
mentioned like using a copper wire outside, grounding it outside and placing into your pots.
But more recently I've shared with a couple of you guys anyway, some stuff I've seen on
electroculture where they're making copper coils, wrapping it around sticks, not necessarily a dowel
or a piece of wood, but rather a stick from outside and using it as a probe to also emit
frequency and energy. I've been using EM ceramics more recently in this past year when I make,
it's in Alan Atkinson's Bokashi, Grokashi recipe if you're looking. He uses it in
potenizing his water. And this is I think a Steiner method too. The way you stir the water
is important. It has to be, I believe, counterclockwise, so that the water doesn't
get too hot. It has to be, I believe, counterclockwise. I might be saying this
wrong. So I'm just remembering now. Counterclockwise for a couple of minutes,
one way, and then clockwise a couple of minutes, one way, and then further another way.
You need to create chaos.
Exactly. But you're potenizing the water. But anyway, the EM ceramics is the EMs that's like
imbued into the ceramic, right? So the ceramic powder or ceramics now is imbued with the
effect of microbiology. And it emits a frequency, like it's an infrared frequency. If you look
at it, I think it's something like 75 or 80 Hertz it emits. So like when I make the Bokashi,
this is in the water and it's also in the dry mix and it ferments for 10 days as part of the
recipe. So the Bokashi, that's part of the microbiology that it holds, but I also water
it in from time to time. But yeah, I believe that there's something to adding that element to the
indoor garden that it's missing from the outside. It's like being grounded to earth.
We were at Ryan Highstriker's farm the other day and his greenhouse, he has his beds,
John asked, he was, hey, are these on anything or are they direct in the ground? Because he grows
indoors in beds too, but in his greenhouse, he grows, it's direct to earth. And I was like,
oh man, that is awesome. And I'm sure Jason, you've also practiced that direct to earth
through your greenhouse. But that's something that as an indoor gardener, we are missing.
So if we can incorporate that level of, I guess, magnitude, paramagnetism in our garden,
some of that where just biomimicry and we do that with the UV and what is it called?
Diurnal shift, John? Well, the nocturnal and diurnal shift, that's the Rasanda in the
set, you know, setting, the natural setting, but like 630 nanometers at the diurnal and 760
nanometers at the diurnal, nocturnal. Starting and ending the day and trying to replicate the
sun because that rise in that set, when you turn the lights on, you know, your flip, it's just not,
the sun doesn't automatically flip on like a switch. So if we can replicate like whatever we
can inside to be more like outside, then maybe our inside cannabis can hopefully be as good as
our outside cannabis because our outside cannabis is better than our inside cannabis.
Medicinally and all around, you know, visually it's like, we're breaking it all up into a joint
or a bong anyway, right? So it's up to the consumer education to get there, but when
we're here for medicine and effect, like we already know what's best.
Yeah, we don't have Rayleigh scattering or Emerson effect. I mean, we can try and
do all those things indoors, but it's not the sun. And I really do believe in the paramagnetism
in growing. I've definitely feel that I see much improvement with calcium bentonite, which is a
Montemillerite clay, which is its own clay that stacks. It doesn't, you know, they're all like
little platelets that they don't compact. They stack because of their reverse polarity. So that
gives structure too. So like there's things that we take for granted
indoor or that happens outdoors all naturally and being plugged into the earth
that we're certainly missing indoors.
It's all radioactive technically. You sure are right. It's all, and Wolf has, you know,
kind of opened our eyes to that. Shout out Wolf Siegel. He will show you visually with his
spectrum there. You know, he'll show you the light spectrum and the, what is it? The other frequency
sound, right? Or sounded light. Well, yeah. It's all waves. It's all frequencies, whether it's
sound or light, it's all packets of information in those waves and in that frequency. And they
all have, you know, he talks about phase coherence and those are things that don't happen with indoor
horticultural lighting. While he's working on that though, he's coming out with some exciting stuff.
And his book, Grow Wiser. He'd rather see us out there growing in the sun.
There's many ways we can try and, you know,
do stuff inside with more efficacy, but the sun is definitely where it's at. So kudos to Rich and
and Jason out there killing it in nature.
Oh yeah. I'm excited to get up my little plot here going. I've been working.
Oh, you do a great job in your area. That's, I do my little bit outdoors, but not like that.
It's a beautiful little garden compared to these two gentlemen who are working night and day
tirelessly to keep the plant roots running deep. Unfortunately in Massachusetts, I'm not allowed
the freedoms that some of y'all are. So I have limitations, but yeah, I'm very dedicated to the
land that I'm around for sure. And it's cannabis plant is just one part of the life.
It's a huge part of my life. Don't get me wrong. And it's a major part of it and a major part of
the healing process, but it's all of it. It's the vegetables, the animals, the plants, the wild
animals, the nature, the wild plants, wild fruit, all of that is what is the whole package really.
Building soil, you're giving back to this world. That's the thing, you know, like, and Jason too,
like that. I'm sure you just said you talked about your land being logged. Like, I mean, and you did
have to clear whatever a little bit, but like, I'm sure that area that you're growing on now is more
healthy, more diverse, you know, populated with all kinds of organisms and the wildlife and all
these things that you built that soil and brought all these things in all that, the alyssum, the
lemon balm, which grows like crazy. I have it in my yard. Oh my God. It's like, it comes up
everywhere. It seeds, but it also is like, it just, that's like turns into bushes in my yard,
the lemon balm. And the rabbits like eating that. I'm sorry if I'm going all over the place, but
yeah, I don't know. I haven't seen the rabbits eat the lemon balm personally. We might have a
different breed here than you got there, but I definitely have my fair share of rabbits, but
yeah, I mean, it's been a pleasure being able to grow the way I've been able to grow for the
past eight years and just constantly learning and trying to learn and trying to grow and
grow for the past eight years and just constantly learning and trying to be more aligned with
nature as much as possible. No matter what you do when you're farming, you're going to have some
impact on the land. It's just a matter of how much you reduce it and how much you try to align
with nature and just do your best to be a good steward to the land you're on. And that's all you
can really ask of yourself. And it hasn't even felt like work doing it. It's just been a pleasure
doing it. So I just look forward to keeping on doing it and doing a better job as time goes on.
Taking care not to overuse the land is very important. And sometimes you go about it,
for instance, us, with the greatest intentions, thinking that you're going to not make a big
impact on the land. And for instance, the old pasture, we wanted to expand it and make it
wider. We didn't want to bring in a bunch of equipment or buy all this equipment. We thought
we'd do it with animals. So we had the pigs clearing some land and we had some goats behind
them and such like that. But then you realize that the pigs kind of need a lot of management
as you get used to. Speaking of raising the bar a little bit from chickens, all of a sudden you
get some pigs and you realize that they need to be managed seriously or else they ruin wherever
they're at, right? Like they compact the ground to where it's just about unusable. They go through
the forest and they chew the bottoms of the trees up so they girdle them and you're going to have
dead, beautiful hardwood trees, the ones that you didn't want eaten, right? So then by doing such a
good intention thing in the beginning, you realize like, whoa, wait a minute, you have to slow down
and really make thoughtful choices about how you go about things. Even the best intention sometimes
will overuse your land. So it's a matter of everything in moderation and proportion until
you figure out how it fits the best with what you have on your property. Because everybody wants to
have a few milking cows and might support that in a way that's going to sustain you.
That's a lot of good points and a lot of good things to be mindful about before you make these
decisions. You really have to think about like almost like a butterfly effect. Like what effect
can this decision have or what kind of impact can this decision have, you know,
five months, years from now? So and what can I do to counter it if so?
So you got rid of your pigs because they were just, they were doing too much and then
well we, yeah, we got rid of them. We learned a lot through that process, you know, we learned
how to raise pigs, farrow pigs from, we had many batches of pigs. I mean it was really cool,
not too many at a time. We really kept it at a good amount but we kind of did what we needed to
do as far as kind of ripping open new land. So then it was a matter of keeping them in a certain
spot and rotating that spot and we tried that in a location that was convenient for us. It kind
of messed up that area a little bit so we tried to figure out what the smallest amount of them we
could keep is because we really loved the income or the family resource of the pigs on the farm.
They provided lots of meat. We learned how to process tip to tail. We learned all of that stuff
and an amazing learning experience but not only the food but it produced, we raised old
variety of hogs that almost went extinct called American Guinea hogs and they're an old homestead
slow-growing hog so they don't like get really huge quick but what they were is a lard hog so
they have multiple qualities of lard which we could use. We used some of it for soap, leaf, and
then there's something called a leaf lard which is the finest quality and that could be used for pie
baking, pie crust, like just really nice stuff. So we use the pigs for everything and I didn't
want to get rid of them but we ran out of the space and I want to give it a break so currently
we do not have pigs left but if I have my way they'll be back and it just has to be in stages,
in moderation, when your farm is ready for them and can use them as part of something.
One of the rules here is everybody has to have at least a couple jobs, you know?
Even the animals or everybody, every plant, every kind of thing on the, hopefully it has more than
one job, right? So when the pigs started to lose the amount of jobs that they
were fulfilling and starting to do more damage it was a decision to back off on those, go a little
bit harder on our broiler chicken production because there's a demand for that and it's softer
on the land and we could let it recuperate a little bit and it works well with following
behind ruminants. So we just found a system that is, like you say, works for your property. What
plants work in your property? What plant do you put in the spot that you want something there,
right? It's going to, might do better at the other corner of your property. So it's just
observing, observing, observing and just practicing.
Yeah, paying attention to everything that you're doing and just watching the effects of it. I'm
blessed to live next door to a farm that has been here for a long time and they have been observing
this exact spot for a long time farming, farming and I learned tons from them because they are
very connected, more connected than a lot of folks these days, you know, because they're
very rare people who make 100% of their living as farmers, no, you know, side incomes or anything.
So I, there's pretty much-
Everybody thinks about that.
Without cannabis in their, in their thing too. That's, that's a non-cannabis farm,
selling vegetables and stuff and making a living. I'm just, much respect. So I just look up to folks
like that, you know, and I've learned from them about my, I'm lucky to have that. It's a huge
resource. So I'm trying to soak it up as much as I can. I donate one day of a week to go over there
and just help out because it's, it's better than any class I've been to so far.
So Jason, your greenhouse operates all winter, is that right?
Are you growing throughout the winter in your greenhouse, Jason?
It depends on the season. Sometimes I do. I have multiple different greenhouses. So
it really depends on what I'm doing. If I want to do a breeding project or
do some plant production for patients, it really depends. But basically I have a small
lean-to style greenhouse on the south facing side of the little tiny house that I have. So I can
just, the heating source for that just ties into the house itself. So it's basically, that section
is basically a cost-free way of being able to grow plants using the sun, just a little bit
of solar power. I was amazed at that. I was like, because we were there in the dead of the winter
and you had all these plants out there and all it was was this really cool self-feeding pellet
stove. Yeah, totally non-electric self-feeding pellet stove will go for like 20 hours or
something like that without you having to do anything. So it's a pretty ideal setup for
starting plants and keeping plants if I want to. I could do a small breeding project in there
type thing. It's only a small setup, but that's all I really need to get like hundreds of seeds
started, plus do some big ones in larger pots as well. So works out well. I did a little expansion
on the other side this year, so I can do even more if I want to. I think it'll be enough to
heat that space as well as far as starting them around mist time, as far as seedlings go. It's not,
doesn't need super hot to get through the winters now, but for the night time.
I was really amazed because it was, it had two jobs. It was heating your space and it was keeping
all those babies alive. Yeah, exactly. It's a perfect setup as far as cost and
effectiveness. And you can really do a lot in a small space, especially when you're doing outdoor
and get enough herb to last you the whole year in a very small space, very little electric if any.
And yeah, it's a perfect setup as far as I'm concerned, as far as doing what I need to do
to provide for myself and my patients. So works out great. For sure. Very efficient with your
footprint. Now in, out front, you have a urban food garden. Obviously you're going to be eating
some of that, but will any of what's grown in that area be used to make fertilizer for
the rest of your garden or for that garden and the rest of your garden?
Yeah, some of it will go back into compost for sure. I give a lot of the vegetables away to
friends and family and all that stuff, but chickens, the chickens. Yeah, so I had the
chickens out in that area in the summer, fall, fertilizing that area coming up for the spring.
I'll let it go foul of this last year, but I plan on going again this year, doing full
veggies, flowers and all that stuff in that other section. And also have the garden just
companion plantings. I plant vegetables right in with the cannabis as well. So it's basically a big
polyculture garden there. And then the other one's going to be dedicated to non-cannabis type stuff
and bring in more beneficials and all that stuff. So yeah, that's the plan for that area.
So for the class, if people want to reach out to you about that or inquire,
is the best way maybe through Instagram or email or...
Yeah, Instagram or cnsungrown at gmail.com. That's my email. So you can just email me there or just
direct a message to me through Instagram as well. Those are the two best ways to get in touch with
me. And yeah, I'm in Southern Maine, right on the New Hampshire border.
And we could probably recommend this class for probably anybody growing above the Mason-Dixon
line, I would imagine, that we have all similar weather from Maryland up to the coast Maine.
Yeah, yeah, for sure. Yeah, definitely. Greater New England area, I would say.
Pretty broad area of the Northeast. So if there's anybody who finds out about this and
wants to dive deeper into closed loop farming, it's definitely going to be worth
make a trip up and spend the day on the farm and learn a whole lot about being able to provide
your own and be able to make your own fertilizer and provide your own medicine too. So I'm
definitely going to be there for sure. I believe John was also planning on trying to make it up.
Excellent. And Rich as well. So you'll catch at least three plus Jason there, four, and definitely
spread the word to your friends and homies for sure, because should be a great class.
What are, is there, I guess anybody interested could reach out, but is there any other details
about it that you might want to share what they could expect to see that day?
Oh, basically it's going to be a seed to start or a seed to finish. Rather just going to go over
basically everything that I do. Going to do a farm tour, all that type of stuff. Go over,
probably go over light deprivation a little bit too and go into genetics as well. So just be a
comprehensive thing of everything I do on the farm and how you can incorporate
different practices into your own grow or your own farm.
Awesome. Awesome. Either of you guys have any other top topics that we could bring up about
the class before we move to some questions? Is there a cost to this class?
That's a good, that's a good point to bring up.
What might people expect? Yeah, for that, I guess would be a question.
Yeah, there'll probably be a small cost. I'm hoping to keep it like around a hundred,
$150 at the most, but you'll be able to leave with six plants as well. So yeah,
hey, that's a very reasonable fee. That's very generous right there. Those six plants are worth
that alone. Absolutely. No, that's a very reasonable price, especially for that value.
Yeah. Especially when you know they're for this area. Yeah, for sure. I don't, I mean,
times are tough for people and it's not something that I think needs to be crazy priced or anything
like that. So I like to provide plants at a decent price for people too, and I'm selling them just
regularly. So it'll just be a added bonus as far as plants and all that. Hi.
She just made my sauce. Nice.
We've been bombed, sauce bombed.
That's awesome. That, I'm for one, I'm excited to make it out there and get a tour of a farm
like that. Anybody in action who's willing to open up their farm to others and educate,
it's an amazing resource. I think that we all should take up on anybody who's providing that
kind of education to our neighbors. So we should do whatever we can to support farmers and
and especially ones willing to educate. Yeah. I've always said this plant can be a gateway
just to living healthier and growing your own food and learning about where your food comes from.
And then you start wanting to grow more because you start to, you know, it's that snowball effect.
And then there's no turning back. So I think Alex, we lost the guy with the controls.
My four year old wants to make my sauce. So she's just putting everything in it.
Yeah. I am so sorry to not mean to insult you by calling you four.
She got mad that I called her four and a half. Four and a half. It's serious. Okay. Let me get.
So if, since we lost Alex, if you guys are ready to wrap, I can hit the end broadcast.
Sounds good. I didn't know if there were some questions still in there. Cause Alex
about to ask some questions that were in the chat. Let me, yeah. So we have,
I don't know if, did he get to this one? Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. That was one of the first ones he did. Let's see. I have some of them here. I could look up.
Yeah. I mean, I think my question would be kind of, you know, just like the,
like with the closed loop into the system, I know there's, there's like the dragonfly
earth medicine stuff and they have kind of, it's so like, did you just kind of do your own thing?
Or were you following a specific entities protocols and. Yeah. I'm definitely follow
dragonfly earth medicine and they're definitely one of the first people who turned me on to
regenerative farming on a cannabis scale. And yeah, definitely. Definitely. They're a huge
inspiration of course, to any regenerative farmer I would imagine who is into cannabis. And
definitely that's one of the frameworks that I've built everything off of and then
just molding everything to what works on my property pretty much. And just
constantly trying to do better as far as regenerative practices and just not bringing
things onto the farm and all that stuff. The only thing I brought onto the farm this past year
was a frass from super worm, frass valley, super worm frass, Riley. He has a super beautiful product
that I really like to use in my starts. And he's a great guy and really small scale local
to the Northeast. And if you guys ever need frass, that's your guy for sure. And, but yeah,
I think that's about it as far as the framework is concerned. I mean, it's definitely been a
journey since six years ago when I really started moving towards more regenerative
instead of just organic. I mean, I've always done organic gardening. I've never done synthetic. And
then regenerative was the next step basically just taking everything from the land and doing it
basically as in tune with nature as possible. We all met at the regenerative conference that Dutch
was putting on. We met in Maine and these guys have been doing it many years before that
regeneratively or off the land. But Chef Alex and I were lucky enough to run into these gentlemen
on our journey together. So we're all on this path together. We're all on this path. Thank you,
Peter, for all this, all the wonderful things you do for the community and for letting it shine on
our brothers out there, doing it the right way, doing it for the right reasons and making
you know, the best medicine with the patient and planet in mind.
Thank you. Thank you for the, sorry, I have a lot going on here. Can you say hi?
Can you blow a kiss? Oh, gorgeous.
Ready? Look at my cheeks. Ready?
Gross.
All right. Should we end on that? Sure. Sounds good, buddy.
Since Alex was charging his phone. But no, that was awesome. Thank you guys. And hopefully we'll
do it again. This will be a regular occurrence, hopefully. Thanks, Peter. Have a great night.
Love the shirt. Thank you so much.
Thank you. Can you close us out with a big rip from that dab rig?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. The dab axe, courtesy of Mr. Peter.
Yeah, we'll hopefully have Chris, the guy who designed it on shortly.
Sorry, I'm trying to find, how do I hit the layouts?
I'm gonna do a dab with our other brother,
High Striker Farm. He just won with this at the honeypot up there in Maine.
What? The grape cake do-see.
Do-see. Oh, yeah.
Cheers.
You're leaving an impression on my one-year-old.
Peter, this room is so fancy. What's that?
This room is a fancy. It is a fancy room. We got the fancy one.
It has a beautiful wall or ceiling, whichever way.
Oh, yeah. That's a wall.
Ceiling. And then we have, yes, we got our meat.
Did you hear what she just asked? Who's that?
She goes, is that Santa Claus?
Santa. Santa.
I quit. I quit.
Not quite.
I quit. I quit.
I quit. I quit.
She made a bunch of sauces. We'll go right back out. All right,
I gotta make a sauce for the four-year-old. Peace to you guys.
Thank you.
Bye.
