We will then do have we met before.
There's a there's a first for everything.
So awesome.
So
that is another one of the fantastic Massachusetts people
part of our regenerative family here in Massachusetts.
He's kind of the guy who's heard my journey down that rabbit hole.
Nice fellow mass hole.
Okay, hold on.
Has that been rolling here?
Here, get give me
give me one second.
Yeah, I see it starting to pop up on YouTube.
That's great.
feedback and
we got our whole
stage for tonight. So fantastic.
Really, really excited.
Peters getting everything going. So we're almost ready to go. I
can see him in the in the lab in the control center. With his
laptop up. We got a whole bunch of people jumping in the room.
Hello, miles and Sean and TY and Matteo and cat.
Colby, good day, Lori, Abe, Kinder, Andrew, Lou, all the
folks who joined us on YouTube.
Cozenarm, Carmen, EJ Fish, Bill Sid, AB loyalty cannabis, live
bubble hash, Evan Brown, EJ. Glad to see everybody coming in
tonight. Thank you all so much for coming. I do appreciate it.
Welcome to Hota herbs grow and tell. We are live here on
clubhouse and live on YouTube. So if you like the conversation
tonight, please, if you're in clubhouse, please click on the
little greenhouse to join the future cannabis project club.
Click on any of the moderators to give them a follow. Click on
your fellow room members. Give them a follow too, because
obviously they're interested in these conversations. And they're
definitely somebody who should probably give a follow to and
look for in other rooms. If you're on YouTube, please feel
free to chime in. If you have questions, we'll answer questions
later. I'm do a pretty good job of trying to keep track of what's
going on. Although that chat gets a little crazy sometimes. So
we'll try to get your questions answered there as well. And if
you're on YouTube, please make sure you follow both the future
cannabis project and FCP. Oh, too. So enough of the basic
prompting. I am Jason Gideon, also known as Hota herb on
Instagram. I am a home cultivator and a armchair
agriculturist. I love regenerative farming,
regenerative practices, Korean natural farming is the is the
primary school of natural farming practices that I follow.
And I really, really enjoy growing all different types of
plants. grow and tell her to grow and tell was is a
cultivation club that we started for cannabis cultivators in
Massachusetts. A couple years back, Ben actually attended a
couple sessions with us in Western Mass. And unfortunately,
you know, we're we had to go online. And so now we're here
online doing this weekly, instead of monthly. And we are
here to talk about cultivating the plant and trying to find
ways to take better care of it. grow better plants, be more in
touch with what the plants are doing and understand how they
are performing the magic that they're performing every day. So
it's it's it's great. I am joined. And actually I'm
produced by as I mentioned earlier, the future cannabis
project. So thank you, Peter, as always for producing the show,
making it available simulcast on YouTube, and also recorded so
that people can go back and listen to the old episodes and
or re listen to something they might not have caught tonight. I
am joined tonight as my with my usual co host Nick from the
rooted leaf, Nick, you want to say hi.
Everyone, how's it going? I'm excited to be here. And I'm
looking forward to this. I'm actually just on clubhouse right
now. But I think for the next episode, I'm going to try to
join you guys on YouTube as well. So I'm looking forward to
getting to answer everyone's questions in real time. And
we've had some pretty stimulating conversations in the
past. So tonight, I think is also going to be very good.
Yeah, we've got some great, great angles as well. I think
it's not just going to be about, you know, people walking around
spraying stuff and doing foliar spray. I think you came up with
some amazing conversations for us to have tonight. I also like
to welcome to our stage and our group tonight. Josh Dutch
blooms, would you like to say hello?
What's going on, everybody? Thanks for having me on.
Everyone, I'm excited about this conversation. I'm really
passionate about foliar. supplementing, spraying, and I
think it's a thing that everyone should be tapping into. It's a
really way easy way to boost plant health. So stoked.
Awesome, awesome stuff. And joining us in his first hosting
engagement here on clubhouse. I brought Ben into the fold
yesterday, I got him hooked up and set up on clubhouse. And Ben
is a tremendous, tremendous educator and cultivating
consultant, actually. So Ben Morgan, Dylan, why don't you go
ahead and introduce yourself?
Hey, everybody, thank you kindly for having me tonight. It's a
pleasure to be on here speaking with my good friend Jason, as
well as an old friend of mine, actually Josh, who first sort of
got me started on the regenerative path with the
regen conferences with Hoda being my sidekick going along
and keeping me on a straight and steady while we had these
amazing conversations. And it's a pleasure to meet you as well,
Nick and Peter, thank you for having me on future cannabis
projects. As far as everybody else, I look forward to having
this conversation and getting your feedback, really starting
to dive deep into a little bit of what foliars can do for your
plants and the different aspects, different perspectives,
and seeing what y'all think as well.
Yeah, so awesome. Awesome. Thank you all for joining. I do
appreciate you getting in here. So let's dive in. Let's talk
about foliar, right. And, you know, we need to first off
always start with some, some very basics. And the reality is
that what we're talking about is the leafs, right, the leaf
surfaces are the main place that we're trying to address. And you
know, obviously, the stems are going to be able to take
advantage, there's biology and things going on in the stems and
the stalks, but a lot of the amazing power and interactions
are in the leaf itself. You know, the basic plants of leaf
morphology, you got different pieces of the plant, you have
the bracts, and bracteals, and stipules, and septules, and
petals, carpels, and scales, different ways of describing
different parts of the plant and different leaves. The leaves are
responsible for part of the plant's ability to breathe, to
you know, accept carbon dioxide and to expel oxygen. The plant
leaves are also a place that there's all the photosynthesis
happening, right? They're gigantic solar panels, almost
absorbing energy from light, and then helping convert that into
carbon. Everything is about carbon, right, Nick? And so the
leaves also, it's not just about photosynthesis, which is
obviously the main thing that we think about when we think about
the leaves and their ability to absorb light. But there's tons
and tons of fascinating chemical interactions going on within the
leaf surface. And we have a whole bunch of great topics
tonight, we're going to talk a little bit about the evolutionary
development and mechanics of what's going on on the leaves,
because the leaves are an interface, not just for that
exchange of gases, but also for the exchange of nutrients from
the environment, and from the things that land on its
surfaces. We're going to talk about tropical rainforests, we're
going to talk about lightning strikes. So really, really,
really good stuff tonight for this rabbit hole that we're
going to be diving down. So grab your beverages, grab your
cannabis, grab your snacks, we're going to right in. And the
first place I want to start, and I know Nick wants to dig in is
what is a plant? You want to kick it off, Nick?
Yeah, yeah, definitely. And I think, you know, for context,
for larger context, for the inspiration of this topic was
that, you know, foliar sprays, I think, generally speaking, are
kind of something that's like Josh mentioned, relatively
unheard of, maybe a lot of people aren't practicing foliar
sprays yet. And even for those of you who are in the habit of
foliar spraying your plants and providing nutrition through the
leaf surface, the exact mechanisms behind like what's
actually going on, may not make a whole lot of sense. So you
know, that to me has always by and large been okay, you know,
there's always room for learning more and for disagreement. But
the real sort of instigation of this conversation arose from the
idea I've been kind of hearing over the past, you know, few
months, if not few years, which is that the foliar surfaces are
not really like engineered to accept nutrition, or they're not
really designed to be able to input macronutrients or
something like that. So I wanted to kind of give a larger context
besides just this idea of doing foliar sprays on plants and why
that can be beneficial. Let's just take a look at what the
leaf surface is overall, just in general, what's the whole
purpose of what's going on? As Josh mentioned, the leaves are
giant solar panels, they function to capture electrical
energy from the sun, and then convert it into chemical energy,
so that the plants can use that chemical energy to grow. So
there's all kinds of different processes, plants have evolved
over time. Plants, generally speaking, are lumped into things
like C3 metabolism, C4 metabolism, and cam metabolism,
which sort of differentiates crops like cannabis and most of
the other crops that we know, from sugarcane, which is a C4
plant, and then cacti, which are M plants. So the reason all of
this stuff is very important is because we need to kind of look
at the mechanics of what's happening in the leaf surface,
what actually defines a plant, and how are plants sort of
separated by their ability to metabolize carbon. So all plants
generally speaking, function to displace carbon from the air,
which is in CO2, it's a gaseous form, it's fully oxidized, it
displace that from the air, and convert it into a soluble form
so that it can be stored in the soil. And as more and more
carbon gets transferred out of the air into the soil, a lot of
beneficial aspects of soil health also increase, you have
microbial populations that can sustain plants in stressful
conditions, you have fungal networks that can lift water six
to 10 feet away from the actual root hairs of the plant, they
can physically, hydraulically transfer water to the root
hairs, you have all of these really interesting relationships
happening. And all of that revolves around this notion that
plants primarily are perfectly engineered to transfer carbon
out of there into the soil, where it's the substrate for all
forms of life. And so part of I think our discussion tonight,
because we've got such awesome people here, we'll really take a
look at maybe some of the more sort of traditional or natural
farming approaches to applying nutrients and maybe some kind of
compost, teas or ferments or something like that across the
leaf surfaces. At the same time that we'll approach it from the
other angle, we'll look at the more scientific mechanisms, we'll
look at actually what's happening within the plants, you
know, what separates cacti and the way they metabolize carbon
from sugarcane and C4 plants and from cannabis, being a C3 plant.
So definitely excited to hop into it. Jason, where do you
think we should start?
Well, you know, it's, it's, you know, part of the part of the
conversation, and it's funny, and that's why the title of the
room was this is worth, is it worth the mess, right? Because I
hate foliar. I am. It's been the hardest thing for me, even, you
know, learning Korean natural farming, and these natural
farming approaches that tend to promote foliar approaches. It's
like the hardest thing for me. I don't like doing foliars,
because it's messy. That's the reality of it. I'm in a really
small environment. And the spray goes everywhere, right? And and
so for me, that's been a place that it's taken. It's taken me a
while to get to the point to a point where I am frequently
trying to include that in my regimen, so that the plants can
take advantage of it. And I've seen the benefit from it, right?
I can feel the difference between the this, you know, the
value of the leaf, how it feels, the thickness, how some of the
rigidity of it, all those things improve when you use foliar
applications as well. So I definitely have recognized the
benefits. But it for me as a as a as a small grower, it's been
the hardest thing for me to keep implementing in my garden because
of the mass factor. Sometimes I even just take all the plants
out, put them in a separate tray, spray them down and then
put them back in my plant in my tent. Because, again, I have such
a small space. As a home gardener, it's it's difficult.
But yeah, I completely agree. So it was kind of funny when when
we were talking about topics that we were gonna go over
tonight, I was like, I don't even like doing foliar. So I'm
glad that we're gonna get into it. And I definitely have seen
the benefit and encourage people to start including it. Because
it definitely is a helpful part of the routine.
Yeah, and I think, you know, beyond that, there's certain
form factors of the nutrients that we're looking for. Oftentimes,
the conversation around, like any kind of diverse microbial
activity people typically think of happens in the soil. In terms
of the rhizosphere, where you have this sort of interface
between plants and not plants, you have microbes, or
mycorrhizal fungi, or whatever the case is. There's also this
thing called the phyllosphere, which exists on the leaf
surface. And this phyllosphere is also home in some cases to
beneficial microbes that exist on the leaf surface. And what
they're kind of doing is very similar to what's happening in
the roots. Some of these beneficial microbes on the leaf
surface can be very helpful for plants in terms of their primary
and secondary metabolism. So part of what I think the
approach to looking at all of this, like the individual topics
we'll look at tonight, the general way to kind of look at
them is not only have plants evolved these sensory mechanisms
to perceive their environment through the leaf surface, but
furthermore, that these sensory mechanisms are incredibly fine
tuned, and they're very detail oriented such that they can
spot the difference, or they can detect the difference between
something like a caterpillar that's biting at its leaf
surface versus a fungi that's attempting to penetrate and to
infect itself. I mean, it has the ability, plants have this
innate ability to perceive things down to a very fine level
of detail. And so, we need to interface this into our
understanding of how the foliar surface itself is this exchange
site. The primary mechanism, obviously, people understand
photosynthesis, it's like a solar panel, as we just
mentioned, it absorbs light energy and converts it into
chemical energy. But there's also a lot of other things that
the foliar surfaces can do with some of the chemical compounds
that are produced. And I think the best way again, to kind of
back up one step at large and say that all plants function to
displace carbon from the air into the soil, that's the
process we need to focus on is how do plants actually do that?
What are they soaking up out of the air, the carbon dioxide? How
are they converting it into organic acids and sugars and
various other secondary metabolites, and then
transporting it down into the soils where it serves as the
basis for all this very complex activity. And all that is to say
that the foliar surface is not this passive thing that just
kind of flutters in the breeze and is at the mercy of the wind.
It's this very highly active, highly tuned and highly sensitive
environment. So part of what this also revolves around, as I
mentioned earlier, is this sort of distinction between C3, C4,
and CAM plants. So with that, Jason, do you want to kind of
get into that a little bit right now?
Yeah, absolutely. You know, so you mentioned earlier, right,
we've got the, you know, the cannabis plant, which is part of
that C3 carbon fixation group, shirt, hurricane, and some of
the plants like that, that are part of the C4 carbon fixation
group and cacti as the CAM group. So all of those, they're
kind of unique sets of plants in the plant family or plant
kingdoms. And I think, you know, when we were talking about this,
you were, you know, basically most of the plants on earth are
C3. And most plants are following that same C3 carbon
fixation model.
Before we, can I just butt in for half a second?
Absolutely.
Before we get into the science of it. You know, Nick and I
hang out fairly often. And he's kind of the science nerd, and
I'm the practical brute farmer guy.
We appreciate that perspective.
There's a lot of details to how you foliar, and when you foliar
and what you foliar. And I just wanted to say like, you know,
before we get into it, that I have a whole lot to say about
that, and maybe solve some of your messiness issues and stuff.
But I think it's important that we get into the what's going on
and why we're doing it and then get into the, you know, the how
to on all different scales, you know, if you if you for folks
that follow my feed, I often talk about what I'm doing. But I
have grown intense, I've grown in all sorts of ways. And there's
lots of simple solutions to, you know, do these things. And,
and there's a lot of details into when and why. And you know,
there's a lot of confusion about how KNF fits into the to the
this, the flower cycle of a plant, you know, and foliar. So
I just wanted to kind of throw that out there for everybody.
You know, yeah, that this will, we will have practicality to it
too. Oh, yeah, yeah, absolutely. We're gonna we're gonna segue
into that actually, as part of a later topic when we talk about
the rainforest. Because I think it's also important that we talk
about some of the myths or science around foliar during
light, right with lights on and with lights off some of the
discussion around that. And so that's actually part of that
topic. So do we want to, I'm happy to get into some of those
do's and don'ts now if the if the panel I don't think I just
wanted to I just wanted to throw it out there. Because I know how
I am like, at least myself, like, I have to have a goal to
stick through to get through the science, you know, my FDA, but,
you know, okay, I gotta understand this, so that I can
it's gonna help me, you know, spray me better.
How is me listen, I could be working in the garden. How is
this hour of science going to help me with what I'm doing in
the garden?
But yeah, no, absolutely. I think it's, you know, when when
Nick and I were talking about topics to discuss tonight, we
had, we actually had this discussion in a couple different
orders. But we wanted to start out with that with the basics of
the plant and the different types of plants and some of
those mechanics so that when we get into that conversation later
it will be a little bit more dense or more, you know,
dense or more tied into the overall conversation.
I think the point overall is regardless of what we're doing
foliar sprays of the whole point is going to be to stimulate this
process of carbon fixation. That's one of the more
important aspects of plant metabolism in general, and
really just the function of the leaf surface. So to really
maximize the function of what the leaves are trying to
achieve, and then spray like inorganic mineral salts, which
I'm not saying you guys do, let's just be very clear. I know
my audience here. I'm not suggesting by any means, but you
know, when people typically think foliar spray, well,
they're just like, Oh, well, let me just grab my, you know,
bottle of NPK. Or let me just grab my salts, mix it up and
then do the foliar spray that way, which, again, has its time
in place, but it may not be the primary benefit that's
achieved. We could state the primary benefit of just carbon
metabolism at large, but I think it does make sense to kind of
get into just very briefly looking at like, out of all of
the plants that have evolved on this planet, because there's a
lot of plants out there, guys, it's not a small number. There's
hundreds of 1000s of species of plants, and they all produce
potentially in total millions and millions of different
compounds. Some of them are highly unique, some of them are
highly specific, they're very potent medicines, they're very
potent psychedelics, they have very potent properties,
otherwise, too. These things are kind of like worth looking at
because the real question always is, well, how did the plant make
it? What had to happen? You can always trace these sort of
reactions back to obviously the sun and the water and the CO2.
But beyond that, what we're trying to do with the foliar
surfaces is look at specifically what plants are trying to
achieve through the foliar surfaces, because I think that
in and of itself is going to give good context for folks that
want to know, well, what's just the shortcut easy answer? What
should I spray on the leaf surface? We have to kind of look
at that a little bit. And then the goal is to increase carbon
metabolism overall. C3 plants like cannabis plants, like, as
Jason mentioned, they account for a very large percentage of
the plants that make up all plants on earth. It's something
like 95-97% somewhere in there. And they have this kind of
unique feature that people over the past 30 to 40 years have
been looking at, and thinking that it's this inefficiency,
which is that rubisco enzyme, quote unquote, misfires. So
rubisco is the enzyme that literally takes CO2 out of the
air, and it converts it into soluble sugars within the plant.
This is the most abundant enzyme on earth. This is not produced
in a minor quantity. This makes up over half of all of the
proteins on your leaf surface. Just go ahead and look at your
plants and look at one of the leaves and think to yourself,
over 50% of what I'm looking at is a single protein. That
protein has one job, suck CO2 out of there, convert it into a
sugar. Rubisco for C3 plants operates in kind of a funny way,
you see, in the sense that it tends to, it appears to misfire
every two or three cycles. So imagine if you had a car that
was running, and, you know, three quarters to two thirds of
the time, the engine was making kind of a funny noise, like it
was misfiring, you'd probably take a look under the hood and
and try to understand what's going on, right? So scientists
have been doing this for a while. C3 plants have this
interesting mechanism where instead of CO2 hitting rubisco,
oxygen hits rubisco. And the reasons for this are kind of
multifold. First off in the atmosphere, natural
environmental concentrations of CO2, 400 to 500 ppm, the
concentration of oxygen significantly higher. So you end
up with this ratio of gases in the air that displace CO2, CO2
becomes very like hard to grab molecules very minor, in
comparison to oxygen. So evolutionarily, C4 plants have
evolved this mechanism to take CO2 out of the air and to
concentrate it right before it hits this active site of
rubisco. And they've become very efficient at it in the sense
that for C4 plants, like sugarcane, specifically, the
amount of CO2 that they can introduce to rubisco is about 10
times above normal atmospheric concentrations, which is huge. I
mean, think about it this way, you have a plant that's growing
outdoors, and it's growing as though it's in a 4000 ppm CO2
environment. There are these specialized structures that help
funnel more carbon dioxide into the active site of rubisco. So
there's less competition for oxygen. What this translates to
is that C4 plants grow like monsters. They grow quite
quite literally like they're under 4000 ppm of CO2, maybe
closer to 5000 ppm of CO2. They grow incredibly fast. They
accumulate a lot of organic acids, they produce a lot of
sugars. That's why you can literally juice a sugarcane
stock. In the sap itself, the juice that comes out is like
dripping with molasses and sugar. It's like this very rich
and dense, carbohydrate dense fluid and it has specifically to
do with the efficiency of the carbon metabolism. The fact that
most plants are C3 and not C4 begs the question, well, what's
going on with the C3 plants if they make up a large portion of
the plants found on earth? If they're thought to be
inefficient, and the engine misfires, why has it not
evolved? Why have these plants not evolved similar to C4
plants? I think the answer to that actually revolves around
nitrate reduction and nitrogen assimilation into proteins. You
see the every time that the engine in a C3 plant like
cannabis misfires, the energy that's produced effectively
results in the plant being able to chemically reduce nitrates.
In environments where you have, I don't know, a lot of lightning
strikes, for instance, or you have a lot of rainfall, a lot of
cloud cover. When the lightning strikes through the atmosphere,
the nitrogen gas and nitrogen is about 78 to 80% of the
atmosphere. It makes up a large portion of the gas that we're
breathing in right now. When the lightning strikes, it will
separate the nitrogen bonds and allow them to recombine with or
reassociate with other elements and form new molecules like when
oxygen and nitrogen meet under the right chemical conditions
with the right electrical spark, they'll make nitrates that get
dissolved in the rain. When you have lightning strikes and
rainfall afterwards, that rain is carrying a lot of dissolved
nitrates down. As those dissolved nitrates tap the leaf
surfaces, the C3 plants are capable, they have this
evolutionary mechanism that they've evolved to actually
process the nitrates. They can fix them and they can chemically
reduce them and they can transform them into amino acids.
There's this really interesting idea of how plants evolved, not
only sensitive to CO2 concentrations like CAM plants
and C4 plants did, but also C3 plants with nitrate reduction in
particulars, this really interesting property of them,
which also helps explain why nitrates, cannabis plants
respond so remarkably well to nitrates is because they have
this evolutionary history that predisposes them extremely
strongly to actually be able to process high amounts of nitrates
very efficiently. They can produce a large amount of
biomass, they can produce a large amount of proteins using a
food source that CAM plants and C4 plants cannot handle in such
high concentrations. This is a very interesting topic maybe
that a couple of the other speakers here maybe want to
elaborate on a little bit.
Yeah, I think just to jump in there, when you're talking about
the lightning, when we were talking about this, it's like
when that lightning is, you get the lightning and you get all
these charged particles in the air and there's a conversion of
some of those things over and it's like a chemical soup,
right, is what you're explaining it to me is all the water in
there is supercharged and has these nitrates and some of these
things are, you know, possibly part of the origins of life you
were talking about amino acids and some of those things get
created off of there.
Yeah, definitely the right conditions in the right places
for primordial, you know, like pre life conditions, it's a
little bit more arguable. But I think to some extent, it's been
demonstrated and please don't quote me on this anyone, but I
think to some extent, it's been sort of demonstrated that if you
have, you know, basically the equivalent of a volcano that's
erupting and producing a lot of organic compounds that are
volatile, you know, it's spewing a bunch of carbon out of the
inside of the earth, and then there's lightning strikes with
rain and precipitation. That's somewhere between like the
carbon and the nitrogen and the oxygen that you're going to
probably be able to form some kind of basic prebiotic compound
like amino acid. So yeah, that much stands to reason, but I
think, you know, fast forward, regardless of how that occurred,
there's another thing that I want to point out to about
rainforests, which is that rainforests are home, or they're
typically regions that have the greatest diversity in plant
species, they have the greatest density in plant species as
well. And this is kind of, I want to point out the face value
attribute here, which is that in a rainforest, it rains a lot, it
rains a lot during the day. And as plants, you know, go through
their daily cycles of primary and secondary metabolism,
they're producing compounds that emit from the leaf surface. And
so if you have great species diversity and great species
density in an area where it rains, and the sun's always out,
you have this dynamic through which the plants are capable of
sending chemical messages out. And I think that there's
something that's maybe misunderstood in the sense that
the foliar surfaces, again, they're very sensitive, they're
capable of perceiving chemical signals, like everyone knows,
you know, the ripening banana trick, right ethylene gas,
plants respond to that through their foliar surfaces. And
that's not this evolutionary accident, that's actually
something that's very specific and very highly tuned. So I
think there is something to be said about doing foliar sprays,
you know, during the day. But having said that, you have to
find the right foliar nutrient to apply during the day so that
you get the right kind of chemistry evoked and provoked.
And then you can effectively turn the plants into, you know,
thinking that they're in a rainforest surrounded by all of
this wonderful, diverse biological activity. And, you
know, the sun's out and the rain's out, the plants don't get
burned in the right context, again, with the species
diversity, when it rains in the sun's out, these plants in the
middle of tropical regions, they're not necessarily burning
to a crisp, right? It's the quality of what's going on
there. It's the dilution of all these volatiles that are being
produced and the way that they interact with, you know, water
in the presence of light, energy and oxygen, like, there's a lot
of chemistry happening. And you can smell it when you walk
through a rainforest, you can smell it when you walk through a
forest, any forest right after it rains, it has a distinct
smell. That's chemistry, there's something happening.
Absolutely. The, and I think it's, you know, another thing
that happens often, and just to just to, you know, cap that out,
right, is that those storms, those rain, the storms that
occur in the rainforest, and those tropical regions also have
a ton of lightning with them. They're usually accompanied by
very fast, very intense bursts of weather in those regions
where it rains for a very short time at a very intense level. And
as those storms move in and out there, a lot of lightning with
them. I know from my time in Florida, there was tons and tons
of lightning strikes all the time that accompanied these tiny
little storms that would float around. So yeah, no, it's it's
very interesting when we were talking about this yesterday
about that connection between the lightning charging and the
activity that happens in the chemical interchanges that are
happening, that's almost supercharging those environments,
especially places like rainforests, where you have that
diversity of signals, that diversity of plants and life and
biology, and all those different mixes.
Nick, can I just ask for a clarifier on that? In my
mind, when it rains, like here in the Northwest, when it rains,
it's overcast. Even on a day that it can be sunny,
we have maybe a little rain patch that comes through,
and for that to happen, it's coming out of the clouds and
it's overcast for that time and it may pass. And that's all
fine and good. But to clarify what I think you're saying is
that there's a chemical change as the rain, and specifically
with the rain that's coming down that makes it acceptable for
the leaf surface. Because I'm thinking of the indoor growers
who are in a room and that want to do foliars or a tent
or whatever. Yeah, maybe just let you hit on that again.
Yeah, I mean, for someone that's growing indoors, it's going to
be different than somebody growing outdoors. And I think
part of it too, is just, you know, if there's a rain cloud
that passes through, dumps a bunch of rain, passes, and then
the sun starts to shine, you know, you do have some effect
where the sun starts to create water vapor immediately,
whatever moisture is sitting on top of the soil, when the sun's
rays hit it, it starts to warm it up and you get this
evaporation type of effect. And those little micro droplets of
water as they work their way up the plant, those can help, you
know, create some aerosols or create some other sort of, you
know, solubilized compounds that the plant is also emitting from
its leaf surface. So I would argue that the plants are pretty
sensitive, in the sense that they know when the rain cloud
passes and the sun comes back up, that they have this ability
to spike the production of certain compounds that may be
possible to lift off the surface, either through the
presence of just the light itself or the water. Obviously,
that's going to be a little bit different.
That's a little hard. I mean, just that's a little hard
indoors for the plants to figure that shit out. Right?
That's correct. Yeah. So when you're spraying indoors, what
you're trying to look for, you know, is, I mean, if you're
looking, if you're just a commercial cannabis producer,
and you're trying to keep your plants super healthy, and
you're trying to get a good, large production, good quality
yield, you want to spray something like an organic acid
based product, or you want to spray a carbon based product,
maybe, to some extent, sugar based products, molasses based
products would work pretty well. But the reason that you want to
do that is because those leaf surfaces are primarily the site
at which a lot of organic acids naturally accumulate. And those
organic acids have this very broad and diverse set of roles
that they play to help solubilize minerals to kind of
help exchange, you know, minerals back and forth between
various parts of the plant, they also kind of go down into the
roots. And, you know, they can they can be used in the
biosynthesis of amino acids. So anytime plants fix carbon CO2
out of the air, that CO2 is going to get converted into an
organic acid pretty much 100% of the time. So organic acids by
and large are this sort of think about them like they're a
transitionary state of carbon fluxes within the plant as
carbon becomes more and more abundant in the plant. So to do
the organic acid stores, and in some cases, organic acid
concentrations can be like 25 to 50% of the overall carbon
metabolism of a plant. So again, this is not an insignificant
thing. This is a very, very fundamental aspect of plant
biology. So doing foliar sprays, if you're a commercial producer
doing something indoors, you know, it's best to do something
like an organic acid based foliar spray, there's a lot of
different sort of, or, you know, what you want to do there. I
think one of the things like, yeah, you know, to kind of back
up one step two, it's a little bit interesting doing this
conversation around foliar sprays, because the flagship
product that we make solar rain, it's a magnesium based foliar
spray. And the foliar concept has always been really sort of
intriguing to me, especially because you could supplement
magnesium across the foliar surface, and destined it for,
you know, biosynthesis of chlorophyll, for instance, or
incorporation to rubisco, if you could figure out how to do it
properly. So the ability to give the plants like a turbocharger
kind of effect where you spray something on the plants, and all
of a sudden, they take a shortcut through time, you know,
if it takes them 12 hours to metabolize, let's just say
hypothetically 100, you know, milliliters of CO2 or something
like that. If in the foliar spray, you could give them the
same amount of carbon and just squeeze that down into a couple
of minutes, maybe in total of metabolism for the plant, you
would effectively give the plant a huge boost of energy for free.
And that's, I think, the whole focus here of what we're talking
about, at its core is to try to find a way to increase plant
productivity, overall, and get them to just produce better
compounds to be healthier, to have better structure and to be
a little bit more stable overall.
So I think, you know, this is this is the I think this is a
good place to start actually jumping into some of that
discussion around foliar do's and don'ts. Some of the
discussion around and you definitely want to get into some
of the conversations around, obviously, different chemicals,
different nutrients, and whether they were mobile or not,
obviously, and some of that discussion, right, we touched on
mobility a little bit, I think, two weeks ago, and a little bit
about what that means. But it I think you want to go you want to
go down the do's and don'ts alley first. And then we can get
into back into a little bit deeper into some of that
different types of nutrients and which ones are best for foliars
and which ones aren't.
Yeah, yeah, I think it'd be good to maybe get Ben and Josh to,
you know, talk a little bit about the sort of practical,
more like natural traditional farming approaches to, you know,
foliar sprays, maybe what are some of the benefits to look for
what are some of the ingredients to work with and use.
And then maybe off of that, I can kind of piggyback off that
and then get into some of the technical sort of details and
kind of help people understand like why exactly this is
happening. Because, you know, to me, ultimately, you know, all
this stuff is very complex, you have to appreciate the
simplicity in terms of how beautiful it is. But at the same
time, if you're not really digging and trying to find out
like what's actually going on, on a molecular level, then
you're really missing out on the more nuanced bits and the more
detailed bits and plants are extremely subtle. So you need to
be able to kind of learn how to perceive the subtle cues. And
this typically, you know, requires some, some some
combination of the both, you have to kind of look at, you
know, a merger of two techniques. So I kind of like
the discussions that we're capable of having here, I think
it provides people with large sort of framework to see
everything.
Yeah, absolutely. And you know, and from my standpoint, you
know, I'm doing, I'm following KNF practices, I'm not doing a
foliar spray probably as often as I should, but I definitely
try to get in there at least every two weeks or so and give a
good foliar application of whatever the primary nutrient is
for that specific part of the lifecycle. I don't, I definitely
stay away from the foliars once the flower, once I get into
flower, especially after those first two weeks, I'm not, I'm
extremely cautious about flower, but I'm a little bit more
cavalier and veg. So for me, primarily doing the, you know,
more of the nitrogen based sprays, we have FAA, which is
fish, fish amino acid, which we're introducing early in the
Korean natural farming from a vegetative standpoint. We're
also using OHN, which is that oriental herbal nutrient, which
is an antipathogenic, again, trying to put some of those
antipathogenic and some of those probiotic capabilities on leaf
surfaces to also help, you know, more good guys than bad guys
type of approach. And that's, that's, that's most of what I'm
using it for. I have occasionally in the past used
some IPM type oils like peppermint oil and thyme oil,
but I hadn't necessarily seen the full benefit of those and
they tend to leave little spots, oily spots sometimes. So I try
to stay away from, from the oil based stuff, as you were saying,
probably more the water soluble type stuff. Ben, what about you?
Let's hear from you. Let's talk about foliar.
So when I utilize foliar in cannabis specifically, I mean,
I'm using Korean natural farming methodologies, but I'm
sticking predominantly pretty much to the SES solution, which
is your fermented plant juice, your OHN. I like to throw a
little bit of labs in there and also some apple cider vinegar.
And when I'm utilizing that it's, you know, predominantly in
vegetative state, and it shows me a really good growth, but it
also shows me a really good stability throughout the plant.
I find that it helps to sort of balance the points of growth
throughout the plant. I tend to find I have, I do a lot of
scrogging. And when I'm doing multi-level scrogging, you sort
of start to see the outliers of which particular apical nodes
are sort of growing faster than others. And I find that when
I'm utilizing SES, it sort of stabilizes that growth and I get
a more even canopy versus not utilizing it. Following SES
treatments would be, you know, throughout the growth patterns,
I'm going to be utilizing things like, but usually it's
based all off of my SES. So I'll add things to, you know, add an
attribute to it throughout a certain stage. But SES is
usually my sort of go-to initial tonic solution that I'm going to
augment rather than creating an entirely different one. Though
FAA, like you had mentioned for that high nitrogen, highly,
highly effective in that early vegetative growth.
All right. So Josh, I know that you love to talk about foliar.
So you want to go ahead and jump on in here. Definitely some of
those tips for indoor growers and cultivators. I know you've
got indoor and outdoor and you've got some great
experience in some of the more gorilla grow styles as well. So
go for it, man.
Yeah, man. I mean, I think that number one, if you're, you know,
like there's a whole lot to talk about. Like if we're talking
about IPM, that's a different discussion. And I think we
should, you know, maybe for the moment, at least leave that
aside and just focus on nutrients and biology. And, you
know, when it comes to Korean natural farming, the way I, you
know, the way I use Korean natural farming in my cannabis
garden, I'm sure a lot of folks have heard me say this before,
is I kind of use it like it's a tool, it's part of my toolbox.
And that's what all my foliars are. They're like, for the most
part, they're a toolbox that I have. And sometimes I need a
little more iron. Sometimes I need a little more calcium.
Sometimes I need a little bit more nitrogen. And, but I, you
know, if I don't see benefit from something, I like what Ben
was saying, like he how and I've heard this from a lot of
Korean natural farmers as they've got into it, they they
they hang up on hang up on but they they kind of get used to
it and in like they see results from using the SCS spray. And
you know what you get out of it's real base. It's a real
base nutrient, you're getting the OHN, which is kind of a full
mineral nutrient digested over like three months. It's pretty
It's pretty slick. You know, and so like this, the stuff that I
the stuff that I do, I guess I just want to hit that home that
you should see some results. And if you know, Jason, if you're
not feeling like if you're not seeing the results, then you're
not encouraged to do it. Like, it's kind of like this thing
that you're like, Oh, absolutely. I should do this.
You know, I feel like I need to but like and I mean, when I say
see the results. I mean, like that day, you know, you know, I
mean, like, Oh, wow, something just happened, you know, like,
holy shit, I'm gonna do that as much as I can, you know?
Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely.
I think that you know what I mean? Like, because, and then
you know, then go, you know, going through the dirty factor
of it, you know, some of those things like, I can imagine,
dude, and I know I've sprayed FAA. So like, I have a big
commercial sprayer, right that I use in my greenhouse and
outdoors. But I have a bunch of indoor grow rooms. I have eight
light, four light, six light, you know, the whole spectrum. I
don't really have a one lighters. But I'll, my point is
I'll walk, you know, when I'm sometimes lazy, I'll add extra
spray, depending on what it is. I'll walk into these grow rooms
with my hose and just kind of like, you know, muscle in there
and blast the whole fucking room. And shit's going
everywhere and hitting the walls, you know, and if it's
depending on the room, if it's a wall that like, is a panda film,
it's really fucking easy to see how dirty it is to drop.
Fish amino acid, gut rotten gut shit.
Yep, yep, absolutely. You know, your fermented plant juice or if
you're if you got an FFJ, right, that's fermented fruit juice. So
you get all those sugars and things in there.
And it's problematic too, because in the moment, it's good
for the plants, right? Your plants are getting a benefit. But
in the long term, you're like putting literally organic residue
on the walls that absolutely the climate goes bad. That's
that's a it's a it's a pathogen waiting to happen.
You know, yes, absolutely. It's a vector for for
problems. Absolutely. And we were actually talking about this
in the KF room yesterday. In the in the after room where Cheryl
was talking about the fact that, you know, you can't really
control IMO once you release it, it kind of goes wild. And you
know, you might start having mushrooms growing on some of the
woodwork and some other things if you're not careful with some
of these organic
and you may not want that like that may be your building.
Right, exactly. Like, right, right. Like, this is my house.
I don't I don't, you know, it's not what I'm trying to do here.
So yeah, I don't absolutely. And so that's that that was kind of
why I adopted that approach where I was physically pulling
the plants out of the tent, putting them in a tray so that
I could, you know, walk around them, spray them down from all
sides and not have to worry about them getting on the wall.
And then letting them just drip and drain down a bit before and
kind of dry down a little bit before I put them back in the
tent. And you know, that also alleviates some of that stress
from super bright lights, although Nick was saying that we
might not necessarily want to be as concerned with the super
bright lights, depending on the type of mixture using. And I
what's your experience with spraying the Korean natural
farming thing?
Well, so let me just just hit that hit this whole thing one
more time, like, so Korean natural farming, natural farming,
farming, organically farming in a way that mimics nature,
whether we call it regenerative, all these different terms, like
you, you're letting everything that is happening that the 90%
of what's happening is happening in the root zone. And and we
have to, like, you know, still pay homage to that. And what
we're doing, in my in my opinion, what we're doing is
we're, we're mitigating where those those areas where the
root zone for whatever reason, there's a plethora of reasons
why why the roots may not be able to uptake certain
nutrients. But we're growing, you know, we aren't growing like
carrots out here or peppers or whatever the fuck you want to
call it, you know, we're growing racecar engine plants
that we want to perform at a crazy pace. And we don't want to
skip a day, we don't want to skip a week. And so foliars are
this ability to, you know, hit those to hit those weak points
in our organic system. And so same with with Korean natural
farming, I think the common thing that I see people do, you
know, I just want to hit this. So it's really clear. And I
apologize if I'm beating a dead horse, but not at all. The big
thing is IMO, learning to do IMO, IMO, 12345. High fives, if
you get to five, you know, if you don't know what that means,
you got to check out Chris Trump's website. The future
cannabis project has some interviews with Chris and you
can go go down that and learn what those means. But but
essentially, it's a way to inoculate your system with by
the proper biology. It's similar to doing a proper soil food web
compost. And when we're in then what when people latch on is you
you know, a lot of people will take the Korean natural farming
course and then part of that you sit down and you you look at a
lifecycle of a plant and it's based off rice actually. And
they look up you know how in the veg stage you need a little bit
more nitrogen. And then as you move into the there's a
transition stage in between you know, veg and flour. And you
know, in for me, just like every other cannabis grower, when you
sit down and look at that, you're like, hot damn, you know,
I literally drove, you know, across the state, you know, from
Northwest Washington down to Idaho to do this thing. And I
sat down in the class, I walked in late, felt a little
embarrassed, looked at that sheet. And I was like, holy
shit, I got the whole thing. I don't even need to take this
minds will leave. Because I looked at the feed chart, and it
all just clicked. But what I didn't understand is that it's
it's not a feed chart, you know, a feed chart in a bottle
nutrient program is based upon growing in pots in pots, you
grow in a soil that loses that runs out of the nutrients in
that soil within two to three weeks. So you have to continue
to feed that soil, whether it be non organically or organically,
you got to feed those microbes, or you got to feed that plant to
keep up with the lack of that, that you know, because the soil
that the pot is is restricted. And so, right. You know, I guess
I think you've mentioned, and I think you've mentioned really
that it's like that. And we've talked about it lightens talked
about it, right, which is like anything smaller than 35
gallons, right? It's hard to do true living soil, to have a
natural true environment that is reproductive enough to be able to
support that plant's life, right?
Well, if you just think of it like that, that's in terms of
like a water only idea. But you know, people grow organically
in living soils in like one gallon pots, you know, I do it
from time to time, you know, I'm doing it right now. So there's
all sorts of reasons you'd want to do that. And I guess my point
is that when we when we look at that, if people want to jump to
the bottle nutrient program, you know, on it, the synthetic
program, they want to apply k nf in the way you'd apply bottle
nutrients. And that's not the way you need to think about it.
The way you think about it is, is IMO is 90% of the nutrient
exchange that's happening in the soil through the biology, the
biology is literally eating, you know, rocks and turning into
minerals that the plant can uptake. It's really beautiful,
very complex. What we're talking about, once again, is just, you
know, in a k nf, this is kind of missed, because k nf is being
taught from the place of vegetables and not of the place
of cannabis. And it's just kind of started people just in the
last year or two started to kind of transition some of that. But
you know, we can't spray past week one, really, you know, two,
if we're crazy, you know, right. So we can only get veg nudes out
of it, you know what I mean? And that's a really important thing
for people to understand, and maybe a transition, you know.
And that's what we're talking about here is is everything
prior to week two and flower and getting that plant set up to
like, do the thing has to do for eight to 12 weeks, whatever it
is, you know. That was a long winded way to say that. But I
think that it was it was important to touch on all that
for people to really understand, because I think it's, it's just,
once again, really easy to jump down that bottle nutrient
program thing. And so when I'm spraying, I have a plethora,
again, of tools, you know, some of it is, you know, acids, Nick
was hitting on, that's my big one is I use fulvic acid. And
there's lots of ways to get fulvic acid to derive it, you
can press it cold, press it out of compost, which is really
cool. If you have really good compost, you can press it out.
And you can see you the difference because it's it's
gold, they call it liquid gold. People mine it. There's all
sorts of different ways. And I really love, you know, the way
I think about fulvic acid, and I think Nick was hitting on it,
he'll probably this is maybe a good point for him to tap in on
it. But the way I think about it is it's, in my mind, the great
charlater. It kind of helps, you know, it's helps the plants do
do whatever they need to do and find whatever they need to find
in the root zone so that they can uptake and move. And it's,
it's drastic. It's within hours, you see the difference, you
know, the plant, the plants just pray they love it. Yeah, so
I don't know, Nick, if you want to cut me off.
Yeah, I mean, just to kind of piggyback on that, you know, the
fulvics, the the organic acids themselves, like fulvic and
humic acids, think about it like compost that's been composted
for a very long time. And so depending on the quality of the
compost, if it's been exposed to oxygen or not, you may have
higher degrees of biological activity versus lower degrees of
biological activity. But all of this basically revolves around
plant metabolism. To back up a couple hundred million years,
the Ordovician period was marked by the colonization of land
plants, bryophytes specifically started to spread. And two
things that happened pretty simultaneously. One is that CO2
levels in the air went down, and that the weathering of silicate
minerals went through the roof. As plants sucked CO2 out of the
air, they quite literally created soil. The basis for all
soil across this entire planet is CO2 that was fixed by plant
leaf surfaces, scrubbed out like a vacuum cleaner and then dumped
into the soil in the form of some organic acid that may or may
not compost over a very long period of time. So if you have
plant residues that can continue to weather or break down over
the course of, you know, hundreds of thousands, if not
millions of years, those tend to form humic substances. These
humic substances, generally speaking, can be characterized
by a couple of things. Partially, they're functional
groups and they're structural groups. So if you're looking at
humic acids, one of the properties of humic acids is
that they contribute to physical soil structure, such that these
molecules have the ability to physically sort of stand up and
prop themselves up, which allows for the infiltration of water
and oxygen. And it prevents the compaction of soils when there's
a large amount of water, which weighs, you know, several pounds
that's introduced on top of the soil surface. So humic
substances play physical roles. They also play electrochemical
roles in the sense that as this plant material digests, whether
they've been broken down in the soils over time, some of these
active organic acid residues are capable of chelating cations,
minerals. And so this is the basis of all soil formation is
the ability for these substances in the soil to actually hold
minerals that have a charge. And then this charge, obviously, the
minerals themselves can be accessed by the plants. Fulvic
acids are a little bit different in that they don't have any
methoxy groups inside of them. This is one of the
characteristics of fulvic acids. They don't have this structural
quality to them. They don't have the ability to afford mechanical
attributes to the soil. Instead, fulvic acids are marked by a
high degree of solubility across the cell walls, and a high degree
of biological activity. They have a large potential for redox
reactions, reduction and oxidation reactions. And this is
again, it all comes back to this revolves around organic acids.
Well, where did the organic acids come from? They come from
plants scrubbing CO2 out of the air and dumping it into the
soil. This is quite literally the basis for all complex
biological activity and the formation of all soil across the
entire planet. So it's not, you know, an understatement to say
that when organic acids are stored in pools, when plants,
that they serve primary purposes for the colonization of
beneficial microbes and beneficial fungi, things like
that. So in the foliar surfaces, when plants fix the CO2, and
they convert that into sugars and organic acids, well, those
are then useful for a variety of other purposes. So that if
there's beneficial microbes in the soil, let's say you've got a
species of microbe that specializes in mining away
silicates and releasing a variety of different positively
charged minerals. Well, those minerals that the microbe
releases to the plant have to be kind of met with the
accompanying molecule that can carry that charge. Because
elemental calcium, elemental potassium, elemental magnesium,
these things are extremely violent, they will detonate
water, if you added elemental magnesium or elemental
potassium into water, you would quite literally have an
explosion. That's how much chemical energy is released.
Then you would form the corresponding hydroxide
molecule and the pH would skyrocket, you would just go
through the roof. So plants cannot sustain a high pH
environment, they need to have this thing called a charge
balance. If you have a positive charge, you must have a
negative charge, the two meet in the middle. And there's this
neutralization, there's this balancing effect that happens.
So when the plants are trying to access minerals that get
weathered through time, the bridge for all of that is the
organic acids that are produced as a result of photosynthesis.
So this leaf surface, you know, I would personally argue that
the leaf surface is, you know, 90% of what's actually going on
in the plant, the roots themselves function to lift water
hydraulically out and to supply that water for this interface of
photosynthesis. Because if the light intensity goes down and
the carbon intensity goes down, so too does the transpiration.
That's the important thing is that if you give the plants
optimal levels of CO2 and carbon across their leaf surfaces, and
you give them enough light to charge the process, they will
uptake the water. But if you drop the CO2, you drop the
lights, the water metabolism falls shortly thereafter,
because the leaves are not nearly as functional. So this
is an indication that whatever is happening in the leaves is
driving the whole plant metabolism. And again, you know,
it's this idea that over hundreds of millions of years,
you get this progressive accumulation of substances that
actually create soil. And there's a lot of very complex
biological activity that happens as a result of, you know, good
soil chemistry. But the basis again, for all soil is carbon
deposits that plants have made. And it happened again, to kind
of go back a little bit, several hundred million years,
it happened in the Ordovician period, when bryophytes first
started to colonize land. And that's literally how soils came
to be across this entire planet. So, you know, for the for the
purpose of discussing foliar sprays, it's like, you can
really boost the primary metabolic functions, you can
increase the root growth, actually, interestingly enough,
if you have the right types of molecules that are introduced,
you can influence root architecture inside of the
plants. You know, for a lot of people that know their plant
hormones, they may know that auxins are produced in the
apical meristem of the plant, meaning the top growth of the
plant, that apical meristem that produces the most auxin, quite
literally tells the roots, hey, I'm the head of the plant, I
need the most nutrients. And so you get this upward flow of
nutrition from the roots, which are they understand what the
head of the plant is, and they start to lift the nutrition up
and funnel it towards that apical meristem. And so
obviously, growers take advantage of this, they say,
hey, I can talk to plants, I can make several heads, I can make
several apical meristems. But the hidden sort of biology
behind it, I think is worth focusing on too, because when
you talk to plants, and you create multiple apical
meristems, it creates a positive pressure on the roots, the
roots all of a sudden have a demand from more apical
meristems, more heads of the plant saying, hey, give me more
nutrients, give me more water, give me more minerals. The
other thing I want to mention real quick, too, before I pass
the mic back is that, you know, when we're looking specifically
at leaf surfaces and how they absorb nutrients, you know,
let's not forget, a lot of the stuff is very complex. For
example, I bet you guys didn't know that non-glandular trichomes
are actually specifically designed to facilitate the
uptake of minerals like zinc, for example, and some of the
more, you know, heavy atoms that may participate in
antioxidant activity, you know, besides just zinc, there's iron,
obviously, for ferrotoxin properties, but it turns out
that plants have evolved non-glandular trichomes,
specifically as a mechanism to uptake these nutrients and
water at the same time. So there's this entire structure,
non-glandular trichomes, that have this ability to do it. And
it's not a passive thing. It's not something that just
happened to arise. It's something that very specifically
arose because there was a very real need for it. And the
plants have this very real opportunity to do things like
that. So again, the leaf surface interface for a very, very broad
level of plant biology that occurs.
Yeah, awesome. Awesome. I did. One of the things I wanted to
mention while you were getting into some of that discussion
about the hormones is that, you know, similarly with LST, when
you bend down the tops of the plants, you're also forced a,
you get a reaction in the in the root structure, the cytokines
also will react and grow and kind of take advantage of the
fact that that hormone, those hormones have been kind of
rerouted a little bit or, you know, put secondary for a little
bit, and they'll actually take advantage of that. So it's one
of the one of the another advantage of doing LST is is
that you get that expansion of roots when you bend the plants
down.
Yeah. And one thing I want to mention too, along those lines
too, is think about how the stomata open and close just on a
daily basis, like in terms of circadian rhythm for the plants.
Some folks may know that potassium helps physically open
and close the stomata of plants, so that there's this rush of
potassium inside and outside of the vacuoles and the guard cells
and that will quite literally force this opening swollen shut
or it will allow it to relieve pressure and to open up. So the
role of organic acids in transporting these minerals is
paramount because as I mentioned, if you exposed
elemental potassium to a droplet of water, you would have a very
violent reaction. Absolutely. It would generate a lot of heat, it
would explode, and then whatever water is remaining would form
some potassium hydroxide solution, the pH would be 14.0,
and literally everything inside of the cell would dissolve. There
would be no cell wall, there would be nothing that's left
over. So pure elemental potassium, very dangerous for
the plants. How do they transport it around? Organic
acids. Again, they suck the CO2 out of the air, and they use the
carbon for a variety of things. One of the more important things
is mineral acquisition, mineral transport, whether it's in the
root hairs interfacing with weathered minerals around it,
where organic acids become very relevant. Or if it's even more
specific, like we're talking about phosphorus being
displaced from the soils, citric acid has the ability to
displace phosphorus from the soils. So if you want to
increase phosphorus efficiency, if you're a commercial grower,
and you don't want to over apply phosphorus, add some citric
acid, get some citrates in the mix, because those will allow
the plants, the chemical energy, they will afford the chemical energy
that would otherwise come through them absorbing energy from the light,
splitting a molecule of water, generating electrochemical gradients,
reducing the carbon, and then making their own citric acid.
You can supplement... Can I ask a question there? Yeah. Because
obviously, you're really down with using orange peels and lime peels and
things like that. I guess my question is,
when I started doing aquaponics, that we were told never to use
citric acid as a pH down. And maybe it's
because in that situation, you're using so much that... And then the
reason is it kills microbes, right?
So maybe it's that you're talking about lower doses that are just boosting.
I don't know, just was that... That you hit on that.
Yeah. And for the plants, they have a citric acid cycle. That's how important
citric acid is. It's also referred to as the Krebs cycle.
This is one of the primary energy producing pathways in all organisms.
And so the functional supplementation of citric acid to plants
definitely absolutely benefits them. Plants are sort of... They exist in
their own unique category in the sense that plants are organisms that
accumulate a significant amount of organic acids relative to other organisms.
Humans, for instance, if you accumulate lactic acid inside of your muscles
during a workout, you get a cramp. So what do you do?
You have to breathe. You have to make sure that you have enough
oxygen going through your system to break down those organic acids before
they physically acidify and start to create that burn. For the plants,
their metabolism is set up a little bit different. They function very well
when organic acids are present in high concentrations because those organic
acids create a biological buffer against which they can balance an inorganic
nitrate load. For instance, if the plants have to make an amino acid
and you give them calcium nitrate, there's a lot of biology that has to
happen between a piece of calcium nitrate and an amino acid.
But effectively, in gist, there's this reduction power that's present inside
of these organic acid residues so that when you combine the nitrogen
with the organic acid, you get an amino acid. And that's really the basis
for all proteins to be made. So there has to be energy trapped in the system,
which typically comes from the leaf surfaces, photosynthesizing, scrubbing
CO2 out of the air, and producing organic acids. I'm firmly planted in the
belief that organic acids at large, besides just like citric acid and malic
acid and oxalic acid, acetic acid, ascorbic acid, some of the other ones,
cinnamic acid, there's derivatives of all of them, like hydroxylated derivatives.
Hydroxy citric acid, for example, is one that I know very well because
we use hibiscus flowers, which naturally produce a large amount of hydroxy
citric acid. It's a little bit different than regular citric acid,
but it fits into this pool of substrates. Think about like a car motor.
When the plant is running optimally, it has these valves that are opening
and closing. And as they open and close, they funnel the right kind of
energy across the right pathways, and the whole plant is just like grooving.
It's doing well. It's doing a good job at this whole photosynthesis thing.
So the more organic acids you have present, the stronger those valves opening
and closing are. If you supply a lot of nitrogen to your plants and
you have a lot of organic acids in the mix, you bet your plants
are gonna make a lot of proteins. They're gonna make a lot of
amino acids, and they're just gonna grow very well. But alternatively,
if you reduce the organic acid pool from the plants, and to kind of
go back one step across C3 plants, C4 plants, and CAN plants across
all of the plants, if you reduce the amount of carbon that's available
for the plants, bad things start to happen. And that specifically starts
to create a draw against these valves that I was just talking about,
these organic acid valves, because plants are keeping carbon in stored
forms in the shape of organic acids. Again, they're used to chelate minerals,
complex metals, transport otherwise insoluble components. They're used to
create amino acids. They're used to create secondary metabolites like all
of the terpenes and all of the cannabinoids that cannabis plants are
capable of producing. These are very valuable resources. So when you reduce
the carbon that you give to a plant, you're quite literally killing it,
and the way to measure it is by monitoring how many organic acids
it's producing. Everything follows that. Everything follows what happens
across the leaf surface as far as that goes.
What I was just thinking about as you were talking, Nick,
was... Let's take for example, my fulvic acid that I spray.
Often, I like to do it once a week, sometimes
more than once a week. If I need to pull my plants out of...
You have some unhealthy plants, I'll hit it once to twice a day.
And
it has such powerful benefits, and that's why it's... I was talking earlier
and dude, there's a big long lead up on the toolbox.
To me, it's the fucking... It's the rope in my toolbox.
I'm really good with ropes.
The thing... The fulvic acid does a lot for me,
but it does have some drawbacks, right? It's an acid.
What do we know about acid? Basically, think about just even the movies,
we know that you could drop a body in a bucket of acid
and that it will
disintegrate. I don't think... Obviously, fulvic acid isn't that strong,
but it does tear away at the leaf surface. It builds it up
to a point, but you can push too strong with it.
Well, I guess... Before you comment, Nick,
where I was going with this, in your analogy of the rainforest,
there is a lot of biological activity that's happening on the leaf surface
of those plants that's making that chemistry happen, right? And that's where
I like... In our practice of
where I was trying to get to the point, you can correct me
if I'm totally full of shit, but in our practice and we're spraying,
like I think it's important that we make sure we reapply
and keep present
much diverse biology on the leaf surface to
do this stuff naturally. Yeah, I agree. And that's really where the limo
comes in.
Yeah, yeah. And I just... For clarification, that fulvic product that you're
using has a lot of sulfur. So technically, it's a fulvate salt.
You're using... Right, right. It's already been neutralized. And some of
the benefits that you're seeing are a result of the
sulfur that's present there. Obviously, sulfur helps the plants. It's
remarkable as an antioxidant. In fact, it's the base, the sulfur is the
basis for all antioxidant activity in the plants. Without sulfur, you do
get stressed out plants. And so if the plants themselves are subject to
a high intensity grow, it makes all the sense in the world to
supply the fulvic acids plus some minerals. And the reason that the sulfur
exists in such a high concentration in some of these fulvic products
specifically is because a lot of those minerals are in sulfate form.
Think about Epsom salt, it's a magnesium sulfate, but you also have zinc
sulfate, you've got copper sulfate, iron sulfate.
So you have all of these different minerals, potassium sulfate even,
calcium sulfate is gypsum, it's drywall. So you have sulfur binding all
of these minerals and fulvic acids, as we've already established, are great
chelating agents. They're very low molecular weight. That's the other point
I wanna bring up too. To go back one step, humic molecules are large.
They exist, they're big and fat, they're spatially taking up a lot of
room, so they contribute to soil structure. That's how they have these
physical benefits. Fulvic, on the other hand, very low molecular weight.
It's gonna slip right through that cell wall of the plant. It's gonna go
in, and if it has a piece of calcium or magnesium or potassium attached
to it, that mineral is all of a sudden biologically relevant for a
plant. Because again, what is a fulvic molecule? It's an organic acid
residue produced by a plant 300 million years ago, 400 million years ago.
It doesn't matter because it still has this redox potential. It has the
ability to reduce and to be oxidized along its aliphatic skeleton.
Aliphatic means that it's a linear, it's not cyclic, it doesn't have a
ring shape like those methoxy groups inside of humic structures do.
But the ability of fulvic acids to chelate minerals and to make them
available for plants, I think the real benefit there is that you're capable
of delivering minerals to the plants across the leaf surface, which ironically
enough is somehow genetically engineered precisely to be able to accept the
foliar nutrient. And ironically enough, even though most people think it
doesn't really occur in nature, the plants are very capable of receiving it.
And then two is that all of these minerals that the plants are receptive
of across their leaf surfaces also happen to serve as the basis for all of
the antioxidant enzymes that are needed to fulfill photosynthesis. So isn't it
strange how the mechanics for this micronutrient uptake exists right next
to the need for the micronutrient metabolism? I think that there's
something going on there that, as far as doing supplements and foliar
sprays, there's a real opportunity I think for commercial cultivators or even
home growers to be able to improve the quality of the plants that they grow and
to increase their profits and yields by taking these things like foliar sprays
very seriously. Whether they're fulvic acids in the true sense or
they're fulvate salts that are complexed with sulfur and other micronutrients
which have fantastic benefits for the plants as well. Right, no, no, 100%. And the
stuff that I use has added minerals to it for sure. But I've
been working with fulvic acid, you know, pressed from compost. I've worked with,
people are talking about Faust's BioAg. I've worked with that a ton. I mean, I've
actually been using it for 15 years. And then I moved over to this other product
that's a Lenardite-based product. And then I actually, they made
another one that they add the sulfur, the boron, and magnesium, maybe some
calcium. I can't remember what else is in there. But I really like it. Sorry, there was a
question I was gonna hit on the fulvic. I'm trying to look back in the chat. I missed it.
Sorry. Yeah, no worries. You know, some of the benefits. Yeah, no worries. They were mostly talking about
different brands of fulvic and I didn't, you know, there's some, there's not a lot
of questions tonight. Definitely a good conversations. Dr. Bob Faust, which is the
guy, you know, who makes everything. Oh, the thing I was thinking about, I just, I see
someone said IPM reminded me is, someone said, you know, I don't spray foliars unless
it's for IPM. And I would counter, you know, with like, you know, if I was able to
run back best practice, you know, in my farm, I'm a pretty, I'm a commercial
cultivator in terms of that I have a commercial license, but I'm really a
hobbyist in a lot of ways. But if I was just trying to crank out the herb, you
know, I would be doing like, like a guy like Brandon Russ, I'd be doing sap,
tissue sap analysis, biweekly and foliaring what is, what is, what is
actually missing, you know, what I'm talking about, what I'm talking about,
what I'm kind of like, you know, throwing, throwing everything I know at the, at the
project and hoping that I'm hitting the missing holes, you know, type of deal
because I don't understand enough. But if, if you're really on it, you know, you'd
be getting that, that sap test and going, Oh shit, we're, we're a little low in
sulfur right now, you know, let's just hit a tiny bit of sulfur, you know, and it
can be tiny, like millimeters per hundreds of gallons that you need to add
of these tiny, you know, these things, you know, and they can be produced
organically and not in non organically. There, there's a company that I really,
you know, Nick makes a slew of fermented products, but there's also a company that
makes, I think they're, they're the Advancing Eco Act. They make like a lot,
a lot of like isolated zinc, boron, magnesium, you know, different products.
So you can just boost specifically what you're looking for.
Good stuff. Good stuff. Yeah. I think there's, there's also some people who are
also with you who are like, well, you know, it is the, it's the idea is to kind
of get in there and add that protection before you need it as opposed to doing
it after the fact. And I agree with that approach, right? If you're not staying
on top of it, you're gonna, you're gonna fall behind and it's going to be too
late to deal with some of these problems if you don't get in there early.
We only get sick when we're tired and exposed, right?
Right. Absolutely. Absolutely. And, and not to go down into some of the
conversations that I know Matthew Gates would love to have around that, you know,
bad things happen to healthy plants too. But in general, it's always better to have
healthy plants. The healthier the plant, the better it is able to defend itself.
Just like us when we're healthier, we're able to better defend ourselves as well.
Yeah. And the health of the plant can be measured by how many organic acids it
has in stock. Just for a little bit of comparison here, if you were to take
a crab shell and you were to try to process them into a liquid chitosan, the
first thing you would do is use citric acid because citric acid is capable of
quite literally dissolving the exterior of bugs, of mites, of thrips, of aphids.
And so if you have a citric acid rich foliar spray, really what you're doing is
introducing a compound that is burning and digesting the plant or the, the, the
bugs from the outside in. On the flip side, if you looked at the structure under a
microscope of a, of the leaf surface of the plants, you'd realize that they're
actually kind of sort of predisposed to taking acids as foliar sprays. Ironically
enough, there have been studies done around the world as a result of sulfate
emissions, you know, because in, in terms of human industrial activity, sulfates
were emitted into the atmosphere across China, India, and even here in the United
States. And as it turns out, actually the emission of sulfate when converted into
the rain and the rain fell, it produced, it provided sulfur for the plants. And in
some of these areas, the plants are now actually sulfate deficient because of
the emissions that have been reduced. And I'm not saying it's a, it's a, it's a bad
thing that the emissions were reduced. I just kind of find it a little bit ironic
that in some cases where we're doing good things like reducing emissions, I
think we should do that. It's just peculiar to notice how the plants
actually feel that response in terms of the gas composition of the air. They
literally become sulfur deficient. And so these farmers in these areas around
the world now having never needed to supply sulfur, now have to supply sulfur
to the plants because they're deficient. And so this is one of those things where
it kind of, it's a little bit peculiar to notice how sensitive the plants really
can be. They're fucking smart, man. We did get a question on YouTube, not to cut you off,
but would spraying a seed sprout tea in early veg make sense? Seed sprouted teas,
SSTs, are full of enzymes and they're a good boost. I personally have only used
them in a root drench format, but does anybody have any experience or thoughts
on using an SST as a foliar? Yeah, I mean, you know, the thing that kind of stands
out for me, first and foremost, is again, going back to this auxin response in
plants. As the plants are growing, the head of the plant knows it's the top of
the plant. And so it's going to get the largest concentration of these active
fractions of metabolic compounds. Kind of as a funny segue here, this is sort of
what creates the grades and categories of tea. Tea is typically sorted based on
whether it's been plucked from the tippiest parts of the plants or if it
includes maybe the bud and a leaf or the bud and two leaves, or in some cases
as is with oolong teas, particularly in Taiwan, they do a bud and three leaves.
The reason the bud is really important, and if you get a pure bud pluck tea, it
tends to be extremely expensive. The buds themselves, the tippiest part of the
plants, have the highest concentration of active metabolites. Some of these active
metabolites include antioxidant enzymes, which may require a large amount of work
for the plants to actually produce and to assimilate. So if you can introduce
some of these compounds in their native format to your plants via the sprouted,
you know, seed sprout tea, that's a really good way of doing it. You're going to
capture low molecular weight, high potency antioxidant molecules, very rich
in sulfur. Obviously if you do like broccoli sprouts, in my opinion, I think
any kind of brassica sprout is phenomenal when you get those glucoraphanins
and those sulforaphanes into the equation. It can just really do some
insane things for the health of your young veg plants.
Yeah, mostly I've used blue corn primarily for my SSTs as my main
ingredient for doing those. So awesome, awesome stuff. All right, so we are
actually 90 minutes in. I probably should have done a reset about a half an hour
ago, but I wanted to take a quick chance and relight the room real quickly here.
So once again, and it's been quite a while since I've said anything about it,
we are here at Hoat to Herbs Grow and Tell. This is a conversation
tonight about foliar and all the fantastic things about what's going on
in the leaf structure of the plants and why foliars are important. We're having
this conversation on future cannabis projects, so if you like what you're
hearing, please click on the little green Clubhouse icon, a little house icon, if
you're here on Clubhouse and join the Future Cannabis Club. If you're listening
in on YouTube, please make sure you subscribe to both channels, The Future
Cannabis Project and FCPO2, where you can find this show every week here on
Thursday nights at 9 p.m. Eastern, 6 p.m. Pacific. And we are also
recording and saving all of these, so if you did miss the conversation, you missed
half the conversation or part of the conversation, you can always go back and
listen to it later. Peter will make sure that the show is available for people to
listen to later. So I wanted to thank everybody for joining us tonight. We
still have a couple of things that I know we wanted to get into before we
finish up tonight, but I wanted to take that opportunity real quick to thank Nick
and Ben and Josh Dutch Blooms for joining us tonight, and as always to
thank Peter for producing the show and making it available to the folks on
YouTube as well. So let's get back into it. I think, you know, we haven't really
talked too much about do's and don'ts and some of the what nutrients are good
for foliars and what nutrients might not be as good for that, and there was
one more topic that I know you wanted to get into that we hadn't talked about yet.
We've had to do with plants that grow near the coast and some of the effects
of the mist and the ocean, sea minerals, and some of those things that are going
on there. So do you want to get into that or do you want to go down the discussion
around some of the do's and don'ts and some of the better nutrients to apply
foliar from a foliar place? Yeah, let's do that. That way we can get a variety of,
you know, opinions here. I mean, in my opinion, the way that I look at it is
magnesium is critical as this interface between plants having energy and plants
not having energy. If you look at magnesium requirements in plants,
generally speaking, the amounts are fairly low, so it would suggest that it's
a micronutrient. However, if you look at magnesium in its proper context, you
realize like, oh, there's actually something really interesting going on
here. So earlier in this conversation, I mentioned that rubisco is the most
abundant enzyme on earth and that if you looked at any one of your leaves,
over 50% of all of the proteins in that leaf are that one enzyme, rubisco.
Close to 50%, you know, basically the second half, or in second place at least,
is chlorophyll. And the relationship between chlorophyll and rubisco is that
both of them require magnesium at their active sites to actually do work.
If rubisco didn't have magnesium, plants could not take CO2 out of the air.
If chlorophyll did not have magnesium inside of it, plants could not harvest
energy from the light. So here's two of the defining characteristics of what makes
a plant, the ability to suck CO2 out of the air and the ability to convert light
energy into chemical energy. Both of those defining characteristics require
magnesium as the gatekeeper to allow all of this activity to happen.
It's not a micronutrient. Magnesium has such a disproportionately large impact
on energy metabolism with plants that it might as well be considered the power
horse of all plant activity. So having said that, there's a reason that we made
our foliar spray product, Solar Rain, a magnesium-based foliar spray.
And I think that if people are in a commercial environment,
they would gain a lot of benefit from having magnesium be used as a foliar spray.
The other thing to consider too is that because rubisco sucks CO2 out of the air
and it requires magnesium as the catalyst, if you're a commercial grower and you're
growing indoors, if you have higher CO2 concentrations, what this translates to is
you have a greater protein density on your leaf surface. You've got more rubisco
per square inch. You've got more chlorophyll per square inch.
More chlorophyll and more rubisco equals greater magnesium density.
So in high-intensity cultivation environments, if you take a leaf tissue
analysis of those plants, they're going to show higher mineral concentrations
and they're going to show higher demands for those minerals because that leaf is
exposed to more light, higher-intensity light, and it has more CO2.
So the only missing variable there is the amount of nitrogen and magnesium it takes
to make the rubisco and the chlorophyll in order to actually convert those,
you know, do that chemical work, that electrochemical work.
So magnesium has always been a really, really good foliar supplement.
I think it has a disproportionately large impact on the metabolism of plants.
However, the second most potent supplement, I will say, for most commercial growers,
I think, is going to be sulfur. And it's, you know, a little bit convenient
that you can just go to buy Epsom salt, which is magnesium sulfate.
Sulfur contributes a lot to antioxidant enzymes like superoxide dismutase,
glutathione catalase, all of these different antioxidant enzymes that are
fundamental for life. In other words, if you removed, like, glutathione and
superoxide dismutase from plant cells, the plants would not exist anymore.
That's how important these antioxidant enzymes are. They're fundamental for life.
They're required for life. Without them, life does not exist.
So they use sulfur as the tool that soaks up all of this oxidative stress.
And so if you don't have sulfur levels being adequate but you have a high
intensity production environment, you're going to notice your plants are being
stressed out. The best way to curb that stress is through this application
of sulfates. And, you know, we got into this a couple of weeks ago about sulfate
reduction, about CO2 reduction, and nitrate reduction. I don't want to get too far
into that again, but the point I want to make here is that you can't just spray
minerals and salts on your leaf surface and expect them to process it.
If you were to take gypsum or calcium sulfate and spray it on the plants,
you would notice that after you spray the plants, they have this, like, chalky residue
that's left over. And that chalky residue is an indication that the calcium sulfate
was not actually available to the plants. Yes, it was soluble in the water,
but once the water dehydrated, once the water left the equation,
that calcium sulfate precipitated right out. So it's not biologically relevant
for the plants, and it's not available. So if you're going to take a serious
approach to foliar sprays, just make sure that you have the right form factor
of nutrition. It's very important to get fully reduced carbon.
It's important to get minerals that are chelated, not synthetic chelates,
natural chelates, low molecular weight, you know, all of this stuff.
Awesome. Did you want to add some do's and don'ts onto that, Ben,
from your experience? So one of the things that I've noticed with foliars is that
often there's either, like, the too much or too little approach, and you got to walk
that fine line of reading what the plant's telling you that it wants.
And also just, like, your own anecdotal experience. Like Josh was saying earlier,
sometimes a certain plant tea will hit things once or twice a day versus once a
week or once every two weeks. And I think that a lot of it comes down to sort of,
like, learning the cultivar and learning the input that you're using and what the
results that you're looking for actually look like. So that way,
when you're utilizing it, you know whether what you're doing is beneficial or not.
You know whether or not it's actually supplementing the plant or, like,
it was just said by Nick, you're simply providing a coat of gypsum onto the
leaves or you're providing a coating of whatever mineral you're providing that...
or nutrient you're providing at that point. And it's not actually being soluble
to the plant. It's not actually being utilizable by metabolism. It's simply
coating plant tissue and really at that point potentially blocking hydrodes and
stomata. Good stuff. What about you, Dutch? Do you want to add some do's and
don'ts? Yeah, so in terms of do's and don'ts, I grow in a greenhouse with
supplemental lighting, supplemental heating. Recently, even as of today, some
really nice dehumidification units. But it's potentially the hardest
situation to foliar in because, in my mind, it's variable. Like in the summer
time, you know, eight weeks ago, ten weeks ago, I would be foliaring
at night around six o'clock. You know, in the height of summer it would be
maybe a little bit later. You know, because I can get the most benefit from
applying something, whatever the foliar is, whether it's for nutrients or for
biology or for IPM, I get the most benefit by letting it be on the plant
the longest. You know, in the summertime that works out because at night
it doesn't get so cold. But when I move into the winter and I'm growing in my
greenhouse, you know, still I can't do it at night. I have to do it in the morning.
You know, because if I do it at night it's gonna get so cold it's gonna
potentially cause pathogens. So that's kind of one thing to like just be
cognizant of what's going on in your scene. If it's indoors, you have a little
bit more control. I would, if you know, if you're someone that has like a real
tight system, I would tend to spray at night. You know, if you have a tight
system that's well insulated that you can keep warm and you can
dehumidify, like I would do it at night. You know, but you know, if your system's a
little bit loosey-goosey, I might do it in the morning before, you know, an hour
or two before the lights go on. That's how I used to do it in my in my rooms
that weren't, you know, maybe were insulated but they had, you know, you know,
they were getting exhausted or whatever, weren't sealed. You know, the other thing
to consider is that there's a whole really deep world, a really fucking deep
world of spray tech. Like, and I am maybe a sophomore, probably a
freshman that thinks he's a sophomore in terms of understanding, you know, spray
equipment type stuff, you know. And so my, the way I consider spray, about a
spray equipment, I think that, I think about biology first because those are
the most gentle things that I want to apply. It is microbes and nematodes,
things of that nature, and they're very, very, they need to be gentle. So I want to
have a unit that I can control the PSI. I want to get it under 90 PSI. I want to
use a unit that doesn't have propellers or impellers, you know, something that has
a diaphragm pump that doesn't kill and destroy the biology. So I put a lot of
effort into that and that, you know, if you take it down to a tent level, you
know, Jason, if you're having a problem with spray instead of taking plants out,
I would be using like literally a squirt bottle, you know. Yeah, like so simple,
right? You know, like, like a 1950s, like mama, you know, growing the plants in the
house, right? You know. Yeah, no, absolutely. And you know, I have, I have a little
small, you know, like 40 ounce little pump type press sprayers that's not too bad to
deal with. It's just, you know, and again, it's just really kind of controlling that
spray even. It can be sometimes too much in the quality of the spray is a whole
thing. So like I've dabbled, I've done a lot of aquaponics, I've dabbled in
aeroponics, I actually built in a commercial aeroponics facility. And so the
realm and the quality and the finiteness of spray is a big deal, right? And so like,
you know, the in terms of nutrient application, the smaller the spray you can
get the better. And like, if you over apply, you know, if you have you, you have
this very nice applicator unit and you, you just like stand there and just blast
at it. Just blasted until like shit is dripping off the leaf. You actually are
not doing yourself any service, you're doing some service, but you're doing less
service than you would do. If it was just a fine mist, you know, the finer the
mist in terms of nutrients, the better. When it comes to biology, you can't get as
fine. Like I said, you have to you have to be careful because these are living
creatures and you have to imagine on scale, you know, like, you know, the I
remember the movie, what was that movie that we that we grew up with? Where the
the kid the family I shrunk, honey, I shrunk the kids, you know? Right? I think
that's a good example of that, right?
Yeah, no, we and it's funny because we talked, we had a conversation about this
actually at your conference, where we were talking about, you know, you
shouldn't be using paint sprayers. You got to be careful with some of the
commercial stuff because it's just too strong. It's going to turn those fungi
and bacteria to pulp. They're going to hit those leaf surfaces and just like get
crushed and disintegrated. And then the same thing is you got to be careful you
don't want to have pushing all that stuff through some type of a mesh that
might cause it again might kill that biology. So if you're spraying a compost
tea, or a liquid IMO or something like that, you want to be more cautious. But I
think when you're getting into some of these foliar approaches where you're
trying to neutrify a fogger is going to be your is going to be your best bet I
think, right?
Yeah, yeah. And like you have to sometimes take the best of both worlds.
You know, I mean, like, I you have to filter out the by some some solids from
the biology because when you're making a compost tea or compost extract, there's
a lot of solids there. And even when we're using like a 220 grade bag,
they're still more solid. So I'll brew in a in a 220 grade bag. And I can pull
that out. And then I'm left with everything less than 220 grade. But that
that still can be problems in my system. So like I think my my filter in my in my
brew in my applicator unit, you know, my spray unit, it goes down to like, I
want to say it's like 110 or something like that 120. I don't I don't exactly
remember what it is. But it brings it down a little bit finer. And we've, I
have honestly fucked with this shit. I am not the best at looking at the
microscope, but I've had friends who are better than me at it. Fuck with me on it.
And we've like dialed it in, you know, and like, this is okay, this is cool. And
we're getting, you know, bio biological life like applied. Boom, cool. We're
stoked.
Yeah, yeah. And to kind of go back to this topic about the phyllosphere. There's
this, you know, correlation between what is the rhizosphere, which is a hub for
life in the soil at this interface between the roots and the actual
interface around it, the soil around it. Same thing is true with the
phyllosphere, you've got a lot of complex biological activity happening
in the leaf surface. Methylotrophs, obviously, obviously, the, the microbe,
the microorganisms like Bacillus methylotrophicus, those kind of rely on
the byproduct of photosynthesis, all the inefficiencies that plants produce when
there's a waste product, they actually take that waste product, and they use it
as an energy source for them, they take the carbon out of the, the methylene,
that's a byproduct of that. So if you can find a way to encourage those natural
phyllosphere interactions, just like you encourage the natural rhizosphere
interactions, I think part of it is about bringing a sense of balance into the
equation, you know, the same thing is true with, like, drenching the roots, you
don't want to just dump the water in on the roots as hard as you can, it
probably makes more sense to be gentle and methodical and develop a pattern and
rhythm to, you know, associated with how you water your plants. The same thing is
true with foliar sprays, because if you, if you soil drench your plants too hard,
if you physically dump a bunch of water on them with no regard for how fast or
how it's spaced or the introduction of oxygen, you're going to do damage to your
plants. If you take that same volume of water and you apply it gently, you allow
water to percolate and can reduce oxygen and to kind of work its way down and
evenly saturate the soil. If you're gentle and thoughtful about it, that's
where you start to have these beneficial responses. And so the same thing is
definitely true in the phyllosphere, you have to kind of nurture the right types
of microbes that are happening. But in order to understand how to nourish those
microbes, you really have to understand the chemistry of what's kind of going on
at that leaf plant interface, because just like the root soil interface, very
complex stuff takes years and years of study to try to figure out what's going
on. And then once you realize it, the ultimate goal is just to kind of
nourish what's already happening there. And I think in my sort of practical
experiences, I came across this amino acid produced by green tea, L-theanine.
So we use a matcha to make our solar rain and this L-theanine, this amino acid
that typically is produced by tea plants, is actually named after tea plants.
L-theanine is sort of, it needs sort of like tongue-in-cheek, like it's supposed to be a
reference to tea. It's an amino acid for tea. So this amino acid actually
modulates the very powerful synergistic relationships. So if you can apply it as
a foliar spray, if you've got this amino acid as a foliar spray, you have this
profound increase in beneficial microorganism activity happening on the
leaf surface. This amino acid is typically only produced by tea plants.
There's maybe a couple other plants that produce it, but you know, by and large, tea
accumulates it. For humans, when they intake it, L-theanine makes them feel good.
It provides a feeling of tranquility, of calm. It can kind of take the anxiety or
the edge off caffeine. So if you drink a lot of coffee and then you get the
jitters, you can take L-theanine. It'll kind of correct that. Well, it turns out
that same amino acid is very useful in the context of facilitating beneficial
relationships in the phyllosphere. So you get this like profound boost of
activity in the leaf surface and that helps benefit the plant. It sort of
provides a protective layer against any kind of environmental stressors that can
come in, you know, be it fungi, aphids, you know, other leaf mining insects, things
like that. Peter is in chat and talking. Peter and I and a bunch of folks are
talking about like, you know, clogging emitters and all sorts of shit that I've
done so many fucking times. I've done it with full humics. I've been using full humics for almost 20 years. And I've clogged so many sprayers, like a handful of sprayers, until I fucking figured it out. And like humic acid, in my opinion, like just to hit that, like I don't think should really be foliar sprayed pretty much ever, if at all. It should be
very, very mild, mild dilutions of it, you know. But like I was just just just bringing up the point in chat that you can use like all sorts of different types of bags to filter out. He was bringing up, I think, talking about using willow bark and silica and different powders, different things that have clogged these like, you know, small sprayer units you can get for home grow, you know, you could buy like Home Depot and like, so I was saying like, you know,
like bring it down to a smaller filtration, you know, like tech bag, like use a use a 110 type unit, you know, and there's, there's some stuff like, Nick, we were going to post up on my on my site, and we can we can find a way to post up on on on the Daga site or whatever, like, probably more than likely, where you can buy the stuff on on Amazon, you know, because it's there. They're like, we looked into buying them and selling them, but it's just like you have to buy bajillions. But like,
but Amazon, there's some pretty decent pricing on on bags that you can get, you know, for small, you know, like stuff that you can do.
Yeah, yeah. And so, like, you're talking about, you know, humic substances maybe shouldn't be applied as foliar sprays. But there's a fraction within humic substances that's very low molecular weight. That's what the fulvic fraction is. So in essence, what's happening with compost tea or any kind of tea brewing is when you filter out the solids, you're really just looking for the soluble macromolecules, the solubility of some of these, you know, the molecular weight, I mean, of some of these compounds, even though they're soluble, may be very high.
And so when we're looking at like the specific nooks and crannies of all of the uptake mechanics of foliar sprays, or even that the root soil interface, really what we're looking at is molecular size and molecular weight, like our chelates, all the chelates that we make for this rooted leaf line, those are less than 10 carbon atoms, which is insanely small. If you look at fulvic acid molecules, those are potentially 100 plus carbon atoms, we're talking about something that's a 10th of the size of the smallest possible fulvic fraction.
And fulvics are already so small that they're considered soluble across leaf surfaces. So the fact that we can make these very, very small chelates and deliver them passively across cell walls, I think really opens up this opportunity to treat foliar sprays as something totally different.
In other words, we can, if the plants are, as the plants grow, you know, they're doing this work, they take in the CO2 and they do all this work with it.
If we get the format right, just like we get the format right with humics versus fulvics, if we can continue to fine tune that format and get the size of the molecule down really, really small, that's where we start to become very effective.
In some cases, we can actually allow for the delivery of stuff into the nucleus of a cell, just like the calcium that we're talking about. The calcium chelate that we're making for our CalMag product, being less than 10 atoms long, actually allows us to interface directly with the nucleus of every cell in the plant.
So it's pretty profound to think that you can spray from the outside in this calcium chelate, and it's so small in its molecular weight, and it's so biologically relevant, and it's so bioavailable to the plants, that by the time this calcium is done being metabolized from literally the outside in, it's stored in an envelope that's just outside of the nuclear membrane of the actual nucleus.
So getting the form factor down right is crucial. It is absolutely key. Getting fulvics in the mix rather than humics is a great place to start off and say, well, what are some of these benefits between doing foliar applications of fulvics and then doing soil drenches of humic, where you may want some of those larger macromolecular structures.
You do want those methoxy groups. You want those aromatic functional groups. Those are what contribute to the structure and what define humic molecules. They also kind of give them their jet black color, whereas the fulvics, as Josh mentioned earlier, those are kind of defined by a lighter gold look.
And the reason that they're kind of lighter gold like that is because they represent lower molecular weight fractions of compounds, organic acids that, well, specifically they process light a little bit differently. But it's the way that these functional groups are set up.
In a fulvic molecule, you will have a lot of electrochemical activity. You have a high potential for chelation. That fulvic fraction will capture minerals like calcium, magnesium, potassium, and it will deliver that to the plants. Making use of this fulvic acid is key.
And that actually is what sort of defines soil activity and biological activity underground in the sense that if you apply humics and you apply fulvics, nine times out of 10, you're going to see an increase in the efficiency of biological activity in the soil.
What did you apply? Well, you applied the substances that plants produced as a result of photosynthesis. So this all kind of comes back to what's happening at the leaf surface.
This leaf surface primarily is what allows everything from global soil formation across the entire planet, all soils being formed, right down to every single microbe is being fed by the plants.
All of it starts at the sort of interface between leaves and their outside environment and the sun, and then all the stuff that's being transported up from the roots and carried up via the xylem tissue that allows for photosynthesis to happen.
Boom.
Sorry to jump in, but we had to lose, Ben had to drop unfortunately. So he slipped out. The conversation was so fluid he didn't find a valid place to break in there.
And yeah, definitely a lot of back and forth on the chat about the different types of spray bottles that could be used for those applications. So an awesome, awesome topic.
Josh, why don't you go ahead? What did I stop you from adding to that?
Oh, I was just saying boom, like Nick just dropped the mic. Like he nailed it. That's what I say in my barbarian farmer talk. He just said scientifically.
Yeah, absolutely.
Okay, so we've covered and talked about all different aspects of the energy exchanges and aspects of things that are going on within the leaf structures tonight.
We've kind of, I think, talked about the fact that yes, it is absolutely worth the mess if there is a mess. And there are ways around the mess, if you're careful. And, you know, and I think that's also part of the learning curve with foliar is how much to apply. Right?
I would dare say if there's a mess, you've applied too much.
Right. So I think that's also part of it is that it's really just supposed to be kind of a light touch with a lot of these applications. It's not really, you're not trying to basically soak the plants down unless you're really trying to treat some type of an IPM issue, I think, is really where you're looking to soak the plants down and cover all the surfaces.
Yeah, and I think with as far as dilution rates go, if you look at most foliar spray recommendations, you're going to find that the recommendations are significantly higher than for soil drenches. And this is true across all products. So even our product line, functional use rate, let's say, is between two to four mils per gallon in the soil.
For like our cow mag supplement, we recommend to 20 mils per gallon as a foliar spray. The idea is that you have a larger concentration, higher concentration, but you have a significantly reduced volume of water overall.
And by the way, the pH thing I think is also really important across the leaf surface. It's okay to supply the right type of organic acid. There's a difference between organic and inorganic acids, phosphoric acid, citric acid, these things behave differently for purposes of plant metabolism.
Our foliar spray mix is like our solar rain is fine-tuned at a pH of about 4.5. The reason for that specifically is because the enzyme that inserts magnesium inside of chlorophyll to make a chlorophyll pigment operates best in what's called a fully reduced environment.
So it needs to have an acidic gradient. It needs to have a very low pH to actually be able to insert magnesium inside of the porphyrin ring inside of chlorophyll. So we want to create an environment that's highly acidic for the plants because that's what the plants physically and chemically depend on.
That's literally why they're scrubbing carbon out of the air and creating organic acids is because they need the acids. They need that electrochemical charge. When that electrochemical charge is reduced, then the efficiency of photosynthesis is also reduced. And so with our foliar sprays at least, we keep the pH very low, like 4.3, 4.5, because it naturally benefits the plants.
They're kind of set up to be optimized in an environment that is fully reduced. And to kind of give you guys just a really quick summary on how that chemistry happens is when the plants take in energy from the sun, they use that electrical energy to they electrolyze. Via electrical energy, they electrolyze a molecule of water. They split H2O apart.
They breathe out O2. So everyone remembers from kindergarten how plants breathe out oxygen. This is the mechanism by which they do it. They excrete the O2, but they keep the hydrogen. That hydrogen is the proton pump. That's the electrochemical gradient.
Now, because of that hydrogen, they have this reduction capacity. They can build up acids inside of their framework. They can use that hydrogen to sink carbon out of the air. They can reduce it from an oxidized form, CO2, into a reduced form, such as a carbohydrate or an organic acid or a terpene or a cannabinoid.
There's these ways that plants have evolved, these mechanisms that allow them to create hundreds of thousands of different molecules, all starting with the same CO2 and ending with the most diverse and chemically complex set of metabolites that anyone could ever wish to explore.
There's so much crazy chemistry happening that a lot of what chemists learn, as a fun little side note here, a lot of what chemists learn to be true about the laws of chemistry happen to be realized or gained from watching how plants go through carbon chemistry.
Because plants are ultimately the masters of carbon chemistry. They have perfected this craft and we're learning things. And every time we learn, we judge it against what we know to be true in terms of plants.
So this is something that's very, very important, this leaf interface. I'm glad we had the chance to talk about it tonight because I think by and large, people just generally speaking sort of neglect the benefits that are possible from foliar sprays.
Or even worse, they think mistakenly that the foliar surface is not specifically fine-tuned or engineered to allow the transmission of nutrients in such a way that creates this profound benefit in the plants.
I mean, if you're a commercial cannabis producer and you're not doing foliar sprays, you're quite literally money on the table, thousands of dollars on the table.
So if it costs you five to 10 bucks to do foliar sprays and you make an extra couple thousand dollars, I mean, this is the type of equation that I'm talking about being possible here. So again, it's not light, it's something that's very heavy, very pertinent for us to focus on.
All right. So we are at the two-hour mark. Was there anything else you wanted to cover before I open it up to the audience?
Nope, I think that's pretty good. What about you, Josh?
I'm just finishing a dab, coughing it out. I was going to say, let's talk saponins and or surfactants for a second, Nick. Yeah, there's folks asking about that.
What's the specific question? Can you read one?
Keep hearing about the efficacy of soap nuts.
Yeah, soap nuts keep getting brought up.
Yeah. And of course you were like, let's talk about saponins. But yeah, soap nuts was brought up multiple times in the conversation. Soap nuts are fire.
I know that a friend of mine, Well-Grown Seeds, he makes a soap nut ferment as part of the natural line of stuff that he sells in his product.
He's got soap nuts, yucca, aloe, jadam, and potassium and salt. So I'm not sure that's a little bit out of the set that he was starting with.
Did you want to talk a little bit about saponins and their use in a foliar approach?
Oh boy, do I want to talk about saponins? Oh boy, do we have another couple of hours here?
We may have covered that one a little bit earlier.
Just look at saponins like they're glycosides of triterpenoid substances.
So specifically what that means is that triterpenoids, just like cannabinoids, are not soluble in water.
Triterpenoids must be molecularly welded to sugars through this process called glycosylation, which is translated from Latin to simply adding sugars.
Sugar is very soluble in water.
To kind of take one step back, when CO2 is not soluble in water at all, right?
If you've ever had a can of soda on a hot summer day and you open up that can of soda, you know that CO2 wants to leave right away.
So plants have to struggle against this.
They say, well, how do I take the CO2 out of there?
How do I convert it into something that's soluble?
Sucrose and other sugars, highly soluble in water.
So really what they're looking for is a high degree of solubility in water.
This is why glycosylation is such a key feature in terms of what are called post-translational modifications.
When plants produce substances that are not soluble in water, like phenolic substances, like terpenes, like cannabinoids, for instance,
if there's some need to move them around within the plant, the only way to do that is through water.
Because the plant has evolved this sort of dependency to move stuff around as a solute through water, which is its universal solvent.
And so the name of the game has always been, well, how do I take this insoluble thing and convert it into something that's soluble?
So for those of you that are out there thinking about saponins, they're glycosides, which are generalized substances,
but they're glycosides of triterpenes or triterpenoid substances.
So they may have some more potent effect overall on cell metabolism or the cell membrane or something like that in the plants.
So I like soap nuts.
Josh and I actually just recently put together a little saponin product that contains soap nuts inside of it.
I think soap nuts are great. And I want to say that the surfactants themselves, generally speaking, besides just saponins,
if you have anionic, cationic, zwitterionic, amphoteric, et cetera, et cetera, whatever you want to call that label,
if you've got surfactants that are not just saponins, the whole point of the surfactant is to allow something that is not soluble in water
to spread more evenly across the leaf surface by being spread out through a water medium and allow the plants to absorb more of it.
Or in the case of a pesticide, specifically like a traditional pesticide, those are not meant to be water soluble.
Those are typically emulsified. That's why there's a lot of vegetable oils and soaps that are cut into these formulations,
because the only way to make these active ingredients soluble is to attach some kind of fat.
You need a carrier for it. And then that fat has a certain degree of solubility, and the solubility can be modified by a surfactant.
So, of course, these soaps with the active ingredients have surfactants to help spread the active ingredient over the surface that you want it to be spread on.
In the case of certain types of, like other types of glycosides, for those of you that are sitting in front of a computer right now,
I would suggest you open up two tabs. On the first tab, go to Wikipedia and look at THC as a molecule.
And then on the second tab, look at steviol. S-T-E-V-I-O-L. Steviol is a compound produced by stevia.
Stevia leaves are extremely sweet. Well, they produce a diterpene alcohol that's very similar to cannabinoids,
but the difference is that steviol is soluble in water. Well, how is it soluble in water?
The plant, the stevia plant, has this enzyme that facilitates this glycosylation reaction around a diterpene alcohol that's not soluble in water,
just like cannabinoids are not soluble in water, but it produces in the leaf.
So if you brew stevia tea, if you just take the whole stevia leaves and you brew the tea, you're going to get a water-soluble fraction.
You can taste it. I mean, drink stevia leaf tea. It's 300 times sweeter than sugar. You literally could not miss it.
It's going to punch you in the face. It's going to be like, whoa, where did the sugar bomb come from?
The reason that I had you folks go to Wikipedia is because if you look at the molecular weight and the molecular formula,
steviol looks an awfully lot similar to THC, doesn't it? In terms of molecular weight, it's pretty close.
And in terms of its molecular formula, it's also pretty close.
So here is, again, a strategy I think that sort of speaks to why saponins and surfactants are used,
is because they're used to disperse a active substance or active molecule across a phase that is not water-soluble.
This is critical. If you want an active substance for a plant, it has to be soluble in water because that's what the plants depend on.
So over time, plants evolve these mechanisms to allow the solubility of things in water as a functional transportation pathway.
And so adding surfactants, adding saponins, things like that increases the active ingredient,
but it may not necessarily increase the active ingredient if the active ingredient is not a pesticide or not something that is inherently not soluble in water.
If you've got an organic acid fraction or a fulvic acid fraction, let's say, a fulvate mineral like a calcium fulvate or potassium fulvate,
or a magnesium fulvate, doesn't typically require a surfactant.
The surfactants are typically for things that don't want to be soluble in water, like active pesticide or fungicide ingredients.
That being said, too, surfactants, saponins also have this property of reducing the available oxygen from fish,
which is why saponins technically are lethal to fish.
And so if you're using saponins or soap nuts or anything like that in an aquaponic system, your fish are going to hate you.
They're really not going to be your friends.
The saponins will effectively prevent the fish from scrubbing the water, or I'm sorry, scrubbing the oxygen out of water.
So you do want to kind of be mindful about some of the effects that the saponins have.
But besides just delivering active pesticide ingredients, I think saponins can also help sort of prevent and smother certain aphids and insects.
And by and large, it's difficult for them to breathe.
Yep. Yeah. Yeah. It becomes a little bit more difficult for them to breathe.
But, you know, one of the sort of one of the constituents here that we have to look at is when we're talking about saponins,
really we're talking about two distinct things that are totally separate.
One is what's called the A-glycone or the non-sugar portion.
That's the active substance. When I extract the saponins from licorice root, I'm getting sugars, that complex substance called anoxalone.
And that's different than steviol being bound by its glycoside residues.
The glycosides are the sugars, right? That's one half of the equation.
The second half of the equation is what's the active molecule?
What's that thing inside of there with cheloha saponins, with yucca saponins, with licorice roots saponins?
These things are all different. And so they're going to have different properties depending on what that A-glycone portion is.
Anthocyanins, same thing. Those purple pigments that everybody knows and loves.
Bet you guys know that that was actually glycoside, but because it's not a triterpenoid, it's not considered a saponin.
It's simply just a glycoside. The anthocyanins themselves, that pigment, the actual pigment, that phenolic structure, is not soluble in water,
but it needs sugars around it to make it soluble in water.
So when plants transport purple pigments and blue pigments, red pigments, there's really two halves to the equation.
One is water soluble, the other is water insoluble.
And so this interface, this dynamic, is really important to look at for the purpose of surfactant chemistry.
And I hope I didn't get too far off topic there.
No, not at all. I think that was awesome.
I did put a link up to the Wikipedia for steviol glycoside, if anybody wants to take a look at that.
I can't post two links at the same time, but I figured once you get over there, you can go ahead and pop another link if you want to use it.
That's a nice little function that they have here in Clubhouse now where you can pin a link and folks can just click on it and go take a look.
So I added that in there.
All right. So yeah. Let's see.
Anybody in the audience have a question that they wanted to come up and ask on Foliar?
Any questions on the YouTube?
What, does anybody have any questions they want to come up and ask?
I see we got a hand raised. Abe.
Abe is new to Clubhouse.
See if we can get him up here. There we go. Abe, welcome.
How you doing?
I'm doing all right.
My question is in regards to sprayer.
Specifically, electrostatic sprayers.
And I was wondering if there was any benefit to using those to nest your plants.
Hello. Hello. Sorry.
I, I'm not aware of the difference. So anybody used an electrostatic sprayer?
I'm aware of, I know what you're talking about, but I don't.
I'm just, I'm just as aware as you are probably, to be honest, man.
But, but they can probably tag in about the idea of like, you know, magnetism and what's going on there, you know?
Yeah. And I think just generally speaking, it has to do with the charge that's applied.
Again, going back to like this, this concept that plants want.
We talked about a little bit earlier when, when plants are taking up minerals, those minerals, like pure potassium or calcium or magnesium can actually be quite lethal to a plant.
Very, very violent and very lethal. So there's this charge balance thing that has to happen.
And so typically with electrostatic sprayers is there's a little bit of a charge applied.
And so the reason for that charge application at the nozzle as the liquid is spraying out is specifically to allow the liquid to coat or cover the surface that it's being sprayed on.
Sometimes the surfaces themselves have an electric charge, so it may be repulsive.
For instance, if you've got some kind of a specific type of surface, I, you know, just kind of this one thing comes to mind is there's this new technology that they're using to align plastic called microban.
And it's basically colloidal silver that's impregnated into the molecular structure of the plastic.
And this colloidal silver basically allows the surface, the outer layer of this plastic to repel biological activity so that cell walls can actually form.
And, you know, kind of along those same lines where you've got these elements that function to disrupt the charge balance of the, you know, the cell walls of microbes, for instance, to prevent bad bacteria growing on the surface of something.
It's like this ability of, you know, electrostatic sprayers to infuse an electrical charge to either allow the molecules that are being sprayed to better penetrate and attack the thing that you're trying to attack,
or on the flip side, to simply better adhere to the surface that they're trying to adhere to.
If you're spraying like a stainless steel surface, for example, it's going to have a different electrostatic charge than something like granite or something like plastic.
So in the context of breaking apart microbes and cell walls and pathogenic bacteria, having that electrostatic sprayer can result in the sort of cationic charge that directly penetrates the cell walls and allows for the diffusion of active ingredients across the cell walls into the membranes.
And then subsequent sort of destruction, cataclysmic destruction and denaturing of all of the cytoplasmic ingredients of that molecular framework.
That's pretty deep.
Another question, which I was kind of reminded about the Amazon and lightning and so that's why I started thinking about electrostatic sprayer and using that to foliar.
I was out because I have one and I was out foliaring at night and I was able to see that whenever the tip of my wand touched a leaf, that there was a little spark, just kind of going off every time and I was wondering if that interaction between the sprayer and the leaf and the electrical discharge had any sort of effect on the plant.
Or anything in particular.
Yeah, I mean certainly you know anytime that you expose the plants to some kind of electrical energy they're going to try to convert it to chemical energy. So if you're talking about visible light spectrum chlorophyll is really really good at harvesting, you know, particular nanometers of wavelength light and transforming that electrical chemical electrical energy into chemical energy so if you see something like a sprayer,
like a spark for instance I would venture a guess and say that there is electrical energy that is very biologically relevant being transferred into them because obviously you know we can see sunlight plants obviously respond to the sunlight existing in the spectrums that we can see.
And so if you see a flash of light. I would argue that there's proteins inside of that leaf surface even if the lights are off or even if the sun is set.
These protein complexes have the ability to receive that electrical energy, and as a kind of a side note it's ironic that it's actually been proven or shown demonstrated maybe that you can induce photosynthesis in the absence of light it's just the magnetic polarization of chlorophyll.
You just have to mimic what happens as a result of visible light being shined on the plants, and you can induce photosynthesis during the dark period. In other words, you don't need light. All you need is the right sort of magnetic polarization of chlorophyll to get it activated.
And you have the electron transfer as though the plant is growing in sun. But this is very different than the full spectrum of sunlight what I mean to say specifically is activating chlorophyll and getting the magnetic induction of chlorophyll is much different than shining the full spectrum of light even the frequencies that exist between 450 and 451 nanometers depends on how big your measuring stick is it's either one or it's 100 or there's 1000 different units of measurements.
That separates them. This is kind of the idea of the, you know, the fractal universe sort of thing is plants are very sensitive to all of these frequencies that come in so again just the idea that magnetic induction of chlorophyll substitutes photosynthesis or for photosynthesis.
All right, so thanks for those questions, Abe.
Hold on, I got a couple more questions on YouTube I want to get in here. So I appreciate the questions that you brought up so one of the questions that we have on here is, if the leaf surface can intake 10 carbon molecules.
Then does that mean plants are uptaking monotropines.
CO2 is a monomer of fully oxidized carbon, C, being 102 being to, you've got a single atom of carbon. You've got two atoms of oxygen, all of your monitor beans are C 10 h 16.
So you've got 10 atoms of carbon.
Redox chemistry defines something like 80 to 90% of all your biological activity.
Every time that you breathe in your intaking oxygen drive oxidative phosphorylation.
CO2 so the difference between monitor beans and carbon dioxide is the difference between reduction and oxidation states which quite literally define all of life Redox chemistry defines something like 80 to 90% of all your biological activity here every time that you breathe in your intaking oxygen drive oxidative phosphorylation reactions.
And if you stop breathing, you generate organic acids through reduction processes. So, you need this Redox potential quite literally to simply hear me talking as much as it pains you guys to just listen to me say this stuff over and over again every breath you take in is oxidizing oxidizing and then every breath that you release is releasing CO2 which is, you know, oxidized carbon that would have and burned you guys.
So yeah.
Yeah, I think so shredder 911 had just to follow up he said, I thought he said one of his foliars had a 10 carbon chain. So, I wasn't sure if there was something in there that you mentioned about a carbon, a long carbon chain in one of your products.
Yeah, and I guess more specifically, you know, it depends on the types of organic acids like, you know, the carbon chelates that we're making for for our products and we're making calcium fulvate and calcium citrate and a calcium acetate and then the same format for potassium and magnesium.
Those are very different molecular sizes. The fulvates are technically the largest molecular size, whereas the citrates and the acetates are much, much smaller. And so if you're looking at supplementing things like acetate forms of nutrients.
Boy, you're going to have a really good time as far as delivering something to the plants that they can really utilize as far as the key late and the key leading agent go EDTA synthetic chelates are an example of stuff that isn't metabolized nearly as easily.
So yeah, just getting the right form factor is critical. Absolutely. So low molecular weight organic acids. Absolutely critical for foliar supplementation.
Awesome. All right. So Matthew SoCal asked, has a plate count been done to determine efficacy of utilizing smaller micron filter bags in increasing microbial counts?
I'm not sure about that. But what I could say about that is that the micron size of a bag is a very large molecular structure compared to the number of carbon atoms that are related to biological reactions inside of plants and microbes.
Typically, we're talking about things that are less than 10 to 100. And so, you know, when we're talking about microns, that's really just a measurement of like 1000 microns, I think is one millimeter.
So the particle size of one millimeter is like millions and millions of carbon atoms long.
Getting stuff down to a soluble form, I think is the better way to look at it. Don't treat micron bags as this particle size of like, hey, or anything below 100 microns.
That's coming out of this bag is still like this very large format, the water itself can dissolve very low molecular weight fractions, we actually do this type of stuff with artichoke. Artichoke produces organic acid complexes that might be considered to be fulvic in terms of their, you know, their fulvic acid fractions, basically.
So, artichokes naturally produce this, they can contribute to the formation of humic substances in the soil.
So when you brew like an artichoke based tea, or you brew, you know, some kind of other plant based tea, keep in mind that part of what you're getting in that water, the reason that water looks that color, the reason it smells like that, the reason it's being carried in water, is because a portion of that, maybe depending on what plants are using, it's a little bit less than more, but those plants will carry very low molecular weight substances.
And that's why it's so effective in the nearest parts per billion. So you don't need a whole lot to induce this systemic response in plants. And that's, I think, the important part too, is you're not getting a lot of macronutrients from these substances, you're getting some stimulatory compounds that are active and extremely, extremely low doses.
Awesome. Awesome stuff. All right. So we are approaching the two and a half hour mark, and I think it's about time we wrap it up. So, Nick, any final thoughts for the group today?
Yeah, I hope that you guys, after listening to this conversation, think to yourselves, oh shit, this is totally different than what I thought it was. Because the whole point here is to kind of like have people recognize that the foliar surface is responsible for literally the entire formation of soil across the entire planet. Like that was possible by the soil, or possible due to the leaf surface existing.
So this isn't some small passive thing that exists as a sort of a secondary thing of the plants. This is quite literally what informs primarily, first and foremost, informs the architecture of the roots, informs the relationships that happen in the soil, and it also defines the very soil itself.
So definitely, definitely pay attention to your leaf surface, the health of your canopy, pay attention to what's going on, make sure you understand what the chemistry is, because the greatest gains that you stand to benefit, in my opinion, whether you're seeking to produce the highest quality medicine, or if you're a commercial cannabis cultivator just looking to make ends meet and produce the highest quality product and make the most money,
what it's going to come down to is foliar sprays are critical key, just like Josh mentioned, they're tools that are very useful in the context of succeeding, doing very, very well. And understanding the very intricate and nuanced details, I think is a great place to kind of start and learn what can kind of set you apart in both of those areas.
Awesome. And Dutch, final words from you.
There's the benefits of I think like something simple like fulvic acid I could shout and shout and shout about. Because it's like that great chelator, chelator.
But in terms of like being like regimented about, you know, foliar spraying, I don't think that's you know, you know, and then being crazy about FPJs, you know, I, you know, I think it's a little bit you could be you got to be careful because there's a lot of sugar in there. And so anyways, it's been good talking and I appreciate you guys having me on.
Awesome. Thanks so much for coming. And really appreciate having you on with us tonight. It's nice for Nick and I to have some other folks up here as well to share in the conversation.
As I mentioned, Ben had to drop out, but he will be back next week. So next week, we're going to talk about communication, networks of communication. We're going to talk a lot about how terpenes are actually a method of communication.
We're going to get a little bit into fungal networks for communication. And we're going to talk about human to plant communications and human to human communication. So should be really, really interesting. We have Doc Ray will be joining us next week. So Doc's already agreed to come join our conversation on communication networks, Nick.
So I'm excited about that. And I really want to thank everybody for joining us as always. So as I mentioned earlier, please click on the little greenhouse if you haven't already, and join future cannabis project. Follow the speakers, follow the other people in the room here on clubhouse.
And definitely if you're on YouTube or not even on YouTube, but you're listening in, make sure you check out the future cannabis project channel, both of them, because there's just an amazing amount of content that's going on there.
Every time I flip through the channel, there's another new room, another new set of speakers. So really, really fantastic stuff that you got going on over there, Peter. So I appreciate that. But yeah, and the other reminder is next Thursday night's episode is going to be a Veterans Day episode. So a lot of our conversations will come back to topics about veterans and veterans.
And how that plant to human connection is super, super important and beneficial for everybody, especially for veterans. So that's going to be a fantastic conversation. I'm really looking forward to. And then we've got some other things in the works that I know Nick is planning and plotting and we're working on to get out to continue this conversation.
So that's a fantastic set of information that I hope that people are enjoying. So if you are enjoying the conversations also feel free to reach out, hit me up on Instagram at J-O-T-A-H-E-R-B and let me know what you like about the show. Tell me what you don't like about the show. Probably the times when I'm talking as opposed to Nick.
So definitely feel free to reach out and let us know where we can do better. If you have questions or other things that you think we should be adding into the conversation. We'll try to actually start providing some more links as well. Now that that is a feature here on Clubhouse. So I tried to pop up some links earlier and we'll try to throw some more out there for folks in the future to help them find some of this, some of the references to the information that we're throwing out there.
Without further ado, I'm going to wrap it up. So Peter, sir, thank you so much for producing the show as always. And thank you for running home to go ahead and flip the switch here. And we'll be chatting shortly, I'm sure.
This is my eggshell kind of calcium, which obviously can squirt through here. The silica kind of struggles through this one. And then I had willow bark powder, which totally would not go through these. And then I bought this thing and I was all excited to use it. And it clogged that up.
So if anybody, you know, like the point I was trying to make in the chat was this size for someone just at home is super functional versus like the Chapin. I mean, that thing is big and it's metal. Right. So like this thing, you can just kind of like.
So if there were one of these at this size that had bigger. You know, well, actually, this one doesn't have anything on the bottom, but basically it gets clogged like up in here. So if there were one that had a bigger throughput and not a lot bigger, but just a tiny bit. So if anybody has any thoughts on that.
That was kind of where my head was at, because it'd be amazing just to have like these little bottles of like the things you want and, you know, each one maybe last a week or something. Yeah. Now you can strain it. But again, it would be nicer just if it could fit through here because it's all like here's my.
Like my silica. Right. Like it's not super thick granules at all.
But anyway, that's I've been looking for something that can fit, you know, like the full humics clog shit up. Sorry. Clogs things up.
But anyway, with that, everyone have a good night. And the sweet sound of the crickets in my garage is your your moment of Zen.
